GILEAD SCIENCES ANNUAL REPORT 2009MATT PAULSON, PhD
Research Scientist, Biology
Gilead Foster City
“As captain of Gilead’s softball team, I know what it
takes to win – and collaboration is key. The same
applies to the research we do in the lab. Innovation is
dependent upon our ability to work as a team toward
the common goal of discovering therapeutics for
life-threatening diseases.”At GileAd, our GreAtest Asset
is our people. individuAlly,
our employees Are tAlented,
dedicAted professionAls
whose diverse experiences
And unique perspectives
drive our scientific innovA-
tion And excellence.
2ANA PAULA MOITA
National Sales Manager
Gilead Portugal
“In my spare time, I care for dogs in order to help
prepare them for a life of service to people with visual
impairment. I feel a real sense of accomplishment
knowing that I’m contributing to the well-being of
people in need. It is the same feeling I have in my
role as a sales manager, working to get physicians
the information they need to help them better
serve their patients.”we Apply discipline And focus
in everythinG we do. these
quAlities hAve mAde us A
leAder in developinG And
deliverinG new treAtments
for hiv/Aids And other
life-threAteninG diseAses.
6AL EbRAhIM
Research Scientist, Process Development
Gilead Alberta
“I’m the kind of person who likes to fix things. It takes
time and effort to get it right, but in the end, I have the
satisfaction of knowing something has been improved.
In the manufacturing plant, the most rewarding part
of process chemistry is that every day, step by step, I’m
helping to perfect a process that delivers important
new treatments to patients in need.”collectively, our employees
shAre A sinGulAr focus on
improvinG the lives of individ-
uAls with life-threAteninG
diseAses, reGArdless of where
those individuAls live or the
resources they hAve. this is
the foundAtion of everythinG
we do. And it mAkes GileAd
much more thAn A business.
10to our stockholders, employees
And friends,
The opening pages of this book introduce you to
Matt, Ana and Al. They are three of the nearly 4,000
employees of Gilead Sciences — 4,000 individuals
with diverse roles and backgrounds who share a
singular focus…… and that focus is on doing what we can, every facilities nationwide. The October extension of the
day, to help other individuals around the world Ryan White CARE Act established – for the first time –
who are living with unmet medical needs. a national goal to screen five million people each
year. These developments will help make HIV tests
In 2009, we grew our business substantially, achiev-
and ultimately treatment more accessible. Gilead
ing record revenues of more than $7 billion and
is actively supporting programs to diagnose and link
strengthening our product portfolio and pipeline
to care individuals living with HIV in the hardest
programs across four primary therapeutic areas.
hit and often most underserved communities. And
I believe we were able to realize these achievements
we are looking at all facets of HIV disease, including
because we view our work as more than a business.
prevention. Gilead is supporting ongoing trials
We are a community of people, working in partner-
around the world to evaluate whether taking our
ship toward a shared vision.
antiretroviral medicines could help protect at-risk
individuals from becoming infected with HIV, a
The diseases we focus on affect tens of millions of
potentially groundbreaking HIV prevention strategy
individuals around the world, and they represent
called pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP. The first
challenges for the physicians who treat them, for
efficacy results for PrEP are expected in 2010. From left to right: Gregg H. Alton, Executive Vice President, Corporate and Medical Affairs; Robin L. Washington,
the patients and their families who live with them,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Kevin Young, Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations;
and for our researchers and our collaborators who
Like HIV, chronic hepatitis B is a disease where many John C. Martin, PhD, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John F. Milligan, PhD, President and Chief Operating Officer;
work to find new ways to combat them. individuals are not aware they are living with the Norbert W. Bischofberger, PhD, Executive Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer;
Kristen M. Metza, Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
virus. Left untreated, chronic hepatitis B can lead to
Today, more than 33 million individuals around
cirrhosis and liver cancer. We are pursuing efforts
the world are living with HIV/AIDS. The disease
to expand access to information and care in com-
remains one of Gilead’s primary areas of commer-
munities most affected by chronic hepatitis B – a In addition, we received conditional approval of liver disease and serious cardiovascular and respi-
cial and research and development focus and the
disease with a disproportionate impact on individ- Cayston® for the treatment of lung infections due to ratory conditions.
cornerstone of our business. In the United States,
uals of Asian descent. We have demonstrated, Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients with cystic
75 percent of HIV patients on treatment are now
through long-term clinical trials, the potential of fibrosis (CF) in the European Union and Canada. Data For HIV, we have several compounds in late-stage
receiving one of Gilead’s products. Our once-daily
Viread® to lower viral load and thus decrease from our head-to-head study of Cayston versus clinical trials and new combination treatments
fixed-dose tablet Atripla® was the most-prescribed
damage to the liver. Viread is now recommended tobramycin, which would support full approval in on the horizon. In collaboration with Tibotec Phar-
HIV treatment regimen, and Truvada®, taken as
as a first-line treatment for HBV in guidelines these territories, is expected toward the middle maceuticals, we are developing a new once-daily
part of combination therapy, remained the most-
issued by U.S. and European medical societies, and part of this year. In early 2010, Cayston received ap- single-tablet regimen combining Truvada with
prescribed HIV product during 2009. In Europe,
continues to gain share in these markets as one proval in the United States and Australia. Cayston Tibotec’s non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhib-
Truvada and Atripla became the number one and
of the most frequently prescribed oral antivirals for represents the first new inhaled antibiotic approved itor candidate, rilpivirine. If approved, this product
two brands, respectively, in Germany, Italy, Spain
patients with chronic hepatitis B. for patients with CF in more than a decade. would be the first alternative to Atripla with the
and the United Kingdom.
potential to offer an improved side effect profile.
On the cardiovascular front, we expanded our port- Our first therapy in the category of respiratory dis- We hope to file applications for regulatory approval
Even with this commercial success, we recognize
folio with the acquisition of CV Therapeutics in ease – Tamiflu® – proved to be an important compo- of this product in the second half of 2010. We are
there is much more to be done. In the United States,
April, which brought us Ranexa® for the treatment nent in the global fight against the H1N1 strain also excited about a development-stage product that
at least 20 percent of individuals living with HIV –
of chronic angina. We continued to drive uptake of influenza during 2009. Tamiflu was developed by combines our investigational HIV integrase inhibitor,
or approximately 250,000 people – are unaware
of Letairis® for pulmonary arterial hypertension Gilead and licensed to F. Hoffmann-La Roche, our elvitegravir, and cobicistat (formerly GS 9350), our
they have the disease. During 2009, support contin-
(PAH), a disease that affects approximately 200,000 global commercialization partner. investigational pharmacoenhancing or “boosting”
ued to grow for routine testing to help diagnose
patients worldwide. We also broadened our efforts agent, with Truvada, creating a new once-daily,
individuals living with HIV, prevent late diagnoses
to support Phase IV studies of Letairis, and are Beyond our commercial products, we made signif- fixed-dose regimen, known informally as the “Quad.”
that make the virus harder to treat and prevent
collaborating with GlaxoSmithKline on an interna- icant progress with our pipeline in 2009. Across Phase II studies of the Quad and of cobicistat as
new infections.
tional, event-driven clinical trial, called AMBITION, our research and development programs, hundreds a stand-alone agent have been completed, and
In August, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to study combination therapy versus monotherapy of Gilead scientists are working to create and de- pending discussions with the U.S. Food and Drug
began offering routine, voluntary HIV testing at in a first-line treatment setting for PAH. velop new compounds for the treatment of HIV, Administration, our goal is to initiate Phase III
studies by the middle of this year.
14 15finAnciAl hiGhliGhts
We continue to develop treatments for hepatitis C Worldwide, more than 1 million individuals received $ 3,000 $ 7,000
and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), including one of Gilead’s four HIV medications during 2009.
our caspase inhibitor GS 9450, now being evaluated More than half of these patients live in resource- $ 6,000
$ 2,500
in Phase II studies. limited parts of the world. To reach these patients,
we have partnered with 13 Indian generic companies $ 5,000
With the additional expertise and resources gained to develop generic versions of our HIV medications $ 2,000
from the CV Therapeutics acquisition, we have
and distribute them in 95 countries, including India.
$ 4,000
greatly improved our ability to advance research
$ 1,500
and development of treatments for serious car- Gilead provides charitable contributions to a broad
$ 3,000
diovascular conditions with unmet needs. We are range of non-profit organizations. Through the
evaluating the potential for Ranexa and next-gen- Gilead Foundation, we also support efforts world- $ 1,000
eration late sodium current inhibitors in a number wide to expand access to disease education and $ 2,000
Antiviral
of additional indications and settings, including improve infrastructure and health services.
$ 500 AmBisome
for the treatment of patients with diastolic heart GAAP Net $ 1,000
Income Letairis
The Gilead team is a diverse group of people,
failure. And, GS 9667, a partial A 1 adenosine re- Non-GAAP Ranexa
working in laboratories, offices and communities
ceptor agonist, is being evaluated as a potential $ 0 Net Income $ 0 Other
around the world. We benefit from the guidance ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09
treatment for diabetes.
and leadership of our Board of Directors, and in
NET INCOME PRODUCT SALES
The potential of our products – those available today 2009 we welcomed Kevin Lofton, President and
($ in millions) ($ in millions)
and the next generation in development – can and CEO of Catholic Health Initiatives, and, in 2010,
will only be realized if patients have access to those Per Wold-Olsen, Retired President of the Human
therapies. Health Intercontinental Division of Merck & Co.,
to the Board.
First and foremost, we believe responsible pricing
NOTES
is the best way to ensure broad access. We also To each of you – our stockholders, our employees
$ 8,000 $ 3,500 • The non-GAAP net income for 2007 excluded
recognize that many patients face challenges afford- and our friends – I thank you for your continued the after-tax impact of stock-based compen-
sation expenses of $131.3 million.
ing prescription medications. Through Advancing® support and belief in our mission. You are a part $ 7,000 $ 3,000 • The non-GAAP net income for 2008 excluded
Access, Atripla Patient Assistance, Gilead™Solutions of the Gilead community – one built over the past the after-tax impact of the purchased IPR&D
expense of $7.8 million incurred in connection
and the Cayston® Access Program, we assist patients 20 years and one from which we will continue to $ 6,000 with the acquisition of Navitas Assets, LLC’s
$ 2,500 assets related to its cicletanine business and
in the United States who do not have insurance or grow and bring new medications to those in need. the after-tax impact of stock-based compensa-
who need additional financial help to pay for our $ 5,000 tion expenses of $112.8 million.
Sincerely, $ 2,000 • The non-GAAP net income for 2009 excluded
medicines. We also assist patients who have insur- the after-tax impact of acquisition-related
$ 4,000 expenses of $49.3 million, the after-tax impact
ance coverage for prescription medications but are
of restructuring expenses of $38.7 million and
unable to bear the full cost of their co-payments. $ 1,500 the after-tax impact of stock-based compen-
$ 3,000 sation expenses of $139.3 million.
• On January 1, 2009, Gilead adopted new ac-
$ 1,000 counting guidance for our convertible senior
$ 2,000 notes on a retrospective basis. Accordingly,
John C. Martin, PhD
GAAP and non-GAAP net income amounts
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have been adjusted from the amounts that
$ 1,000 $ 500 were previously reported to reflect additional
after-tax interest expense.
• On January 1, 2009, Gilead adopted new ac-
$ 0 $ 0 counting guidance for our joint ventures with
‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 Bristol-Myers Squibb on a retrospective basis.
Accordingly, the operating cash flow amounts
have been adjusted from the amounts that
TOTAL REVENUES OPERATING CASh FLOw were previously reported to reflect a reclassifi-
($ in millions) ($ in millions) cation from operating cash flow to financing
cash flow.
FORwARD-LOOkING STATEMENT
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements regarding the dates we expect to initiate certain of our clinical studies, the potential of certain of our product
candidates and the dates we anticipate receiving certain clinical trial results and filing certain marketing authorizations. Such statements are predictions and involve
risks and uncertainties such that actual results may differ materially. Please refer to Gilead’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2009,
attached to this report, for the risks and uncertainties affecting Gilead’s business. Gilead disclaims, and does not undertake, any obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statements in this report.
16GileAd’s focus AreAs
hIV/AIDS LIVER DISEASE CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE RESPIRATORy DISEASE
Over the past decade, Gilead has played a central Chronic hepatitis B is known as a “silent killer” Despite enormous public attention to and invest- In 2009, we saw significant developments in our
role in helping to simplify treatment regimens for because many people, unaware they have the dis- ment in cardiovascular disease, many serious forms efforts to advance treatments for serious respira-
HIV/AIDS. Our portfolio of single pill, once-a-day ease, fail to access timely medical care. Effective of the illness remain overlooked. For example, some tory ailments.
medicines, which includes fixed-dose combination treatments, including our once-daily medications 200,000 people worldwide are living with pulmonary
Cystic fibrosis (CF), an inherited disease, affects more
tablets such as Truvada and Atripla, help to opti- Viread and Hepsera®, are critical to helping delay arterial hypertension (PAH), an incurable disease that
than 70,000 people worldwide. Gilead’s Cayston,
mize HIV therapy, providing antiviral potency and progressive damage to the liver caused by the virus. can lead to heart failure. Gilead’s once-daily Letairis
an antibiotic to treat lung infections due to Pseudo-
durability, favorable safety and tolerability, and At the 2009 annual meeting of the American Asso- is now used by one in three patients receiving an
monas aeruginosa in patients with CF, was granted
low pill burden. ciation for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD), endothelin-receptor antagonist for the treatment of
conditional approval by regulatory agencies in the
Gilead presented long-term data showing that PAH, and data released in 2009 showed that Letairis
Recognizing these benefits, treatment guidelines European Union and Canada. And, in early 2010,
most hepatitis B patients taking Viread experience improved exercise capacity and delayed clinical
released by the U.S. government, European AIDS Cayston received approval in the United States and
sustained viral suppression, with no evidence of worsening among a diverse group of pulmonary
Clinical Society and the World Health Organization Australia. A second investigational CF medication,
resistance. Treatment guidelines from both AASLD hypertension patients.
recommend Gilead’s HIV therapies as preferred GS 9310/11, is currently in Phase II studies.
and the European Association for the Study of
components of first-line treatment regimens. We expanded our work in the therapeutic area
the Liver now recommend Viread as a first-line
Additionally, we are exploring the potential of
significantly with the acquisition of CV Therapeutics,
hepatitis B treatment.
We are also focused on developing the HIV thera- ambrisentan, currently marketed as Letairis for the
which brought us Ranexa for the treatment of
pies of the future and have several compounds treatment of PAH, to treat idiopathic pulmonary
Gilead is also developing medications for other chronic angina, and also helped to establish a fully
in late-stage clinical development. We continue to fibrosis.
life-threatening liver diseases. GS 9450, a once- integrated cardiovascular development and regu-
work with Tibotec to develop a fixed-dose combi-
daily caspase inhibitor, is in development for the latory organization. This will enhance Gilead’s ability
Tamiflu continues to represent an important part
nation of Truvada and rilpivirine. In parallel, we are
potential treatment of inflammatory and fibrotic to address serious cardiovascular and metabolic
of our respiratory portfolio. The product, marketed
advancing the development of the Quad regimen,
conditions such as hepatitis C and nonalcoholic conditions with unmet medical need.
worldwide by F. Hoffmann-La Roche, drew signifi-
which combines Truvada with our investigational
steatohepatitis (NASH). A combination of our non-
cant attention this year due to its role in addressing
integrase inhibitor, elvitegravir, and our pharma-
nucleoside polymerase inhibitor GS 9190 and
the H1N1 influenza pandemic. Tamiflu also remains
coenhancing agent, cobicistat.
our protease inhibitor GS 9256 is also moving into
an important treatment and prevention for sea-
clinical studies for treating hepatitis C.
sonal influenza.mArketed products product pipeline
hIV/AIDS INDICATION PARTNERS At GILeAD, we ARe DeDIcAteD tO ADvANcING the cARe Of PAtIeNtS SuffeRING fROM LIfe-
Atripla® HIV/AIDS Bristol-Myers Squibb Company thReAteNING DISeASeS wORLDwIDe. OuR ReSeARch AND DeveLOPMeNt PROGRAMS cuRReNtLy
efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/ (U.S., Western Europe and Canada)
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg Merck & Co., Inc. (Rest of World) fOcuS ON theRAPeutIcS fOR the POteNtIAL tReAtMeNt Of hIv/AIDS, LIveR DISeASe AND
truvada® HIV/AIDS Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan) SeRIOuS cARDIOvAScuLAR AND ReSPIRAtORy cONDItIONS.
emtricitabine and tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate
MARkETING
emtriva® HIV/AIDS Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan) APPLICATIONS
emtricitabine CANDIDATE PhASE I PhASE II PhASE III PENDING
viread® HIV/AIDS Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan) Regadenoson
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate stress agent Myocardial Perfusion Imaging
truvada/rilpivirine
LIVER DISEASE INDICATION PARTNERS
fixed-dose regimen HIV/AIDS
viread® Chronic Hepatitis B GlaxoSmithKline Inc. elvitegravir
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (China) integrase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Ambrisentan
hepsera® Chronic Hepatitis B GlaxoSmithKline Inc. endothelin receptor antagonist Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis
adefovir dipivoxil (Asia, Latin America)
Integrase fixed-dose Regimen
CARDIOVASCULAR INDICATION PARTNERS elvitegravir/cobicistat/Truvada HIV/AIDS
cobicistat (formerly GS 9350)
Lexiscan® Coronary Vasodilation Astellas Pharma Inc. (U.S.) pharmacoenhancer HIV/AIDS
regadenoson injection
GS 9190
polymerase inhibitor Hepatitis C
Letairis® Pulmonary Arterial GlaxoSmithKline Inc.
ambrisentan Hypertension (Outside U.S.) GS 9450
(WHO Group 1) caspase inhibitor Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis
Ranexa® Chronic Angina Menarini Group (Europe) GS 9450
ranolazine caspase inhibitor Hepatitis C/Fibrosis
cicletanine
antihypertensive Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension
RESPIRATORy INDICATION PARTNERS
Aztreonam for Inhalation Solution
cayston® Cystic Fibrosis antibiotic Bronchiectasis
aztreonam for inhalation solution GS 9310/11
inhaled fosfomycin/tobramycin Cystic Fibrosis
tamiflu® Influenza A and B F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd Ranolazine
oseltamivir phosphate (Worldwide) late sodium current inhibitor Diastolic Heart Failure
(pending)
OThER INDICATION PARTNERS
GS 9256
Macugen® Neovascular (wet) OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (U.S.) protease inhibitor Hepatitis C
pegaptanib sodium injection Age-related Macular Pfizer Inc. (Outside U.S.) GS 6201
Degeneration
A2B adenosine antagonist Pulmonary Diseases
vistide® CMV Retinitis/AIDS GS 9667
cidofovir injection partial A1 adenosine agonist Diabetes/Hypertriglyceridemia
GS 9411
AmBisome® Severe Fungal Infections Astellas Pharma Inc. (U.S. and Canada) epithelial sodium channel blocker Cystic Fibrosis
amphotericin B liposome Dainippon Sumitomo
for injection Pharma Co., Ltd. (Japan)
Note: Does not include all product candidates in Phase I and excludes research and preclinical programs.GileAd cAres
At Gilead, we strive to play our part in expanding SUPPORTING DEVELOPING wORLD
access to our medications and contributing to the RESEARCh
well-being of the communities in which we live
Gilead actively supports developing-country clinical
and work.
studies designed to examine the safety, tolerability
and effectiveness of Viread-containing antiretroviral
ExPANDING ACCESS TO TREATMENT
regimens, as well as studies examining the use of
An important component of advancing patient
Viread in the prevention of mother-to-child trans-
care is ensuring that patients can receive the medi-
mission of HIV and among individuals with HIV who
cations they need even if they are unable to pay
are co-infected with tuberculosis or hepatitis B.
for them.
In addition, we provide study drug and placebo
In the United States, Gilead’s patient assistance
for a number of studies, supported by the Centers
and co-pay support programs help uninsured and
for Disease Control and Prevention, the National
under-insured individuals obtain our therapies.
Institutes of Health and other public health leaders,
investigating whether Viread or Truvada can prevent
In developing countries, the Gilead Access Program
HIV transmission among at-risk, uninfected adults.
provides Viread and Truvada at substantially reduced
The first efficacy data for this experimental strategy,
prices in 130 low- and lower middle-income coun-
called pre-exposure prophylaxis or PrEP, are expect-
tries hardest hit by the HIV/AIDS epidemic. A critical
ed later this year.
component of the program is Gilead’s non-exclusive
licensing partnerships with drug manufacturers
bUILDING hEALThy COMMUNITIES
in India, which are able to produce and distribute
quality, low-cost generic versions of our medica- Gilead is proud of its many active community volun-
tions for the developing world. Through our access teers. Our company fields enthusiastic teams at local
efforts, more than 700,000 patients in the develop- fund- and awareness-raising events, such as AIDS,
ing world were receiving our therapies at the end of liver, heart and cystic fibrosis walks. Many employees
2009, a 64 percent increase over 2008. also volunteer their time to work with community
organizations and international volunteer groups.
In addition, Gilead offers significantly discounted
pricing on AmBisome® for the treatment of visceral Through the Gilead Foundation and other corpo-
leishmaniasis, a life-threatening parasitic disease, rate giving initiatives, we support programs in the
in resource-limited settings. We are also working United States and around the world working to
toward addressing hepatitis B treatment access improve the health and well-being of underserved
in regions most affected by the disease. communities.
Facing Page: Lauren Temme and Linda Koeppen, two members of Gilead’s community group, take time out of their
day to volunteer at a local shelter.
22setaicossA
ngiseD
yrwoH
:ngiseD
corporAte informAtion
bOARD OF DIRECTORS SENIOR LEADERShIP TEAM Eric J. Topol, MD CORPORATE hEADqUARTERS
Director, Scripps Translational
John C. Martin, PhD John C. Martin, PhD Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Science Institute
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 333 Lakeside Drive
Professor of Translational Genomics,
Gilead Sciences Foster City, CA 94404 USA
The Scripps Research Institute
John F. Milligan, PhD (800) 445-3235 or
Chief Academic Officer,
James M. Denny President and Chief Operating Officer (650) 574-3000
Scripps Health
Lead Independent Director, www.gilead.com
Gilead Sciences Board of Directors Norbert W. Bischofberger, PhD
Bernard M. Wagner, MD
Executive Vice President, STOCkhOLDER INqUIRIES
Emeritus Research Professor of
Paul Berg, PhD Research and Development and
Pathology, New York University Inquiries from our stockholders and
Nobel Prize Winner, Chemistry Chief Scientific Officer
Medical Center potential investors regarding our
Cahill Professor, Emeritus,
company are always welcome and will
Stanford University Gregg H. Alton
hEALTh POLICy ADVISORy bOARD receive a prompt response. Please
Executive Vice President,
direct your requests for information to:
John F. Cogan, PhD Corporate and Medical Affairs Sir Richard Feachem, KBE, FREng,
Senior Fellow, Hoover Institution, DSc(Med), PhD (Chairperson)
Investor Relations
Stanford University Kevin Young Professor of Global Health,
Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Executive Vice President, University of California, San Francisco
333 Lakeside Drive
Etienne F. Davignon Commercial Operations and University of California, Berkeley
Foster City, CA 94404 USA
Minister of State, Director, Global Health Group, UCSF
(800) 445-3235 or
Vice Chairman, Suez-Tractebel Kristen M. Metza
(650) 574-3000
Senior Vice President, Seth Berkley, MD
Carla A. Hills Human Resources Founder, President and
Information regarding Gilead is also
Chair and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer,
available at www.gilead.com.
Hills & Company Robin L. Washington International AIDS Vaccine Initiative
Senior Vice President and
STOCk LISTING
Kevin E. Lofton Chief Financial Officer Ernest Darkoh, MD, MPH, MBA
President and Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Founding Partner, Gilead common stock is traded on
Catholic Health Initiatives SCIENTIFIC ADVISORy bOARD BroadReach Healthcare The Nasdaq Global Select Stock Market®,
under the symbol GILD.
Joel R. Huff, PhD (Chairperson)
John W. Madigan Michael V. Drake, MD
Retired Vice President of
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Chancellor, ANNUAL MEETING
Medicinal Chemistry,
Officer, Tribune Company Merck Research Laboratories University of California, Irvine The annual meeting of stockholders
will be held at 10:00 a.m. on
Gordon E. Moore, PhD Francis V. Chisari, MD David Gollaher, PhD Tuesday, May 11, 2010 at the Westin
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Professor of Virology, President and Chief Executive Officer, San Francisco Airport Hotel.
Officer, Intel Corporation California Healthcare Institute
The Scripps Research Institute
TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR
Nicholas G. Moore Robert Shapiro, PhD
Peter B. Dervan, PhD Communications concerning stock
Retired Global Chairman, Chairman, Sonecon, LLC
Bren Professor of Chemistry, transfer requirements, lost certificates
PricewaterhouseCoopers
California Institute of Technology and changes of address should
Richard J. Whitley, MD
be directed to the Transfer Agent:
Richard J. Whitley, MD Distinguished Professor,
Paul E. Klotman, MD
Distinguished Professor, Loeb Scholar Chair in Pediatrics,
Murray M. Rosenberg Professor of BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
Loeb Scholar Chair in Pediatrics, University of Alabama at Birmingham
Medicine, Chairman, Samuel 480 Washington Boulevard
University of Alabama at Birmingham
Bronfman Department of Medicine, Jersey City, NJ 07310-1900 USA
Per Wold-Olsen
Mt. Sinai School of Medicine (800) 710-0940
Gayle Edlund Wilson Retired President, Human Health
Chair, Ralph M. Parsons Foundation Intercontinental Division, www.bnymellon.com Gilead Sciences is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of
John W. Mellors, MD Merck & Co., Inc. unmet medical need. The company’s mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life-threatening diseases worldwide.
Professor of Medicine, Chief, EqUAL OPPORTUNITy EMPLOyER
Per Wold-Olsen Headquartered in Foster City, California, Gilead has operations in North America, Europe and Australia.
Division of Infectious Diseases,
Retired President, Human Health CORPORATE SECRETARy Gilead Sciences is proud to be an equal
University of Pittsburgh Intercontinental Division, opportunity employer and extends AmBisome, Cayston, Emtriva, Gilead, the Gilead logo design, Hepsera, Letairis, Ranexa, Truvada, Viread, Vistide and Volibris are
School of Medicine Gregg H. Alton
Merck & Co., Inc. employment to men and women from registered trademarks of Gilead Sciences, Inc. or its related companies. Atripla is a registered trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb
Executive Vice President,
culturally diverse backgrounds. Our & Gilead Sciences, LLC. Lexiscan is a registered trademark of Astellas US LLC. Tamiflu is a registered trademark of Hoffmann-La Roche Inc.
Eugene R. Schiff, MD Corporate and Medical Affairs
Director Emeritus, Leonard Miller Professor of Medicine, environment respects individual differ- Sustiva is a registered trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Company. Macugen is a registered trademark of Eyetech, Inc.
Gilead Sciences board of Directors ences and recognizes each employee
Director for Schiff Liver Institute, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
George P. Shultz, PhD Director for Center for Liver Diseases, PUbLIC ACCOUNTANTS as an integral member of our company. Full U.S. prescribing information for Gilead products is available at www.gilead.com.
Distinguished Fellow, Our workforce reflects these values
University of Miami
Hoover Institution, Stanford University Ernst & Young LLP and celebrates the individuals who
School of Medicine
Palo Alto, California make up our growing team.
Robert T. Schooley, MD
Professor of Medicine and Head,
Division of Infectious Diseases,
Vice Chair of Department of Medicine,
University of California, San Diego
24Gilead Sciences, Inc.
333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, CA 94404
T (800) 445-3235 or (650) 574-3000 F (650) 578-9264
www.gilead.com