We
BelieveYear in Review Year in Review
Contents
We We We We We
Believe Believe Believe Believe Believe
Anything Discovery In Our No One Can Our Business
Is Possible Never Ends People Do It Alone Is Sustainable
Our Purpose Science & Innovation Working at Gilead Community Impact Practices & Environment Appendix
About This Report The Science Driving It All Our People Make a Difference Providing Access A Smarter, Smaller Footprint About Gilead
to Our Medicines
A Message From Chairman Our Groundbreaking Research We Welcome and Celebrate Sustainability: Climate Governance
and CEO Daniel O'Day and Development Diverse Perspectives Giving Back to Our Change, the Environment
Communities and Global Health GRI Content Index
Looking at 2018 Our Partnerships Our Global Workforce
The Why Behind Our Work
Page
05 22 38 60 74 100
2 2018 2018 3Year in Review Year in Review
About This Report
To standardize our data collection, measurement and reporting activities, we use
industry-leading frameworks such as the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC),
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and other frameworks.
Gilead’s 2018 Year in Review is organized in accordance with the “core” reporting
framework defined by the GRI Standards. This report covers all topics listed in the GRI
Content Index for all entities listed in the company’s 2018 Form 10-K on the SEC Filings
(http://investors.gilead.com/financial-information/sec-filings) page of our website.
Report Content, Period and Boundary
Following GRI’s principles for defining report content, Gilead considered stakeholder
inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality, completeness and other reporting
principles. Refer to the GRI Content Index for additional information on the reporting
period and boundaries for each indicator included in this report; these will differ for
some metrics based on data availability before the publication date of this report. For
indicators with 2017 reporting periods, we will provide updated 2018 data in 2019. We
regularly re-evaluate the reporting boundaries for material topics to ensure they are
the most current and complete.
4 2018 2018 5Year in Review Year in Review
Welcoming
Daniel O’Day
as Chairman and
Chief Executive
Officer
Daniel O’Day was named chairman and CEO following the
departure of former President and CEO John F. Milligan, Ph.D.,
at the end of 2018.
Dan was appointed following a comprehensive search led by the board of
directors. He was selected based on his record of success in highly scientific
and competitive therapeutic areas, his deep understanding of the evolving
global healthcare environment, and his unwavering commitment to driving
innovation, which will serve Gilead in our continuing quest to transform
patients’ lives around the world.
6 2018 2018 7Year in Review Year in Review
A Message From
Daniel O'Day
Chairman and CEO
We Believe In Our People
Throughout my career, I’ve had the privilege of working with many smart and
As I join my 11,000 colleagues at this remarkable company, I’m both humbled
passionate individuals, and I’ve seen firsthand what people can achieve when they’re
by the opportunity and excited about the potential I see. During this time of
given an inclusive work environment in which every person and every voice receives
unprecedented change in our industry, few companies possess the resources,
equal value. This is why it is so important to ensure our people are always given
employee passion and longstanding commitment to science and innovation that
opportunities to learn, grow and achieve their greatest potential. I am grateful to be
Gilead has shown for more than 30 years.
part of a company that puts such emphasis on diversity and inclusion — a core value
that is essential to Gilead’s long-term success.
With new challenges and greater potential for progress than ever before, Gilead is
well-positioned to build on our legacy of delivering transformational medicines for
We Believe Our Business Is Sustainable
patients. We are dedicated to discovering and developing lifesaving medicines, but
As a large, global company, we understand the impact our day-to-day operations
we also recognize that science alone can’t solve the world’s toughest healthcare
can have on people and the environment. To help ensure we continue to execute
challenges. We believe in putting patients first — and we do this in numerous ways
our mission of providing lifesaving medicines in areas of unmet need, we have built
by supporting access to healthcare services around the world and by forging
a corporate social responsibility (CSR) program that supports patients, society, the
partnerships with patient advocacy groups and healthcare professionals.
planet and our business. In 2018, Gilead established its CSR committee to help
ensure our business meets the highest social and environmental standards. Our
I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about Gilead’s unique role as a leader and our ability
approach to CSR, and our continued support of the UNGC/UN SDGs, reaffirms our
to shape the future of healthcare during this era of change. As we seek to discover,
commitment to drive short-, medium- and long-term action in the areas of human
develop and commercialize innovative therapeutics in the areas of unmet medical
rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption.
needs, our role is defined by three core beliefs:
As chairman and CEO, I am committed to ensuring Gilead makes the most of
We Believe Discovery Never Ends
this unprecedented time in our industry. I am excited to be at Gilead and to work
Behind every medication Gilead has developed over the last three decades is a
alongside our talented employees to harness our collective commitment to doing
group of dedicated individuals — across our entire company — united by a common
what is right for patients.
desire to make groundbreaking discoveries that can help patients and save lives.
It’s this sense of purpose that has allowed Gilead to make a difference in the world.
Thank you for believing in us.
Our shared commitment has made possible the prevention and treatment of HIV/
AIDS and fueled our quest that may one day lead to finding a cure for HIV. It’s
Daniel O’Day
driven us to pursue a cure for cancer through our work in the field of cell therapy.
And it’s what led to the development of a cure for hepatitis C.
8 2018 2018 9Year in Review Year in Review
Looking at 2018
2018 Total Revenue
At Gilead, we strive to transform the promise of science and technology
22.1B
into therapies that have the power to cure, prevent or treat diseases and
revolutionize the standard of care.
$
We believe in our approach to innovation by relentlessly pursuing the best breakthroughs
in science — whether they come from within our own labs or from our partnerships with
other industry leaders. Looking back, 2018 was a year of strong and consistent operational
and financial execution across our portfolio in HIV, HCV, cardiovascular and oncology. We
also made great progress at strengthening our pipeline.
Product Sales
Largely driven by a successful launch of Biktarvy® and continued uptake of Descovy®,
Genvoya® and Odefsey®, total revenue from our HIV medicines increased to $14.6 billion
from $13 billion the previous year, even as overall product sales decreased in 2018 com-
pared with 2017 — notably due to the unique dynamics and curative nature of our hepatitis
C virus (HCV) products. Our oncology sales grew substantially, with a total of $264 million $8.4B
Cash From
$3.0B Cash
Dividends Paid
in 2018 sales of Yescarta®, our chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR T) cell therapy. Operations to Stockholders
Collaborations $31.5B C Eqa ush iv,
a
C lea ns th
s and
$2.9B
Share
Marketable Securities Repurchases
In 2018, Gilead entered into 25 partnerships, licensing, merger & acquisition (M&A) or
equity investment deals to significantly enhance our research pipeline in therapeutic
areas including HIV, inflammation, immunotherapy, oncology and liver disease.
5.0B Research and 6.3B
$
Development
$
Debt
These include collaborations with Pfizer, Sangamo Therapeutics, Verily, the National Expenses Repaid
Cancer Institute, Hookipa, Gadeta, Trianni, Precision BioSciences, HiFiBiO Therapeu-
tics, Tango Therapeutics, Scholar Rock and Agenus.
10 2018 2018 11Our Purpose Our Purpose
We
Believe
Anything
Is Possible
12 2018 2018 13FOeuatru Pruer Sptoosrey Our Purpose
"We never really
expected people
like me would be
living with HIV
this long."
To hear Douglas' story in his
own words and learn more
about Gilead's work to treat,
We
prevent and ultimately end
Believe Nearly 30 years after being diagnosed with HIV, Douglas Brooks
Anything is alive and healthy — and in his words, it’s all thanks to Gilead. As the HIV epidemic, visit:
Is Possible
a patient-turned-employee, Doug is living proof and inspiration for
GILEAD.COM/YIR2018
why we do what we do: Discover and develop breakthrough
HIV treatments.
1144 2018 2018 15Our Purpose
The Why Behind
Our Work Our Mission
Gilead’s mission is to discover,
We believe in relentlessly pursuing breakthroughs in science, whether
develop and commercialize innovative
they come from within our own labs or from our partnerships.
therapeutics in the areas of unmet
Our primary purpose is to help people with life-threatening diseases. Our work is built
medical needs.
on four pillars that enable us to develop and deliver innovative medicines:
S upporting Patients: Our patients-first approach is demonstrated by our collaboration
with patient advocacy organizations, our work to discover and develop therapies that
Our Core
revolutionize the standard of care and cure diseases, and offering comprehensive
support programs that help meet the needs of patients and their caregivers.
Values Are:
Science and Innovation: Through our own research, as well as partnerships with
universities, medical research institutions and other global pharmaceutical leaders,
Gilead is bringing forward scientific and clinical advancements that prevent, treat or • I ntegrity
cure life-threatening diseases.
• I nclusion
Inclusiveness: We promote a high-performing workplace culture informed by a diverse set
We
Believe of backgrounds, experiences and points of view that enables our employees to embrace
• T eamwork
Anything and leverage each other’s talents and diverse perspectives, foster a sense of belonging
Is Possible
and purpose, achieve their full career potential, and contribute to Gilead’s success.
• A ccountability
Giving Back: We recognize that patients and communities often face challenges in
accessing the best possible care, and we know that passion for scientific discovery alone
• E xcellence
— and that Gilead alone — cannot solve these challenges. Through our partnerships
with community organizations and our approach to corporate philanthropy, we support
initiatives and programs that improve access to care, reduce disparities, improve
education and support our local communities.
16 2018Our Purpose
What We’re Doing to Address
Global Challenges
The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) calls for companies to align
their operations with 10 universally accepted principles in human rights, labor,
environment and anti-corruption. Gilead became a signatory member in 2018,
joining other industry-leading companies in supporting the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
Stemming from the UNGC, the UN SDGs identify impact areas where we can
improve the quality of life for all people. By aligning our existing sustainability
and social practices within the UNGC and the UN SDGs, we better articulate our
commitment to our patients, local communities, society and the planet.
Although Gilead supports all SDGs, we have identified key goals where we can
deliver our greatest influence and positive impact. In particular, Gilead’s mission
to provide lifesaving therapeutics to marginalized and underserved communities
aligns strongly with SDG 3, “Good Health and Well-Being.” As Gilead expands our
business and operations, we strive to further support global health and sustainable
development.
Our priority SDGs are displayed on pages 20 and 21. SDG icons are also used
throughout this report to highlight areas where our work corresponds with specific
goals. Additional information on alignment between our work and the SDGs can
be found in the GRI Content Index of this report.
2018 19Our Purpose Our Purpose
Good Health and Well-Being
Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
We expand access to innovative therapeutics that improve human health
We leverage science and innovation to develop industry-leading
worldwide. We aim to help end epidemics of AIDS and hepatitis, and
therapeutics for areas of unmet medical need.
combat other communicable diseases.
Quality Education Reduced Inequalities
We educate and train healthcare providers on advanced therapies, especially We formed a Diversity Council in 2018 to enhance our inclusion and
in low-income and developing regions. diversity initiatives worldwide.
Gender Equality Responsible Consumption and Production
We cultivate an inclusive and diverse workforce that celebrates differences in We use green and sustainable chemistry where possible to produce
race, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and thinking style. therapies that benefit human health and minimize environmental impact.
Clean Water and Sanitation Climate Action
We protect water-dependent ecosystems by using natural bioswales, We are committed to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions
rainwater capture systems and water conservation measures. by 25% by 2025 compared with 2016 levels.
We
Believe
Affordable and Clean Energy
Partnerships for the Goals
Anything
Is Possible We generate and purchase renewable energy to offset grid-supplied We forge internal and external partnerships to improve patient
care, strengthen health systems, and reduce social and
energy at some of our worldwide facilities.
environmental impacts.
20 2018 2018 21Science & Innovation Science & Innovation
We
Believe
Discovery
Never
Ends
22 2018 2018 23ScieFnecaet u&r eIn Sntoovraytion Science & Innovation
Treating
Cancer After
All Else Fails
Denise was diagnosed with lymphoma on her birthday.
To learn more about
After two different chemotherapy regimens failed to treat how we're working to bring
30 tumors, she was told she had six months to live. Then, she hope to patients like
We
Believe discovered CAR T cell therapy. She enrolled as patient No. 1 in Denise, visit:
Discovery one of our cell therapy trials, a cutting-edge treatment that would
Never GILEAD.COM/YIR2018
Ends engineer her own immune system to attack her cancer.
2244 2018 2018 25Science & Innovation Science & Innovation
The Science
3
Driving
It All
At Gilead, through science and innovation, our goal is to develop
lifesaving products that make a difference for patients around the
world. We envision a world where all disease is treatable, curable
or preventable.
For more than 30 years, we have used our scientific expertise to develop therapies
that revolutionize the standard of care for many diseases. Still, we recognize that
science alone is not enough — that is why we also support innovative partnerships
that address the very challenges that make certain communities disproportionally
We
Believe susceptible to disease.
Discovery
Never
Ends We also invest in communities and apply the same rigor we use for scientific
innovation to how we support sustainable programs that focus on the intersection
of diseases like HIV and social determinants of health. With a portfolio of more than
24 marketed products, we target areas of significant unmet medical need, including
HIV/AIDS, liver diseases, hematology and oncology, inflammatory diseases, and
respiratory diseases.
26 2018 2018 27Science & Innovation Science & Innovation
9 Our Groundbreaking Research and Development
Expanding to treatment. These include investigational
long-acting injectables that could potentially
Gilead’s portfolio features a number of category firsts, including complete treatment
Access in China be administered just once a month — or even
regimens for HIV and chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection available in once-daily
every three months or longer. One of these
single pills, and Yescarta, the first chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR T) cell therapy for
compounds, GS-6207, is an investigational
Gilead’s presence in China
adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma.
small molecule capsid inhibitor designed to
expanded significantly in 2018, with
disrupt the protein shell that protects the
the China National Medicinal Products
Today, our research and development efforts include hundreds of ongoing and
viral genome, interfering with two stages of
Administration (NMPA) approving
planned clinical studies evaluating compounds with the potential to become
the virus’s replication cycle. GS-6207 is now
Epclusa®, Genvoya, Vemlidy®,
medicines that set a new standard of care. At the end of 2018, our research and
Harvoni® and Descovy. in clinical trials, and we are looking at other
development pipeline included 119 active clinical studies, of which 41 were
drugs to pair with it to create a potentially
Phase 3 clinical trials.
Increasing access to safe and effective and well-tolerated, long-acting
effective treatments is vital to public treatment regimen.
health in the world’s most populous
country, which had more than 140,000 In addition to developing new treatment
New Therapies for HIV
new HIV-1 diagnoses in 2017 and has options, Gilead is committed to the prevention
an estimated 10 million people living
of HIV infection for appropriate individuals,
For decades, Gilead has been a leader in developing innovative therapies to help
with HCV.
through the use of Truvada for PrEP® (pre-
treat HIV. Gilead’s newest HIV therapy, Biktarvy, is a daily single tablet regimen
exposure prophylaxis), a once-daily tablet
combining bictegravir, emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide (TAF). Approved
More than 200 Gilead employees
that is the first medication approved to help
by the FDA in February 2018, Biktarvy was found to be effective and tolerable for
work in China.
prevent HIV infection. PrEP is one approach to
adults new to treatment, as well as for stably suppressed adult patients transitioning
We
helping individuals who are HIV-negative and
Believe from other medicines. In the United States, Biktarvy is the most prescribed product
at risk of HIV infection to reduce their chances
Discovery in the first 13 months, compared with any other products launched to treat HIV.
Never of acquiring HIV through sex. In 2018, Gilead
Ends
A single tablet regimen can help make it simpler for patients compared with the launched its first U.S. television advertisement
earliest HIV treatments that required dozens of medications to be taken each for Truvada for PrEP to help raise awareness
day, multiple times a day. Still, our scientists continue to work on developing new and encourage people who have a higher
treatments with the goal of making it even easier for patients to adhere by providing risk of HIV exposure to have a candid
them with additional treatment and dosing schedule options, as well as compounds conversation about HIV prevention with their
that may be effective for patients whose disease is showing greater resistance healthcare provider.
28 2018 2018 29Science & Innovation Science & Innovation
Biktarvy
In the United States, Biktarvy is the most prescribed
product in the first 13 months, compared to any other
products launched to treat HIV.
2018 Worldwide Sales
1.18B
$
We
Believe
Discovery
Never
Ends
30 2018 2018 31Science & Innovation Science & Innovation
Kite Is Advancing the State of Oncology
In 2017, Gilead acquired Kite Pharma, solidifying our dedication to helping achieve
one of the most ambitious goals of 21st century medicine: curing cancer. In 2018,
we continued to advance a pipeline of cancer therapies including cell therapy,
immunotherapy and targeted therapy.
Kite’s cell therapy portfolio is led by Yescarta (axicabtagene ciloleucel), the first chimeric
antigen receptor T (CAR T) cell therapy approved by the FDA for the treatment of adult
patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of
systemic therapy. Yescarta works by genetically modifying immune cells to target tumors
— effectively re-engineering a patient’s own T cells to detect and kill cancer cells. The
European Commission granted marketing authorization to Yescarta in August 2018. To
support patients in Europe, Kite has established a distribution center in the Netherlands
and is building a manufacturing facility that is expected to begin operating in 2020.
Our achievements at Kite were capped with one of the most prestigious honors in
Our Approach to Tackling Liver Diseases
biopharmaceutical research: Yescarta was named co-winner of the 2018 Prix Galien USA
Award for best biotechnology product. Prix Galien aims to promote significant advances
Gilead has developed breakthrough medicines that can cure patients of hepatitis C
in pharmaceutical research. Each year, the award gives credit to the most important drugs
virus (HCV) infection regardless of the virus genotype or cirrhosis status. Gilead has
introduced into the public market as well as to the achievements of the best research
developed Vemlidy, which helps people living with hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection
team in the pharmaceutical field. It is considered the industry’s equivalent of the Nobel
We control their condition every day with a small once-daily tablet.
prize and the highest accolade for pharmaceutical research and development.
Believe
Discovery But we know that caring for people living with chronic illnesses is about more than
Never In addition to ongoing studies of Yescarta, Kite is advancing novel, investigational
Ends just medicine. Screening and increasing patient access to treatment is critical. That’s
therapies for a range of hematologic malignancies and solid tumors.
why we continue our work to expand hepatitis screening and linkage to care for
We are also advancing oncology research through partnerships, licensing at-risk individuals and increase access to our medicines around the world. To do
agreements, M&As, and strategic investments. And as a founding member of the this, we actively support the efforts of governments and partner with professional
Foundation for the National Institute of Health’s Partnership for Accelerating Cancer organizations, patient advocacy groups, payers and healthcare professionals who
Therapies, Gilead collaborates with peers to enhance understanding of cancer have declared their intention and commitment to work toward the World Health
immunotherapy and engineered cell therapies. Organization (WHO) goal of elimination of viral hepatitis around the world by 2030.
32 2018 2018 33Science & Innovation Science & Innovation
Epclusa, the first pan-genotypic and pan-fibrotic treatment, now accounts for the Advancing Potential Treatments in Inflammatory Diseases
majority of Gilead’s HCV product sales in the United States and about 75% of our
HCV sales in Europe. In 2018, the NMPA approved Epclusa and Harvoni for the Despite several available and effective medications for patients with rheumatoid
treatment of HCV, and Vemlidy for the treatment of HBV, bringing new treatment arthritis (RA), inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and other inflammatory conditions,
options to the millions of people in China living with viral hepatitis. some of the existing treatments can stop providing adequate control of symptoms
over time. We believe additional treatment options are needed, and our aim is to
In HBV, we continue to work toward the goal of finding a cure. In 2018, Gilead shared
break through the efficacy ceiling for patients with inflammatory conditions.
numerous research findings with the scientific community and entered into new
strategic partnerships to supplement our in-house research. Galapagos and Gilead entered into a global collaboration in 2015 for the
development and commercialization of filgotinib, an investigational JAK-1 inhibitor,
We are also developing medicines for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and
in inflammatory indications. In May 2018, Gilead and Galapagos announced that the
primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). NASH, a disease that causes fat accumulation
EQUATOR Phase 2 trial of filgotinib in psoriatic arthritis met the primary endpoint.
and inflammation in the liver and can lead to liver fibrosis, is expected to become the
Gilead and Galapagos announced that the Phase 2b/3 SELECTION trial with filgotinib
leading cause of liver transplantation by 2020. PSC is a rare and chronic condition
in ulcerative colitis progressed into Phase 3 following an interim futility analysis in
that damages the bile ducts and can lead to cirrhosis, liver failure and cancer. There
which the data monitoring committee (DMC) recommended that the study proceed
are no treatments to cure PSC or stop disease progression.
as planned, evaluating 100 mg and 200 mg once-daily doses in biologic-experienced
and biologic-naïve patients. In September 2018, Gilead and Galapagos announced
Gilead is advancing multiple novel investigational compounds for the treatment of
that the TORTUGA Phase 2 trial of filgotinib in ankylosing spondylitis met the primary
advanced fibrosis due to NASH, and is currently conducting a Phase 3 trial in PSC.
endpoint. At the same time, Gilead and Galapagos announced that the Phase 3
FINCH 2 trial in RA patients refractory to biologics met the primary and all key
secondary endpoints, in line with previous studies. The results from EQUATOR and
We
Believe Asegua Is Bridging a Gap in Treatment TORTUGA were published in The Lancet.
Discovery
Never Filgotinib is our lead asset in this therapeutic area and has the potential to establish
Ends Asegua Therapeutics is a Gilead subsidiary that produces authorized generics
a foundation for Gilead in combination treatment strategies to improve outcomes
of Epclusa and Harvoni, offering health insurers a lower list price option for these
for patients with RA, IBD and other inflammatory diseases. We continue to develop
HCV medications. Pricing for the authorized generics more closely reflects existing
internal compounds and are actively evaluating external opportunities that can
discounting on the branded products, providing payers with policy and contractual
complement or accelerate our internal efforts.
constraints an option that may enable them to more easily provide coverage to their
insured populations and, ultimately, offer the promise of treatment and cure to more
patients throughout the United States.
34 2018 2018 35Science & Innovation Science & Innovation
Research Structured Research Research
Collaboration Acquisition Collaboration Collaboration
Immunophenotyping γδT-Cells; Buildto Buy Electroporation (Modulation of Latent
Platform for Inflam for Cell Therapy TGFβfor Fibrosis)
Research Research Research Out-licensing Research Research Research Research
Collaboration Collaboration Collaboration Momelotinibfor Collaboration Collaboration Collaboration Collaboration
Gene Editing Cell Therapies Vaccines for Myeloproliferative Gene Editing Neoantigen TCRs (HIV Cure) Bi-specific Abs for I/O
for Cell Therapy Targeting Patient- HIV/HBV Cure Diseases for HBV Cure
Specific Tumor
Neoantigens
We
Believe Clinical Study Clinical Study Product Research Research
Collaboration Collaboration Acquisition Collaboration Collaboration
Discovery Yescarta+ GS- HIV Products CRISPR Screening Novel Small
Never Utomilumab 9620+Vaccine in Japan for I/O Molecules
Ends for LBCL for HIV Cure for Fibrosis
36 2018 2018 37
A&M
DNA
GNISNECIL
,SPIHSRENTRAP
STNEMTSEVNI
YTIUQE
Our Partnerships Other collaborations include a strategic collaboration with Precision BioSciences to develop
therapies targeting the in vivo elimination of HBV with Precision’s proprietary genome
editing platform, ARCUS; a research collaboration and license agreement that grants Gilead
exclusive rights to Hookipa’s TheraT® and Vaxwave® arenavirus vector-based immunization
To make the fastest progress possible in the fight against
technologies for HBV and HIV; and a scientific collaboration with Verily Life Sciences using
life-threatening diseases, Gilead finds ways to build upon the Verily’s Immunoscape platform to identify and better understand the immunologic basis of
complementary strengths and accomplishments of industry peers. rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and lupus-related diseases.
Collaborations and acquisitions are an important part of Gilead’s growth strategy. During Gilead plans to pursue additional collaborations in 2019.
2018, Gilead executed 15 partnership, licensing, and M&A deals, and completed 10 equity
investments in biopharma companies. These collaborations provide Gilead with access to
new technology and resources that may enable rapid advancement in oncology and cell Strategic Collaborations and Investments
therapy, HIV liver disease, and inflammatory diseases.
Our 2018 collaborations in oncology and cell therapy included the following
industry innovators:
• A worldwide collaboration using Sangamo’s zinc finger nuclease gene editing
technology platform to develop next-generation ex vivo cell therapies
• A new Cooperative Research and Development Agreement with the
National Cancer Institute to develop adoptive cell therapies targeting
patient-specific tumor neoantigens
• A strategic collaboration with Gadeta to develop novel gamma
delta T cell receptor therapies
• A research collaboration and license agreement with HiFiBiO
1H 2018 2H 2018 1H 2019
Therapeutics to develop technology for discovery of
neoantigen-reactive T cell receptors
Oncology
• A global strategic collaboration with Tango Therapeutics for a Innovation Fund
pipeline of targeted immuno-oncology treatments
BioVenturesFundWorking at Gilead Working at Gilead
We
Believe
In Our
People
38 2 20 01 18 8 2018 39WoFeraktinugr ea tS tGoirleyad Working at Gilead
"As different as
we are, we are
all committed to
our mission."
Katie Watson and Tara MacCannell come from very different
To hear more from Katie
backgrounds. But at Gilead, they share a vision: to work together
and Tara about what it means
to deliver life-changing medicines for patients around the world.
We to be part of the team at
Believe By celebrating each other’s differences and unique perspectives,
Gilead, visit:
In Our our employees make Gilead a company that is greater than the
People
sum of its parts. Our employees are our not-so-secret strategy GILEAD.COM/YIR2018
for tackling some of the world’s most challenging diseases.
4400 2018 2018 41Working at Gilead Working at Gilead
Gilead offers employees a unique opportunity to combine professional advance-
ment and continual learning with the ability to impact our local communities and
people around the world. No challenge is too great and no contribution too small to
inspire us to act. Our people bring a spirit of service to everything they do, from
advanced scientific research to mentorship and community engagement. We’re
proud to support a workplace culture that allows all of us to bring our best selves
and serve our highest purpose.
How We Reward, Recognize
and Retain Employees
At Gilead, we offer competitive compensation programs as well as country-focused
Our People Make benefits related to health, wellness, retirement, disability and leaves of absence.
The Total Rewards program is designed to help attract, cultivate and retain the
a Difference industry’s most talented workforce. We offer employees financial benefits including
base pay, bonuses and stock grant opportunities; access to a variety of health and
wellness resources; time-off benefits; and support for training and education. We
We assess the benefits package each year to ensure we have in place the right offerings
Believe
At Gilead, we are inspired by delivering lifesaving therapies to patients in to help us attract and retain critical talent. Our Total Rewards package covers the
In Our
People need. Our core values — integrity, inclusion, teamwork, accountability and following core elements:
excellence — are the cornerstones of everything we do.
Compensation and Financial Benefits
We’re also committed to creating, promoting and maintaining an inclusive, high-per-
forming culture in which all team members embrace and leverage each other’s tal- Gilead is a pay-for-performance company that is committed to pay equity. We pay
ents and backgrounds. Our sense of shared purpose and our culture of excellence employees based on market-based salary ranges. Pay decisions are made without
enable us to reach millions of patients around the world and turn the tide on seri- regard to personal characteristics such as gender, race, color, national origin,
ous, life-threatening diseases. ethnicity, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression,
42 2018 2018 43Working at Gilead Working at Gilead
genetic information, religion or veteran status. All Gilead employees receive regular Our wellness offerings include biometric screenings, wellness seminars, on-site
performance and career development reviews. We monitor and review employee fitness centers or annual fitness reimbursement, and health assessment tools. Risk
compensation on an annual basis to ensure that our pay practices are gender neutral. benefits include sick days, disability benefits and company-paid life, accidental death
and dismemberment, and business travel accident insurance.
Gilead’s salary ratio for In 2018, we expanded our U.S. health
women to men in the and welfare benefits to include Applied
United States is Behavioral Analysis therapy and fertility
support for employees.
Our financial benefits include:
Our Employee Assistance Program (EAP) services include financial, legal,
• Retirement savings with matching contributions, available in many countries pre-retirement, elder care and child care consultations, as well as clinical counseling.
based on local market practice and regulations* And, now, a new online coaching tool provides our U.S. employees and their families
with access to on-demand behavioral health support.
• Employee Stock Purchase Program (ESPP) that enables eligible Gilead
employees to become stockholders by purchasing Gilead stock at a 15%
Time Off
discount, consistent with Internal Revenue Service requirements
We
Believe * For detailed information about Gilead’s defined benefit plan obligations, visit the Gilead offers a competitive time-off program to help employees remain rested and
In Our company’s Form 10-K on the Shareholder Center page of our website. balanced throughout the year. Time-off benefits include company-paid vacation days
People
and holidays, which vary from country to country based on compliance with local
laws, regulations and common market practice.
3 Health and Welfare Benefits
We also offer family-friendly leaves of absence such as parental and adoption leaves
To demonstrate our commitment to the health and well-being of our employees and their to employees in many countries, including six weeks of Paid Parental Time Off (PPTO)
families, we offer market-competitive wellness, extended healthcare and risk benefits in for employees in the United States.
many countries.
44 2018 2018 45Working at Gilead Working at Gilead
In 2018, more than 98% of our worldwide
• Gilead also supports continued Employees in
employees on parental leave returned to
education with a discount on MBA
work at the end of leave. programs through Golden Gate Southern California
University. In 2018, 55 employees
Male Female TOTAL participated in the on-site MBA Hold First Week
Number of employees entitled to parental leave in 2018* 5,353 5,472 10,825 program in Foster City.
Number of employees who took parental leave in 2018 184 333 517 of Service
Number of employees who returned to work after leave ended in 2018 183 328 511
Giving Together
Number of employees retained 12 months after returning
to work following a period of parental leave in 2017 155 279 434 Gilead’s annual Week of Service brings
Number of employees who took a parental leave in 2017 175 337 512 In 2018, Gilead launched Giving Together, together employees around the world to
2018 return to work rate 99.5% 98.5% 98.8% a program through which we match 1:1 make a difference in their communities.
2017 return to work rate 97.7% 98.5% 98.2% donations to eligible nonprofit organizations In October, the Kite team in Southern
2017 retention rate 85.6% 84% 84.6%
of up to $2,000 per employee each year. California participated in its first Week
* thE em rp el fo oy ree ,e as l ln eo mt e pl li og yib el ee s f o ar r eB o ten cd hin ng ic aL le lya eve lig m iba ley tr oe q tau ke es t “ a P aP re er ns to an l a Ll e L ae va ev .”e of Absence to spend time with their new child; In 2018, we donated to the California Fire of Service. Volunteers assembled care
Foundation, the Wildfire Relief Fund in Los packages for children receiving cancer
Angeles and the North Valley Community treatment in Los Angeles-area hospitals,
4 Professional and Personal Development Foundation in Chico, California, to help those decorated for Halloween parties at Boys &
affected by the Northern and Southern Girls Clubs locations and contributed to a
G ilead’s Learning and Development Program fosters a culture of continuous California fires. food drive for Westside Food Bank.
learning designed to help employees develop cross-functional skills and tools to
We grow their careers and learn about our culture. For our employees and their families who “The Week of Service gave us the chance
Believe
were evacuated in 2018 by the wildfires in to work together to provide a little hope
In Our
People • In 2018, Gilead employees completed 50,409 hours of California and Greece, Hurricane Michael in and smiles for people in need through small
professional, management and leadership development training Florida, and the typhoons in Asia, we offered gestures that can have a positive ripple
programs or an average of 4.7 hours per employee.* paid time off and financial assistance to help effect and also help create a bond with our
cover the cost of hotel rooms, meals and local communities.”
• Employees can receive reimbursement for tuition expenses incurred
damaged personal belongings.
while pursuing undergraduate, graduate or certificate courses at an
Lindy Him, specialist, Cell Therapy II
accredited college or university. Annual reimbursement maximums
and eligibility may vary from country to country.
* Online courses are assumed to be one hour.
46 2018 2018 47Working at Gilead Working at Gilead
Volunteering in Our Communities
In 2018, Gilead’s legal department
spent approximately 300 pro-bono
Gilead aims to positively impact the communities hours representing clients in a
where we work and live, and to connect the variety of areas including domestic
talents of employees with unmet needs in violence survivors, asylum for
those communities. We encourage worldwide immigrant juveniles and veterans
employees to engage in volunteer activities that seeking medical aid.
benefit four core areas of focus: underserved
communities, education, environment and health
awareness/outreach.
75
In 2018, worldwide
hours in domestic
violence representation
employees received an
additional paid day off from
work to volunteer with an
200
organization of their choice.
hours in immigrant
representation
As part of Gilead’s second annual “Week of
We
Service,” employees around the world gave
Believe
back to local communities by providing meals,
In Our
People maintenance, habitat restoration, care packages 15
for members of the military and other assistance.
In Foster City, employees spent more than
hours in veteran
1,000 community service hours supporting the representation
following six organizations:
• Pacifica Beach Coalition
• LifeMoves
• Operation Care & Comfort
48 2018 2018 49Working at Gilead Working at Gilead
• Boys & Girls Clubs of Oakland
Working to demonstrate our commitment
Our Commitment
• GLIDE
to inclusion requires us to:
• Larkin Street Youth Services
to the LGBTQ+
• Encourage and
More than 200 of our employees in Southern California participated in the Week of support each other
Community
Service for the first time, volunteering with three nonprofit organizations supporting
• Recognize and mitigate
youth and families in the Los Angeles area.
unconscious bias
Honoring our diversity not only makes us a
• Consider multiple
more effective workforce, it helps us better
pathways to success
understand and serve patients around the
We Welcome and
5 • Respect people of all world. It’s only natural that, having started
backgrounds and experiences out developing treatments for diseases
10 that disproportionately affect the LBGTQ+
Celebrate Diverse
• Seek diverse perspectives
community, we are fiercely committed to
to drive innovation
supporting our LGBTQ+ employees today.
Perspectives
From advocating for transgender rights,
to marching in Pride parades around the
In 2018, we formed
world, to hosting honest conversations
As Gilead expands into new therapeutic areas and geographic regions, our business a diversity council, about inclusion and diversity, Gilead stands
becomes increasingly complex. Building an inclusive and diverse workforce helps
with our LGBTQ+ employees — and takes
chaired by senior
us evolve along with our business and, ultimately, better serve our patients. By
We pride in the difference they make in our
Believe generating greater diversity of thought, we accelerate our innovation, amplify our management, to communities.
In Our productivity, and achieve our mission of improving patient care and meeting unmet
People measure our ability
medical needs around the world. “Our varied perspectives and experiences
to attract, develop and help drive innovation. All of us at Gilead
Diversity at Gilead means recognizing and accepting all the ways in which we differ. It
are committed to promoting inclusion and
retain employees of
includes visible differences — such as age, gender, ethnicity and physical appearance
diversity — it’s simply the right thing to do.”
as well as underlying differences such as thinking styles, religion, nationality, veteran
diverse backgrounds.
Daniel O'Day, Chairman and CEO
status, sexual orientation, sexual identity and education. Gilead added “inclusion” as
a core value in 2016 to better help us build a community of accountability.
50 2018 2018 51Working at Gilead Working at Gilead
The new diversity council will track our progress relative to the following improvement goals: Amplifying Our Gilead Asian Interest Network
(GAIN)
Employees’ Voices GAIN unites Asian employees
• Increasing the transparency of diversity data and their allies to deepen
cultural understanding across
the company.
Listening to our employees is crucial to our
• Implementing and tracking diversity action plans specific to different
organizations and regions continued success, especially as we continue
to evolve. To obtain valuable insights from our Gilead Leadership
Organization of Black
• Building a more inclusive culture by integrating and expanding employees, we periodically issue workplace
Employees (GLOBE)
unconscious bias trainings globally, and launching multicultural tools surveys covering a multitude of topics including GLOBE works to cultivate
to improve team effectiveness across borders leadership among people of
our core values, impact, innovation, career African descent, advancing
opportunities for all people to
development, inclusion, engagement, work be valued.
environment, collaboration and efficiency.
Creating Communities at Gilead Women at Gilead
Our global network of Women
In 2018, 92% of our at Gilead boosts how we
Many of our employees participate in Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). These recruit, develop and support
our female employees — so
groups provide opportunities for leadership development, community involvement, worldwide employees they can thrive now and into
the future.
networking, mentoring, skills advancement, participating in the recruitment of diverse
provided valuable
candidates and other ways for Gilead employees to make a difference beyond their
The LGBTQ+ Alliance
usual work responsibilities. feedback that is helping The LGBTQ+ Alliance is all
about keeping Gilead a place
shape our business where gender diversity is
With more than 6,000 members and 20 chapters around the world in 2018, Gilead’s celebrated, community is
prioritized and all people feel
ERGs are helping us scale our inclusion and diversity initiatives, while creating a sense strategy moving forward. empowered.
of belonging for all employees.
We
Believe Gileados
In Our In 2018, we received a top score of 100% on the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) 2018 Gileados members embrace
and espouse an appreciation
People
Corporate Equality Index (CEI), a national benchmarking tool on corporate policies for the multifaceted Latino
culture at Gilead, with the goal
and practices related to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBTQ) employees. of enhancing the recruitment
and retention of diverse talent.
In recognition of our diversity and inclusion efforts, Forbes named Gilead one of
Gilead Veterans Engagement
2019’s Best Employers for Diversity.
Team (GVET)
GVET plays an important
role in how we recognize,
appreciate and support
veterans, active duty military
and their families.
52 2018 2018 53Working at Gilead Working at Gilead
Results from the 2018 survey reflected positive feedback in several categories
including core values, impact, innovation and career development. At the same time,
our employees identified opportunities for improving our collaboration, operational
efficiency, and inclusion and diversity initiatives. In response to this feedback, we
formed action teams in late 2018 to evaluate opportunities and take action.
In the spirit of creating a community of accountability, our action teams will meet
quarterly to report on our progress with respect to these and other improvement
opportunities in 2019.
Improvement Opportunity 2018 ACTION
We implemented an organizational network analysis
(ONA) to map connections between employees to
Collaboration
understand and improve cross-functional
and cross-locational collaboration.
We unveiled new work schedule options to increase
Efficiency
flexibility around when and where employees work.
We formed a Diversity Council and created
Inclusion and Diversity organizational diversity action plans to enhance
We
Believe our diverse hiring and development programs.
In Our
People
54 2018 2018 55Working at Gilead Working at Gilead
Our Global Workforce
United States Gender, Age and Race/Ethnicity Distribution*
Gilead’s worldwide staff has grown to more than 11,000 people, but we
still strive to make our workforce a close community where everyone
can see the tangible results of their contributions, where every
individual matters and where everyone has a chance to enhance their
skills through ongoing development.
Our People by the Numbers
Our people are more than just numbers to us. Gilead continually looks for opportunities
to diversify our workforce, and data is an important part of that process. Each year, we
review total new hires, voluntary turnovers, gender, race, ethnicity and other metrics.
The following is a snapshot of some of Gilead’s 2018 workforce demographic data.
GENDER RACE/ETHNICITY
Worldwide New Hires and Voluntary Turnovers
We Black or
Believe African Hispanic
2017 2018 EEO-1 Category* Male Female White American or Latino Asian Other**
In Our
People
New Hires* 1,155 1,997 Executives*** 69% 31% 71% 7% 1% 19% 2%
New Hire Rate 12.7% 19.2% First-/Mid-Level Managers 51% 49% 49% 5% 7% 36% 3%
Voluntary Turnovers 781 937 Professionals 47% 53% 40% 5% 14% 37% 4%
Voluntary Turnover Rate 8.5% 9% Total Gilead U.S. Population 49% 51% 44% 5% 11% 37% 4%
*New hire data includes individuals that were hired externally.
Existing employees that changed positions internally are not included in this calculation.
56 2018 2018 57Working at Gilead Working at Gilead
Building a Culture of Workplace Safety
Gilead believes that a safe and secure workplace inspires innovation while promoting
health, wellness and productivity. Our workplace safety, training and security
program is designed to prevent occupational injuries and illnesses, and promote
a culture of reporting. Safety measures include tailored training sessions, annual
refresher courses, and detailed assessment of incidents and near-misses worldwide.
In 2018, the most frequent work-related injuries were from musculoskeletal extremity,
back and neck strains, which were caused by material handling, ergonomic, slip, fall
and motor vehicle hazards. Ergonomics and a trip hazard led to two high-consequence
injuries where the individuals were unable to recover fully within six months.
Executive management meets quarterly to review the environmental and safety
performance across all of our sites, while joint management-line health and safety
committees review site-level performance. Teams complete in-depth reviews at
individual sites where incidents occur to identify the causes and determine how to
keep these and similar events from happening in the future.
Gilead Workforce Data
We
Believe FTE and Non-FTE Employees
In Our
Number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0.0
People
Rate* of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0.0
Number** of high-consequence work-related injuries 2.0
Rate* of high-consequence work-related injuries 0.02
Total number of recordable work-related injuries 74.0
Rate* of recordable work-related injuries 0.65
*Rates are calculated based on 22,648,146 hours worked by all FTE and non-FTE (e.g., temporary) workers managed directly by
Gilead, which is consistent with U.S.-OSHA record keeping requirements and how data is reported to U.S. authorities and internally.
**The number of high-consequence work-related injuries is based on lost time/days away and restricted workday cases reported to OSHA.
58 2018 2018 59Community Impact Community Impact
We
Believe
No One
Can Do It
Alone
60 2018 2018 61CoFmematuunriet yS Itmoprayct Community Impact
Aging With HIV:
How We're
Managing New
Challenges
Over the years, the HIV community has pushed boundaries, broken down
barriers and campaigned for positive change. But as the first generation of
people with HIV enters later life, new and unprecedented challenges are
emerging, while many historic challenges remain.
Launched in 2018 in the UK, Gilead’s HIV Age Positively aims to address
the greatest challenges of aging with HIV — taking action for today and
To learn more about Gilead
for tomorrow.
We
Believe HIV Age Positively, visit:
No One HIV Age Positively embraces the ethos of thinking and doing things
Can Do It GILEADGIVING.CO.UK
Alone differently. To provide innovative ideas and fresh perspectives, we work
with "Future Thinkers" — individuals known for groundbreaking work
inside and outside the HIV space.
Through the HIV Age Positively initiative, Gilead provides funding for
projects inspired by thinking and doing things differently and that focus
on one or more of the HIV Age Positively key focused areas: community
action, personal health, equality and health services.
6622 2018 2018 63Community Impact Community Impact
Providing Access to
3
4
Our Medicines
10
17 To be effective at treating, preventing or curing disease, medicines must
be available to the patients who need them. Through our Access to
Medicines programs, Gilead is expanding access to treatment by
helping patients overcome barriers to get the medicines they need.
Because obstacles to care can occur in both resource-rich countries and in the
developing world alike, Gilead collaborates with governments, nongovernmental
organizations, healthcare providers, payers and other partners around the world to
We
Believe increase access to treatment.
No One
Can Do It
Alone
64 2018 2018 65Community Impact Community Impact
Access to Our Medicines
• Patient Assistance Programs. Eligible patients without insurance can
apply to our Patient Assistance Program to receive free treatment, directly
in the United States
from Gilead.
The U.S. healthcare landscape is complex and can be difficult to navigate. To ease
the burden this can place on patients and their caregivers, Gilead’s patient assistance Expanded Access Program
programs help provide access to medicines, copay assistance and counseling across
our therapeutic areas and in accordance with all applicable laws. For some people with serious or life-threatening conditions — who aren’t eligible for
clinical trials and for whom there are no therapeutic options available to meet their
In addition to discounting programs aimed at addressing affordability challenges needs — Gilead’s Expanded Access Program offers access to our investigational
for patients, Gilead is pursuing creative solutions to these challenges. For instance, medicines. The program varies regionally as a result of the unique regulatory mech-
in 2018, Gilead authorized the launch of generic versions of Epclusa and Harvoni in anisms worldwide. Since investigational medicines have not yet received regulatory
the United States starting in January 2019 through our separate subsidiary, Asegua approval, their potential risks and benefits are not yet established. Patients and their
Therapeutics LLC. The authorized generics will allow for greater access for patients. physicians must carefully consider all possible benefits and risks before seeking ac-
cess through compassionate use.
Gilead Patient Support Programs
Rapid Access to Our Medications Program
• Patient Counseling. Our case managers help patients navigate insurance coverage
and access to treatment. Assistance includes finding alternative coverage and copay Gilead also recognizes that extreme weather events can threaten health systems
support when appropriate. and interrupt access to care. In an effort to prevent interruptions to patients’ treat-
We ment with Gilead medicines in the continental United States and territories, we have
Believe • Assistance for Individuals Living With HIV. Gilead works with state
implemented emergency disaster procedures through our Patient Support Programs.
No One AIDS Drug Assistance Programs to provide lower pricing for our HIV medicines.
Can Do It Gilead works with healthcare providers and pharmacies to help provide prescribed
Alone Approximately half of all individuals taking Gilead HIV medicines in the United States
Gilead medications to patients in need. Some individuals may be eligible to obtain a
receive them through federal and state programs at substantially discounted prices.
30-day replacement supply of their Gilead medications at no cost.
Gilead’s Truvada for PrEP Medication Assistance Program helps provide access to
Truvada for PrEP for eligible individuals in the United States without insurance. Gilead
also offers a copay assistance program to help eligible people with insurance offset
any out-of-pocket costs. The program provides consistent access for both prevention
and treatment indications.
66 2018 2018 67Community Impact Community Impact
• Tiered pricing, with discounts on medicines based on disease burden and
national per-capita income
• Responsible generic licensing of our products to enable high-quality,
low-cost versions of our HIV and viral hepatitis medicines in low- and
middle-income countries
• Advocacy for public health initiatives and policies that maximize patient reach
and prevent new infections
• Strengthening health systems to bolster diagnostic, treatment
and surveillance capacity
• Collaborative research that targets innovative therapies, informs drug delivery
and helps countries map disease burdens
For more information about these and other initiatives to improve global access to
lifesaving medicines and public health education, refer to our 2018 Impact Report for
emerging markets.
Access to Our Medicines
in the Developing World
Giving Back to
We For more than 15 years, Gilead has carried out pioneering programs and
Believe
partnerships that provide access to our medicines in low- and middle-income
Our Communities
No One countries. During that time, we have learned there is no one-size-fits-all solution to
Can Do It
Alone treatment access challenges.
At Gilead, we know that we alone cannot solve the challenges that patients and
That’s why we work with public health officials, community advocates, researchers,
communities face in accessing the best possible care. Gilead’s corporate giving
doctors and patients to understand barriers and opportunities, with a focus on
programs fund projects that support underserved communities that systematically
communities impacted by HIV, viral hepatitis and visceral leishmaniasis. We apply a
experience social or economic obstacles to health. We build relationships with patient
variety of approaches to increase disease awareness, engage partners strategically
advocates, nonprofits and healthcare professionals around the world who work tirelessly
and deliver medicines efficiently. These include:
in local communities to improve people’s lives day after day.
68 2018 2018 69Community Impact Community Impact
In 2018, Gilead provided almost $400 million in cash donations to reduce health
disparities, eliminate the barriers to healthcare encountered by underserved populations,
advance education among healthcare professionals and support the local communities
TM
in which we operate. We also made donations to support relief efforts for communities
recovering from wildfires in California, hurricane damage in the Eastern United States,
flooding in India and an outbreak of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
helps community-based organizations reduce HIV-related health
Gilead COMPASS Initiative™
disparities, build awareness, advance education and reduce stigma.
The South is home to one-third of the U.S. population but saw 52% of new HIV
infections and 49% of deaths from HIV in the country in 2017. Four of the five states
with the highest rates of new HIV diagnoses in 2016 were in the South. To bring In 2018, COMPASS Coordinating Centers
solutions to this hardest-hit region, Gilead launched the COMPASS (COMmitment to
Partnership in Addressing HIV/AIDS in Southern States) Initiative in December 2017.
delivered $2.9 million in grants to support
2.9M
COMPASS is managed by three Coordinating Centers, which draw on their long local organizations and evidence-based
$
history of local engagement to more effectively understand and develop programs
solutions to meet the needs of people living
that meet the unique needs of Southern communities:
with and impacted by HIV/AIDS.
• The Rollins School of Public Health at Emory University oversees
We programs for capacity building and shared knowledge. ,
Believe 8 313
No One promoted visibility of the program
• The University of Houston Graduate College of Social Work (GCSW)
Can Do It
Alone oversees programs that focus on well-being, mental health and to 8,313 advocates at six conferences
trauma-informed care. throughout the region.
• The Southern AIDS Coalition (SAC) oversees awareness, education
and anti-stigma campaigns.
1 8
hosted 18 shared learning opportunities
designed to foster collaboration through
best practices and connection with
subject-matter experts.
70 2018 2018 71Community Impact Community Impact
Partnerships to Advance Education
and Improve Cancer Care
In 2018, Gilead launched Lift™, an initiative to provide project grants to organizations
focused on cell therapy, a cutting-edge immunotherapy that modifies a patient’s
immune cells to target cancer cells. Our Lift grantees include:
• American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation
• Arm Foundation for Regenerative Medicine Education and Research
• Be The Match Foundation
• Cancer Support Community
We • Lazarex Cancer Foundation
Believe
No One • Leukemia & Lymphoma Society
Can Do It
Alone • Lymphoma Research Foundation
Lift grants will be used for projects that increase awareness and education, improve
the experience of patients, their families and caregivers, and increase access to
clinical trials.
72 2018 2018 73Practices & Environment Practices & Environment
We
Believe
Our
Business Is
Sustainable
74 2018 2018 75PractFiecaetsu &r eE nSvtoirroynment Practices & Environment
Caring for the
Environment
James O’Regan is on a mission: to positively impact his community
For more about how
by reducing Gilead’s footprint in it. As the sustainability manager
James and the Cork team are
at our manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland, he’s doing just that. keeping things green, visit:
Last year, Cork marked its sixth consecutive year as a zero-waste
We
GILEAD.COM/YIR2018
Believe
facility, running on 100% renewable energy.
Our
Business Is
Sustainable
7766 2018 2018 77Practices & Environment Practices & Environment
A Smarter,
5
Green Buildings at Gilead
12
Smaller Footprint
Our buildings house the laboratories where we develop the medicines that help
millions of people around the world live healthier lives. Embracing core sustainability
Gilead is committed to the socially and environmentally responsible and green building practices, such as conserving natural resources, eliminating
unnecessary waste and responsibly sourcing materials, has enabled us to better
production of medicines to help people living with some of the world’s
deliver high-performance working environments that operate efficiently and promote
most serious illnesses.
the health and productivity of our employees.
Through the years, we have developed a worldwide sustainability strategy built on
Partnering with building designers, engineers and contractors who share our
our initiatives to reduce the impact associated with our supply chain, the manufactur-
commitment to sustainability adds value through all phases of the development
ing and distribution of our products, and the design, construction and operations of
process. It also streamlines our efforts to align with local green building standards
our worldwide corporate facilities.
including Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design® (LEED®) and Building
Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method® (BREEAM®).
Over the past 14 years, Gilead’s real estate portfolio has grown to over 6.2 million
square feet. We use responsible growth strategies to minimize our environmental
In 2018, Gilead began taking steps toward LEED Silver certification for a new site
impact and improve our operational efficiency while pursuing our vision to advance
in Frederick, Maryland, and BREEAM certification for a new site in Hoofddorp,
therapies for life-threatening diseases worldwide.
Netherlands. These sites will expand Gilead’s portfolio of facilities that either are
We
Believe Our international facilities master plan is a valuable resource for thoughtfully manag- pursuing or have achieved green building recognitions.
Our ing our infrastructure and real estate decisions.
Business Is
Sustainable
At Gilead, we are doing our part to transition to a low-carbon future and mitigate the
effects of climate change. In line with the Paris Agreement’s central aim of keeping
the global temperature rise below 2 degrees Celsius this century, we have estab-
lished a goal to reduce our global Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 25%
by 2025, compared with a 2016 baseline.
78 2018 2018 79Practices & Environment Practices & Environment
2018 Gilead Site Highlights
Responsible Delivery Systems
Foster City, California, United States
At the start of 2018, 100% of the electricity supplied to our worldwide Gilead’s Pharmaceutical Development and Manufacturing (PDM) team is responsible
headquarters was sourced from renewable energy.
for ensuring that our therapies are available when and where patients need them.
Renewable energy procurement efforts at Foster City and Cork, Ireland, demonstrated
We use a combination of company-owned facilities and an expanding network of
a 16% reduction of Scope 1 and 2 emissions — achieving over half of our 2025 GHG
reduction goal. Procurement efforts were expanded at Foster City in 2018. international partners to manufacture, package and distribute our products.
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada / ISO 14001: 2015
To meet the growing demand for innovative medicines in areas of unmet need, we
Recovering high-purity wastewater from laboratories to cool vacuum pumps on-site
constantly are working to optimize and diversify manufacturing capabilities. In 2001,
will save 7.884 million liters of freshwater per year.
when Viread™ (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate or TDF) was launched, Gilead produced
Stockley Park, England about 111,000 bottles at one manufacturing site — the equivalent of a year’s supply
Stockley Park eliminated the use of plastic water bottles from the site, avoiding for 9,000 patients. In 2018, Gilead produced 18 million bottles of solid-dose tablets,
waste from over 320,000 single-use plastic bottles per year.
capsules and pediatric formulations, and 8.6 million sterile vials were manufactured
at more than a dozen partner sites worldwide.
Driven by growth and activity at newly built facilities, our total energy consumption
increased 9% from our 2016 baseline. However, over that same time, our investments in
As we increase manufacturing production, we are committed to doing so in a socially
procuring low-carbon sources of energy reduced our worldwide Scope 1 and 2 (market-
and environmentally responsible manner. Gilead’s suppliers for active pharmaceutical
based) greenhouse gas emissions by 16%. Gilead is actively looking for opportunities to
ingredients (APIs) and drug products must observe good manufacturing practice
increase the proportion of our energy derived from renewable sources.
(GMP) regulations as required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and
other relevant health authorities worldwide. GMP covers all aspects of production
Environmental Performance Summary including manufacturing procedures, testing methods, maintenance of premises and
We Units 2017 2016 equipment, training, personal hygiene of staff, and appropriate documentation.
Believe
Total area of facilities worldwide under operational control Million sq. ft. 5.99* 4.75
Our
To maintain the highest levels of quality, our products are packaged and distributed
Business Is
Sustainable ENERGY USE in accordance with industry regulations and standards. We regularly assess
Total energy consumption MWh 365,842 337,003
our operations to identify opportunities to enhance these processes without
Renewable energy purchased MWh 37,430 0
compromising quality.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Scope 1 MT CO2e 46,363 44,472 At the end of 2018, Gilead consolidated product shipments from our sites in San
Scope 2 (Market-based) MT CO2e 23,132 38,295 Dimas and La Verne, California, to our distribution centers in the Midwest and East
Coast, reducing our annual ground freight mileage by 59%.
* This is a restatement of the square footage value reported on pg. 47 of the 2017 Year in Review.
Refer to disclosure 102-48 in the GRI Content Index for additional details.
80 2018 2018 81Practices & Environment Practices & Environment
In 2018, Gilead began utilizing a new distribution site in Ohio. The strategic location Pharmaceuticals in the Environment
of this facility substantially reduces the shipping distances of our products packaged
at manufacturing partner sites in the Midwest and eastern United States and provides Pharmaceuticals in the environment (PiE) can have serious health consequences for
additional product storage capacity, helping to mitigate potential supply-chain people and wildlife. Pharmaceuticals typically reach the environment through the
disruption risks. excretions of treated patients, improper disposal of medications and releases from
production facilities into local water sources.
Gilead's manufacturing facilities maintain high operational standards and do not release
Better Yields With Green Chemistry
active pharmaceutical ingredients into the environment. We adhere to strong internal
policies and operate in compliance with regulatory requirements for wastewater discharge
Gilead uses green and sustainable chemistry practices to reduce the environmental and solid waste disposal.
impacts of our manufacturing processes. Our process chemists develop and
implement new green chemistry protocols such as innovative use of enzymatic Gilead is a member of the Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship Work Group (PPSWG), a
catalysis, flow chemistry and use of greener solvents in API synthesis. Green membership association for drug manufacturers formed to address the complex issues
chemistry practices have allowed us to: associated with disposal of unused and unwanted pharmaceutical products. PPSWG
provides members with a platform to organize and present science-based data about
• Improve the potency of APIs and significantly reduce chemical waste from the safe pharmaceutical disposal practices and coordinates the industry’s efforts to raise
production of Biktarvy, a single tablet regimen launched in 2018 for the treatment awareness about appropriate disposal methods. PPSWG also helps manufacturers
of HIV understand and comply with enacted drug take-back and stewardship laws and
ordinances nationwide.
• Significantly reduce the process mass intensity (PMI) of two investigational
compounds currently in development Through PPSWG, Gilead supports consumer-focused drug take-back and stewardship
We
Believe efforts by MED-Project, which performs medication education and disposal work in
PMI is a green chemistry metric used to quantify the efficiency of a process. PMI
Our jurisdictions across the country. In 2018, Gilead contributed $19,894 to support MED-
Business Is represents the mass of all process inputs such as substrates, reagents, solvents
Sustainable Project take-back efforts. As of December 2018, MED-Project serviced approximately
and water, divided by the mass of the isolated product. The PMI of an entire API
614 active medication disposal kiosks that collected more than 110 metric tons of
process or route can be analyzed to evaluate the contribution of each input category
unwanted medications. MED-Project received over 2,400 unwanted medical mailers from
(substrates, reagents, solvents, water). This analysis is used to identify opportunities
distribution programs in California and Washington and held in-person drug take-back
to improve our API manufacturing processes.
events in San Francisco and Alameda County, California, that collected more than 1.3
metric tons of unwanted medications.
82 2018 2018 83Practices & Environment Practices & Environment
In 2018, Gilead joined the American the use of child labor; unfair treatment, wages and benefits, and working hours;
By improving drug potency
Chemical Society Green Chemistry forced labor; human trafficking; and discrimination based on race, color, gender,
and using green chemistry
Institute Pharmaceutical Roundtable religion, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression. We also support
techniques, we reduced the
(ACS GCIPR). As a member, Gilead full compliance with all applicable legislation including the United Kingdom Modern
chemical waste associated is involved in the development of Anti-Slavery Act.
with the API manufacturing of tools and educational resources to
Biktarvy by 74% per patient per facilitate global collaboration and
Responsible Sourcing Program
year compared with Stribild, influence the pharmaceutical industry
Gilead’s previous generation research agenda.
Gilead’s responsible sourcing program builds relationships with suppliers that meet
of HIV fixed-dose combination
our criteria for inclusion and diversity, health and safety, human and labor rights, anti-
tablet containing four
corruption, environmental performance, and other supplier management considerations.
Working With
drug substances.
Suppliers That
A single 275 mg tablet of Biktarvy has
Three Pillars of Responsible Sourcing
the same API potency as an 800 mg
Share Our
tablet of Stribild but eliminates 11.7
Gilead suppliers must align with our core values and meet financial and performance
kilograms of chemical production Values criteria in order to be qualified for business with Gilead
waste per patient each year.
To ensure we are consistently
Gilead HIV Single Tablet Regimens providing the highest quality therapies,
we partner with suppliers that share
We Annual Chemical Waste Produced
Believe similar principles in responsible
(kg/patient/year)
Our sourcing, supplier inclusion, risk
Business Is
Sustainable management, sustainability, auditing,
Risk Mitigation Sustainability
Stribild 15.8 green chemistry, manufacturing and Supplier Inclusion & Performance GHG emissions,
distribution. Across our supply chain, Inclusion of small and/or ESG risk, financial risk, environmental impact,
diverse suppliers geographic risk, supplier code green procurement
we vehemently oppose and condemn
Biktarvy 4.1
84 2018 2018 85Practices & Environment Practices & Environment
‾ Pursuing inclusive procurement
Supplier Inclusion ‾ Sharing best practices
• Western Regional Minority Supplier Development Council. A group that
Our vision is to become a biopharmaceutical
supports the growth and welfare of minority communities by championing the
industry leader for supplier inclusiveness. use of minority-owned businesses in Northern California, Nevada and Hawaii.
Inclusion and diversity fuel innovation within Gilead, and also help us forge stronger, more
Risk Management and Performance
productive supply-chain partnerships. Our vision is to become a biopharmaceutical industry
leader for supplier inclusion. We are committed to creating and fostering an inclusive and
Gilead is a long-standing member of the Drug Insurance Group (DIG), a
high-performing supply base where we embrace and leverage the unique talents of small
consortium of global companies representing the pharmaceutical, biotech,
businesses and/or businesses owned by women, minorities, LGBTQ individuals, veterans,
diagnostics and medical device industries to exchange information and ideas to
and service-disabled veterans.
promote risk and insurance management.
In 2018, we established the following inclusion targets:
In 2018, Gilead launched a three-year responsible-sourcing strategic plan to
enhance our supplier risk management and performance assessment, reporting,
• Spend $300 million with small businesses
auditing and procurement integration efforts.
• Establish supplier inclusion champions in select business functions
• Further integrate supplier inclusion into our procurement
processes and procedures
Initial Assessment Supplier Reporting Expand & Audit System Integration
We To help us build capacity and grow relationships with inclusive suppliers in 2018, we Initial assessment Implement Expand Responsible sourcing
Believe of suppliers self-assessment self-assessment fully integrated,
partnered with the following organizations: through supplier tool and send to top and audit including buy-desk/
Our code and PSCI 80% + “secondary critical suppliers supplier onboarding
Business Is critical” suppliers and SRM
Sustainable
• Diversity Alliance for Science. An alliance that identifies small and/or diverse
businesses with which Gilead and its industry peers can partner.
Integral to this plan is our Supplier Code of Conduct, which establishes minimum
requirements for supplier diversity, labor practices, human rights, environmental
• Supplier Diversity Pharmaceutical Forum. A forum where members are dedicated to:
health and safety, environmental impact, and management systems. We aim
to have 90% of our suppliers (by annual spend) agree to our Supplier Code of
‾ Driving business results through innovation, agility and performance
Conduct by 2020.
‾ Mentoring and developing small and diverse suppliers
86 2018 2018 87Practices & Environment Practices & Environment
By the end of 2018, 400 suppliers representing We continually monitor our supply chain for adequate capacity, diversification,
potential risks, and adherence to Gilead policies and governing regulations such as
close to $2 billion in annual spend agreed to
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.S. Trafficking Victims Protection Act
our Supplier Code of Conduct. (TVPA), and other applicable labor and environmental
regulatory policies.
Refer to the Ethics and Code of Conduct section of our website for more information
Supplier Sustainability
about how we evaluate and address the risk of ethical violations for all countries
involved in our supply chain.
To help improve the sustainability performance of our supply-chain partners, we
joined the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) in 2018. Our goal is to have
If we encounter actual or potential violations of our company policies or governing
our preferred suppliers align with PSCI guidelines and have sustainability targets in
regulations, we recommend corrective action and flag the supplier for follow-up
place and regularly reviewed by 2021. We plan to initially work with select suppliers
evaluations. Certain violations, such as the use of forced labor, human trafficking or
to establish greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction targets, and we plan to expand this
environmental negligence, would lead Gilead to terminate our agreement with the
process to include a larger share of our suppliers in the future.
supplying organization and remove it from our supply chain.
Auditing Procedures
Safety, Ethics and Transparency
Gilead’s Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) auditing program for drug
substances has conducted more than 100 on-site audits or EH&S visits to 75 unique
Gilead adheres to strict product safety, labeling, marketing, data security and anti-
suppliers since the program was established in 2015.
counterfeiting guidelines. All of our products undergo rigorous development, testing
We These site visits and audits determine the extent to which chemical raw materials and clinical trials, and we use labeling and marketing practices pursuant to governing
Believe
policies and regulations. Gilead did not receive any official warnings, fines or
manufacturers and suppliers of finished APIs meet Gilead’s EH&S standards for
Our penalties in 2018 related to our marketing or labeling practices.
Business Is practices, including capture of volatile organic compounds, chemical solid waste
Sustainable
disposal, solvent recycling, and compliance with local and international standards.
To protect personal data, we use a combination of in-house technology and third-
party security services and systems to comply with data protection regulations such
Our assessment, risk mitigation and auditing procedures are continually
as the European Union General Data Protection Directive. There were no substantiated
evolving to ensure that our products are consistently produced and controlled
complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer data in 2018.
according to quality standards such as GMP. We work closely with our suppliers
to identify practical improvement areas and share best practices for reducing or
Our anti-counterfeiting team consists of brand protection, legal, security, supply-chain,
eliminating risks.
quality and packaging professionals who protect patient safety by using measures to help
detect, stop, deter and report illicit sales of counterfeit or diverted medicines.
88 2018 2018 89Practices & Environment Practices & Environment
Greenhouse Gas Prevention
Sustainability:
3
Each year, we measure our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions resulting from our business
13
Climate Change, activities worldwide and the Scope 3 emissions associated with our business travel.
For this report, Gilead’s greenhouse gas reporting boundary includes all sites for
which Gilead maintained operational control between Jan. 1, 2017, and Dec. 31,
the Environment 2017. Bureau Veritas North America Inc. completed limited assurance using the
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14064-3 standard for greenhouse
gas assertions.
and Global Health
Gilead will publish a verified 2018 worldwide greenhouse gas inventory in 2019 when
data are available.
Climate change, intensified by greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, threatens the GHG Reduction Initiatives
health of populations and environments worldwide. Often, the populations most
impacted by the effects of climate change are the same underserved communities Our baseline year for measuring GHG reductions is 2016, the first year we tracked
where Gilead provides medical care for life-threatening medical conditions such as Scope 1 and 2 emissions for all sites under our operational control.
HIV, viral hepatitis and visceral leishmaniasis.
In 2018, Gilead established a target to reduce
The impact of climate change on underserved and at-risk populations has important
absolute Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) GHG
We implications for global health. These include increased transmission of serious
Believe
diseases, compounding health risks for the young and elderly, and greater danger emissions by 25% by 2025 compared with our
Our for those already immunocompromised. As global citizens providing care, Gilead
Business Is 2016 baseline.
Sustainable stands by our patients, at-risk populations and the environment through our
ambitious GHG strategy.
To meet this goal, which is in line with the Paris Agreement's central aim of keeping
the global temperature rise below 2 degrees Celsius this century, we developed a
multiyear plan that includes procuring renewable energy for high-impact locations
and applying energy efficiency technologies and measures to improve the
performance of our facilities.
90 2018 2018 91Practices & Environment Practices & Environment
In 2017, Gilead reduced absolute Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) GHG emissions by Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Emissions From Gilead Worldwide Operations
13,272 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MT CO2e), which is equivalent to a
16% reduction from our 2016 baseline emissions. Reporting Units: MT CO2e 2017 2016
Scope 1 46,363 44,472
Scope 2 (Market-based) 23,132 38,295
Scope 2 (Location-based) 36,018 39,353
Reporting Units: MT CO2e 2017 2016
Scope 3 (Business air travel) 25,094 21,600
Baseline 2017 2018 2019 2025 Goal Scope 1 46,363 44,472
Scope 2 (Market-based) 23,132 38,295
0.0%
Scope 2 (Location-based) 36,018 39,353
2.8%
5.6% RSecpoopret in3g (B Uunsiitnse: sksg aCirO tr2aev eple)r square foot 22051,0794 2201,16600
8.3%
Scope 1 7.75 9.36
GHG Emissions Intensity
16.0% Scope 2 (Market-based) 3.86 8.06
25.0%
Scope 2 (Location-based) 6.02 8.28
Reporting Units: kg CO2e per square foot 2017 2016
Scope 1 7.75 9.36
Current Year Reduction Target Pace
Scope 2 (Market-based) 3.86 8.06
Scope 2 (Location-based) 6.02 8.28
We
Believe
Our
Business Is
Sustainable
92 2018 2018 93Practices & Environment Practices & Environment
Alternative Transportation 7 Energy Use
Gilead proactively supports our employees in finding alternative, low-impact means
Gilead’s energy management strategy supports lean, effective and high-quality
of transportation through a variety of programs and initiatives including:
therapeutic development through optimized processes and facility operations. In
2017 and 2018, we realized major reductions in our energy footprint through investing
• Providing local and regional commuter bus services to and from campus
in renewable energy, implementing energy-efficiency measures and adopting
• Supporting carpool programs through subsidies and other incentives
advanced energy processes.
• Locating offices near public transit
At the start of 2018, we procured 100% renewable electricity for our headquarters
• Installing electric vehicle charging stations
campus in Foster City, California. This achievement represents a major milestone
• Encouraging bicycle transportation through installation of showers
toward meeting our 2025 greenhouse gas emission reduction goal. Foster City joins
within facilities and partnering with bicycle service providers
our other campuses, such as our Cork, Ireland, and Cambridge, UK, sites, in procuring
and installing green energy.
2018 Foster City Transportation Metrics
Worldwide Energy Consumption
Each year, we track total energy use from nonrenewable sources and renewable
energy generated from on-site systems and purchased from local utilities. We also
We
track our energy use intensity to evaluate efficiency as our building portfolio grows.
Believe
Our
Business Is Compared with our 2016 baseline year, our total energy use increased by 9% due to
Sustainable 415 1,831
the organic growth of the organization, including activity at newly built sites.
commuters transported by Gilead’s metric tons of CO2e emissions
employee bus per day reduced from employee vehicles through
commuter bus program
94 2018 2018 95Practices & Environment Practices & Environment
2017 Worldwide Energy Consumption 6 Better Water Management
Energy Energy Use
Beginning in 2018, the United Nations called for an International Decade for Action
Consumption Intensity
Energy Source (MWh) (kWh/sq.ft) on Water for Sustainable Development. This call to action identifies access to clean
drinking water, sanitation and hygiene as critical societal needs. With prolonged
Total energy consumption from renewable sources 37,430 6.3
droughts in California and many other regions around the world where Gilead has
Total energy consumption from nonrenewable sources 328,412 54.9
operations, we have increased our focus on water conservation.
Total combined energy consumption 365,842 61.1
Energy Efficiency In December 2018, Gilead’s Foster City campus
completed a comprehensive upgrade to smart
Building energy efficiency is a key driver to reducing our worldwide energy
consumption. Our facilities personnel continuously monitor building energy use weather-based irrigation controllers.
to identify trends and pinpoint opportunities for energy conservation.
Our commitment to renewable energy strongly supports our mission
To gain a better understanding of our worldwide impact on water supplies, we
to reduce our worldwide environmental footprint:
expanded our water use reporting boundary from our headquarters campus in Foster
City, California, to include 24 sites for which we have operational control and/or pay
• In 2018, Gilead implemented 99 energy efficiency projects worldwide,
for water directly. In 2017, Gilead consumed 466 ML of water from municipal sources.
achieving an estimated total energy savings of 438 MWh.
We • 100% of the electricity supplied to Gilead’s facilities located in Foster
Believe
City, California, and Cork, Ireland, was sourced from renewable energy. 2017 Worldwide Water Consumption
Our
Business Is
Sustainable • Our on-site rooftop solar photovoltaic system at Cambridge is capable Water Source Megaliters
of generating more than 200 kWh of renewable energy per day. Indoor use 386.0
Irrigation 80.0
Fire/life safety 0.1
Total water consumption 466.1
96 2018 2018 97Practices & Environment Practices & Environment
Increased Recycling Efforts 2017 Worldwide Waste Disposal
We are committed to reducing waste generated from manufacturing our products,
Nonhazardous Waste Disposal Metric Tons
constructing new buildings and operating our existing facilities worldwide. To reduce
Landfill 52,846
impact on local landfills, we continuously monitor our operations to identify opportunities
Organics 902
to reduce, reuse and recycle waste. From 2017 to 2018, we reduced our total waste sent to
Recyclables 41,350
landfills by 6% at our Foster City headquarters.
Incineration 27
Other 59
In late 2017, we expanded our waste reporting boundary from our Foster City campus to
Total 95,184
include 23 worldwide sites for which we have operational control and/or pay for waste
disposal directly. In 2017, we generated 95,184 metric tons of nonhazardous waste and
5,046 metric tons of hazardous waste; this will serve as our baseline year for future
Hazardous Waste Disposal Metric Tons
comparisons.
Incineration 770
All hazardous and nonhazardous waste streams are picked up from our facilities and Energy recovery 1,917
transported to local processing facilities by third-party vendors that must comply with E-waste recyclables 19
local regulations. On-site storage 4
Neutralization 2
Solvent recovery 4
Our Collective Impact
Metal recovery 1
Recovery for reuse 1
We Waste reduction and recycling requires a team effort at Gilead. With the support of
Deep-well injection 2,328
Believe
our worldwide staff, we diverted 42,338 metric tons of nonhazardous waste from
Landfill 0
Our
Business Is local landfills in 2017. Total 5,046
Sustainable
In September 2018, Gilead Foster City hosted a Shred and E-Waste event, collecting
more than 3.4 metric tons of paper and electronic waste. We recycled 98% of the
construction waste from the new pilot plant in Foster City, diverting more than 1,360
metric tons of debris from local landfills.
98 2018 2018 99Appendix Appendix
Appendix Our Governing
Principles
About Gilead
As a company driven by science and dedicated to improving patient care and quality
of life, Gilead adheres to the highest legal and ethical standards of business conduct
Gilead Sciences, Inc. is a leading biopharmaceutical company that discovers,
to protect patient safety, the company and its employees.
develops and commercializes innovative medicines in areas of unmet medical need.
We strive to transform the promise of science and technology into therapies that have
Gilead’s board of directors serves stockholders by overseeing the management
the power to cure diseases or revolutionize the standard of care. Gilead’s portfolio
of our business. The board, our leadership team and all employees at Gilead are
of products and pipeline of investigational drugs include treatments for HIV, liver
responsible for upholding the corporate values of integrity, inclusion, teamwork,
diseases, cancer, and inflammatory and respiratory diseases.
excellence and accountability. In addition, every Gilead employee must comply with
our Code of Ethics and Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, as well as other
Headquartered in Foster City, California, Gilead employed 10,825 full-time employees
business conduct and corporate policies.
and engaged 1,108 temporary/agency* workers in more than 35 countries on six
continents in 2018.
Our board has four committees: 1) Audit Committee, 2) Compensation Committee, 3)
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and 4) Scientific Committee. Our
Board Guidelines and Committee Charters can be found on the Investors page of our
website. Listing rules require that a majority of the members of a public company’s
board of directors qualify as “independent.” All our committees are composed of
*Individuals who are employed or engaged as an agency worker by a third-party temporary agency, and compensated independent board members. As of March 1, 2019 (upon Daniel O’Day’s appointment
by the same, to perform work for Gilead for a pre-defined timeframe. and John Martin’s resignation), eight out of nine members were independent.
100 2018 2018 101Appendix Appendix
The Code We Stand By Our Approach to CSR
All of Gilead’s governance bodies and employees must comply with our Code of For more than 30 years, Gilead has discovered, developed and expanded access
Ethics and Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) policy. These and other corporate to best-in-class therapeutics that treat life-threatening illnesses. To ensure we
policies are available on GNet, our company intranet, which is accessible to 100% of can continue to execute this mission in the future while reducing the social and
managers and employees. In 2018, ABAC trainings were provided to more than 9,000 environmental impacts resulting from our business activities, we have built a
employees and contractors, our Audit Committee, which is a subset of our board corporate social responsibility (CSR) program that focuses on patients, society, the
of directors, and regional business partners and distributors located in Asia, North planet and our business.
America and South America.
Our objective is to reduce our impact on climate change, foster better communities,
The success of Gilead’s Code of Ethics depends upon employee compliance with attract and retain top-tier employees, mitigate supply-chain risks and prepare for
relevant laws, rules and regulations associated with their employment, including laws future regulatory changes.
prohibiting insider trading.
In 2018, we assembled a CSR committee to shepherd our vision and build
We assess the adequacy of our key corporate policies annually to help ensure they accountability for driving positive social and environmental change across our
are consistent with current regulations and good governance practices. company and supply chain. Leaders from Human Resources, Legal, Operations
and Public Affairs are responsible for reviewing and making decisions on our CSR-
With products distributed throughout the world, Gilead, our affiliates and others related strategies, stakeholder engagement, reporting, risk mitigation, and other
acting on Gilead’s behalf are required to comply with all applicable anti-corruption relevant activities of Gilead and our subsidiaries. At least annually the CSR committee
laws. These laws include the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), provides a report to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of
the U.K. Bribery Act and other applicable laws. Gilead offers training materials to Gilead’s Board of Directors.
employees and other relevant individuals and organizations to communicate Gilead’s
prohibition against corrupt or unethical activity.
CSR Management, Stakeholder
Gilead performs internal and external audits to monitor for compliance with regulatory Engagement and Materiality
and company policies. In 2018, audits were performed in roughly 30 countries for
financial or FCPA compliance. Gilead uses a companywide management approach to continuously monitor internal
and external material impacts, with the purpose of reducing the potential or actual
In 2018, there were no findings of corruption or other healthcare compliance negative impacts associated with company operations. Business leaders with direct
violations from any government body. oversight over each topic area are responsible for managing impacts. Internal
102 2018 2018 103Appendix Appendix
and external stakeholders evaluate the Material Topics
effectiveness of Gilead’s management
Center for approach each year to identify strengths
Corruption and Compliance with state, federal and international laws pertaining to
and areas for improvement. bribery healthcare fraud and abuse.
Political
Drug safety and Recalls and adverse events; providing relevant information; efforts
Accountability Every three years, we evaluate our CSR anti-counterfeiting against counterfeiting.
management approach, stakeholder
Providing access to products around the world, including efforts to
Ranking #24 engagement process and material impacts Access and pricing ensure fair pricing.
to maximize the effectiveness of our
Charitable efforts aimed at reducing disparities, providing access,
Giving
companywide CSR program. Our last advancing medical education and supporting local communities.
stakeholder engagement and materiality
Efforts to eliminate all serious accidents and manage occupational
Employee health
exercise occurred in 2017. health and safety risks to ensure employees do not come to any harm
Gilead scored and safety
while at work.
Employee wellness, Efforts to promote employee wellness, development and
94.3 100 Internal Stakeholders
development and engagement; employee benefits and well-being; recruiting and
out of engagement retention.
Internal stakeholders representing
Inclusion and
Efforts to promote inclusion and diversity.
— 24th place — in the 2018 Corporate Communications, Corporate diversity
CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Contributions, Access Operations and Climate change and Reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with company
Emerging Markets, Pharmaceutical energy operations and products by using energy efficiently.
Political Disclosure and
Development and Manufacturing, Global Ethical sourcing, ensuring suppliers uphold appropriate standards on
Accountability, which analyzes Commercial, Commercial Process Ethical supply chain corporate responsibility issues.
transparency of corporate Optimization, Environmental Health and Manufacturing
Managing quality, production capacity and inventory in manufacturing
political spending by large Safety, Facilities, Human Resources, and supply-chain and supply chain.
management
Legal, Tax, Investor Relations, and
U.S. publicly held companies.
Design of chemical products and processes that reduce or eliminate
Regulatory Affairs were engaged to discuss Green chemistry
The ranking earns us a top-tier the generation of hazardous substances.
sustainability-related topics.
Trendsetter mark among the Responsible Efforts to ensure that marketing is conducted ethically and complies
marketing with local laws and regulations.
S&P 500.
Waste Hazardous and nonhazardous waste recycling.
Water Efforts to manage or reduce water use from our operations.
104 2018 2018 1052018 Year in Review
Appendix Appendix
UN UN Reporting
Disclosure(a) Description Reference Page #
SDG GC Boundary
2018 Year in Review
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI Content Index
External Stakeholders
GRI CONTENT INDEX All Gilead employees in Austria, Belgium, Brazil and
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Spain (3 percent of worldwide workforce) were subject 3
to collective bargaining agreements in 2018
UN Reporting
Disclosure(a) Description Reference UNGC Page #
Gilead’s external stakeholders included 17 stakeholder groups across the following SDG Boundary
four categories. GRI 102: General Disclosures
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders
102-1 Name of the organization Appendix, About Gilead p.100
Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement
p.103-105
Business leaders across the company selected the following material topics for our 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement and Materiality
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Science & Innovation, The Science Driving It All p.27
CSR Program based on the extent to which Gilead has internal or external influence, 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised
102-3 Location of headquarters
our relative impact, peer evaluations and due diligence. Entities included in the consolidated Appendix, About Gilead p.100
102-45
102-4 Lfioncaantcioianl ostfa otpeemreantitosn s p.5
Our Purpose, About This Report
110022--546 OD bwoe uf ni nn edi rn sag hr iier pe s p a no drt lc eo gn at le fn ot r man d topic G coil re pa od r aS tc ioie nn ces, Inc. is a publicly traded Delaware
110022--647 MLiastr koeft ms saetervrieadl topics A AA af mnpr dip ec ea rMin,
c
adA ati s ex ai r,a
n
iC a,
d
lAS iStRu yos M utr taa hnl i Aaa m,g Ee eum rr icoe apn et,, SMtaidkdelheo Eldaesrt ,E Nnogratghe ment p.105
Banks & Global
insurers NGOs
Our Purpose, Looking at 2018 p.11
CSR ratings Regulators 102-7 Scale of the organization The total square footage of corporate facilities reported
102-48 Restatements of information on p.47 of the 2017 Year in Review has been corrected
& indices Aopnp pe.n8d2i xo,f Athbeo u2t0 G18ile Yaeda r in Review. p.100 Worldwide
Academic
Institutional
institutions 102-8 wIn ofo rkrm era st ion on employees and other Appendix, About Gilead 1, 6 p.100
investors & 102-49 Changes in reporting
analysts INVESTORS RULE-MAKERS Media 102-9 Supply chain POruarc tPicuerps o&s eE,n Avibroonumt Tehnist, R Reepsoprot nsible Delivery Systems 4, 95 ,, 16 0, 8, p.5p .81
& RISK & WATCHDOGS
102-50 Reporting period
ASSESSORS Worldwide
Stockholders Industry Significant changes to the organization and
102-10 Practices & Environment, Responsible Delivery Systems p.82
associations 102-51 iDtsa steu popf lmy cohsat irne cent report May 2018
Healthcare Partners 1 10 02 2- -1 51 2 P Rr ee pc oa ru tt inio gn ca yry c lp er inciple or approach A Ap np ne un ad l ix, Our Approach to CSR 7 p.103
providers
CUSTOMERS & PEERS & 102-12 E Cx ote ntr an ca tl pin oit inia tt i fv oe r s q uestions regarding the KO ou rr a P bu Zr up ko as ,e V, iA cb eo Pu rt e T sh idis e nR te , p Po ur bt lic Affairs, p.5
Insurance Peers 102-53
COMMUNITY BUSINESS report csr@gilead.com
providers
PARTNERS 102-13 Memberships or associations Science & Innovation, Our Partnerships 1 p.36-37
Suppliers 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the Our Purpose, About This Report p.5
Patients GRI standards
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Our Purpose, CEO Letter p.8-9
Communities Generic drug 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index p.107-113
manufacturers
1, 2, 3, 4,
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms Appendix, Our Governing Principles 5, 6, 7, 8, p.101
(a)1 0Al2l d-5is6closures refereEnxctee GrnRIa 2l 0a1s6s Sutraanndcaerd s and have a reporting period oPfr Jaacnt.i c1,e 2s0 &18 E ton vDieroc.n 3m1,e 2n0t1,8 G urneleesnsh thoeu dsies cGloassu rPe ries vmeanrktieodn w ith (b) or (c) 9, 10 p.91
(b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards
(c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017
(d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017
Executive-level responsibility for economic,
102-20 Appendix, Our Approach to CSR 1, 7, 10 p.103
environmental and social topics
Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement p.104,
(a1)0A2l-l4 d0isclosures refLeisret nocfe s GtaRkIe h2o01ld6e Sr tgarnoduaprdss and have a reportinagn pde Mrioadte orfia Jlaitny. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) 106
(b)Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards
(c)Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017
(d)Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017
106 2018 (a)All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1,2 200 181 to8 Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) 107
(b)Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards
(c)Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017
(d)Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 20172018 Year in Review
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Disclosure(a) Description Reference UN UNGC Page # Reporting 2018 Year in Review
SDG Boundary
GRI 102: General Disclosures
102-1 Name of the organization Appendix, About Gilead p.100
UN UN Reporting
Disclosure(a) Description Reference Page #
SDG GC Boundary
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Science & Innovation, The Science Driving It All p.27
GRI 102: General Disclosures
102-3 Location of headquarters
Appendix, About Gilead p.100
102-4 Location of operations All Gilead employees in Austria, Belgium, Brazil and
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Spain (3 percent of worldwide workforce) were subject 3
102-5 Ownership and legal form Gilead Sciences, Inc. is a publicly traded Delaware to collective bargaining agreements in 2018
corporation
Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, Middle East, North
102-6 Markets served 2018 Year in Review
America and South America 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders
Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement
p.103-105
Our Purpose, Looking at 2018 p.11 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement and Materiality
102-7 Scale of the organization
UN UN Reporting
Appendix, About Gilead p.100 D10i2s-c4l4osure(a) DKeeys tcorpipictsi oannd concerns raised Reference Page #
SDG GC Boundary
102-8 I wn ofo rkrm era st ion on employees and other Appendix, About Gilead 1, 6 p.100 G10R2I -14052: General DE fiisnn cat li onti cse uis ar li e n ssc t alu td emed e nin t st he consolidated p.5
Our Purpose, About This Report
4, 5, 6, 8, Defining report content and topic
102-9 Supply chain Practices & Environment, Responsible Delivery Systems p.81 102-46
9, 10 boundaries
All Gilead employees in Austria, Belgium, Brazil and
Worldwide 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Spain (3 percent of worldwide workforce) were subject 3
Significant c h2a0ng1es8 to Ythee oargra niinza tiRone anvdi ew 102-47 List of material topics tAop cpoelnledcitxi,v eC SbRa rMgaainnaingge magernete, mSteanktesh ionl d2e0r1 8En gagement p.105
102-10 its supply chain Practices &A Enpviropnmeennt, Rdespioxnsible Delivery Systems p.82 and MateriaAlityp pendix
102-11 Precautiona r2y 0pri1nc8ip leY oer aapprr oianch R evieAwpp endix, Our Approach to CSR 7 p.103 102-42 Identifying a2nd0 se1le8ct inYg estaakre hionld eRrs evieTwhe total square footage of corporate facilities reported
1D 0i 2s -c 12losure(a) ED xe tes rc nr ai lp it ni io tin at ives R Oe uf re Pr ue rn pc ose e , About This Report SU DN G U GN C Pa pg .5e # R Be op uo nr dt ain rg y 11 00 22 -- 44 38 AR pe pst ra ot ae cm he tn ot ss t o af k ein hf oo lr dm ea r t eio nn g agement A ao onpn ndp p p e M. .4 8n a7d 2t i eox or,f f i Ct ath hlS ie etR y 2 2 M0 0a1 17 8n a Y Yge eea amr r i ien nn R Rte, e Sv vit iea ewk we .hh aosld beere Enn cgoargreemcteendt p.103-105 Worldwide
GGRRI 1I02 C: GOeneNralT DiEsclNosuTre sI NDEX G10R2-4I4 CONTKEey NtopTics IanNd DconEceXrns raised
102-13 Memberships or associations Science & Innovation, Our Partnerships 1 p.36-37 102-49 Changes in reporting
Disclosure(a) Description RAlel fGeilreeandc eem ployees in Austria, Belgium, Brazil and SU DN G UNGC Page # R Be op uo nr dt ain rg y 1D0i2s-c4l5osure(a) E fDinn eati snti cce irs ai pli n stc tioalu tnd e med e nin t st he consolidated ROeurf ePruerpnocsee , About This Report SU DN G UNGC ppP .. 55a ge # R Be op uo nr dt ain rg y
110022--1441 SCtoaltleemcteivnet bfraormga sineinnigo ra dgereceismioenn-mtsa ker OSpuar iPnu (r3p poeserc, eCnEtO o fL wetoterlrd wide workforce) were subject 3 p.8-9 102-50 Reporting period Our Purpose, About This Report
GRI 102: General Disclosures to collective bargaining agreements in 2018 1G 0R 2I - 1 40 62: General DDisecflionsinugre rse port content and topic
boundaries
102-1 Name of the organization Appendix, About Gilead p.100 102-1 Name of the organization Appendix, About Gilead p.100
1, 2, 3, 4, 102-51 Date of most recent report May 2018
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms Appendix, Our Governing Principles 5, 6, 7, 8, p.101 Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement
110022--242 AIdcetinvtiitfiyeisn,g b aranndd sse, lpercotidnugc ststa aknedh oseldrevircse s Science & Innovation, The Science Driving It All 9, 10 p.27 110022--427 LAicstti voift imesa,t berraianl dtos,p picrso ducts and services aSncdie nMcaet e&r iIanlnitoy vation, The Science Driving It All pp..12075
2018 Year in Review
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement
110022--343 LAopcpartoioanch o tfo h estaadkqeuhaorltdeerrs engagement and Materiality p.103-105 102-3 Location of headquarters
11 11 1D G1 10 00 00 0 0 Ri2 22 22 2 2s I-- -- - - -c 122 44 54 4 0l 000 4 5o 2s : u Gr ee n( ea) r al DL OE e LDK E f iio ix n snne w see ccv aty tni l a sc i nt oor t eiu t co o ce sfi rt o r in up s si s aiv n m rtpi h lice ea nio stse p- k sci tl fn o e e aa l auot htv n n na d epe od l d mee l l a d c drr l ena ee eo nidt gs rn ni tp o ac g ss to en l h ro ofn rs ec on us i ra s ci pmb ol sr i t a n l oi i st spy oe i lf c d io ds r a e tec do nomic, A A aA G cR Oo np pp ie ul r dep pp rf p aee ee PModn nn r ur ae d dd a rS t pti ii n ecx xx i ooi rc, ,, e i snO CA aen e lb Su c i ,t o Rr e y A u s A bM,tp o I aGp n unir c tl ao e . T gaa i hs ecd i h sa m Rt p eo eu n pC b t, olS i S rcR ttl ay kt era hd oe ldd e D r e El na gw aa gr ee m ent SU DN G 1, U G 7, N C 10 p pP. .1 5pp a0 1.. 1g0 01 00 6e 43 , # R Be op uo nr dt ain rg y 11 11 100 00 022 22 2-- -- -44 55 583 4 RL OC r C Geoeo l Rwapcsn Iinoat mt sa erta titt sr aoc e s t nn om h p d fio e po arfn e ri an o dt ps nt p so d f oe ro tfr lir a eni nq t ggifu o a o ie n lnr s fms oat i a rco mt cn i oo s rn dr e ag na cr ed win ig th t h the e T o oA G cK c Oh osn nop i ulre r r ep r@p p pa aet . . Pob go 4 8 dn ur 7it 2 dZ al ra Se pu ti ol o cx ia ok ofs if, d e a sq ntA t.h n eh,u cb e c ,V eoa o e A i mr 2 2cu se b0e 0 , t o f 1 IG 1oP n u7 8oir c tl Ye e Yt . Te as ea i hsagid ad i re sar e i i Rnon pn e tf u R, R pc beP eo olvu ivr rcipb tie le yol wi w cr t a r .hA a t ae dff s eaf a dbirc es Di, el i et ni le acs wo r r ae r rep eco tr et de d p p. .1 50 0 Worldwide
110022--646 MD boe auf ri knn edin tasg
r
iser ee srp vo er dt content and topic A Af mri eca ri,
c
A
a
s aia n,
d
A Su os utr ta hl i Aa m, E eu rr ico ap e, Middle East, North 1 110 002 22- --4 659
5
C MGh Raa
Ir
n kceg ote nss
t es
i enn
r t
r
v
2 ie enp dd0o er1 xt in8g Year in Revie OA AGw f muRr ri Iec CPa riuo,
c
rnA
apt
s aoeia nsne,
dt
A
, I
SnAu ods buet or txa
uh
l
t
i
A
a Tm,
h
E iesu
r
Rr ico eap
p
e o,
r
M
t
iddle East, North
pp..510 7-113
All Gilead employees in Austria, Belgium, Brazil and 102-50 Reporting period
(a1 )11 000 A222 ll--- 744 d17 isclosures refSCL ei c ros ealt nl le eo cc ef o t mi Gfv tae Rht Ibe e 2r a oi 0ra rg 1l g a 6t aoi n n Spi i tni z ac ag ns t d ia o ag rnr d e se am nde n ht as v e a reportin S t gA aOo npp p uda cp eroi e r n MP iln ol eu( ad d3 crti pex t op ior, fve i C sae Jr e alc S ib n,teR ya .Ln ro 1Mt g ,oo a a 2kfn i 0niw na 1inggo 8g e r a tl m od at w g2e Drn 0i eedt 1 ce,e 8 .S m 3w t 1eao ,k n r 2e tk s 0hf o 1io nr 8lc d 2 uee 0 n)r 1 l wE e8 sen srg e ta h gs eue dbm ij see ccn lott s ure is marked wit3 h (b) or (p c) .10p5.1 1 1D11 000i 222s ---c 575l 16osure(a) DDSE cx aeat te esler cn o ora fi fpl m tathois eo ss tuno rr rea gcn aec nne izt aretipoon rt M PROr aeau ycr f et 2Picr 0uee 1rs 8p n o&cs eEe n, vLioroonkimnge natt, 2G0re18e n house Gas Prevention SU DN G U GN C pP.9ap1g.1e1 # R Be op uo nr dt ain rg y
(b)Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards Appendix, About Gilead p.100 Appendix, About Gilead p.100
(c)Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 GRI 103: Management Approach
(d11) 100 0In22 2c-- -l84 4u2 8des worldwidI wI Rn de eo f eso srni tkrt atem eis tfreya sfi mto niorg e nw na tohn snid c o he s f m eG inlp ei fl ol ceo rtay midne g ame t s s ia o tia a nnn k tad ei hno oethdld eoerpr se rationalA AT o
o
chp n npoe p pp pn e ett . .ro 4 8n no 7t 2d dla i ioal ox
x
n f,s
,f
qdA t Cth h/ub So e eao Rr r 2u
2
pe M0t 0a fG 1i a1od 7 8nio l u aYe Ytt ea ga ei agl ed ai ret
m
ri ie ino ens f
n
R d Rc tei ,eor v Se vr ipc tie aeto wl kwyr
e
a .hi htn ae
o
s 2 lf d0a b e1c e r7i el i Et ni ne c gs o
a
r r ge re ep c mo tr e et de
n
d
t
1, 6 p.100
Worldwide
1 110 002 32- --5 182 RE bI wn ex oof ppo urlokr nam er dntr aa iasn rt t g yi io o cn ny o ocn lfe te hm e p mlo ay tee re ias la tn od p io c t ah ne dr its AAnpnpueanld ix, About Gilead 1, 6 p.100
4, 5, 6, 8, p.103-105 4, 5, 6, 8,
110022--943 SAupppprolya cchha tion stakeholder engagement Panradc Mticaetse r&ia Elintyv ironment, Responsible Delivery Systems 9, 10 p.81 (a111 )000 A232 l--- l5 29 d3 isclosures refC rT iS eteh suo rpe epn con pt om cral mteyc a t Gpcn p oha Roa ng Iii ee nn 2nmt 0 tf 1seo 6nr t Sq a tu ape nps drt aoio ra dnc ssh ar nae dng da h r ad vi en g a rth epe o rtinK cP gA Eso r np prar @gepac ratbe gii gocn iZ lde ed eu s mi aokx d& f, ea . JC n, cE aV toSn n ai mRv .c n i 1e Mr do , P a 2n Mrn 0me aa 1se tg 8i edn e trte om i, an DleRt i, tn ee yPt cs ,u . p S 3bot 1lani ,cks 2eiAb 0hfl 1feoa 8 liD dr usee n,rl li ev se sr y th S ey ds it se cm los s u re is marked1, w69 i,, t 8 h10 ,( b 1)0 o r (cp) .1p 0. 38 -1 105 Worldwide
110022--4449 KCehya ntogpeisc sin a rnedp ocortnincge rns raised Worldwide ( (b c)) RD eis pc ol ro ts inu gre p r ee rf ie or de n cc oe vs e G rsR JI a n2 .0 11 ,8 2 S 0t 1a 7n d toa r Dds e c. 31, 2017 Worldwide
1 110 002 22- --1 450 50 S iE fRt isi nn eg at psn i ntu oi if cep ri tc isp aia n l liyn n gs t c c t palc hu eth ad era i imen on d dg e ne in ts s tt ho e t h coe n o sr og la idn aiz tea dti on and PO ru ar c P tiu cerp so &s e E, n A vb iro ou nt m T eh nis t, R Re ep so prt o nsible Delivery Systems pp .. 55 p .82 (d111)000In232c---531lu04des worldwidC GES itev sil Rg a as Isini lm ustuief tpasis ac p t nofai loo dyfn nr art c ew roc hdphfh as oait i c nhrnth eig n Gemgsi al ietnnoa aa dtgc hmceeoma oriendrgtnaaatni nncaeeipzd paw ortoiipotahenc r tahaht nieod n alOP cruaornc Pttirucorelp sao n&sd eE/,on Arv bpiraooiudnt m uTtehilniistti ,Re seR pdeiosrpretoc tnlysi binle 2 0D1e7livery Systems p.5p .82
Our Purpose, About This Report GRI 201: Economic Performance
11 100 022 2-- -14 516 1 PD bDr oe ae utf ci enn a di oun aftg i rmo ier ne osap s r to y rr ept crc i eo n nn c tt i pe reln e pt o oa r rn tad p t po rp oic a ch A Mp ap ye 2n 0d 1ix 8, Our Approach to CSR 7 p.103 1 2100 022 1- --5 1115 G DPrR ireI ec c cao tu n etticoe onn nat o rin my dpicer xivn acliupele g oern aepraptreoda ch GA OpRp uI C re n Pod uni rtxe p,n o Ot s u eInr , d LAe opx op kr io na gc h a tt o 2 0C 1S 8R 7 p.1 pp0 .1.71 0-01 -3 11 13
and distributed
102-12 External initiatives AOpupre Pnudripxo, CseS,R A Mboaunta Tgheims eRnetp, oSrtta keholder Engagement p.5 110022--5126 EExxtteerrnnaall ainsistiuartaivnecse P Oraucr tPicuersp o&s Een, vAibroonumt Tehnits, GRerepeonrth ouse Gas Prevention p.91p.5 Worldwide
110022--4572 LRiespt oorft minagt ceyricalle t opics aAnndn uMaal teriality p.105 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Working at Gilead, Compensation and Financial
201-3 p.44
retirement plans Benefits
102-13 Memberships or associations Science & Innovation, Our Partnerships 1 p.36-37 102-13 Memberships or associations Science & Innovation, Our Partnerships 1 p.36-37
Contact point for questions regarding the Korab Zuka, Vice President, Public Affairs,
102-53
report Tcshre@ tgoitlaela sdq.cuoamre footage of corporate facilities reported GRI 205: Anti-Corruption
110022--1448 SRteastteamteemnet nfrtosm o fs iennfoiorrm daeticoisni on-maker Oonu rp P.4u7r poof steh,e C 2E0O17 L eYettaerr in Review has been corrected p.8-9 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Our Purpose, CEO Letter p.8-9
on p.82 of the 2018 Year in Review. Worldwide
Claims of reporting in accordance with the Operations assessed for risks related to
102-54 Our Purpose, About This Report p.5 205-1
GRI standards (a)All disclosures refceorernrucpe tGioRnI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c)
1, 2, 3, 4, (b)Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards 1, 2, 3, 4,
11 100 022 2-- -14 569 5 VC Gah Rla Iu n ceg ose n, ps te ri ninn t c r iei npp dloe ers xt, i nstga ndards and norms A Gp Rp I e Cn od ni tx e, nO t u Inr dG eo xv erning Principles 5, 96 ,, 17 0, 8, p.1p 0. 710 -11 1 3 ( (c d() 21 )a0R I)0 nA2e 5cl-p l-l 1 2duo6 idr st cei ln so g sw up oree rsr ldi ro wed fie dc rCV eo ea o n v sl cmeu ietre em s Gss J Ru , f a Inp o n 2irr. c 0 i wn a1 16c, th i i2 o Sip c0 tnl ahe1 n as7 Gdn, a t idso rldt e a tD sar n da aed nic mn da. i r an3 hd iag1 ns v, t a eaa2 bian0 no d1 reeu7 dn pt ooo rpr tm ienrgs a tpieornioadlA A cop pofp npJe aternn no.d ld1 i ,aix x2n, ,0 d O 1/T8ou h rtr oe pG DaCo eiodv cde . u3er tn 1i ,Wli in 2te0g ie 1 Ss8P t r duai inn nrlc eedi cs p tsBll ye tyh s ei n d 2is0c1lo7sure is marked with (b) or (c) 5, 96 1,, 0 17 0 , 8, p p. .1 10 01 2 Worldwide
Our Purpose, About This Report p.5 (b) Disclosure referencaens tGi-RcIo 2r0ru18p Stitoannd paordlsicies and procedures
102-50 Reporting period (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017
(d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017
11 00 22 -- 25 06 E eEx nxet vec irru ont naiv ml ea e-sl nes tvu aer la l a nr nec dsep so on cs iaib l i tl oit py if co sr economic, AP pra pc eti nc de is x ,& O E un rv Air po pn rm oae cn ht, tG or Cee Sn Rh ouse Gas Prevention 1, 7, 10 p.9 p1 .103 210025--230 C aE ecx noe tvn ic oif rui nortm sni v mtee ad e- kl ne ein tv nace li ld a re nen dstp s so oon cfs ic aibo l ir tlr oitu pyp if ctoi sor ne caonndo mic, Appendix, Our Approach to CSR 1, 7, 10 p.103
(a1) 0A2ll -d5is1closures refereDnacete G oRIf 2m0o16s tS traencdeanrdt sr eanpdo hrta ve a reporting period Mof aJyan 2. 01, 1280 18 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c)
(b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards 2016 GRI 302: Energy
(c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement p.104, Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement p.104,
(d1 1) 0 0In2 2c- -lu4 5d0 2es worldwide sL Riit ese pts oofo rf r ts iw nta ghki c ceh yh cGo li elled aedr mgaroinutapinse d operational control aaAnnnddn/o uMr a pala tiedr uiatilliittiye s directly in 2017 106 102-40 ELi ns et ro gf y s cta ok ne sh uo mld pe tir o g nr wou itp hs in the aPnrda cMticaetesr &ia lEitnyv ironment, Worldwide Energy 106
302-1(c) 7, 8, 9 p.95-96
organization Consumption
( (a b1) )0A D2l il-
s
5 cd l3i os sc ulo resu rr ee fs
e
rr ee nfC re cero epe snn
o
t Gc ra te Rc tG
I
p 2Ro 0Ii
1
n2 8t0 f S1o6 tr
a
S nq dtua aen rsd dta si ordnss arnedg ahradvien ga rtehpeo rtinK cg so p rr @earb gio iZ ld eu aok dfa .J,
c
aV oni m.c 1e , P2r0e1s8id teo nDt,e Pc.u 3b1li,c 2 A0f1fa8i rusn, less the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c)
Energy consumption outside of
Gilead does not currently track energy consumption
(c)Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 302-2 the organization outside of the organization, but may do so in the
(d)Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 future.
Claims of reporting in accordance with the
108 ( ( ( (a b c d) )1 1) )0 0A RD In2 2el i cl s- -p l5 5cd uol4 5i dros t esc inu slo gr wes pu or er e re r lf dis e o wrr dee i nf dcG Ge c o er eR R ve ssI Ien i tG rs cc est oe sR a J n Gn fI a to d n e2R r.a n0 I w1r t1 d2 , h8 i n0s 2 i S c1 d0 h6 t e1a x7 GS n dt t ia o la en r D ad d da s e r c md . s a3 ia 1 nn , t ad 2 i 0 nh 1 ea 7 dv e o a p er re ap to ior nti an lO Gg c Rup or Ie n r CP ti ro ou od nr lp tao eo nf ns dJe t/a o, In nrA. d pb1 eao, 2 x iu2 d 0t 0u 1T t8 ih 1l i its to i 8eR D se e dpc io r. er3t c 1 tl, y 2 i0 n1 28 0 u 1n 7less the disclosure is marked with (b) or (p pc) . .5 10 7-113 ( ( ( (a b c d3) )) )A RD I0 n2 el i cl s p- lc3d uoli ( drocs t) es c inu slo gr wes pu or er e re r lf dis e o wrr dee i nf dcEe c o enr e ve ses en i r tG rc g ese sRy J G fI ai on n2R rt .0 e I w11 n2 , h8 s0 2 i iS c1 t 0y h6 t 1 a 7 GS n dt t ia o la en r D ad d da s e r c md . s a3 ia 1 nn , t ad 2 i 0 nh 1 ea 7 dv e o a p er re ap to ior nti an lg P C c rp o oae n ncr tsit ruoi ocd m le aos p n f t& diJ o /aE onnn r . v p1i ar, 2o i2 dn0 0 um1 t8 ie l1 int tot i8 e, D sW e doc ir r.l ed3 c1w tl, yi d2 i0e n1 E 28n 0 ue 1nr 7gleys s the disclosure is marked wit 8h (b) or (c) p. p9 6 Worldwide(d) 109
302-4(c) Reduction of energy consumption Practices & Environment, Energy Efficiency 7, 8, 9
102-56 External assurance Practices & Environment, Greenhouse Gas Prevention p.91
Gilead does not currently track reductions in energy
Reductions in energy requirements of
302-5 requirements associated with manufacturing its
products and services
products, but may do so in the future.
GRI 303: Water
( (a b) )A Dl il s cd li os sc ulo resu rr ee fs e rr ee nfe cr ee sn Gce R G I 2R 0I 1 2 80 S16 ta S ndta an rd da s rds and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) 303-5(b), (c) Water consumption Practices & Environment, Better Water Management 7, 8, 9 p.97 Worldwide(d)
(c)Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017
(d)Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017
(a)All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c)
(b)Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards
(c)Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017
(d)Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 20172018 Year in Review
UN UN Reporting
Disclosure(a) Description Reference Page #
SDG GC Boundary
GRI 103: Management Approach
Explanation of the material topic and its
103-1
boundary
The management approach and Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder
103-2 its components Engagement and Materiality 1, 6, 8, 10 p.103-105 Worldwide
Appendix Appendix
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
GRI 201: Economic Performance
Direct econ o2m0ic 1va8lue Y geenearart eidn Review 2018 Year in Review
201-1 Our Purpose, Looking at 2018 p.10-11
and distributed
Worldwide
Defined benefit plan obligations and other Working at Gilead, Compensation and Financial
201-3 p.44
Disclosure(a) Dre etir se cm rie pn tt i op nla ns RBe en feef ri ets n ce UN UN Page # Reporting Disclosure(a) Description Reference UN UN Page # Reporting
SDG GC Boundary SDG GC Boundary
GGRRII 120035:: MAanntia-Cgoermruepntti oAnp proach GRI 305: Emissions
Explanation of the material topic and its
103-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 305-1(c) Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 7, 8
205-1 boundary
corruption
The management approach and Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder
1 20 03 5- -2 2 iCtso mcommupnoicnaetniotsn and training about AEn pg pa eg ne dm ix,e n Tt h a en Cd o M da et Wer eia Slit ty a nd By 1, 6, 1 08 , 10 p.1 p0 .13 0-1 20 5 WW oo rr ll dd ww ii dd ee 305-2(c) Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 7, 8 p.93
anti-corruption policies and procedures
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 305-3(c) Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Practices & Environment, GHG Reduction 7, 8 Worldwide(d)
Confirmed incidents of corruption and Initiatives
205-3
GRI 201: Economica Pcetirofnosrm taaknecne
305-4(c) GHG emissions intensity 8
2200116-1 GRI 302: EneDrgirye ct economic value generated Our Purpose, Looking at 2018 p.10-11
and distributed
302-1(c) Energy consumption within the Practices & Environment, Worldwide Energy 7, 8, 9 p.95-96 Worldwide 305-5(c) Reduction of GHG emissions 7, 8, 9 p.92
oDregfainneizda btieonne fit plan obligations and other CWoonrksuinmgp attio Gni lead, Compensation and Financial
201-3 p.44
retirement plans Benefits Gilead does not currently track
Energy consumption outside of Gilead does not currently track energy consumption 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ozone-depleting substances, but
302-2 the organization outside of the organization, but may do so in the may do so in the future.
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption future.
GRI 306: Effluent
230025--31(c) EO conp ree rr urga pyt ti ioi onn ntse nassistye ssed for risks related to P Cr oa nc st uic mes
p
t&
io
E nn vironment, Worldwide Energy 8
p.96 Worldwide(d) 306-2(c) Waste by type and disposal method
p Practices & Environment, Increased Recycling 7, 8
302-4(c) CReodmumctuionnic oatfi oenn earngdy tcroaninsiunmg patbioonu t Practices & Environment, Energy Efficiency 7, 8, 9 Efforts p.98-99 Worldwide(d)
205-2 anti-corruption policies and procedures Appendix, The Code We Stand By 10 p.102 Worldwide 306-4(c) Transport of hazardous waste
230025--53 C aR pcreo otdn idoufi uncr cm sti
t
o ste an d aks nei ni dnnc sied ene re vnr it cgs ey o
s
r fe cqourirruepmtieonnt sa nodf G rei qle ua id re d mo ee ns t sn o at s sc ou crr iae tn et dly wtr ia thck m r ae nd uu fc at cio tun rs i nin g e itn se rgy GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment
products, but may do so in the future.
New suppliers that were screened using Practices & Environment, Risk Management &
2016 GRI 302: Energy 308-1 environmental criteria Performance p.87
GRI 303: Water 7, 8
Worldwide
Energy consumption within the Practices & Environment, Worldwide Energy
302-1(c) organization Consumption 7, 8, 9 p.95-96 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Practices & Environment, Auditing Procedures
303-5(b), (c) Water consumption Practices & Environment, Better Water Management 7, 8, 9 p.97 Worldwide(d) and actions taken
Gilead does not currently track energy consumption p.88-89
Energy consumption outside of
302-2 outside of the organization, but may do so in the
the organization GRI 401: Employment
future.
302-3(c) Energy intensity Practices & Environment, Worldwide Energy 8 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Working at Gilead, Our People by the Numbers 4, 5, 6 p.56
Consumption p.96 Worldwide(d)
p
( ( (a b c3) ))A RD02 el il s p- c4d oli( rocs t) s c inulo gres pu r er ee rf is e o rr dee nf cRe c oer e ve sd en uG rc sce R t J iG I ao n2nR .0 I o 11 2 f ,8 0 2e S1 0n6 t 1ea 7rS ng dt ta y oan rc Dd doa s en r cd s . us 3 ma 1n ,p d 2t i 0h o 1a n 7v e a reporting P rp ae cri to icd e o s f & J a En n. v 1 ir, o 2 n0 m18 e nto t, D Enec e. r g31 y, E2 f0 fi1 c8 ie u nn cl ye ss the disclosure is marked w 7, i 8th , 9(b ) or (c) 401-2 B noe tn pe rfi ots v ip dr eo dv i td oe td e mto p f ou rl al- rt yim oe r pe am rp t-l to imye ee es m th pa lot ya ere e s Working at Gilead, How We Reward, p.43-47 Worldwide
(d)Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 Recognize, and Retain Employees
Reductions in energy requirements of Gilead does not currently track reductions in energy 401-3 Parental leave p.46
302-5 requirements associated with manufacturing its
products and services
products, but may do so in the future.
(a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) (a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c)
(b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards
(cG) RReIp 3o0rt3in:g W peartieodr covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017
(d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017
303-5(b), (c) Water consumption Practices & Environment, Better Water Management 7, 8, 9 p.97 Worldwide(d)
(a)All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c)
110 2018 ( (b c)) RD eis pc ol ro ts inu gre p r ee rf ie or de n cc oe vs e G rsR JI a n2 .0 11 ,8 2 S 0t 1a 7n d toa r Dds e c. 31, 2017 2018 111
( (a b) )A Dl il
s
cd li os sc ulo resu rr ee fs
e
rr ee nfe cr ee sn Gce
R
G
I
2R 0I
1
2 80 S16
ta
S ndta an rd da
s
rds and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) (d)Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017
(c)Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017
(d)Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 20172018 Year in Review
UN UN Reporting
Disclosure(a) Description Reference Page #
SDG GC Boundary
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
Workers representation in formal joint
403-1
management–worker health and safety committees
Working at Gilead, Building a Culture of
p.58 Worldwide
Workplace Safety
Types of injury and rates of injury,
403-9(b) occupational diseases, lost days,
absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities
GRI 404: Training and Education
Working at Gilead, Professional and Personal
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 6 p.46
Development
Worldwide
Percentage of employees receiving regular Working at Gilead, Compensation and
404-3 p.44
performance and career development reviews Financial Benefits
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
Working at Gilead, Our People by the
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 6 p.57 U.S. Only
Numbers
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Working at Gilead, Compensation and
405-2 6 p.44 U.S. Only
and men Financial Benefits
GRI 413: Local Communities
Appendix Appendix
Operations with local community engagement, Community Impact, Giving Back to Our
413-1 p.69-73 Worldwide
impact assessments and development programs Communities
GRI 414: Supplies Social Assessment
2018 Year in Review 2018 Year in Review
New suppliers that were screened using social
414-1 p.87
criteria
Practices & Environment, Risk Management &
Worldwide
Performance
Disclosure(a) Description Reference SU DN G U GN C Page # R Be op uo nr dt ain rg y D41i4s-c2losure(a) DN ace etg isoa cnt ri sv i pe ta ts kio oec nni a l impacts in the supply chain and Reference SU DN G U GN C Ppa.8g8e-8 #9 R Be op uo nr dt ain rg y
2018 Year in Review
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety GGRRII 440163:: COucsctuopmaetiro Hneaal Hlthe aalnthd aSnadfe Stya fety
Workers representation in formal joint Workers representation in formal joint
403-1 management–worker health and safety committees Working at Gilead, Building a Culture of p.58 Worldwide 4 D40 1 i6 s3 - c- 11 losure(a) m DA prsa eosn dsea ucsgs crme itp m ae tnine odtn nto s– ef w rt vho ie cr k ehe e cra a hl tt eeh ga a oltnh rid ea ssn adf estayf eimtyp caocmtsm oift tees P TRWrr ea oa nfrc ekst ii prnc eae gnrs e a c& n te c GE y in le v air do ,n Bm ue iln dt i, n S ga afe Cty u, l tE ut rh eic os f a nd SU DN G U GN C Pa pp g .. 58 e 89 # R BW We oo op ur rl lod ndw wr dti iaid dn re eg y
Workplace Safety Workplace Safety
Types of injury and rates of injury, Types of injury and rates of injury,
403-9(b) occupational diseases, lost days, 4G0R3I -491(7b): Marketinogc caunpda Ltiaobnealli ndgis eases, lost days,
absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities
Requirements for product and service information
417-1
GRI 404: Training and Education GRI 404: Traininga anndd l aEbdeulcinagti on
(a)All disclosures rIenfceirdeencnets G oRf Inn 2oo0nn1-cc6oo Smmtpapnlliidaaannrccdees acnodn chearvnei nag r epproordtiuncgt paenrdio d of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c)
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee DW eo vr eki ln og p mat e G ntil ead, Professional and Personal 6 p.46 ( (b c44 )) R1 0D7 4ei-s p-2 1c ol ro ts inu gre p r ee rf ie or de As n ecvc roeve vrs iaec G grese R J hI a no2 .u0 1r1 s,8 2o S 0ft 1ta 7rn a d tiona r iDnd gs e c p. e3r1 y, e2a0r1 7per employee DP TW rr eaoa vnrc ek stii lpnc oaeg prs mea & nt e cG nE ytin l evairdo,n mPreonfte,s Ssaiofentayl, aEnthdi cPse arsnodn al 6 pp..4869 Worldwide
(d)Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017
Worldwide Worldwide
Incidents of nnoonn-ccoommpplliiaannccee concerning marketing
404-3 P pe er rc foe rn mta ag ne c eo f a e nm d p calo ry ee ee r s d ere vc ee loiv pin mg e r ne tg ru el va ier ws FW ino ark ni cn ig a la Bt eG nil ee fa itd s , Compensation and p.44 441 07 4- -3 3 P pcoe emr rc fome rn mutna aigc nea c t eoio f a ne nsm d p calo ry ee ee r s d ere vc ee loiv pin mg e r ne tg ru el va ier ws FW ino ark ni cn ig a la Bt eG nil ee fa itd s , Compensation and p.44
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees NW uo mrk bin eg rs a t Gilead, Our People by the 6 p.57 U.S. Only 441085--11 DS cuu iv sb e ts ort s ma in t eyt r i oa pft re g id vo a vc ceo yrm n ap a nl n da c i ln e ot sbs s oc edo si n e oc s fe car un n si dn t og e m mb er pe rl oa dyc aeh te ae ss of NP TW rr uaoa mnrck st bii pnc eaeg rrss ea & nt cGE yin levairdo,n mOeunr tP, eSoapfelety b, yE tthhiec s, and 6 pp..5879 WUo.Srl.d Ownidlye
405-2 R ana dti o m o ef n b asic salary and remuneration of women FW ino ark ni cn ig a la Bt eG nil ee fa itd s , Compensation and 6 p.44 U.S. Only 405-2 R ana dti o m o ef n b asic salary and remuneration of women FW ino ark ni cn ig a la Bt eG nil ee fa itd s , Compensation and 6 p.44 U.S. Only
GRI 413: Local Communities GRI 413: Local Communities
413-1 O imp pe ar ca tt i ao sn ss e w ssit mh elo nc tsa l a c no dm dm evu en li oty p men eg na t g pe rom ge rn at m, s C Co om mm mu un ni it ty ie I sm pact, Giving Back to Our p.69-73 Worldwide 413-1 O imp pe ar ca tt i ao sn ss e w ssit mh elo nc tsa l a c no dm dm evu en li oty p men eg na t g pe rom ge rn at m, s C Co om mm mu un ni it ty ie I sm pact, Giving Back to Our p.69-73 Worldwide
GRI 414: Supplies Social Assessment
GRI 414: Supplies Social Assessment
New suppliers that were screened using social
New suppliers that were screened using social 414-1 p.87
414-1 p.87 criteria
criteria Practices & Environment, Risk Management &
Practices & Environment, Risk Management & Worldwide
Worldwide Performance
Performance Negative social impacts in the supply chain and
414-2 N ace tg ioa nti sv e ta s ko ec ni al impacts in the supply chain and p.88-89 414-2 actions taken p.88-89
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety
(a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) (a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c)
(b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards
(c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 (c) Reporting period coAvsesrse Jsasnm. 1e, n2t0 o17f ttoh Dee hce. 3a1l,t h2 0a1n7d safety impacts of Practices & Environment, Safety, Ethics and
(4d1) 6In-c1ludes worldwidAes ssietesss mfore wnht iochf tGhilee ahde maaltihnt aainnded s oapfeertayt iiomnapla ccotnst roofl and/or pPairda ucttiilcitieess d&i rEenctvlyir ion n2m01e7nt, Safety, Ethics and p.89 Worldwide (d)4 In1c6l-u1des worldwidep sriotedsu focrt wanhidch s Geirlveiacde m caaintetaginoerdie osp erational control and/or paiTdr auntilsitpieasr deinreccyt ly in 2017 p.89 Worldwide
product and service categories Transparency
112 (a)All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 220108 t1o D8ec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) ( (a b) )A Dl il s cd li os sc ulo resu rr ee fs e rr ee nfe cr ee sn Gce R G I 2R 0I 1 2 80 S16 ta S ndta an rd da s rds and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to De 2c. 031 1, 20 818 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) 113
(b)Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards (c)Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017
(c)Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 (d)Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017
(d)Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017
(a)All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c)
(b)Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards
(c)Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017
(d)Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017