Rise
Beyond
Y E A R I N R E V I E W 2 0 2 0Table of Contents
Creating a Better, Healthier World Building Sustainability and Resilience
About This Report 5 Our Responsible Growth Strategy 88
A Letter from Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Daniel O’Day 8 Environmental Impact Reduction 94
2020 Financial Highlights 12 Business Resiliency 104
The ‘Why’ Behind Our Work 16 Safety, Ethics and Transparency 110
Innovation for the Future 18
Elevating Our Impact in Society
Rising Beyond in 2020
Giving Back to Our Communities 114
Our COVID-19 Response 24 COVID-19 Support Helps Fill Unmet Needs 120
Innovation in HIV and Antivirals 38 Support for Racial Justice 122
Growth in Oncology Programs and More 44 Our Ongoing LGBTQ+ Support 126
Addressing HIV in Communities 130
Going Further: Our Workforce
Appendix
Life at Gilead
60
Supporting Our People About Gilead 138
66
Commitment to Racial Equity Our Governing Principles 139
70
Driving Change for Opportunity The Code We Stand By 140
72
Our Cultural Evolution Our Approach to CSR 141
78
Growing a Global Workforce Materiality 142
80
Workplace Safety Our Approach to Tax 146
83
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 154
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index 162
2 3SECTION 1
Creating
About This Report
This 2020 Year in Review is an annual report highlighting
a Better, Gilead’s business performance, corporate activities and
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) data. We align
our data collection, measurement and reporting activities
with industry-leading frameworks, including the United
Healthier Nations Global Compact (UNGC), United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (UN SDGs), the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and other
frameworks. This report has been prepared in accordance
World with the GRI Standards: Core option. This report’s scope
includes all entities listed in Gilead’s 2020 Annual Report on
Form 10-K and focuses on ESG topics material to Gilead’s
business operations. The phrase “materiality” as used in the
context of this report and our materiality review process are
different than the definition used in the context of our filings
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Issues deemed material for purposes of this report and for
purposes of determining our ESG strategies may not be
considered material for SEC reporting purposes.
Dara Burdette
4 Discovery Virology 5Forward-Looking Report Content,
Statements Period and Boundary
This report includes forward-looking statements within the In line with GRI’s principles for defining report content,
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act Gilead considered stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability
of 1995 that are subject to risks, uncertainties and other context, materiality, completeness and other reporting
factors. These risks, uncertainties and other factors are principles when developing this 2020 Year in Review.
described in detail in Gilead’s periodic reports filed with The activities and data contained in this report cover the
the SEC, including current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly period from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020.
reports on Form 10-Q and annual reports on Form 10-K. For any environmental data with 2019 reporting periods
These risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause indicated, we will provide updated 2020 figures on our
actual results to differ materially from those referred to in website once data validation and verification are complete.
the forward-looking statements. All statements other than See Environmental Data Content, Period and Boundary for
statements of historical fact are statements that could more information. We regularly re-evaluate the reporting
be deemed forward-looking statements. The reader is boundaries for material topics to ensure they are current
cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. and complete. See Materiality for more information on our
All forward-looking statements are based on information material topic boundaries.
currently available to Gilead and Gilead assumes no
obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.
6 7In 2020, the world was tested in When the scale of the pandemic became known, Gilead
set about addressing the significant responsibilities we
ways we could never have imagined.
had on several fronts. We had to protect the safety of our
A LETTER FROM The COVID-19 pandemic has had a employees and contribute our long-standing expertise in
antiviral therapies in the fight against COVID-19. At the same
devastating impact across the globe
time, it was important that we maintain our commitments
CHAIRMAN AND
and yet it has also demonstrated to patients and stay on track with existing plans and
objectives. By the end of 2020, we were able to look
our strength, our resilience and our
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
back knowing we had carried out our responsibilities and
ability to overcome great challenges.
reinforced Gilead’s path to a strong future.
OFFICER
We have been reminded of what is
Gilead’s long-term research into emerging viruses and
most important, and of how much we
decades of investment in antiviral therapies allowed us to
are capable of achieving when we move quickly from the very start of the pandemic. Because
of the work we had previously done on Veklury, we had
Daniel O’Day pull together.
seen its potential as a treatment for COVID-19. The entire
company rallied to contribute to the work on Veklury. We
expanded our manufacturing capability, ran multiple clinical
studies and collaborated with many partners to bring the
therapy to patients. Veklury became the first FDA-approved
therapy for COVID-19 and by the end of 2020, it was being
used to treat one in two patients hospitalized for COVID-19
in the United States. It has now been used to treat millions
of patients worldwide and was made available to more than
125 lower-income countries through voluntary licenses.
8 92020 reminded us of how much the world depends While responding to the urgent global needs in the Our responsibility to our planet is also front and center
on scientific innovation and the important role of the pandemic, we placed a strong emphasis on the safety of for Gilead. Our Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
biopharmaceutical industry. Companies rallied to come our employees. This was particularly paramount for the is responsible for integrating climate change, energy
up with ways to help address the COVID-19 pandemic, teams that continued to work at Gilead’s manufacturing and other material ESG issues into our overall business
employing our best scientific expertise and collaborating facilities and labs during the pandemic. We took careful strategy and operations. In 2020, we committed to
in multiple ways. There was no less emphasis on the many steps to support our employees in safeguarding their setting ambitious new goals around climate and energy.
other diseases and conditions that exist throughout the world. wellbeing and that of their families. Gilead increased its Throughout this report you can learn more about the
Gilead and other companies continued to bring forward new employee base to more than 13,000 with a particular focus many ways Gilead is working to ensure a healthier, safer
medicines and we maintained the ongoing supply of existing on expanding our expertise in oncology. We hired many and more equitable world, all while operating in an
therapies. Even while delivering Veklury and managing talented leaders and welcomed new members to our environmentally responsible manner.
through the uncertainties created by the pandemic, Gilead Board of Directors.
ensured an ongoing supply of medicines to the patients who Of the many lessons that 2020 delivered, perhaps the In Memoriam
depend on them, from HIV treatment and prevention to cell The role of companies like ours in driving positive most important was the reminder that nothing is more
John C. Martin, PhD (1951-2021)
therapy for cancer. Our ability to rise above the challenges of societal change took on additional significance in 2020. precious than our health. The goal of improving global
the pandemic demonstrates the extent of our resilience. The disproportionate impact of the pandemic on some public health is what inspires and drives all of us who
As this report was being completed, we learned with great
communities further highlighted the need to drive health work at Gilead. We look forward to delivering on our
sadness of the passing of John C. Martin, PhD, our former
We significantly strengthened and diversified our portfolio equity. The year also provided us with stark reminders of many opportunities to do so in 2021.
chairman and chief executive officer. His scientific vision and
of new medicines. The most recent additions include several the work we have to do to eliminate racial injustice. As
leadership helped transform the lives of millions of patients and
new marketed therapies, such as Trodelvy, a first-in-class a major employer, we see it as our responsibility to take
shape Gilead into the company it is today. He joined Gilead in
therapy that could transform the treatment of a certain type action that will help to address these issues, on behalf
Sincerely, 1990 and six years later became chief executive officer, a role
of breast cancer and which has potential for treating multiple of our employees, the communities we serve and the Daniel O’Day that he held for 20 years. He steered the company through a
tumor types. We also continued to advance our pipeline of societies in which we operate. Gilead has always seen period of remarkable growth, introducing a series of new and
new medicines in development, including important progress its role as going beyond medicine. In 2020, we further innovative medicines that helped fundamentally change and
on our investigational long-acting therapy for HIV, lenacapavir. increased our efforts to increase equity of all kinds with improve treatment for people living with HIV and viral hepatitis.
Gilead’s portfolio now targets an even broader set of unmet internal programs, external partnerships and funding for
John’s legacy will be felt for generations to come, living on
medical needs, setting us on a clear path to growth and community-based organizations.
through the scientific progress made under his leadership and
driving benefits for patients and our shareholders.
the programs he pioneered that expanded access to medicines
for people around the world.
10 112020 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Research and Cash Used for Acquisitions
Total Revenues
Development Expenses
$25.7B
$24.7B
$5B*
* Excludes acquired in-process research
and development expenses of $5.9 billion.
Cash Flows from Cash, Cash Equivalents
Operating Activities Debt Repayments and Marketable Securities
$8.2B $2.5B $7.9B*
* Represents the balance as of December 31, 2020.
Share Repurchases Cash Dividend Payments
$1.6B $3.4B
12 13$24.4B
Product Sales Strategic Partnerships and Acquisitions
Gilead delivered strong financial performance in 2020, despite the TOTAL GLOBAL PRODUCT SALES In 2020, we announced 18 strategic partnerships and acquisitions with the goal of
global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is a reflection of the solid
expanding our commercial portfolio and clinical pipeline across therapeutic areas,
underlying fundamentals of our business, driven by our robust HIV $2.3B
notably oncology, to drive future growth. We continued to use our strong balance
business and our ability to execute on the development of Veklury®
OTHER
(remdesivir). We also experienced growth in sales of cell therapy GEOGRAPHIES sheet to pursue tailored transactions that drive strategic value.
treatments from Kite, a Gilead company (Kite), as more patients
$3.9B
received Yescarta® (axicabtagene ciloleucel) and we launched
Tecartus® (brexucabtagene autoleucel) in the United States for the
EUROPE
treatment of mantle cell lymphoma. Global product sales in 2020
totaled $24.4 billion, representing 10% growth from 2019. For 2020, $18.1B
product sales were $18.1 billion in the United States, $3.9 billion in
UNITED STATES
Europe and $2.3 billion in other geographies.
License Research License Research Research Staged License Acquisition Acquisition*
Agreement Collaboration Agreement Collaboration Collaboration Acquisition Agreement
(HIV) (CellTherapy) (CellTherapy) (CellTherapy) (Immuno-Oncology) (Immuno-Oncology) (Immuno-Oncology) (Immuno-Oncology) (HepatitisDeltaVirus)
Undisclosed
Partner
Technology Acquisition Research Asset Staged Research Discovery Collaboration Research
License Collaboration Purchase Acquisition Collaboration Collaboration Collaboration
(HIV) (Immuno-Oncology) (Inflammation) (HIV) (Immuno-Oncology) (Immuno-Oncology) (CellTherapy) (CellTherapy) (Immuno-Oncology)
20201H 2020 2H
*Acquisition closed in 2021
14 15The ‘Why’ We have pioneered more than 25 products Gilead has also focused on expanding our expertise and
foundation in oncology. Over this past year, we significantly
since our founding in 1987, including the first
added to our portfolio to complement our existing strengths
single tablet regimen to treat HIV and the first
Behind Our Work and to help people with cancer.
medicine to prevent HIV. We put that same drive
and determination into our work with respect to
Our people are core to our progress. We are highly
the hepatitis C virus (HCV), which enabled us to committed to creating an inclusive culture, one that enables
deliver four curative HCV therapies in less than all people to do their best work and reflects the diversity
At Gilead, we work to create a healthier of the people, patients and communities we serve. We are
four years. We are a leader in cell therapy and
evolving our workplace, on-site and virtual, to achieve our
world for all people by delivering
we’re committed to changing the way cancer is
ambition of being the biotech employer of choice for our
innovative medicines that aim to prevent, treated by developing one-time treatments with
more than 13,000 employees, as well as those we hope to
treat and cure life-threatening diseases. curative intent. Our deep antiviral knowledge, attract to Gilead in the future.
paired with our commitment to treating global
We pursue advancements in science with
health crises, also helped us rapidly advance We recognize that it takes more than medicines to
the goal of improving care in areas of
meaningfully improve care for people with life-threatening
and deliver Veklury, the first treatment for
unmet medical need – setting out to diseases, so we strive to go beyond the science to address
COVID-19 approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
social and structural challenges. Our global programs seek
make the impossible possible.
Administration (FDA).
to reduce healthcare disparities by reducing barriers to care
that include stigma, discrimination and access to healthcare
services. In addition to our efforts to advance healthcare
equity in our communities, we will continue to focus on
reducing our environmental footprint through a global
Sammy Metobo
sustainability strategy.
16 Medicinal Chemistry 17Innovation for the Future
We also strengthened our portfolio,
52 14
adding four marketed products in 2020:
Clinical stage Clinical-stage NMEs via
programs1 in-licensing and acquisitions Trodelvy® (FDA)
accounting for 24 programs (sacituzumab govitecan-hziy)
Tecartus® (FDA)
17 7
Jyseleca® (European Commission)
(filgotinib)
NDA/BLA/MAA Breakthrough Therapy
filings, Phase 3 designations Veklury® (FDA)
and Registrational
Phase 2 trials
We also announced plans in 2020 to acquire a fifth
1 Including in-licensed or acquired programs currently between Phase 1 and NDA/BLA/MAA approval. medicine, Hepcludex® (bulevirtide), pursuant to our
acquisition of MYR GmbH (MYR), which we completed
in March 2021.
sesaesiD
lariV
yrotammaflnI
ygolocnO
sesaesiD
Our Clinical Pipeline at the End of 2020
Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Filed
Phase 2/3
MAA Filed
MAA and BLA Approved
sBLA Filed
sBLA
sBLA for AA
Pivotal
Pivotal
Phase 1b/2
Phase 1b/2
Phase 1b/2
Phase 1b/2
Phase 1a
Phase 1a
18 19Addressing Global Challenges
Gilead demonstrates a commitment to the principles
outlined in the UNGC and the UN SDGs. The UNGC calls
for companies to align their operations with 10 universally
accepted principles on human rights, labor, the environment
and anti-corruption. Stemming from the UNGC, the UN
SDGs identify 17 impact areas that will help society achieve
a better and more sustainable future. Aligning Gilead’s
existing sustainability and social practices within the UNGC
and the UN SDG frameworks allows us to better convey our
commitments to our patients, local communities, society and
the planet. Although Gilead supports all 17 of the UN SDGs,
we have identified specific goals where we can deliver
our greatest influence and positive impact. In particular,
our work to provide life-saving medicines to underserved
communities aligns strongly with UN SDG 3, “Good Health
and Wellbeing.” We are committed to supporting global
health and sustainable development in our business
and operations.
Additional information on alignment between our work
and the UN SDGs can be found in the Appendix and
GRI Content Index of this report.
20 21SECTION 2
Rising
Beyond At Gilead, we are dedicated to looking
beyond the obvious to solve complex
problems. Read more about our efforts to
in 2020 rise beyond in 2020 as we worked amid
the pandemic to deliver for patients.
Nathan Wright
Medicinal Chemistry
22 23Our COVID-19 Response
When the COVID-19 outbreak began to emerge – well before Even before clinical trials demonstrated Veklury’s efficacy in
it was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization patients with COVID-19, we accelerated our production capacity
(WHO) – Gilead’s scientists took note. We asked how, given and assembled an international group of pharmaceutical and
our decades of antiviral expertise, we could help. We began chemical manufacturers to help with global supply needs.
to examine the potential of our then-investigational antiviral To further expand supply of Veklury, Gilead also signed
Veklury, which had shown potential utility against other non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreements with generic
coronaviruses in laboratory and preclinical experiments. In drugmakers in India, Egypt and Pakistan.
early 2020, the first patient received Veklury for the treatment
of COVID-19 through a special regulatory emergency use The FDA granted Emergency Use Authorization of Veklury
process, and we prepared for the possibility of rapidly in May and, by late October, less than a year after the
initiating clinical trials to evaluate Veklury as an investigational first case report of the disease, Veklury received FDA
treatment for COVID-19. approval for the treatment of COVID-19 in patients
requiring hospitalization. Lorena Catano
Packaging Operations
24 25OUR IMPACT
Innovating to Treat COVID-19
Gilead responded quickly to advance Veklury,
deploying decades of antiviral expertise and significant
internal resources to help patients and communities
working to ease the burden of the pandemic. By the
end of the year, approximately 1 million people in the
United States had received Veklury.
Anu Osinusi
Virology – Hepatitis, Respiratory
and Emerging Viruses
26 27Increasing
Veklury Supply
Our partners, new and longstanding, were
instrumental in providing adequate supply.
Gilead invested in ramping up manufacturing
before seeing clinical data that demonstrated the
Clinical Trials medicine’s efficacy. Without compromising safety
or rigor, Gilead teams worked collaboratively to find
Expedited
ways to shorten the manufacturing process and to
bring on more than 40 additional manufacturing
We completed clinical trials rapidly while
partners.
maintaining the highest bar for safety, through
collaboration with patients, healthcare providers,
regulatory authorities and clinical trial investigators.
Donation
Through the end of June 2020, Gilead provided
our entire existing supply of Veklury at no cost
for clinical trials, for emergency access programs
and in countries where the medicine had received
regulatory authorization. We did this to help Veklury
reach patients as quickly as possible, in light of the
public emergency posed by the pandemic.
28 29Gilead Ramps Up What prompted Gilead to proactively ramp up manufacturing capabilities
Q&A
as early as the company did?
Veklury
It began with a quick cascade of events starting in late 2019 when Gilead colleagues received information regarding emerging
cases of pneumonia, which could be signs of a new coronavirus. Since Gilead had recently been studying the then-investigational
Manufacturing Veklury as a treatment for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), a deadly disease caused by a coronavirus, we considered
a possible connection. The company’s leadership team convened a task force to determine how best to evaluate Veklury for
the treatment of COVID-19 and, if the outcomes were promising, how to produce the large quantities that would be needed in a
potential pandemic setting. By mid-January 2020, I got the news: We should prepare to make Veklury at scale. Early data were
promising.
A Q&A with Ken Kent, Senior Vice
President of Chemical Development
What were some of the first
and Manufacturing Operations
steps the team took to ramp up
production?
As the COVID-19 outbreak became a Making Veklury requires a long chemical synthesis that must
be done sequentially. Step one, then two, then three and
global pandemic, Gilead’s deep history
so on. We can’t simply assemble all needed ingredients at
in antiviral drug development suggested
once. That meant we needed to quickly work with our global
one of the company’s medicines could suppliers – existing partners and additional manufacturing
partners – to secure the raw materials even before we knew
potentially be used to treat the virus.
Veklury would work for this new coronavirus. Within a few
short months, those materials began arriving from around
Ken Kent takes us behind the scenes to
the globe. Having large quantities of components readily
share how Gilead took bold action to available would also help eliminate bottlenecks caused by
any one material running low.
meet an unmet global need.
30 31You also made changes to reduce What are you most proud of in this journey?
what was initially a 12-month
manufacturing process to six to eight Going from a modest stockpile of medicine at the start of the year to having enough on-
months. How did you do it? hand by October to meet global needs truly took a village. It wouldn’t have happened
without the hard work, long hours and enthusiastic collaboration of our manufacturing
partners, regulatory counterparts and global team of employees who rose beyond
We tasked a team of 20 chemists with finding ways to speed
limitations to fight one of the defining challenges of our time.
the production of Veklury. Efficiencies found were largely
due to process improvements and other changes. Added
up, this enabled us to reduce manufacturing time to six to
eight months, without compromising quality or safety. This
was important because while we had a small stockpile of the
product on hand, the potential for needing much more, and
soon, was a very real possibility.
We were then able to increase supply from enough to treat
just 5,000 patients in January, to more than 2 million treatment
courses by the end of the year. Our production capacity began
to accelerate when we started receiving the raw materials
we had ordered in January, and we continued to make
improvements throughout the year, allowing our manufacturing
teams to produce larger batches of the medicine.
Gilead employees in La Verne, California
32 33Expanding Voluntary Licensing Green Chemistry Reduces
Production Agreements for Remdesivir Environmental Impact
As the COVID-19 pandemic brought the world to a halt, Gilead signed non-exclusive voluntary licensing Even as we worked to advance Veklury rapidly, we
Gilead employees worked diligently to advance the agreements with generic pharmaceutical manufacturers remained focused on decreasing our environmental
company’s then-investigational antiviral. Laura Bauer, to further expand supply of remdesivir. The agreements footprint. The principles of green chemistry – designing
a scientist in the Formulation and Process Development allow the companies to manufacture remdesivir for chemical products and processes that reduce or eliminate
group, collaborated with her team, colleagues and partners distribution in 127 countries, nearly all of which are the generation of hazardous substances – are a day-
across a wide manufacturing and supply chain network to resource limited. These licenses currently remain to-day discipline. We improved the total Process Mass
increase production. To learn more, watch our “Realizing royalty-free, reflecting Gilead’s existing commitment to Intensity (PMI) score of Veklury by 40% through a reduction
Possible” video. enabling broad patient access to remdesivir. of solvents, reagents, reactants and consumables. This
innovation led us to use fewer resources while enabling
us to produce more, faster. See our Advancing Green
Chemistry section of this report.
Laura Bauer
Formulation and Process Development
34 35Strengthening Our Ensuring Continuity of Cell
Global Supply Chain Delivery for Patients
When the COVID-19 pandemic caused commercial flights A top priority was to safeguard and minimize any potential
to be reduced – the same flights that transport many of impact of the pandemic on access to Kite’s cancer-treating
our medicines – Gilead’s Global Supply Chain team found cell therapies. Because cell therapies represent a truly
opportunities to overcome delivery barriers. Employees personalized medicine – they are made using a patient’s
made immediate logistical changes and established own T cells – transportation plays an integral role in getting
longer-term systems and automation improvements. Our therapy to patients. Patients who receive cell therapy are
employees went beyond their day-to-day roles, showing often very sick and don’t have time to wait for treatment, so
dedication to ensure our medicines reached patients potential delays can have serious consequences. Amid global
around the world. travel restrictions and the threat of supply chain disruptions,
our employees worked tirelessly to ensure the timely
We leaned into the urgency of the pandemic to accelerate manufacture, supply and delivery of life-saving therapies to
ongoing enhancements to supply planning and logistics eligible patients around the world.
systems. While this helped speed medicines to patients in
2020, it also built a stronger foundation for the future by To ensure continuity of treatment, the Kite team deployed
improving our supply network and strengthening partner a highly coordinated effort to navigate potential supply
relationships. chain disruptions and find alternatives to transportation
challenges, such as canceled flights and border closures. This
Pieter van Hengel
required extra care as we shipped patients’ cells to and from
Supply Chain, Kite manufacturing locations around the world – monitoring flights,
tracking hospital capacity, working closely with our authorized
treatment centers and establishing mitigation plans.
Michael Stouten, Cyrilla Khalil
36 T-Cell Manufacturing, Kite 37Diversifying Clinical Trials
We are committed to eliminating healthcare disparities.
One way we address this is by seeking diverse
representation in our clinical trials. It starts with who we
Innovation in HIV
work with: seeking out institutions and investigators that are
within the communities we aim to reach and helping ensure
the representation of Black people, people of color, women
and Antivirals
and LGBTQ+ individuals.
A significant demonstration of our commitment to ensuring
greater inclusion and diversity in our next generation of
Amid the pandemic, we never wavered in our dedication to
HIV prevention clinical trials is by instituting race, ethnicity,
our decades-long quest to innovate for people living with HIV.
gender and age as Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
We made significant progress advancing our investigational
long-acting antiviral, lenacapavir, and our scientists
Throughout the year, we worked to actively recruit Black
continued to pursue our ultimate goal: a potential cure. In an
clinical trial participants to our studies for diseases such as
unconventional year, we pursued creative paths to success
HIV and COVID-19, which disproportionately impact Black
– for the patients of today, as well as tomorrow. Beyond HIV,
communities and other communities of color. Last year, we
we built out our expertise in viral hepatitis, entering into an
also shared results from our landmark BRAAVE 2020 study,
agreement to add a medicine to treat chronic hepatitis delta
which was designed to further evaluate the safety and
virus (HDV), a condition with significant unmet medical need.
efficacy of Biktarvy® (bictegravir, emtricitabine, and tenofovir
alafenamide) in Black adults living with HIV.
Tariro Makadzange, Alivelu Irrinki
38 Discovery Virology 39Helping to Transform Going the Distance Providing Shuttle Service
to Prevent Delays for People Living with HIV
Care for the HIV
Reduced access to clinics and physicians due to In Israel, like in many other regions, people living with HIV missed appointments
Community
COVID-19 health and safety restrictions impacted the as they avoided public transportation due to COVID-19. Employees at our Israeli
HIV community. Spikes in demand – as people stocked affiliate collaborated with advocacy groups and HIV clinics to create a program to
Gilead partnered with healthcare workers up on their medicines when the pandemic began – transport people safely to and from their medical appointments. Throughout 2020,
on top of a reduction in flights led to challenges in the program’s shuttles logged more than 5,000 miles.
and HIV organizations to provide continuation
remote regions, such as certain parts of Australia. Our
of vital services.
employees found creative ways to get those medicines
to their destinations, including:
Reaching Patients Globally
Advancing HIV Innovation Working with charter airlines to receive priority
shipment of our medicines given their critical nature
Through global partnerships, Gilead’s medicines today reach millions of people in
Lenacapavir, an investigational agent which has received low- and lower-middle income countries around the world, and we are committed to
FDA Breakthrough Therapy designation for the treatment continuing to find ways to increase access. We work in 127 resource-limited countries,
of HIV in highly treatment-experienced individuals with Hand delivering packaging supplies to our contract using a variety of approaches to facilitate disease awareness, strategically engage
multidrug resistance, is being studied as a potential manufacturers partners and efficiently deliver medicines. In resource-limited countries, an estimated
long-acting option for both the treatment and prevention 17.6 million people living with HIV received a Gilead-based treatment in 2020.
of HIV. While daily, single tablet regimens work well for
many people living with HIV, others have expressed a Providing personal protective equipment (PPE) to
Evolving Field Visits
preference for options that would allow for less frequent support internal and external distributors when
oral dosing or injections. Lenacapavir potentially offers a supplies were low
As the pandemic spurred new ways of working, our global field teams had to
convenient alternative dosing option for people living with
find innovative ways to provide appropriate support. Global Gilead teams shifted Stephen McCracken
or at risk of HIV.
seminars online and relied on strong relationships with healthcare providers to
HIV Sales
work to ensure patient needs were met.
40 41Addressing Viral Hepatitis
MYR Acquisition Elevating Patient Voices
We announced an agreement to acquire MYR, which we The Hep-cast is a podcast that features individuals
completed in March 2021, adding Hepcludex, a medicine that working to eliminate HCV. Developed in partnership with
was conditionally approved by the European Commission the World Hepatitis Alliance, the series goes beyond
in July 2020 for treatment of chronic HDV. HDV is the most health numbers to explore the human impact of HCV.
severe form of viral hepatitis, occurring only in patients Each episode features someone with HCV experiences
Cary James
who already have hepatitis B virus (HBV). Hepcludex is an – including doctors, policymakers and community
World Hepatitis Alliance
investigational agent, and its safety and efficacy have not been advocates. Listen to the Hep-cast.
established in the United States or in other regions where it has
not received regulatory approval.
Elimination Efforts
Transformation of
The WHO has set the goal of eliminating HBV and HCV
Viral Hepatitis Treatment
by 2030. We are working toward this target by supporting
efforts of governments, patient organizations, payers
We have worked to improve care for people with viral hepatitis
and healthcare providers to increase awareness, drive
for more than 20 years. Our medicines for HCV offer the
screening and facilitate linkage to care. Since 2013, it is
Jack Boeve (left, pictured with Advanced Practice
potential of a cure for the majority of people who receive them.
Registered Nurses Kristie Hack and Jessica Gossom) estimated that more than 2 million people with HCV in
We are also committed to providing new and better options for
resource-limited countries have received our medicines.
people with HBV – and we continue to pursue a cure. HCV Sales
42 43Growth in Despite a disrupted world, we kept our eyes
on the future, continually asking “What’s next?”
Oncology
In 2020, we significantly enhanced our oncology portfolio, an important new pillar of growth
Programs
for Gilead, as we seek to achieve our strategic ambition of delivering 10+ transformative
medicines to patients by 2030. We entered into 11 acquisitions and partnerships in oncology,
and More
adding to our commercial portfolio and clinical pipeline. Together, these new programs have
the potential to reach patients with a range of hematological malignancies and solid tumors.
Impactful Partnerships
and Acquisitions
Gilead entered into 18 strategic partnerships and acquisitions in
2020, including the 11 oncology-focused transactions. The result: We
have increased our pipeline by 50% overall, as measured by asset-
indication projects, with direct ownership of 12 new molecules and
the right to opt into 14 other molecules. These opportunities can help
us to accelerate the development and potential commercialization of
medicines for patients.
Daejin Abidoye Devang Bhuva
44 Oncology Therapeutics Corporate Development and Alliance Management 45Q&A The People
Powering
Our Progress
Gilead was very active in 2020 with acquisitions and
partnerships in oncology. Can you tell us more about that?
A Q&A with Merdad Parsey,
Chief Medical Officer We significantly added to our portfolio to complement our strength in virology, immunology and cell
therapy by acquiring approved oncology medicines, late-stage assets with strong data and important
options to an impressive number of investigational therapies targeting the treatment of patients with
Our people make our growing legacy of
cancer. At the end of 2020, we had 27 internal, clinical-stage oncology programs focused on helping
innovation possible. It is their dedication patients with the greatest unmet medical need augmented by a portfolio of external products that can
substantively expand our ability to make a difference in cancer.
and focus that enable breakthroughs once
thought impossible, and their dedication will These programs are at various stages of development – from a number of clinical candidates that
we are evaluating in solid tumors and hematological malignancies to our marketed product, Trodelvy,
enable our future success. Gilead brought
for metastatic triple-negative breast cancer. In April 2021, the FDA granted accelerated approval of
talented new hires to the company last year,
Trodelvy for use in adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer (UC). In addition,
as we seek to build out our expertise in through our collaborations with external partners, we have access to some cutting-edge research
programs, where we have the right to opt in, depending on future milestones.
oncology to deliver important new medicines
for patients with cancer.
Merdad Parsey shares his perspective on
Gilead’s expansion in oncology.
46 47Can you tell us a little bit about What do you think drives Gilead’s dedication to this work?
how all of these pieces have
come together? I’m proud to say that the team we have brought together is deeply committed to this important work to benefit people with cancer.
We are all touched by someone with cancer, either personally or a family member, loved one or acquaintance. Many of us have
similar experiences with other diseases, like COVID-19. The Gilead legacy of changing the lives of people living with HIV, curing
We had the freedom to take an approach that was
people with HCV and treating people with COVID-19 inspires us to be part of changing the narrative in oncology as well: to bend
anchored only to: ‘What can we do to bring the most
the arc of what it means to be affected by cancer. That’s why we’re here and why we’re so committed to our work across so many
impact?’ We continue to think more about the benefit a
areas, including oncology. There have been many important advances over the past couple of decades. And there is so much
potential treatment can bring to patients and the modality
more that needs to be done. That’s what drives us every day.
of that treatment. You can see that in our pipeline, which
ranges from antibody-drug conjugates to small molecules.
We are intentionally building a portfolio of candidate
medicines that will enable us to explore new ways to put How does cell therapy
the pieces together to make a difference for people with fit into the picture?
cancer everywhere.
We work closely with our colleagues at Kite, who are
At Gilead, our goal – for oncology and all of our
responsible for the research, process development and
therapeutic areas – is to bring forward medicines that are
clinical development, and commercialization of our cell
truly innovative and offer transformative improvements for
therapies. Kite is focused on getting those therapies to
people with hard-to-treat conditions. As you look at the
patients earlier in their course of treatment, broadening
medicines we’ve advanced internally and the ones that
use of the medicines to make a difference in a wider range
we’ve added through external acquisitions or partnerships,
of conditions and advancing new therapies through the
you’ll see that goal has driven all of our decisions.
development process.
Our efforts at Gilead aim to build on and complement
cell therapy, and we are starting to think about potential
combination treatments as we seek to find innovative ways
to make a difference for people with cancer.
48 49A Growing Pipeline and Portfolio Forty Seven
and Magrolimab
We continue to enhance our clinical pipeline The acquisition of Forty Seven, Inc. strengthened Gilead’s
through external partnerships and collaborations oncology research and development portfolio with the
addition of magrolimab, an investigational, potentially first-in-
and internal research and development.
class, anti-CD47 monoclonal antibody. We are studying it for
We passionately pursue transformative science
a number of hematological cancers and its potential to treat
and innovative medicine in the areas of virology,
solid tumors. Magrolimab has received FDA Breakthrough
oncology and inflammatory diseases.
Therapy designation for the treatment of newly diagnosed
myelodysplastic syndrome.
Immunomedics
Two CAR T
and Trodelvy
Therapy Offerings
With the acquisition of Immunomedics, Inc. in October,
we added our first medicine for solid tumors, Trodelvy, a In July 2020, the FDA approved Kite’s second chimeric
first-in-class medicine for people with metastatic triple- antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy, Tecartus, making
negative breast cancer, one of the toughest-to-treat forms Kite the first company with two approved cell therapies.
of the disease. Triple-negative breast cancers account for Yescarta has been on the market since 2017. Tecartus is a
approximately 15% of all breast cancers. Gilead is exploring treatment for adults with relapsed or refractory mantle cell
Trodelvy’s potential to treat many other types of cancer lymphoma, a form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma that arises
– both as a monotherapy and in combination with other from cells originating in the “mantle zone” of the lymph
treatments – including other types of breast cancer, non- node. Mantle cell lymphoma can become highly aggressive
small cell lung cancer and other solid tumor types. In April for patients whose disease returns after initial therapy.
Niemel Mirza
2021, the FDA granted accelerated approval of Trodelvy for Tecartus offers an important new treatment option for
use in adults with locally advanced or metastatic UC. those patients. T-Cell Manufacturing, Kite
50 51Expanding Our Global
Manufacturing Network
Kite received EMA approval for a CAR T-cell manufacturing
facility in Amsterdam in June. Opening a site in Europe
provides Kite with the opportunity to reduce the amount
of time patients have to wait to receive life-saving
individualized treatments. Because patients who receive
cell therapies are often quite sick, timely access to therapy
is critical. The new facility eliminates the steps of shipping
a patient’s cells to our California facility and back, reducing
the time it takes for our CAR T therapy to reach patients
by almost a week. Our European manufacturing facility is
expected to allow us to supply treatment for up to 4,000
additional patients per year outside the United States.
52 53Using Cell Therapy to Kite is solely focused on advancing
Q&A
cell therapy. What role does cell
Improve Outcomes
therapy play in treating cancer?
for People with Cancer
CAR T is a personalized therapy that involves engineering a
patient’s own white blood cells to fight cancer. Cell therapy
trains a person’s immune system to recognize, attack and
destroy certain types of cancer. Engineered T-cell therapy is
A Q&A with Christi Shaw,
among the biggest breakthroughs in cancer treatment since
the introduction of combination chemotherapy more than
Chief Executive Officer of Kite
60 years ago. It’s a remarkable genetic engineering process
and we’re committed to bringing it to more people in need.
Kite continued to drive innovation to help
people with cancer. As an autonomous
organization with the benefit of collaboration How does cell therapy complement
Gilead’s broader work in cancer?
with Gilead, Kite continued its resolute pursuit
of the cure, focusing on transformative
Both Kite and Gilead are focused on life-changing cancer
medicines for hard-to-treat cancers.
medicines. We are striving to fundamentally change the way
we target difficult-to-treat cancers. It’s a bold vision, and it’s
Kite Chief Executive Officer Christi one we’re committed to achieving together.
Shaw shares an update on the year’s
advancements and milestones.
54 55Tecartus received FDA approval What is your role in helping to
in 2020 and Yescarta continues to ensure people have access to Kite’s
deliver on the promise of CAR T. therapies?
What is the impact of these therapies?
As we continue to innovate in cell therapy and bring new
therapies to patients, ensuring hospitals can be reimbursed
We are proud to be able to bring the benefits of CAR T
for CAR T and patients are able to receive it, regardless of
to more people with cancer. Tecartus is the first and only
where they receive care, is crucial. This applies not only to
CAR T-cell therapy for patients with relapsed or refractory
today’s CAR T; it will also be critical as we bring cell therapy
mantle cell lymphoma, which tends to become more
to more people with different kinds of cancer.
aggressive over time. And our data on Yescarta, at four years
post-infusion from our trial, has demonstrated the longest-
As most patients are seen by community oncologists, it has
term survival results from any CAR T pivotal trial in people
been essential to further build the Kite community-facing
with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma.
field force. The mission of this team is to educate physicians
on the benefits of CAR T and to identify and reduce barriers
that may prevent patients from accessing treatment at an
authorized treatment center. We also worked with the U.S.
government in 2020 to broaden access to cell therapies for
patients covered by certain government programs.
Kite employees in El Segundo, California
56 57SECTION 3
Going Further:
Our Workforce
Jack Hein, Alan Huang
Facilities (Hein)
58 Engineering (Huang) 59Our employees are dedicated to our work
Life at Gilead Rewarding, Recognizing
Our Leadership Commitments
– and to our vision of making the world
and Retaining Employees
a healthier place. We are guided by our The Leadership Commitments describe the mindset and
behaviors we strive for as an organization.
Core Values – Accountability, Excellence, Gilead’s compensation and benefits programs are
designed to attract, cultivate and retain the industry’s
Inclusion, Integrity and Teamwork.
most talented workforce, offering competitive packages
I am bold in aspiration and agile in execution
that include bonuses and stock grant opportunities.
Embracing the courage to aim high, explore new ideas and
In 2020, we also introduced new
take risks, learn from challenge, adapt quickly and encourage
Leadership Commitments that emphasize Additional benefits are tailored to the needs of our
outspoken dialogue
people in various worldwide locations and include
that the way we do our work is as
I care and make time for people flexible work arrangements, support for training and
important as the work itself.
Showing empathy and compassion, demonstrating respect, education, paid time off and family planning benefits,
creating space for feedback and supporting each other to achieve disability and retirement benefits, and access to a
something bigger than ourselves variety of health and wellbeing resources.
I listen, speak openly and explain the why
Each year, we reassess our Total Rewards package to
Listening carefully, speaking up to embrace opportunities for
ensure it offers the right benefits and incentives to help
mutual improvement and providing the reasons behind our
us attract and retain critical talent.
decisions
I trust others and myself to make sound decisions
Moving forward together by empowering individuals and teams to
make decisions and take on new opportunities and responsibilities
I own the impact of my words and actions
Lily Lei
Exemplifying Gilead’s Core Values by acknowledging one’s own
Marcus McMillan
motivations and missteps, disagreeing respectfully and providing
Human Resources
Facilities constructive and thoughtful feedback
60 61“Gilead invests in the
Compensation and OUR FINANCIAL BENEFITS INCLUDE:
long-term potential it
Financial Benefits at Gilead
sees in its employees.”
Gilead is a pay-for-performance company committed to
pay equity. Our employee salaries are based on market- – Mia Campitelli, Director of Public Affairs
based ranges and are assessed annually in consideration
Read Mia’s story. $
of prior-year performance. All compensation decisions are
made without regard to personal characteristics such as
gender, race, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability,
sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, genetic
information, religion or veteran status. We conduct an
annual review of employee compensation to ensure that
Retirement savings with Employee Stock Purchase Personalized financial coaches
our pay practices are race- and gender-neutral, and we also
matching contributions available Program that allows eligible Gilead in the United States who offer
commission an annual global pay equity study to gain a more
in many countries based on employees to purchase Gilead each employee 90 consecutive
comprehensive view of pay parity across the organization.
local market practice and stock at a 15% discount, consistent days per year of free, one-on-one
regulations* with Internal Revenue Service financial coaching, covering areas
requirements such as managing student loans,
Gilead is proud to be
paying down debt and planning for
Working retirement
named to the
Mother 100 Best Gilead’s salary ratio for women
Companies list. 99.78:100.
to men globally is
Mia Campitelli (pictured with daughter)
Public Affairs
*For detailed information about Gilead’s defined benefit plan obligations, see our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K at the Investors page of our website.
62 63Evolution of Health These benefits are in addition to the market-competitive, Competitive Paid Time Off
healthcare, wellbeing and risk benefits we offer to help
and Welfare Benefits
our employees and their families. Depending on an
Gilead offers competitive paid time off benefits to help our employees feel
employee’s country location, those wellbeing offerings
rested and balanced. Employees get company-paid vacation days and
include biometric screenings, health assessment tools,
During 2020, we continued to prioritize our holidays, as well as family and parental leave benefits, all of which vary by
wellbeing seminars and on-site fitness centers or annual
focus on employee health and wellbeing. country and region based on local laws, regulations and market practices.
fitness reimbursement. Risk benefits include sick days,
In 2020, we implemented a new global December shutdown and, for our
Gilead introduced a range of programs to disability benefits and company-paid life, accidental
U.S. employees, we now offer a Fourth of July holiday week.
support employees, including some to help death and dismemberment, and business travel accident Robb McFadden (left, pictured with family)
insurance.
our people adapt to new ways of working:
Employee Relations
In the United States, our expanded health and
A global reimbursement (up to $500 in welfare benefits include family planning resources, Global Parental Leave Data
Females Males Total
the United States) to support employee such as adoption and surrogacy assistance, elective
wellbeing expenses egg-freezing, and a breast milk delivery service for
Number of employees entitled to parental leave in 2020 7,508 7,132 14,640
breastfeeding mothers traveling for business. A related
program provides 24/7 support for working parents from Number of employees who took parental leave in 2020 397 215 612
Work-from-home support, including pregnancy through the baby’s first year, including doula
252 166 418
Number of employees who returned to work after leave ended in 2020
additional reimbursement of up to $1,000 services, lactation consultants, career coaches and
to create home workspaces
parenting specialists. We also provide fertility support Number of employees retained 12 months after returning to work 273 171 444
where coverage is possible, varying by region. following a period of parental leave in 2019
Number of employees who took parental leave in 2019 387 216 603
Monthly childcare expense reimbursement Through our behavioral health and work-life services
for parents
programs, our people can also access financial, legal, 2020 return to work rate 98.8% 98.2% 98.6%
pre-retirement, elder care and childcare consultations,
2019 return to work rate 98.1% 100% 98.9%
as well as clinical counseling.
84.5% 82.2% 83.6%
2019 retention rate
64 65Supporting Employee Assistance Professional and
During California Wildfires Personal Development
Our People
California, home to our headquarters, experienced a
record-breaking wildfire season in 2020, with nearly 4.3 Gilead’s Learning and Development program fosters a culture
Building Meaningful million acres burned, affecting nearly every region of the of continuous growth, helping our people develop the skills
state. During the fires, our existing crisis-response systems
and tools to grow their careers and deepen their engagement
Connections
and procedures ensured our employees’ safety and
with Gilead’s culture.
provided support, paid time off and reimbursement for
G.Mentor, our mentoring program, is one way that
those who were impacted.
In 2020, COVID-19 protocols mandated a switch to virtual formats,
we help early-career employees build connections
which enabled us to reach more employees than in past years.
with more experienced Gilead leaders. In 2020, 558
At our Security Operations Center, a third-party tool
By the end of 2020, Gilead Learning and Development delivered
employees participated in G.Mentor, with 100% of
quickly mapped and contacted employees living within
more than 200 live remote workshops and sponsored facilitation
mentee survey respondents reporting that they were
areas experiencing significant fire events, logged their
of 1,200 hours of training, seamlessly converting and re-designing
strongly satisfied or satisfied with their mentoring
responses and transmitted those responses to Human
content for virtual delivery.
experience and 96% saying that they were likely to
Resources (HR). Affected employees received immediate
recommend the program to a colleague.
HR follow-up to assure their safety and communicate
In addition to taking advantage of Gilead’s learning and
applicable benefits, which included:
development curricula, employees can receive reimbursement
for tuition expenses incurred while pursuing undergraduate,
• Emergency third-party evacuation services
graduate or certificate courses at an accredited college
• Paid disaster recovery leave or university. Annual reimbursement maximums and
eligibility vary by country. Gilead also supports continuing
• Reimbursement of up to $5,000 for damage
education with reduced tutition for MBA programs
or loss of property
through Golden Gate University; more than 60
• Hotels and meals for employees and their
Hafsa Khan
employees took advantage of this offering in 2020.
families, for up to 14 calendar days
Sierra Andregg
Regulatory Affairs
Facilities
66 67Listening to Grow 80
would recommend Gilead and Kite
Key insights from the pulse surveys this year showed high %
engagement, with employees describing Gilead as an
a new high for the company in recent surveys
“innovative” and “ambitious” company where employee
wellbeing is a priority. A need to continue our focus on
Pulse Surveys Surface
diversity, improving processes and decision-making
Employee Sentiment emerged as areas for improvement.
“I listen” is one of the company’s new Leadership
STRENGTHS
Commitments – and, as an organization, we are deeply
committed to learning from our employees. Taking an
employee-driven approach to evolving our culture helps
ensure our people feel heard and respected. This in turn
promotes higher engagement, improved retention and 81 77 of employees say when
% of employees say %
heightened innovation, helping us recruit the industry’s
they speak their input
they feel respected
best talent.
is considered
In 2020, we formalized our listening strategy introducing a
new approach to surveying our teams to augment existing “Employee feedback and opinions are crucial in
programs. We believe in listening at the enterprise level, helping understand what Gilead is doing well and
as well as in focusing on regions, functions and teams. To
where we can improve. As we strive to become
ensure timely capture of employee sentiment, especially
the biotech employer of choice and achieve our
during the pandemic, we increased the frequency of our
corporate ambitions, this type of insight is a key
pulse surveys. These surveys sample a random selection of AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT
part of Gilead’s evolution.”
employees around the world and provide real-time insight
into what’s working well and where we need to focus on 72
%
43%
– Jyoti Mehra agree people of all backgrounds have agree work processes are
making improvements. agree people of all backgrounds have agree work processes are agree that Gilead minimizes
Executive Vice President, Human Resources the same opportunities to succeed well-organized and efficient
the same opportunities to succeed well-organized and efficient bureaucracy
68 69Commitment Listen First Blueprint for Change
to Racial Equity We built on existing programs and introduced new ones, with Gilead launched Blueprint for Change to create processes
the goal of deepening our commitment to racial equity and and partnerships to increase recruitment of diverse
social justice inside the company. Led by our Chairman and candidates. Blueprint for Change is intended to help
Chief Executive Officer Daniel O’Day, in the summer of 2020, increase our Black and Latinx workforce by building
our most senior leaders worked with our GLOBE Employee relationships with, and hiring diverse talent from,
Resource Group (ERG) to hold a series of listening sessions universities and other organizations that support our current
and town halls to understand the concerns of our Black and future talent needs.
employees and how we could use our platform to promote Samuel Gonzalez
racial equity. Our listening sessions and town halls led to As part of Blueprint for Change, we introduced two new
Marketing Operations
the creation of our Advancing Black Leadership strategy programs designed to increase representation of Black and
to provide opportunities for existing employees, as well as Latinx individuals at Gilead: Propel, aimed at candidates
additional programs to recruit more diverse job candidates. with less than four years of relevant experience, and Ignite,
Active Leaders
for mid-career hires and experienced professionals. Other
diversity-focused recruiting initiatives include investing in
Gilead strives to maximize impact in local communities development and internal career mobility and expanding
by supporting inclusion and diversity. This drives our early pipeline for diverse talent. We also announced that
“When I think about diversity and inclusion, active participation in partnerships such as the sales we will fund 100 scholarships and increase our recruitment
I think about diversity as being invited to professional development organization National Sales efforts at Historically Black Colleges and Universities
Network, the Hispanic Association on Corporate (HBCUs), as well as Hispanic-Serving Institutions.
the dance – and I think about inclusion as
Responsibility, Out and Equal, Executive Leadership
being actually asked to dance.”
Council and Lead360. Gilead also participates in the
California Conference for Women and the Regulatory
– Valerie Brown
Affairs Professionals Society. In 2020, 93 diverse leaders
Senior Vice President of Quality Assurance and
joined leadership and/or development programs that
Executive Sponsor of GLOBE
these organizations provided as part of our growing
To learn more, watch our “Championing Possible” video. commitment to diverse talent leadership development.
70 71Driving Change for Opportunity
Enhanced Inclusion
and Diversity Training
In 2020, we launched two new inclusion and diversity learning
programs, designed to augment our broader efforts. These
included four self-paced, anti-racism e-learnings and a virtual
workshop on combating bias in the workplace. We also expanded
our inclusive hiring curriculum. Designed to promote equity and
show how bias can affect the hiring process, the seven-part series
targets all hiring managers.
Advancing Multi-Year
Diversity Goals
We have set clear internal representation goals, as well as goals
related to the suppliers with whom we do business. We have also
set goals related to the organizations we support through our
corporate giving initiatives. Without engaging in racial preferences,
using race as the basis for employment decisions, or quotas, we are
Jocelyn de la Vega
committed to increasing employee and executive representation
for underrepresented groups and increasing transparency of data, Legal Belinda Moore
progress and regularly updated prioritized actions.
Managed Markets
72 73Gilead Receives 100% Gilead is proud to An Ecosystem Approach
Rating on HRC Corporate be named among the to Inclusion and Diversity
Equality Index 500 companies on the
At Gilead, we approach inclusion and diversity
Forbes America’s Best
from all angles, focusing on our people, our
In its 2020 Corporate Equality Index (CEI), the Human
Rights Campaign Foundation named Gilead to its list of Employers for Diversity relationships with external partners and
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality and awarded the organizations dedicated to societal change.
list for the second year
company a perfect score for the third consecutive year.
In 2020, we launched a Global Diversity Council led by
in a row.
The CEI is an annual national benchmarking tool that Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Daniel O’Day and
assesses companies’ policies, benefits and practices comprising members of the Gilead leadership team, ERG
related to LGBTQ+ employees and their families. The executive sponsors and ERG leads. The mission of the
index also scores companies on responsible citizenship council starts with listening to employees and stakeholders
and public commitment to LGBTQ+ equality. to ensure all voices are heard in determining what is critical
to furthering inclusion and diversity at Gilead.
With this listen-first foundation, the council is set up to
provide governance, track progress and further our culture
of inclusion. The council ensures we have the appropriate
goals and strategies and enables us to learn from our
initiatives and adapt to ensure impact. Responsibilities also
include reviewing and approving diversity goals, reviewing
pay equity and identifying trainings to bring more diverse
talent to Gilead.
Michael Jones
Medical Writing
74 Gilead employees raise the pride flag in Foster City, California 75Deepening Accountability on Representation Goals
In 2020, we set new representation goals that will be formally tied to KPIs. Starting in 2021, organizational leaders will be required
to regularly review and update Inclusion and Diversity Action Plans for their business area, focused on attracting, developing and
retaining people of diverse backgrounds and creating an inclusive culture. Our goals to be achieved by 2025 include:
145 promising employees of
Developing
diverse backgrounds received TOTAL WORKFORCE PEOPLE MANAGERS VP AND ABOVE
Diverse Talent
Female: Maintain 50% Female: 50% Female: 39%
specialized development
Black (U.S.): 10% Black (U.S.): 9% Black (U.S.): 12%
With the support of executive leaders and senior vice
experiences through both
presidents, the sponsorship and tailored mentoring Hispanic (U.S.): 15% Hispanic (U.S.): 11% Hispanic (U.S.): 4.7%
programs provide access to diverse senior leaders, sponsorship and tailored
coaching and specialized development experiences.
mentoring programs in 2019
and 2020. In 2020, we formalized executive diversity
goals at a corporate and departmental
Liliana De La Paz
level, which will take effect in 2021.
Formulation and Process Development
76 77Our Cultural Evolution Employee Resource Groups
Drive Critical Action
Gilead pursues purposeful actions to foster inclusion and diversity at all levels of the company Open to all Gilead employees, our ERGs are an integral
part of our Inclusion and Diversity program, focused on
to create a sense of belonging for all. We believe that creating a diverse workforce makes us
five pillars: recruiting, professional development, culture,
more successful and innovative as an organization.
business impact and community. Our ERGs are key to the
Mark Dresser (middle, pictured with his parents)
Gilead culture, hosting events that raise cultural awareness
for the organization as a whole and offering their members
Biomarker Sciences and Clinical Pharmacology
opportunities for networking, mentoring and development
Demonstrating our commitment to inclusion and diversity requires us to:
of leadership skills.
More than 7,200
employees belong to at
Encourage Recognize Consider Respect Seek
and support each and mitigate multiple pathways to people of all diverse perspectives
least one of our six ERGs.
Collaborating Externally
other unconcious bias success backgrounds and to drive innovation
experience
to Amplify Impact
We recognize that we have the opportunity not only to
make changes internally, but also to promote social justice
and racial equity externally. That’s why we work to leverage
Committing to these principles is more than just the right thing to do. Creating a culture in
our influence and resources to create a meaningful impact
which every individual feels seen, heard and respected is essential to helping Gilead fulfill our
across our supply chain ecosystem and why we partner
mission now and into the future.
with organizations dedicated to promoting racial equity
through K-12 STEAM education, higher education, diversity
hiring and leadership development.
78 79Growing a Global Workforce
U.S. Gender, Age and Race/Ethnicity Distribution
Gilead’s global workforce has grown to more than 13,000 employees spanning
2020 Data
more than 35 countries. We strive for a close, creative and collaborative culture
where our employees can see the tangible results of their contributions and
Gender Race/Ethnicity
engage in ongoing development to enhance their skills.
Hispanic
EEO-Category 1* Male Female White Black Asian Other**
or Latino
Executives*** 74% 26% 59% 6% 0% 32% 3%
Gilead 2020 Workforce Demographics First/mid-level managers 52% 48% 46% 5% 7% 39% 3%
2017 2018 2019 2020 Professionals 45% 55% 35% 4% 10% 48% 3%
Hires 1,155 1,997 2,208 2,467
Total Gilead U.S. Population 49% 51% 42% 5% 11% 38% 3%
New Hire Rate 12.7% 19.2% 18.8% 18.1%
Voluntary Turnovers 781 937 925 818
*Data based on U.S. definitions/demographics as of 2020 EEO-filing (based on December 31, 2019 data and includes Kite).
**“Other” category includes two or more races, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, and American Indian or Alaskan Native categories.
Voluntary Turnover Rate 8.5% 9.0% 8.2% 6.5%
***Executives compose less than 2% of Gilead’s U.S. population and make up governance bodies that comprise vice president levels and above.
80 81Workplace Safety
Gilead believes that a safe and secure workplace promotes employee health, wellness and productivity,
and also inspires innovation. Our workplace safety, training and security program is designed to prevent
occupational injuries and illnesses and to promote a culture of reporting. To ensure continued adherence
to the program’s policies, we provide employees with annual refresher courses, as well as tailored training
sessions. We also investigate and catalog incidents and near-misses worldwide.
In 2020, we responded to the
COVID-19 pandemic with new
procedures to protect workers
who must be on-site, including
requirements around PPE and
physical distancing. On-site
workers also received special
pay enhancements. Kent Keilwitz
Bandita Parhy
Facilities
Clinical Virology
82 83In 2020, the most frequent work-related injuries resulted from musculoskeletal extremity and upper torso strains that were caused
by ergonomic hazards. The individuals affected were able to recover fully within six months.
Our Environmental, Health and Safety team meets quarterly to review environmental and safety performance across all of our
worldwide sites, while joint management/line health-and-safety committees review site-level performance. Where incidents occur,
on-site teams complete in-depth reviews to identify the causes and determine how to mitigate the risk of recurrence.
2020 Safety Performance
Full-Time and Non-Full-Time Employees
2018 2019 2020
Number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0 0 0
Rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0 0 0
Number* of high-consequence work-related injuries 2 4 0
Rate of high-consequence work-related injuries 0.02 0.03 0
Total number of recordable work-related injuries 74 58 47
Annual total hours worked 22,648,146 25,838,515 28,490,149
Rate of recordable work-related injuries 0.65 0.45 0.33
Edvin Reyes
*The number of high-consequence work-related injuries is based on lost time/days away and restricted workday cases reported to Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
84 Pilot Plant 85SECTION 4
At a Glance
While delivering our innovative medicines, it is critical that we
also do what is right for people and the planet: reducing our
Building greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, minimizing waste generation
and working toward resource efficiency.
As a society we seek to address climate change. This means
Sustainability working to find new, more sustainable ways to conduct our
business. At Gilead, we are committed to creating a future of
responsible and resilient growth, factoring the health of people,
communities and the environment into everything we do.
and Resilience
Environmental Data Content, Period and Boundaries
Throughout this report, we describe environmental
activities and initiatives that occurred in calendar year
2020. However, environmental reporting data for 2020
had not yet been finalized, verified and validated at the
time this report was published. Therefore, environmental
data and charts included in this section cover the calendar
year January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019. Gilead will
publish 2020 environmental data on our website when it
becomes available.
86 87Our
Responsible
Growth Strategy
Environmental challenges are also human health At the center of our environmental strategy is a goal
challenges. We need a healthy planet to have a healthy to reduce our GHG emissions across Scope 1 (direct
population. As the effects of climate change are expected emissions) and Scope 2 (emissions from generation of
to intensify, we recognize that we must continuously the energy we purchase and consume) by 25% by 2025,
innovate and improve our environmental performance to compared with a 2016 baseline.
protect our collective future.
In 2020, we committed to setting ambitious new goals
Through our responsible growth strategy, we are around climate and energy. We laid the groundwork for
bringing together our mission and our environmental setting new carbon targets through the Science Based
stewardship: investing in operating our business more Targets initiative (SBTi), which will align our efforts with
efficiently and sustainably while working to discover, the Paris Agreement’s principal goal of limiting global
develop and commercialize innovative therapeutics for temperature rise to well below 2°C above pre-industrial
some of the world’s most serious illnesses. Our Corporate levels. We anticipate receiving SBTi approval in 2021.
Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee is responsible
for embedding and integrating climate change, energy
and other material ESG issues into our overall business
strategy and operations. The committee reports to our
Board of Directors at least annually on our management of
these issues.
88 89Buildings and
Sites Go Green
In 2020, the building sector
These efforts include aligning all building projects to
(construction plus ongoing operations) green construction standards such as Leadership in
Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) and Building
accounted for 38% of the world’s total
Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method
energy-related CO emissions. Because
(BREEAM), and prioritizing opportunities to retrofit existing
2
we operate 167 buildings in more than buildings to these standards. When leasing space, we
prioritize buildings that have been recognized for their
35 countries and employ more than
sustainability performance or are able to be brought up to
13,000 people worldwide, our focus
standard through Gilead’s own internal fit-out efforts to a
on green construction and retrofits LEED/BREEAM or equivalent standard.
represents a significant potential CO
2 Gilead currently manages 7.8 million square feet of facilities
reduction.
worldwide. In 2020, we added six new LEED-certified
buildings and one new BREEAM site, growing our portfolio
As we open new labs and offices, we partner with to a total of 44 facilities that are either currently certified or
architects, engineers and contractors who share our pursuing green building recognition.
commitment to sustainability and green building and
renovation strategies. Together, we focus on sourcing As we continue to grow our business, we expect that our
materials responsibly, promoting efficiency in energy and aggregate energy use may increase – but our focus on
water use and improving indoor air quality to promote the generating and procuring renewable energy will contribute
health, wellbeing and productivity of our people. to lowering our total GHG emissions.
90 91Greenhouse Gas Reduction Progress Toward
Goals and Progress Our 2025 Goal
At the center of our environmental strategy is the goal In 2019, Gilead’s emissions remained flat compared to 2018 Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions from Gilead Worldwide Operations
to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions 25% despite a 14% increase in our operational footprint. We reduced
by 2025 compared with a 2016 baseline, in alignment Scope 2 GHG emissions by focusing on energy efficiency and Reporting Units: MT CO e 2016 2017 2018 2019
2
with the 2015 Paris Agreement. To meet this goal, we increasing renewable energy consumption. Between 2016 and
Scope 1 44,754 46,689 46,703 52,019
have developed a multi-year plan that includes procuring 2019, we achieved an 11% reduction in GHG emissions – nearly
renewable energy for high-impact locations and improving halfway to our 2025 goal. Scope 2 (market-based) 36,813 29,127 25,585 20,760
the energy performance of our facilities through more
Scope 2 (location-based) 46,567 46,321 45,204 42,546
efficient technologies and practices. As we continue to work toward our 2025 goal, we will continue
growing our facility footprint responsibly through expanded Gilead will publish Scope 3 emissions data on our website.
on-site solar-generating capacity, larger commitments to
purchasing renewable energy and electrification of our vehicle
2025 Goal: Reduce total GHG emissions by 25%*
fleet. See Tracking Our Worldwide Energy Consumption.
From 2016 to 2019, we achieved an 11% reduction in GHG emissions.* GHG Emissions Intensity
Gilead’s GHG reporting boundary includes all facilities over
Reporting Units: kg CO e per million sq. ft. 2016 2017 2018 2019
Progress:
which Gilead maintained operational control between January 2
44%
1, 2019 and December 31, 2019. As in previous years, our 2019
Scope 1 9.01 7.08 7.53 7.43
GHG emissions inventory has been verified by a third party and
CO e
of goal Scope 2 (market-based) 7.83 4.49 4.13 2.97
the third party’s assurance statement is available upon request.
2
(reduction of ~8,788 MT COe)
Scope 1 and 2 (market-base2 d) The verification was performed to a limited level of assurance Scope 2 (location-based) 9.77 7.06 7.29 6.08
emissions using the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
14064-3 verification standard for GHG assertions. We are
currently developing our GHG emissions inventory for calendar
*Compared to 2016 baseline year 2020. Following third-party verification in 2021, this
We are currently developing our GHG emissions inventory for calendar year 2020. Following third- inventory will be made public on our website.
party verification in 2021, this inventory will be made public on our website.
92 93Environmental
Impact
Across all our operations, we are leaving behind the typical
“take, make, waste” manufacturing model and embracing an
Reduction
ethos of efficiency, resource conservation and waste reduction.
This means gathering insight into the environmental impacts At the facilities level, we continuously monitor building
of our business lifecycle, from sourcing raw materials to energy use to identify opportunities to implement efficiency
manufacturing our medicines to global distribution and the solutions, benefitting both our sustainability goals and our
disposition of post-consumer waste. This process allows us to operating costs.
apply evolving best practices and emerging technologies to
drive more sustainable practices. Despite unanticipated challenges in 2020 due to the
COVID-19 pandemic, we continued to make great strides
Our Global Sustainability Committee oversees this effort,
in our efforts, particularly in advancing green chemistry
with representatives from each of our Gilead and Kite facilities
alternatives and keeping active pharmaceutical compounds
regularly sharing best practices to promote consistent
out of the environment. As we expand our manufacturing
sustainability approaches across our operating regions.
and supply chains globally, we are committed to doing so in
The committee reports its progress to our CSR Committee.
a socially and environmentally responsible manner.
94 95Advancing
Green Chemistry Our success in reducing Veklury’s PMI by 40% brought
us significant sustainability benefits in 2020 – and
At Gilead, we use green chemistry principles from early
enabled us to produce more, faster.
drug development through manufacturing to deliver impact:
using cleaner, safer materials reduces environmental
To ensure a continued focus on green chemistry practices, in 2020
impacts, cuts costs and boosts efficiency in bringing
we took initial steps toward having our labs certified by My Green Lab,
medicines to people.
a nonprofit organization that established what is considered the global
standard for laboratory sustainability best practices.
A team of process chemistry professionals at our Foster
City facility and Gilead’s site in Edmonton lead our ongoing
green chemistry efforts. Leveraging their own research and
expertise, as well as learnings from Gilead’s wide-ranging
participation in the American Chemical Society’s Green
Chemistry Institute Roundtable groups, team members
evaluate new ideas and present alternative processes in
Making a Positive
areas such as chemical- versus bio-catalysis and the use
and Sustainable Impact
of greener solvents. Because our employees think about
sustainability in their day-to-day research and decision-
making, we are able to deepen the pool of resources
In 2020, chemical process optimization efforts allowed us Through process optimization, we
available to us on our sustainability journey.
to improve the PMI scores of both Veklury and Biktarvy, are improving the efficiency of our
cutting the total mass of solvents, reagents, reactants and
operations and manufacturing while
consumables employed across the product life cycle by
bringing new medicines to market and
40% and 20%, respectively.
boosting availability for patients around
the world.
96 97Pharmaceuticals in Tracking Our Worldwide
the Environment Energy Consumption
Gilead is committed to preventing active pharmaceutical As we expand our manufacturing to deliver medicines to more We increased our ability to generate renewable
compounds from contaminating the environment. Our people, our energy use will naturally increase. Our challenge
energy by initiating new solar installations in
research and development and manufacturing facilities is to meet increased demand while leveraging renewable
Foster City, La Verne and Oceanside, California.
uphold strict operational standards and processes for energy and operational efficiencies to reduce our carbon
Combined, these three installations are expected
wastewater discharge and solid waste disposal to mitigate footprint.
risks of discharge. to generate 9.1 million kilowatt-hour (kWh)
By tracking our total corporate energy use from nonrenewable
per year of clean power. In the Netherlands,
Through our work with the Pharmaceutical Product and renewable sources and our energy use intensity at
Kite’s new manufacturing facility, which is fully
Stewardship Work Group’s MED-Project, Gilead helps individual sites, we are able to generate a comprehensive
electric and supplies 100% of its electricity from
prevent environmental contamination resulting from view of Gilead’s energy consumption. This informs our global
improper consumer disposal of expired or unneeded energy management strategy and allows us to evaluate renewable sources (solar and wind), has 1,800
medicines and “sharps,” including needles and syringes. In efficiency site by site as our facilities portfolio grows. rooftop solar panels and a design that maximizes
2020, people in California, Washington and Massachusetts
natural light. Combined with power-purchase
dropped off more than 239.4 metric tons of materials via For 2019, our total energy consumption rose by 18%
agreements for renewable energy, these
1,322 community kiosks. Gilead supports the project with compared with 2018. Renewable sources accounted for
innovations allow the facility to achieve net zero
annual contributions, which totaled $176,000 in 2020. 21% of that total, with total renewable energy consumption
increasing ninefold since 2017. CO emissions. We are exploring increasing solar
2
capacity at other sites in our real estate portfolio.
Total Area of Facilities Worldwide
Under Operational Control
2016 2017 2018 2019
Millions sq. ft. 4.9 6.5 6.2 7.0
98 99A Critical Need for
Worldwide Energy Consumption and Intensity
Water Management
Energy Consumption (MWh) Energy Use Intensity (kWh/sq. ft.)
Facing long-term water shortages and other symptoms of prolonged
2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019
water stress in our home state of California and many other operating
regions, we have increased our focus on water conservation. We
Total energy consumption
0 9,199 36,123 89,708 0 1.4 5.8 12.8
from renewable sources* installed new water-saving technologies and identified conservation
efforts to increase the water efficiency of current systems.
Total energy consumption
352,262 355,437 331,544 344,737 71.3 54.3 53.5 49.2
from nonrenewable sources
At our facility in Cork, a 2020 pilot program to install waterless urinals
saved 328,500 liters of water (86,780 gallons) over the course of the
Total combined energy
352,262 364,636 367,667 434,445 71.3 55.7 59.3 62.1
consumption year. Expansion of the program across the facility in 2021 is expected
to produce water savings of 1.09 million liters (289,268 gallons).
*This figure includes renewable energy purchased through the grid and renewable energy procured from other sources.
Retrofitting for Greater Energy Efficiency
Worldwide Water Usage
To facilitate maximum energy efficiency across our real estate portfolio, we are continuing a program of retro-commissioning older
2017 2018 2019
Gilead buildings to higher environmental standards, providing sustainability benefits into the foreseeable future. In 2020, we
began pursuing LEED certification for the central hub of our Foster City campus and, in Moscow, our business center obtained the
Water Source Megaliters Megaliters Megaliters
first BREEAM certification for commercial interiors.
Indoor Use 366 508 535
We are also investing in targeted efficiency upgrades and conservation strategies. In 2020, assessments and upgrades to our
facilities around the world led to reductions in energy consumption. In Foster City, an optimization strategy and office duct static Irrigation 78 80 78
reset were able to save a combined 2.1 million kWh and almost 60K therms. In Oceanside, we improved the efficiency of our
exhaust systems by replacing old fans, installing new variable-speed HVAC motors and reducing air exchange rates during off- Fire/Life Safety N/A 0.3 0.3
hours. At our Edmonton and Cork facilities, we reduced energy consumption by implementing a new power-down strategy during
Total Water Usage 444 588.3 613.3
non-occupied hours. Together these efforts have generated a projected annual savings of over 2.6 kWh and 88K therms.
100 101Worldwide Waste Disposal
Waste Reduction and Recycling
Nonhazardous Waste Disposal in Metric Tons 2017 2018 2019
Business-led and employee-driven recycling and reduction initiatives have helped
Landfill 3,406 2,401 3,832
reduce waste, which is a core element of our corporate sustainability plan.
Composting 829 1,148 869
Recyclables 1,707 2,437 3,192
We are continuing to make progress on waste, expanding Our lab glove recycling program at Gilead Alberta recycled
Incineration 27 25 27
our data collection from 16 sites in 2018 to 26 sites in 300 pounds of nitrile gloves in just one calendar quarter.
2019. In 2020, with COVID-19 having reduced our on-site The recycled gloves are being used in the manufacturing of
Other 58 N/A N/A
workforce, waste-reduction programs were a secondary deck chairs and plant pots, two of which can be seen on our
Total 6,027 6,011 7,920
focus, though new waste-reduction plans were put in employee lunch patio.
place at a number of sites in anticipation of future full-staff
return. At our facilities in Foster City, Cambridge, Cork, Hazardous Waste Disposal in Metric Tons 2017 2018 2019
Dublin, Santa Monica, Seattle and Stockley Park, a system
of centralized trash collection and improved segregation Deep Well Injection 2,328 1,568 1,680
of recyclables helped shrink our waste-to-landfill rate. Our
Incineration 939 683 1,014
Oceanside site initiated a food scraps composting program.
Incineration with Energy Recovery 317 788 817
Landfill .02 N/A .01
Neutralization 2 1 .01
On-Site Storage 4 N/A N/A
Other N/A 5 5
Recovery for Reuse 5 8 32
Recycling 20 5 27
102 103Business
Resiliency
Business resiliency is vital to Gilead’s continued At the same time, our business depends on securing a steady
supply of the raw materials we need to create our products.
impact on global health. We continually monitor
To assure a resilient supply chain, we’re focused on growing
and mitigate the range of environmental, supply
our supplier base, prioritizing small and diverse suppliers to
chain and ethical risks to ensure that we can
leverage broad-based perspectives and spur innovation, and
adapt quickly to potential disruptions.
ensuring our partners share our environmental and ethical
commitments. Throughout the pandemic in 2020, we were
With our headquarters in California, the record-breaking
able to maintain an ample supply of active pharmaceutical
2020 fire season gave us a particularly clear view of the
ingredients due to a strategy that leveraged geographic
climate crisis and its effects. As our skies filled with smoke,
diversification (Asia, North America and European Union) and
droughts continued to threaten our water security and
strategic inventory management.
agriculture, and heat waves impaired our people’s health
and productivity, the importance of addressing climate
We also work to sustain the integrity of our products by
issues was emphasized.
upholding the highest standards of drug safety, exercising
transparent labeling and marketing practices, and taking
measures to eliminate the distribution of counterfeit
medicines.
Susan Pepper
104 Corporate Sustainability, Health and Safety 105If we encounter actual or potential violations of our
A Long-Term View Working with Suppliers
company policies or governing regulations, we recommend
of Climate Risks that Share Our Values
corrective action and flag the supplier for follow-up
evaluations. Certain violations – such as environmental
negligence, human trafficking or the use of forced labor –
Recognizing the growing relevance of climate change to our business resiliency, in 2019 we completed an Gilead’s supply chain includes hundreds of direct
would prompt Gilead to terminate our agreement with the
assessment of our entire real estate portfolio to better understand the climate-related risks to which each of suppliers and thousands of indirect suppliers
supplying organization and remove it from our supply chain.
our sites is potentially vulnerable. We included the following risk categories in the assessment: across the globe.
As referenced in our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC),
across our supply chain, we oppose and condemn the
following practices: the use of child labor and forced labor;
ACUTE PHYSICAL RISKS CHRONIC PHYSICAL RISKS
human trafficking; unfair treatment and wages/benefits;
Event-driven risks, including severe storms, wildfires, Risks related to long-term shifts in climate patterns, unreasonable working hours; and discrimination based on
floods and droughts including sea-level rise and chronic heat waves race, color, gender, religion, disability, sexual orientation and
gender identity/expression. We also support full compliance
with all applicable legislation, including the UK Modern
CONTEXTUAL RISKS TRANSITIONAL RISKS Slavery Act.
Risks related to the ability to plan and implement Risks associated with the shift toward a low-carbon
In 2020, we continued working toward our goal of securing
adaptive strategies to reduce vulnerability and moderate economy, including compliance with new carbon
the signatures of 90% of our direct and indirect suppliers
potential damage regulations
(based on spend) to our SCOC by 2025.
The outputs included a ranking of our sites based on their composite risk profiles, and in 2020, we built We monitor our supply chain continuously for adequate
capacity, diversification, potential risks and adherence
on this work using scenario analysis to better understand potential risks out to 2050 for selected business
both to Gilead policies and to governing regulations such
critical sites with higher risk profiles. Using the results of this analysis, we are reviewing our risk mitigation
as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.S.
plans and working to estimate potential financial impacts.
Trafficking Victims Protection Act and other applicable labor
and environmental regulations.
106 107In addition to our own programs, we advocate for
Responsible Supporting Inclusive,
supplier inclusion throughout the healthcare and
Sourcing Program High-Performing Supply
general procurement spaces by aligning with industry
councils and authoring thought-leadership articles for
Partners
industry-focused publications. In 2020, we continued our
To secure the highest quality raw materials for our
partnerships with the Supplier Diversity Pharmaceutical
products and assure our sustainability and human rights
Inclusion is one of our Core Values and that extends to the
Forum and the Western Regional Minority Supplier
commitments extend throughout our supplier ecosystem,
work we do with external partners. Our vision to become
Development Council to build further capacity and grow
we enforce a rigorous supplier vetting process. In 2018,
an industry leader in supplier inclusion is an integral part of
relationships with new inclusive suppliers.
we launched a three-year Responsible Sourcing strategic Gilead’s diversity efforts.
plan to identify partners that share our commitments to
environmental performance, health and safety, inclusion We have taken measures to drive supplier inclusion across
and diversity, human and labor rights, anti-corruption, risk our procurement processes and procedures, creating
management, auditing and other criteria. inclusion targets for our supply chain and challenging
ourselves to increase overall spend with small and diverse
In 2020, our resposible sourcing working group began a suppliers. In 2020, Gilead spent $406.5 million with small
pilot program to address GHG emissions reductions within and diverse businesses, and has set a goal to increase
our Responsible Sourcing strategy. This effort began with that in 2021. We also created and implemented a Supplier
22 suppliers representing 29% of our total annual spend Inclusion Champions program to ensure sustained focus on
supplier diversity.
and 22% of our modeled Scope 3 (purchased goods and
services) CO e emissions. Our goal is to reduce Scope 3
2
By prioritizing relationships with businesses owned by
emissions by 15% over 10 years, compared with base year
women, people of color, veterans and members of the
2019. We plan to start engaging more than 120 suppliers
LGBTQ+ communities, we continue to realize our purpose
representing 70% of our Scope 3 Purchased Goods and
with every transaction we make. And by prioritizing
Services GHG emissions.
spending with small suppliers, we benefit from their
Stephanie Berger
greater agility and quicker response times and stabilize
Gilead supplier
our supply base.
108 109Gilead adheres to strict product safety, labeling,
Safety,
marketing, data security and anti-counterfeiting
guidelines. All of our products undergo rigorous
Ethics and development, testing and clinical trials and we use
labeling and marketing practices that comply with
governing policies and regulations. Gilead did not
Transparency
receive any warnings, fines or penalties from any
government body in 2020 related to our marketing
or labeling practices.
We use a combination of in-house technology and
third-party security services and systems to protect
personal data and comply with the European Union
General Data Protection Regulation and other data
protection regulations. Gilead did not have any
substantiated complaints concerning losses of
customer data in 2020.
To safeguard patient safety, our anti-counterfeiting
team – which consists of brand protection, legal,
security, supply chain, quality and packaging
professionals – uses a range of measures to deter,
detect, block and report sales of counterfeit or
diverted medicines.
Noy Phengrasamy
Corporate Sustainability, Health and Safety
110 111SECTION 5
Elevating
Our Impact
in Society
Hellenic Liver Patients
Association “Prometheus”
Gilead CARES grantee
112 113Giving At Gilead, we are committed to removing In 2020, Gilead provided
barriers to healthcare. Through our corporate
$409 million
giving programs, we fund work to eliminate
Back to Our
health disparities in under-resourced
in cash donations to organizations
communities around the world with the goal
addressing community need in
Communities
of overcoming social or economic obstacles
areas such as COVID-19, health,
to health and improving people’s lives. We
racial equity, wildfire relief and
partner with patients and communities to build
collaborative solutions that extend access to LGBTQ+ support.
care as broadly as possible.
In 2020, our efforts focused acutely on the COVID-19
pandemic, as well as supporting communities
disproportionately impacted by diseases aligned with
our therapeutic focus areas, advancing education and
supporting the local communities where our facilities
are located.
Igor Harley Henriques
114 HIV community advocate, Almaty, Kazakhstan Fundo Positivo, Gilead grantee 115Access to Our Medicines HepConnect: Reaching “It’s crucial to keep educating communities The pro bono team is currently composed of approximately
20 employees, including lawyers, colleagues acting as
and to ensure the conversations occur,
Around the World People Where They Live
translators, administrative assistants and others. Patty
whether that’s through text messages or
Thayer, Vice President, Legal, works with Kids in Need
Gilead works with public health officials, community Over the past 20 years, the U.S. opioid crisis has caused a social media platforms. It doesn’t matter of Defense (KIND) and other organizations to represent
advocates, researchers, doctors and patients to carry out sharp jump in HCV diagnoses in the Appalachian region of how you reach people – it just matters that refugee and immigrant minors seeking legal status in
programs that provide access to our medicines in low- and the United States, with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control the United States, often after fleeing violence, abuse,
you do.”
middle-income countries. We apply a variety of approaches, and Prevention (CDC) reporting a 364% increase in Central abandonment or neglect in Central America. Senior
including: Appalachia between 2006 and 2012. Gilead’s HepConnect Associate General Counsel Joel Silver works frequently with
works through local organizations in Indiana, Kentucky, North Thomas Gooch the Legal Aid Society of San Mateo County, representing
Tiered pricing, with discounts on medicines based on Carolina, Tennessee and West Virginia to expand screenings Prevention Director, survivors of domestic violence.
disease burden and national per-capita income and linkage to care, support harm reduction and community Street Works, Nashville, Tenn.
education, and build knowledge, resources and capacity in HepConnect grantee Patty won the KIND 2020 Advocate of the Year Award for
communities where the need is greatest. her work, while Joel is a past recipient of the California Bar
Responsible licensing of generic versions of our products
Association’s Corporate Pro Bono Award.
to enable high-quality, low-cost versions of our HIV and viral
Since its inception in 2019, HepConnect grantees have
hepatitis medicines in low- and middle-income countries
reached 175,612 individuals and distributed more than
8 million harm reduction kits throughout the initiative’s
Advocacy for public health initiatives and policies that
target states, while also prioritizing outreach to people of Pro Bono Team Aids “I believe it’s your duty and privilege as
maximize patient reach and prevent new and serious
color for both services and filling organizational vacancies.
a lawyer to recognize that not everyone
illnesses and help destigmatize diseases Immigrants and Domestic
Innovating in response to COVID-19, HepConnect grantees
can afford lawyers, but everybody needs
deployed telehealth programs and offered mobile care for Violence Survivors
Strengthening health systems to bolster diagnostic, vulnerable clients. With Gilead support, HepConnect grantee lawyers.”
treatment and surveillance capacity
organizations experiencing COVID-19-related financial
Gilead’s pro bono legal program provides vital counsel to
challenges were able to access $200,000 in rapid-response
people and communities that cannot afford legal services. Patty Thayer
Collaborative research that targets innovative therapies, funding through the National Harm Reduction Coalition.
The program gives our employees a chance to make a Vice President, Legal
informs drug delivery and helps countries map disease
meaningful difference for people in need.
burdens
116 117In 2020, our employees partnered with
Giving Together in 2020
Giving Together for efforts including:
To support our employees’ community-based
COVID-19 relief, supporting the global organizations Direct
charitable work, our Giving Together program
Relief, International Medical Corps and the United Nations “With our headquarters in the San Francisco
matches employee donations to eligible nonprofit
Foundation Bay Area, we are committed to ensuring
organizations. Giving Together also matches
students who live in communities near the
employee volunteer hours with reward points that
Gilead campus have the tools they need to
can be sent as donations to qualifying nonprofits Pride Month Giving Together Campaign, supporting
attend school virtually,” said Kate Wilson,
of the employee’s choosing. Rewards can be organizations focused on working toward civil justice
Senior Director, Corporate Giving, Gilead.
and fighting police brutality, including Peoples Institute
earned as part of Gilead volunteer campaigns or
for Survival and Beyond – Undoing Racism, Brave Space “Equity in education is fundamental toward
through independent volunteer work.
Alliance and Showing up for Racial Justice achieving health, economic and social equity.”
Tech Exchange, #OaklandUndivided campaign
The COVID-19 Giving California wildfire relief, supporting statewide relief
organizations, including California Community Foundation/
Together Campaign
Southern California Wildfire Relief Fund, Napa Valley
Community Foundation, Community Foundation of Santa
raised $244,901, of Support for K-12 At-Home Learning
Cruz County and California Fire Foundation
which employees
As learning shifted online for children around the world, lack of home computers and internet
access left many children unable to fully participate in distance-learning.
donated $78,000. Veterans Day Giving Together Campaign, supporting the
Fisher House Foundation, Operation: Care and Comfort,
In the San Francisco Bay Area, Gilead donated $500,000 to Oakland’s #OaklandUndivided
and Bridging the Gap for Veterans Inc., which work to house
campaign and $250,000 to StreetCode Academy’s Level Up Initiative in East Palo Alto to support
military and veterans’ families and support educational and
their efforts to provide K-12 students with computers and Wi-Fi hotspots.
community-building programs
118 119COVID-19
Gilead CARES: Supporting Communities During COVID-19
Support Helps Recognizing that the pandemic created significant challenges for many of the nonprofit organizations that Gilead funds, we
announced the creation of our Gilead CARES (COVID-19 Acute Relief and Emergency Support) philanthropic fund in April 2020.
CARES provided $22 million in direct cash payments plus additional matching grants to over 300 organizations worldwide:
Fill Unmet
Needs $20 million to current Gilead nonprofit grantees facing $1 million to the San Mateo County Strong Fund. The
closure or termination of vital services due to pandemic- fund provides financial support to individuals, small
attributable losses. Approximately half of the fund was businesses and nonprofit organizations in San Mateo
committed to supporting organizations working on HIV County, California, where Gilead is headquartered.
and LGBTQ+ issues, including the Los Angeles LGBT
Center, the San Francisco AIDS Foundation, the National
Center for Lesbian Rights and The Trevor Project, which
$1 million to the Mayor’s Fund for Los Angeles, which
provides crisis intervention and suicide prevention
is providing support and relief during the pandemic
services to LGBTQ+ youth. Other recipients included
for families, small businesses, healthcare workers
CheckPoint Sofia (Bulgaria) and the Hellenic Liver Patients
and others in the Los Angeles area, where Kite is
Association “Prometheus” in Greece, which provide
headquartered.
services for patients with viral hepatitis.
Matching funds for employee donations
to global relief organizations.
Imanu Rupert-Gordon
National Center for Lesbian Rights
120 121
Gilead CARES granteeSupport for Racial Justice
The initial roster of grantee
organizations includes:
Racial Equity Community
Impact Fund • 100 Black Men of Metropolitan Houston
• Arkansas Regional Innovation Hub
• BOLD (Black Organizing for Leadership and Dignity)
In December 2020, Gilead launched the Racial Equity Community Advocacy and Mobilization: Groups that
• BYP100 (Black Youth Project 100)
Community Impact Fund to support high-impact organize and mobilize communities to join the quest for
East Oakland Youth Development Center
• Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Washington
organizations working to tackle racial inequities affecting racial equity and social justice, working toward an equitable
Gilead Racial Equity Community Impact Fund grantee
• Center for Racial Justice in Education
Black communities across the United States. The fund will distribution of resources for Black communities
initially provide $10 million in grants to 20 organizations • Claflin University
over a three-year period. The program will support • EOYDC (East Oakland Youth Development Center)
“Gilead’s investment in the East Oakland Youth
organizations focused on three key areas. • The Equity Alliance
Social Justice: HBCUs and other organizations training the Development Center means 1,000 families will
• Grantmakers for Girls of Color
next generation of Black leaders have access to capacity-building programs that will
• Harlem Children’s Zone
provide support to prepare youth and young adults
• Horatio Williams Foundation
for employment, higher education and leadership
• The Marsha P. Johnson Institute
opportunities. These kinds of programs that provide
Educational Innovation: Institutions focused on
• Morehouse College
trauma-informed care approaches are desperately
providing educational advancement and cradle-to-
• Shaw University
needed in Oakland these days as we seek to
career development services for Black students, young
• Southerners on New Ground (SONG)
combat social injustice and achieve racial equity for
professionals and families
• Spelman College
our community, one family at a time. We are grateful
• Tougaloo College
to Gilead for the support and partnership.”
• Ubuntu Inc.
Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Washington • Xavier University of Louisiana
– Regina Jackson
Gilead Racial Equity Community Impact Fund grantee
President and Chief Executive Officer,
East Oakland Youth Development Center
122 123Partnering to Study
COVID-19 Health Inequities
“Achieving our internal and
Gilead provided an initial $1 million in grant funding to the
external aims is a mammoth
Satcher Health Leadership Institute at the Morehouse School
of Medicine to support the development of a comprehensive
undertaking. But we at Gilead
health equity data platform to help address the impact of
COVID-19 and other diseases on the Black community and have a significant role to play
other communities of color.
in undoing some of the harmful
By collecting and studying demographic disparities
effects of racial injustice. It’s
and comorbidities associated with COVID-19, including
an honor to have the chance
diabetes, asthma and depression, this work will help
inform actionable, evidence-based policy changes to attain
to work alongside brilliant
health equity and ensure that disproportionately impacted
communities receive resources and support. Gilead’s grant people at Gilead to do what
also funded the creation of the new Black Health Equity
Gilead does best – make
Alliance, composed of national thought leaders, community
Daniel Dawes
representatives, scholars, researchers and policymakers
transformative change.”
who will help coordinate COVID-19 education, training, Satcher Health Leadership Institute
at Morehouse School of Medicine
information exchange and dissemination, and policy
Gilead grantee
analysis. – Douglas Brooks
Vice President, Advancing Black Equity
and Community Engagement, Public Affairs
124 125Our Ongoing LGBTQ+ Support
TRANScend® Community “If we are able to address the social
Impact Fund determinants, which include housing,
employment, access to education
The Gilead TRANScend Community
and access to healthcare, all of those
Impact Fund supports trans-led
things can help prevent HIV in our
organizations working to improve
community.”
the safety, health and wellness of the
transgender community.
– Bamby Salcedo
Founder, TransLatin@ Coalition,
In 2020, TRANScend approved two-year grants totaling
Gilead TRANScend grantee
$4.5 million, supporting 14 organizations in the areas of
strategic program development, capacity-building and direct
service initiatives leveraging community engagement to build
and sustain progress in reducing HIV impacts in transgender
communities.
Transgender people are disproportionately impacted by HIV,
Jevon Martin
with a diagnosis rate three times the U.S. national average.
Princess Janae Place
Nearly half of all U.S. transgender HIV diagnoses occur in the
Gilead TRANScend grantee
Southern United States.
126 127“I never thought in my lifetime I’d have Housed in Atlanta and displayed in cities around
North America over the years that followed, The
two pandemics. I had to do something,
Quilt continued to grow, ultimately consisting of more
so I spend my time making masks.
than 50,000 panels dedicated to more than 105,000
That’s what we’re really here for – to individuals who have died of AIDS-related illnesses.
help each other.”
In 2020, Gilead continued decades of support as a
long-standing partner to the National AIDS Memorial,
– Gert McMullin
furthering its work to educate and inspire a new
Quilt Conservator, National AIDS Memorial
generation of advocates in the fight to end the
epidemic. We also sponsored the 23rd International
AIDS Conference, which went virtual in July 2020.
In 2019, a $2.4 million donation from Gilead enabled
the National AIDS Memorial to bring The Quilt home
to San Francisco, where it is maintained, repaired “In San Francisco alone, 20,000 people
and managed by a team of conservators led by Gert
AIDS Memorial Quilt Returns have died of AIDS. I’ve heard so many
McMullin, who has been with The Quilt project since its
people say how happy they are that The
to San Francisco earliest days. As part of the National AIDS Memorial’s
Quilt is at the National AIDS Memorial in
effort, 48,000 panels of The Quilt can now be viewed in
an interactive online exhibit. Golden Gate Park. They are going to be
During the peak years of the HIV epidemic in the United
States, San Francisco activist Cleve Jones first conceived able to visit The Quilt again and see the
of The AIDS Memorial Quilt as a remembrance of those
panel they made for their partner, child,
who had died of the disease and as a visible reminder of
friend or neighbor.”
its devastating impact. When The Quilt was displayed for
the first time on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. in
October 1987, it covered a space larger than a football field – Cleve Jones
and included 1,920 panels. Founder, The AIDS Memorial Quilt
128 129Addressing Gilead and GLAAD Study HIV RADIAN® Addresses HIV in
Stigma in the United States Eastern Europe and Central Asia
HIV in
In 2020, Gilead and LGBTQ+ media advocacy RADIAN, an initiative launched by Gilead and the Elton John AIDS Foundation, addresses new HIV diagnoses and deaths from
HIV-related illnesses in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. The region has seen a 72% rise in new HIV diagnoses over the past
organization GLAAD released the first State of HIV
Communities
decade – versus a 23% decline globally – and a 190% jump in AIDS-related deaths over the past 20 years.
Stigma Study, a national survey measuring U.S.
attitudes toward HIV and people living with HIV.
The survey found that despite significant overall progress on Providing focused investment of up to $25 million over five “Unfortunately, in medical organizations,
years (2020-2025), RADIAN comprises two key elements.
treatments and transmission rates, stigma and misinformation where people with HIV most often apply
The Model Cities program helps heavily impacted cities
around HIV remain widespread. Of the people surveyed,
for services, cases of discrimination are
improve HIV outcomes by working with local organizations
40% were unaware that HIV is a medical condition that can
to address stigma, boost access to innovation and still common. People with HIV also face
be treated, while 59% harbor feelings of discomfort and fear
strengthen healthcare infrastructure and care models.
about people living with HIV. discrimination among law enforcement
The Unmet Need fund supports impactful initiatives
agencies. The RADIAN Model Cities
across Eastern Europe and Central Asia, focusing on HIV
The survey confirms the need for significant public
program aims to prevent such cases and
prevention and care, education, community empowerment
education efforts, both to help eliminate HIV stigma and
and novel partnerships. I am very hopeful that this will change the
to increase knowledge as a tool for further driving down
transmission rates. situation in Almaty.”
In 2020, RADIAN officially launched the first Model Cities
program in Almaty, Kazakhstan, where HIV prevalence is
almost twice the national average. Partnering with six local
Yelena Rastokina
organizations, RADIAN is helping develop a cost-effective
Community mobilization
and scalable model to ensure access to prevention, testing and advocacy specialist
and care for the city’s people, particularly those from the
most vulnerable communities.
130 131Despite being home to only 38% of the country’s Through Gilead’s work with the
population, the Southern United States accounts for 51%
coordinating centers and direct
of new HIV diagnoses in the country and 47% of related
engagement with partners in the region,
deaths, according to the CDC. Addressing the epidemic is
a complex challenge that requires a variety of community- the company has provided $52 million
based solutions.
in funding to the Southern United States
since the program’s inception, in support
Working with three partners – the Southern AIDS Coalition,
the University of Houston Graduate College of Social Work of nearly 150 organizations.
and Emory University’s Rollins School of Public Health – the
COMPASS Initiative supports organizations that provide
those solutions, focusing on three approaches:
PoZitive2PoSitive Capacity-building and knowledge-sharing: Providing Preventing HIV in
resources to help organizations be more effective and
Gilead COMPASS grantee At-Risk Populations
scalable
In an ongoing effort, Gilead is providing up to 2.4 million
Wellbeing, mental health and trauma-informed care:
free bottles of our HIV prevention medication annually
Supporting organizations that address the impact of mental
to the CDC, which provides the medication at no cost to
illness and trauma
individuals in the United States at risk for HIV who lack
insurance coverage. Paired with greatly accelerated
Awareness, education and anti-stigma campaigns: outreach efforts, the donations are playing an important role
Supporting efforts to change public perception of HIV and in helping to reduce transmission rates, particularly in parts
combat stigmas against people living with HIV of the country with the highest burden of disease.
Gilead’s COMPASS Initiative® is a 10-year, $100 million partnership with community-based
organizations working to address the HIV epidemic in the Southern United States. Gilead’s commitment to the CDC extends through 2030.
132 133Gilead Awards Scholarships for 2020
International AIDS Conference
Gilead awarded 140 scholarships for HIV community advocates to attend
the 23rd International AIDS Conference. in 2020. By offering these
scholarships, this group of advocates was able to access the latest in
HIV research, science and policy, including data on the intersection of
COVID-19 and HIV, and take advantage of an opportunity to network
with HIV scientists, policy specialists and community leaders working to
Project Open Hand advance the response around the world.
Gilead HIV Age Positively grantee
“This scholarship gave me the opportunity to
learn more, to bring more to my community
Aging with HIV in the Time of COVID-19
and to stay abreast of the current events that
More than half of all people living with HIV in the United States are over 50 and are going on in the field of HIV. Everything I
within 10 years, that number is expected to climb to 70%. A survey from HealthHIV
experienced through this conference,
shows that people aging with HIV struggle with isolation, depression and a lack of
I brought back to my community.”
social support.
Gilead’s HIV Age Positively® initiative is designed to improve care and outreach for – Jasmine Davis
those growing older with HIV. We have pledged more than $17.6 million in grants CrescentCare 2020 Transgender Law Center
to support 30 healthcare organizations and advocacy groups working to address 23rd International AIDS Conference scholarship recipient
stigma, loneliness and better coordination of care for people aging with HIV. In
2020, Gilead focused on programs that address stigma, expand mental healthcare
and raise awareness of the unique health needs of people living and aging with HIV.
134 135SECTION 6
Appendix
Dorothee Saddier Axe
136 Immuno-Oncology 137AAbboouutt GGiilleeaadd Our Governing
Principles
Gilead Sciences, Inc. is a biopharmaceutical company
that has pursued and achieved breakthroughs in medicine
for more than three decades, with the goal of creating a
Gilead is driven by science and dedicated to improving Our Board has four committees: (1) Audit Committee, (2)
healthier world for all people. Our company is committed
patient care. We adhere to the highest legal and ethical Compensation and Talent Committee, (3) Nominating
to advancing innovative medicines to prevent and treat
standards of business conduct to protect patient safety, the and Corporate Governance Committee and (4) Science
life-threatening diseases, including HIV, viral hepatitis
company and its employees. Committee. Our Board Guidelines and committee charters
and cancer.
can be found on the Investors page of our website. Listing
Gilead’s Board of Directors (Board) serves stockholders rules require that a majority of the members of a public
by overseeing the management of our business. The company’s board of directors qualify as “independent.” As
Headquartered in Foster City,
Board, our leadership team and all employees at Gilead of December 31, 2020, 10 of our 11 Board members were
California, Gilead employed more are responsible for compliance with our various business independent and all our Board committees were composed
conduct and corporate policies and for upholding our Core of independent members.
than 13,000 full-time employees and
Values of Integrity, Inclusion, Teamwork, Excellence and
engaged 2,219 temporary/agency*
Accountability.
workers in more than 35 countries
on six continents in 2020.
*Individuals employed or engaged as an agency worker by a third-
party temporary agency, and compensated by the same, to perform
work for Gilead for a predefined timeframe.
138 139The Code We Stand By Our Approach to CSR
All of Gilead’s governance bodies and employees must We assess the adequacy of our key corporate policies To ensure we can continue to execute our mission in the CFO organization, Commercial and Manufacturing, the
comply with our Code of Ethics and Anti-Bribery and Anti- annually to help ensure they are consistent with current future while reducing the social and environmental impacts management-led committee is responsible for reviewing
Corruption (ABAC) Policy, which are publicly available on regulations and good governance practices. resulting from our business activities, we have built a CSR and making decisions on CSR-related strategies,
the Investors page of our website. These and other corporate program that focuses on patients, society, the planet and stakeholder engagement, reporting, risk mitigation and
policies are also available on G.Net, our company intranet, our business. other relevant activities of Gilead and our subsidiaries.
With products distributed throughout the world, Gilead,
which is accessible to 100% of managers and employees. In The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
our affiliates and entities acting on our behalf are required
2020, additional ABAC trainings were provided to our Audit of our Board reviews and oversees our CSR program.
to comply with the U.S. FCPA, the UK Bribery Act and all We take a precautionary approach to managing social and
Committee, which is a subset of our Board, and regional
other applicable anti-corruption laws. Gilead offers training environmental activities to minimize any potential harm
business partners and distributors located in Europe, Asia,
materials to employees and other relevant individuals and or threat. Our objective is to reduce our climate change
Africa, North America and South America.
organizations to communicate Gilead’s prohibition against impacts, foster better communities, attract and retain top-
corrupt or unethical activity. tier employees, mitigate supply-chain risks, and prepare for
The success of Gilead’s Code of Ethics depends on future regulatory changes.
employee compliance with relevant laws, rules and
Gilead performs internal and external audits to monitor for
regulations associated with their employment, including
compliance with regulatory and company policies. In 2020, Our CSR Committee shepherds our vision and builds
laws prohibiting insider trading. We have formal
Gilead performed approximately 35 audits for financial or accountability for driving positive social and environmental
mechanisms in place to address employee concerns around
FCPA compliance across roughly 15 countries. change across our company and supply chain. Composed
potential violations of Gilead’s Code of Ethics. See section 9
of leaders from Public Affairs, Human Resources, Legal, the
of our Code of Ethics.
140 141Material Topics
Access and availability
of medicines
Materiality
Employee recruitment,
development and retention
Product quality Affordability and pricing
and safety
Corporate
Corruption governance
and bribery
Through our Sustainability Materiality Assessment, business Public health
leaders from across the company selected the following
Clinical trial Climate change
material topics for our CSR program based on the level of Occupational health conduct Intellectual and energy
and safety property
Employee
Gilead’s internal or external influence, our relative impact,
wellness
Pollution and Innovation Diversity and peer evaluations and due diligence. effluents technologies inclusion
Data privacy
Fair working and security R&D for unmet
conditions medical needs
We are assessing relevant and meaningful disclosures to Employee
engagement
measure progress and plan to enhance our coverage of Counterfeit and and culture
illicit trade
these topics, including the management approach for each,
Manufacturing
Waste and and supply chain
in future reporting. Water packaging management
stewardship Health system
strengthening
Tax and fair
Philanthropy
contribution
and community
to society
relations
Health education Materials
and prevention sourcing and use
INCREASING IMPORTANCE
Gilead perspective (impact on business)
evitcepsrep
redlohekatS
)nrecnoc
redlohekats
fo
eerged(
ECNATROPMI
GNISAERCNI
ESG categories
Environmental Social Governance
142 143CSR Management, External Stakeholders
Stakeholder Engagement
Includes 17 groups across the following four categories:
and Materiality
Gilead uses a company-wide management approach that
continuously monitors our operations to reduce potential or INVESTORS AND RULE-MAKERS
actual negative material impacts, both internal and external.
RISK ASSESSORS AND WATCHDOGS
Business leaders with direct oversight over each topic area
are responsible for managing these impacts, and internal Bankers and Insurers Global NGOs
and external stakeholders conduct annual evaluations of
CSR Ratings and Indicies Regulators
our management approach each year to identify strengths
and areas for improvement. Institutional Investors and Analysts Academic Institutions
Stockholders Media
Internal Stakeholders
Industry Associations
Natasha Crellin, Julie Di Paolo
To review sustainability-related topics, we assembled
Inflammation Biology (Crellin)
Research External Innovation (Di Paolo) a team of internal stakeholders from across Gilead,
representing Corporate Communications, Corporate
CUSTOMER PEERS AND
Contributions, Access Operations and Emerging Markets,
AND COMMUNITY BUSINESS PARTNERS
Pharmaceutical Development and Manufacturing,
Global Commercial, Commercial Process Optimization,
Healthcare Providers Partners
Environmental Health and Safety, Facilities, Human
Insurance Providers Peers
Resources, Legal, Tax, Investor Relations, and
Regulatory Affairs.
Patients Suppliers
Communities Generic Drug Manufacturing
144 145Our Approach This strategy guides our approach to tax compliance. We are committed to paying our fair share
of tax, and we seek to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations in meeting our tax
compliance and reporting responsibilities. Accordingly, we pay a variety of taxes, including, corporate
to Tax
income taxes, customs duties, excise taxes, stamp duties, employment and other business taxes in
these jurisdictions, as required by local law. We also withhold and pay employee taxes and indirect
taxes such as the Value Added Tax.
This strategy also guides our approach to tax planning. We analyze the potential tax implications to ensure clarity
Our global tax strategy is in line with Gilead’s
of business tax consequences in locations we operate in order to ensure compliance and business alignment.
general framework of maintaining a low risk
tolerance level in the countries in which we
operate. Our strategy focuses on: Tax Governance, Control
and Risk Management
Ensuring there are appropriate levels
of governance, risk management and
Our management establishes and maintains robust internal Our tax processes and procedures are designed to mitigate
accountability
controls that govern our tax policies and financial reporting such material tax risks. All material tax planning proposals are
procedures, including management of associated risks. discussed with and approved by our executive management,
Under this system, key tax processes are reviewed by our Chief Financial Officer and the Board Audit Committee.
Complying with tax laws in a responsible manner
internal and external auditors for adherence. Our Chief Where appropriate, we seek high quality external advice on
Financial Officer and Board Audit Committee receive tax consequences of business transactions.
updates on at least a quarterly basis.
Having open and constructive conversations
Moreover, all Gilead employees are responsible for
with stakeholders, including governments and
Despite our strong governance, a level of risk associated upholding Gilead’s Core Values. All employees receive
tax authorities
with tax compliance naturally exists because tax law training on Gilead’s Core Values and Code of Ethics, which
is inherently complex and can result in a variety of includes specific reporting procedures for any suspected
interpretations with respect to how our operations violations.
are taxed.
146 147We monitor proposals and changes to tax incentives and
Stakeholder Engagement and 2020 Tax and Jurisdictional Data
regulations in the countries in which we operate in order
Management of Concerns
to assess their impact on our business. From time to time,
The following charts have been prepared to provide transparency and insight into Gilead’s tax profile. All numbers and figures
Gilead may collaborate with taxpayer advocacy groups to
Related to Tax follow Gilead’s accounting policy as outlined in our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K (Note 1: Organization and Summary of
ensure Gilead’s views are considered during the public
Significant Accounting Policies). All tax jurisdictional data is determined based on the activities of Gilead’s subsidiaries that are tax
discourse. We also support initiatives to increase public trust
We engage with tax authorities with honesty, integrity, resident in said jurisdiction.
and transparency in national and international tax regimes.
respect and fairness and in a spirit of cooperative
Tax Incurred by Type Tax Incurred by Jurisdiction
compliance. Our tax positions and filings are subject to
review and audit by tax authorities in jurisdictions where we
$24M 1% $2,016M 78%
conduct business. In the course of such a review, we strive
Other Taxes
United States
to be transparent with tax authorities, providing relevant
$42M 1%
facts and documentation to support our tax positions and to
Property Taxes
$568M 22%
resolve disputes constructively and in a timely manner on
$225M 9% Rest of World
current, future and past tax risks.
Industry Specific Taxes
Where appropriate, we also seek to proactively engage with $482M 19%
tax authorities on their interpretation of local tax laws and Payroll Tax
their application to our specific facts and circumstances.
$1,803M 70%
Income Tax
New tax laws and regulations often bring uncertainty in their
interpretation and application, and inconsistent treatment of
a transaction by different jurisdictions brings the risk that the
The above charts detail the $2.6 billion in taxes that Gilead incurred in 2020.
same income may be taxed by two or more tax authorities.
In those situations, we also seek to work with tax authorities The chart on the left details the taxes incurred by type of tax, The chart on the right details the taxes incurred by jurisdiction.
in a transparent manner to mitigate or, if possible, prevent Carisia Lloyd and highlights that Gilead pays significant amount of tax beyond A significant proportion of Gilead’s taxes are paid to the United
double-taxation of our economic profits, in compliance with corporate income tax. In addition to payroll taxes and other States, which is where Gilead’s headquarters and the majority of
Legal
indirect taxes, Gilead incurred significant amounts of Industry- our research and development jobs are located.
tax treaties and applicable national legislation.
Specific Taxes such as the U.S. Branded Prescription Drug Fee.
148 149Revenue by Jurisdiction Operation Profit by Jurisdiction
$5,607M $931M
23% 23%
$19,083M $3,140M
77% 77%
Fixed Assets by Jurisdiction Employees by Jurisdiction
$940M 5,109
19% 37%
$4,027M
8,543
81%
63%
United States Rest of World
The above charts indicate key Gilead metrics by jurisdiction. Gilead primarily earns its revenue and profit in the United States,
and the assets and employees that generate those financial metrics are also predominately located in the United States. This is
Silvia Miliani
reflective of Gilead’s tax policy whereby profits are aligned with the assets, functions and risks associated with each jurisdiction.
150 Human Resources 151Our Priority United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (UN SDGs)
Our priority UN SDGs are displayed below. UN SDG icons are also used in the GRI Content Index to highlight
areas where our work corresponds with specific goals. Additional information on alignment between our work
and the UN SDGs can be found in the GRI Content Index of this report.
Good Health and Wellbeing Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
We expand access to innovative therapeutics that improve We leverage science and innovation to develop industry-
human health worldwide. We aim to help end epidemics of leading therapeutics for areas of unmet medical need.
AIDS and hepatitis and combat other communicable diseases.
Tony Gomez Stephanie Reloba
Quality Education Reduced Inequalities Regulatory Affairs Pharmacovigilance and Epidemiology
We educate and train healthcare providers on advanced We formed a Diversity Council in 2018 to enhance our inclusion
therapies, especially in resource-limited countries. and diversity initiatives worldwide.
Gender Equality Responsible Consumption and Production
We cultivate an inclusive and diverse workforce that celebrates We use green and sustainable chemistry where possible to
differences in race, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender produce therapies that benefit human health while minimizing
identity and thinking style. environmental impact.
Clean Water and Sanitation Climate Action
We protect water-dependent ecosystems by using natural We are committed to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions
bioswales and water conservation measures. by 25% by 2025 compared with 2016 levels.
Affordable and Clean Energy Partnerships for the Goals
We generate and purchase renewable energy to offset We forge internal and external partnerships to improve patient
grid-supplied energy at some of our worldwide facilities. care, strengthen health systems, and reduce social and
environmental impacts.
Stephanie Cox Jeremy O’Hanlon
152 153
Clinical Virology Corporate DevelopmentDisclosure Number Disclosure Title 2020 Response UN SDG UNGC
GRI Content Index
Red = link to report Blue = link to our website
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker A Letter From Chairman and CEO Daniel O’Day
Ethics and Integrity
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2020 Response UN SDG UNGC
Organizational Profile 102-16 Values, principles, standards and The Code We Stand By 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
norms of behavior 8, 9, 10
102-1 Name of the organization Gilead Sciences
Mechanisms for advice and concerns
Activities, brands, products About Gilead 102-17 about ethics The Code We Stand By 1, 2, 7, 10
102-2 A complete list of our medicines can
and services
be found on our website
Governance
102-3 Location of headquarters Foster City, CA
Our Governing Principles
102-18 Governance structure 10
102-4 Location of operations About Gilead Our Approach to CSR
102-5 Ownership and legal form Gilead Sciences, Inc. is a publicly traded Delaware corporation 102-19 Delegating authority Our Approach to CSR
Our prescription products are publicly available to customers
Executive-level responsibility for economic,
102-6 Markets served in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, Middle East, North America 102-20 Our Approach to CSR
environmental and social topics
and South America.
102-7 Scale of the organization The “Why” Behind Our Work Our Governing Principles
2020 Financial Highlights About Gilead Composition of the highest governance We report on select information about our board
102-22 6
body and its committees of directors on our website.
Of our 11 board members, three identify as female.
About Gilead
Growing a Global Workforce
Information on employees
102-8 While we track employees by contract type, we do not have 6
and other workers this breakdown available by gender and region (information 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Nominating and Corporate Governance 6, 10
governance body Committee Charter
is not available).
Stakeholder Engagement
102-9 Supply chain Working With Suppliers That Share Our Values 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10
102-10 S anig dn ii tfi sc sa un pt pch lya cn hg ae is n to the organization Tracking Our Worldwide Energy Consumption 102-40 List of stakeholder groups I En xt te er rn na al lS St ta ak ke eh ho old lde er rs s
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Our Approach to CSR 7 All Gilead employees in Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Spain, France
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements and Italy (6.3% of worldwide workforce) were subject to 3
collective bargaining agreements in 2020.
A full list of external frameworks Gilead has aligned
102-12 External initiatives
with is available on our website.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality
102-13 Membership of associations Gilead is a member of many industry associations, including the
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality
following: American Chemical Society’s Green Chemistry Institute
Roundtable, Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship Work Group,
Supplier Diversity Pharmaceutical Forum and Western Regional 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality
Minority Supplier Development Council.
154 155Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2020 Response UN SDG UNGC Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2020 Response UN SDG UNGC
Reporting Practice Economic Performance
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial About This Report 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 2020 Financial Highlights
statements distributed Our Governing Principles
102-46 Defining report content and topic Report Content, Period and Boundary 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Deferred Compensation, Annual Report on Form 10-K, pg. 98
boundaries retirement plans
102-47 List of material topics Materiality Procurement Practices
102-48 Restatements of information Minor adjustments have been made to all environmental data 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Gilead spent 15% of its annual procurement spend in
previously reported in Gilead’s 2019 Year in Review. This has California on local suppliers. Gilead’s most significant location
impacted our reported progress toward our GHG reduction of operation is its headquarters in Foster City, CA, and we
goal. These adjustments are due to improved alignment of data have a large presence in California. In this instance, we
estimation methodologies across 2017, 2018 and 2019 reporting define “local” as any supplier that has identified its company
periods and the reverification of GHG inventories for these years; headquarters as located in the state of California.
the retroactive integration of environmental data from business
entities acquired by Gilead during those periods; and corrections
Anti-Corruption
to any discrepancies that were identified after the publication of
the 2019 Year in Review. The data contained in this report has
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Gilead performs internal and external audits to monitor for 10
been collected using the most robust systems and tools available
corruption compliance with regulatory and company policies. In 2020,
for this reporting period.
Gilead performed approximately 35 audits in roughly 15
countries for financial or U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report (FCPA) compliance. Gilead does not disclose significant risks
related to corruption identified through FCPA compliance
102-50 Reporting period Report Content, Period and Boundary audits (specific legal prohibitions).
102-51 Date of most recent report Gilead’s 2019 Year in Review was published in May 2020.
205-2 Communication and training about The Code We Stand By 10
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual anti-corruption policies and procedures
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Korab Zuka, Vice President, Public Affairs 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and In 2020 there were no findings of corruption, anti-competitive 10
the report csr@gilead.com actions taken behavior, violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation, or other
healthcare compliance violations from any government body.
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI
the GRI Standards Standards: Core option.
Anti-Competitive Behavior
102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, The Code We Stand By 10
102-56 External assurance A copy of our third-party assurance statement can be obtained anti-trust and monopoly practices In 2020 there were no findings of corruption, anti-competitive
by emailing sustainability@gilead.com. behavior, violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation, or other
healthcare compliance violations from any government body.
Management Approach
Tax
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Creating a Better, Healthier World
boundary Our Governing Principles 10 207-1 Approach to tax including tax strategy, Our Approach to Tax
oversight of tax strategy
103-2 The management approach and its Creating a Better, Healthier World
10
components Our Governing Principles 207-2 The governance body or executive-level Tax Governance, Control and Risk Managment
position within the organization accountable
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Creating a Better, Healthier World for compliance with the tax strategy
Our Governing Principles 10
156 157Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2020 Response UN SDG UNGC Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2020 Response UN SDG UNGC
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and Stakeholder Engagement and Management 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Progress Toward Our 2025 Goal 3, 12, 13 8
management of stakeholder concerns of Concerns Related to Tax
related to tax 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Progress Toward Our 2025 Goal 3, 12, 13 7, 8, 9
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting Gilead does not currently track ozone-depleting
207-4 Country-by-country reporting Tax and Jurisdictional Data
substances (ODS) substances, but may do so in the future.
related to tax
Effluents and Waste
ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES
306-2 Management of significant Waste Reduction and Recycling 12 7, 8
Management Approach waste-related impacts
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Our Responsible Growth Strategy 7, 8, 9 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Worldwide Waste Disposal
boundary Environmental Impact Reduction
306-5 Waste directed to waste disposal Worldwide Waste Disposal
103-2 The management approach and its Our Responsible Growth Strategy 7, 8, 9 Supplier Environmental Assessment
components Environmental Impact Reduction
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Working with Suppliers that Share Our Values 7, 8
environmental criteria
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Building Sustainability and Resilience 7, 8, 9
Our Responsible Growth Strategy
Environmental Impact Reduction SOCIAL DISCLOSURES
Energy Management Approach
302-1 Energy consumption within the Worldwide Energy Consumption and Intensity 7, 12, 13 8, 9 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Life at Gilead 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
organization and its boundary
302-2 Energy consumption outside the Gilead does not currently track energy 103-2 The management approach Life at Gilead 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
and its components
organization consumption outside the organization, but
may do so in the future.
103-3 Evaluation of the management Life at Gilead 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
approach
302-3 Energy intensity Tracking Our Worldwide Energy Consumption 7, 12, 13 8
Employment
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Gilead does not currently track the reductions in 7, 12, 13 8, 9
energy consumption directly related to efficiency 401-1 New employee hires and employee Gilead 2020 Workforce Demographics 5 3, 6
initiatives. turnover Gilead does not currently track or report on new hires
and turnover by age, gender or region (information is
not available).
Water and Effluents
303-3 Water withdrawal Worldwide Water Usage 6 8, 9 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Rewarding, Recognizing and Retaining Employees 3 6
that are not provided to temporary or Gilead provides a comprehensive company-paid benefits
part-time employees package including health, dental, vision, life insurance and
Emissions long-term disability insurance plans, along with the option
to participate in our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Progress Toward Our 2025 Goal 3, 12, 13 8 401(k) plan. Full-time employees working 30 hours or more
(unless otherwise specified) are eligible for these benefits.
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Progress Toward Our 2025 Goal 3, 12, 13 8
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Sustainability Performance 3, 12, 13 8 401-3 Parental leave Global Parental Leave Data 3, 5 6
158 159Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2020 Response UN SDG UNGC Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2020 Response UN SDG UNGC
Occupational Health and Safety Nondiscrimination
403-1 Occupational health and safety Workplace Safety 3 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Gilead tracks all incidents of discrimination and corrective 5, 10 6
management system actions taken actions taken; however we do not publicly report on this
due to employee privacy concerns and any pending legal
403-3 Occupational health services Gilead employees have access to licensed 3 or regulatory actions (information is subject to specific
occupational health services (OHS) during working confidentiality constraints).
hours, and we are able to arrange transportation to
OHS locations. OHS providers converse in the official Child Labor
country language. OHS and Gilead comply with
privacy laws and local requirements for protecting 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Working with Suppliers that Share Our Values 1, 2, 5
personal health information. for incidents of child labor
403-5 Worker training on occupational Workplace Safety 3 Forced or Compulsory Labor
health and safety Gilead uses hazards exposure assessments to identify
general and specific OHS trainings. We ensure that 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Working with Suppliers that Share Our Values 1, 2, 4
training content aligns with regulatory standards and for incidents of forced or compulsory labor
that trainers meet local competency requirements.
Trainings are provided free of charge and during paid Local Communities
working hours.
413-1 Operations with local community Giving Back to Our Communities
403-9 Work-related injuries 2020 Safety Performance 3 engagement, impact assessments and 100% of our global employees are offered one paid day
development programs off to volunteer with an organization of their choice.
Training and Education
As COVID-19 began spreading across the globe in winter
2020, Gilead introduced a worldwide policy enabling
404-1 Average hours of training per year, Professional and Personal Development 4, 5 6
employees with medical backgrounds to take four weeks
per employee Gilead’s employees participate in an average of 4.2 hours
paid time off for volunteering in the pandemic response.
of professional training per year. We do not currently
track our investments in training specifically by gender or
employee category (information is not available). Supplier Social Assessment
414-1 New suppliers that were screened Working with Suppliers that Share Our Values 3, 5 1, 2, 4
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 100% of Gilead employees receive annual 4, 5
using social criteria
regular performance and career performance and career development reviews.
development reviews Customer Health and Safety
Diversity and Equal Opportunity 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety Safety, Ethics and Transparency 3
impacts of product and service categories
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Gilead 2020 Workforce Demographics 5, 10 6
employees We have provided ethnicity data for Gilead Sciences in Marketing and Labeling
the United States. Privacy regulations restrict collection of
this information in many countries. We also do not track 417-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning Gilead did not receive from any government body any
or manage diversity by age group, or manage diversity product and service information and warnings, fines or penalties in 2020 related to our
beyond gender (information is not available). labeling marketing or labeling practices.
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration Compensation and Financial Benefits at Gilead 5, 10 6 417-3 Incidents of noncompliance concerning Gilead did not receive from any government body any
of women to men Gilead’s salary ratio for women to men globally is marketing communications warnings, fines or penalties in 2020 related to our
99.78:100. At this time we are not in a position to marketing or labeling practices.
report on pay parity for each employee category by
significant locations of operations. Customer Privacy
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Gilead did not have any substantiated complaints
breaches of customer privacy and losses of concerning losses of customer data in 2020.
160 customer data 161Sustainability TTooppiicc CodCeode D escriptioDnescription 2 020 res ponse 2020 response
Access to Medicines HC-BP-240a.1 Description of actions and initiatives to promote Access to Our Medicines Around the World
access to health care products for priority diseases See page 116 of our 2020 Year in Review for a description of our
and in priority countries as defined by the Access to
Accounting Access to Medicines.
Medicine Index
HC-BP-240a.2 List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Gilead has three products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal
Medicinal Products as part of its Prequalification of Products including remdesivir, amphotericin B and sofosbuvir/
Medicines Programme (PQP) velpatasvir.
Standards Board
Drug Safety HC-BP-250a.1 List of products listed in the FDA MedWatch Safety Gilead collects Adverse Events from all sources globally and assesses
Alerts for Human Medical Products database those data on an ongoing basis, both on the individual case level as
well as in aggregate, and reports those data to agencies worldwide
(SASB) Index
in accordance with applicable safety regulations. Furthermore, Gilead
has robust and comprehensive processes in place for the detection
HC-BP-250a.2 Number of fatalities associated with products as of potential new safety signals with our products in development and
reported in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting on the market as well as for disclosure, as applicable, to agencies,
System physicians and patients.
HC-BP-250a.3 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled
HC-BP-250a.4 Total amount of product accepted for takeback,
The mission of the SASB is to help businesses around the reuse, or disposal
world identify, manage and report on the sustainability topics HC-BP-250a.5 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken
in response to violations of current Good
that matter most to their investors. SASB standards differ Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type
by industry, enabling investors and companies to compare
performance from company to company within an industry. Counterfeit Drugs HC-BP-260a.1 Description of methods and technologies used to The nature of Gilead’s medicines makes ensuring their authenticity
maintain traceability of products throughout the and safety fundamentally important. To address the complex threat to
supply chain and prevent counterfeiting patient safety associated with counterfeit and diverted drugs, Gilead
maintains an inclusive cross-functional Anti-Counterfeiting Team (ACT)
consisting of brand protection, legal, quality, regulatory, trades, global
serialization and traceability, security, supply chain, packaging and
other professionals. Individually, these functions ensure Gilead meets
global legal and regulatory requirements relating to counterfeit drugs
and supply chain security, such as serialization and traceability of our
products, regulatory reporting of counterfeits and product recalls. ACT
ensures the company is informed and coordinated in its approach to
protect patients from counterfeit drugs.
HC-BP-260a.2 Discussion of process for alerting customers and ACT has successfully operated within four key pillars to detect,
business partners of potential or known risks stop, deter and report counterfeit drugs: education/collaboration,
associated with counterfeit products prevention, detection and investigation/enforcement.
Safety of Clinical Trial Participants HC-BP-210a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of Gilead did not incur any monetary losses as a result of legal
legal proceedings associated with clinical trials in proceedings associated with clinical trials in developing countries.
developing countries
162 163TTooppiicc CodCeode D escriptioDnescription 2 020 res ponse 2020 response TTooppiicc CodCeode D escriptioDnescription 2 020 res ponse 2020 response
Access to Medicines HC-BP-240a.1 Description of actions and initiatives to promote Access to Our Medicines Around the World Counterfeit Drugs HC-BP-260a.3 Number of actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests, In 2020, the year of the COVID-19 pandemic and with Gilead investigating
access to health care products for priority diseases See page 116 of our 2020 Year in Review for a description of our and/or filing of criminal charges related to counterfeit and ultimately gaining regulatory approval of a medicine to treat
and in priority countries as defined by the Access to products COVID-19 – Veklury® (remdesivir), ACT strengthened and expanded its
Medicine Index Access to Medicines. team to address the anticipated increase of counterfeit cases. ACT’s key
operational pillars prepared the company to deploy a comprehensive
patient protection program for Veklury in response to a substantial
HC-BP-240a.2 List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Gilead has three products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal worldwide demand that was unforeseen at the beginning of the year.
Medicinal Products as part of its Prequalification of Products including remdesivir, amphotericin B and sofosbuvir/
Medicines Programme (PQP) velpatasvir.
Key 2020 Highlights
• Launched campaign to educate law enforcement agencies and
ministries of health worldwide on Gilead-branded remdesivir (product
characteristics, mode of administration and legitimate supply chain).
Drug Safety HC-BP-250a.1 List of products listed in the FDA MedWatch Safety Gilead collects Adverse Events from all sources globally and assesses
Alerts for Human Medical Products database those data on an ongoing basis, both on the individual case level as • Deployed covert and overt anticounterfeiting features on packaging
well as in aggregate, and reports those data to agencies worldwide for Gilead-branded remdesivir products to help deter and detect
in accordance with applicable safety regulations. Furthermore, Gilead counterfeits.
has robust and comprehensive processes in place for the detection
HC-BP-250a.2 Number of fatalities associated with products as of potential new safety signals with our products in development and • Expanded engaged intelligence program to include Veklury/
reported in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting on the market as well as for disclosure, as applicable, to agencies, remdesivir. This enhanced detection program provides real-time
System physicians and patients. information on illicit offers of counterfeit Gilead medicines by online
sellers and identifies high priority targets for offline investigation,
HC-BP-250a.3 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled which can lead to criminal referrals and/or civil enforcement action.
• Expanded online monitoring and take-down program for illicit offers
HC-BP-250a.4 Total amount of product accepted for takeback, of Gilead medicine to include Veklury/remdesivir.
reuse, or disposal • Collaborated with law enforcement and industry members to share
intelligence and best practices on how to stop counterfeits from
HC-BP-250a.5 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken reaching patients.
in response to violations of current Good • Initiated 234 new investigations and referred 47 cases to law
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type enforcement.
• Successfully took down 355 websites, 694 online marketplaces
listings and 1,647 social media listings/accounts advertising illicit
Counterfeit Drugs HC-BP-260a.1 Description of methods and technologies used to The nature of Gilead’s medicines makes ensuring their authenticity offers of Gilead medicine online.
maintain traceability of products throughout the and safety fundamentally important. To address the complex threat to
supply chain and prevent counterfeiting patient safety associated with counterfeit and diverted drugs, Gilead
maintains an inclusive cross-functional Anti-Counterfeiting Team (ACT)
consisting of brand protection, legal, quality, regulatory, trades, global
serialization and traceability, security, supply chain, packaging and
other professionals. Individually, these functions ensure Gilead meets Ethical Marketing HC-BP-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal Gilead did not incur any monetary losses as a result of legal
global legal and regulatory requirements relating to counterfeit drugs proceedings associated with false marketing claims proceedings associated with false marketing claims.
and supply chain security, such as serialization and traceability of our
products, regulatory reporting of counterfeits and product recalls. ACT
ensures the company is informed and coordinated in its approach to
protect patients from counterfeit drugs. HC-BP-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-
label use of products
HC-BP-260a.2 Discussion of process for alerting customers and ACT has successfully operated within four key pillars to detect,
business partners of potential or known risks stop, deter and report counterfeit drugs: education/collaboration,
associated with counterfeit products prevention, detection and investigation/enforcement.
164 165TTooppiicc CodCeode D escriptioDnescription 2 020 res ponse 2020 response
In 2020, Gilead increased our R&D organization by 11% (~350 new R&D
Employee Recruitment, HC-BP-330a.1 Discussion of talent recruitment and retention
employees). Our Research centers are located in the San Francisco Bay
Development & Retention efforts for scientists and research and development Area and Seattle and our Development teams are located throughout
personnel
the world. In 2020, our R&D organization invested heavily in Inclusion
and Diversity creating Diversity Councils chaired by senior leaders to
guide our efforts. Gilead invested in technology to gain greater access
to underrepresented talent. In 2020, Gilead introduced the Advancing
Black Leadership Strategy and Blueprint for Change program to
allocate budget aimed specifically at increasing Black and Hispanic
hiring, development and retention. Gilead has expanded our 2021
internship program committing to over 100 R&D summer internships
aimed at ultimately hiring into full-time early talent scientific roles upon
graduation. Additionally, Gilead invested in partnerships with several
HBCUs and Hispanic Serving Institutions further expanding access to
diverse talent.
HC-BP-330a.2 1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: (a) Gilead 2020 Workforce Demographics
executives/senior managers, (b) midlevel managers, (c)
Gilead discloses our voluntary turnover number on page 80 in our 2020
professionals and (d) all others
Year in Review.
Business Ethics HC-BP-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions We work with healthcare professionals, patient organizations, payor bodies
with healthcare professionals and others in the healthcare community for the right reasons, in a transparent
and ethical way. We respect Industry Standards on the promotion of
prescription medicines.
Our expectations:
• Read, understand and follow the applicable Industry Standards and Gilead
Business Conduct Manuals (BCMs) required for you to perform your role
Key highlights of the BCMs include:
• Ensure that we always have a clear, legitimate and appropriate business
purpose for all our interactions
• Promote our products appropriately, respecting the independence of all
those we work with in the healthcare community
• Ensure that all information and materials are accurate, fair, balanced and
not misleading and shared appropriately
• Do not provide anything of value to inappropriately influence a decision to
use or recommend our products
Photography
Some of the photos included in the report were taken prior to the pandemic; others were taken during the pandemic and the individuals photographed adhered to relevant local guidelines.
All images appearing here are either the property of Gilead or used with permission from their respective owners.
Other Legal Matters Dara Burdette
We own or have rights to various trademarks, copyrights and trade names used in our business, including the following: GILEAD®, GILEAD SCIENCES®, AMBISOME®, ATRIPLA®, BIKTARVY®,
CAYSTON®, COMPLERA®, DESCOVY®, DESCOVY FOR PREP®, EMTRIVA®, EPCLUSA®, EVIPLERA®, GENVOYA®, HARVONI®, HEPCLUDEX®, HEPSERA®, JYSELECA®, LETAIRIS®, ODEFSEY®,
166 RANEXA®, SOVALDI®, STRIBILD®, TECARTUS®, TRODELVY®, TRUVADA®, TRUVADA FOR PREP®, TYBOST®, VEKLURY®, VEMLIDY®, VIREAD®, VOSEVI®, YESCARTA® and ZYDELIG®. © 2021 Gilead Sciences, Inc. All rights reserved. Discovery Virology 167
This report also refers to trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies