Gilead
Sciences
Annual
Report
2014
Gilead Annual Report 2014
Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Gilead Sciences is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of 333 Lakeside Drive
unmet medical need. The company’s mission is to advance the care of patients suff ering from life-threatening diseases worldwide. Foster City, California
Gilead has operations in more than 30 countries worldwide, with headquarters in Foster City, California.
94404
AmBisome, Cayston, Complera, Emtriva, Eviplera, Gilead, Gilead Sciences, the Gilead logo design, Harvoni, Hepsera, Letairis,
650 574 3000 T
Ranexa, Sovaldi, Stribild, Truvada, Tybost, Viread, Vistide, Vitekta, Volibris and Zydelig are registered trademarks of Gilead Sciences,
Inc. or one of its related companies. Atripla is a registered trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb & Gilead Sciences, LLC. Lexiscan is 800 445 3235
a registered trademark of Astellas U.S. LLC. Tamifl u is a registered trademark of Hoff mann-La Roche Inc. Macugen is a registered
trademark of EyeTech, Inc. 650 578 9264 F
Full U.S. prescribing information for Gilead products is available at www.gilead.com. www.gilead.comTo Our Stockholders, Employees and Friends: We made tremendous progress during the year, introducing new authorization applications have been filed in 10 additional emerging
therapies for hepatitis C and cancer while continuing to build on and developing market countries.
achievements in HIV with regulatory filings for the company’s first
Over the course of 2014, Gilead’s medicines tenofovir alafenamide (TAF)-based single tablet regimen (STR) in the Simultaneously, Gilead remains focused on advancing care of people
United States and the European Union. We forged new partnerships, with HCV with the development of a regimen that has the potential
expanded the company’s geographic reach to now include operations to cure patients, regardless of genotype. Phase 3 studies evaluating
helped more patients than ever before. in more than 30 countries across six continents and made strides to the combination of GS-5816 and sofosbuvir are now underway,
increase access to our medicines worldwide. with data anticipated in the third quarter of 2015. Moreover, we are
exploring GS-9857, a pan-genotypic protease inhibitor, in combination
The company’s 2014 financial performance, with total revenues of with sofosbuvir and GS-5816 to potentially further reduce treatment
$24.9 billion, reflects an ongoing focus on scientific innovation that duration to less than 12 weeks.
delivers best-in-class medications to patients with diseases that
represent significant unmet needs around the world. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, the most common cause of liver
cancer worldwide, affects approximately 400 million individuals. Viread®
Continued Innovation for the Treatment of Liver Diseases continues to be the most prescribed chronic HBV therapy in the United
Hepatitis C-related liver disease poses a threat to the health of millions States and Europe, offering many patients an effective approach
of people worldwide. Sovaldi®, an important therapeutic advance for to managing their disease. TAF, a nucleotide reverse transcriptase
the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV), received approval inhibitor designed to prevent viral replication, is being evaluated in
in the United States and European Union in December 2013 and Phase 3 studies in which enrollment was completed in 2014.
January 2014, respectively. Today, Sovaldi is approved in more than
40 countries, and at the end of 2014, more than 170,000 chronic HCV Viread provides clear benefit to chronic HBV sufferers, however,
patients had been treated with a Sovaldi-containing regimen since the Gilead’s ultimate goal is to offer these patients a cure. Because the
product was first approved. biology of HBV infection differs from that of HCV, developing a cure
will require an approach that will most likely necessitate multiple drugs
In 2014, Harvoni® was approved in the United States, Canada, the that inhibit viral replication in conjunction with the elimination of HBV
European Union and Switzerland. Harvoni is the first once-daily STR DNA from all infected liver cells.
for the treatment of chronic HCV infection in genotype 1 patients–the
most prevalent genotype worldwide. Consequently, we are developing agents that potentially enable the
immune system to clear HBV infection. Phase 2 studies are underway
Harvoni represents a significant medical advance in the treatment with the TLR7 agonist GS-9620 and with GS-4774, a therapeutic
of HCV because it’s simple, tolerable, eliminates the need for both vaccine that also could be used in conjunction with Viread, TAF or
interferon and ribavirin, and results in high cure rates. In clinical trials other oral therapies.
of individuals with genotype 1 infection, Harvoni provided cure rates
of 94–99 percent with eight, 12 or 24 weeks of once-daily therapy, Within the liver diseases area, Gilead is also focusing on nonalcoholic
depending on a patient’s prior treatment history, cirrhosis status steatohepatitis (NASH). Phase 2 studies are fully enrolled for simtuzumab,
and viral load. Gilead continues to investigate the use of Harvoni in a monoclonal antibody that inhibits LOXL2, in NASH as well as primary
different patient groups, including non-genotype 1 infected patients, sclerosing cholangitis. In early 2015, Gilead also acquired a Farnesoid
in HIV co-infection and in patients with advanced liver disease. X Receptor (FXR) program from Phenex, comprising small molecule
FXR agonists for the treatment of liver diseases including NASH.
In the United States, the company has worked to establish agreements Additionally, Gilead’s ASK-1 inhibitor, currently in Phase 2 studies for
with payers that will streamline the process of starting a patient on diabetic nephropathy and pulmonary arterial hypertension, will be
therapy, allowing more patients to begin therapy because less time will evaluated in a Phase 2 study in NASH slated to begin in the first half
be spent on authorization of prescription reimbursement. of this year. These three programs address liver damage in NASH
patients via different mechanisms of action.
In Europe, Gilead is working with governments across the European
Union to secure country-by-country reimbursement as quickly as possi- Developing Better Options for Managing HIV
ble. And, based on anticipated approvals for both Sovaldi and Harvoni Gilead’s once-daily STRs have transformed the treatment of HIV
in 2015, the company is well prepared to introduce the products in because of their efficacy, tolerability and dosing convenience, which
Japan, a country with one of the highest rates of liver cancer due to can help people adhere to their medication, an important consid-
HCV in the industrialized world. eration for patients on life-long therapy. The clinical value of STRs
is broadly accepted within the medical community and as a result,
Gilead is also prioritizing access in resource-limited countries where more than 70 percent of newly-diagnosed HIV patients in the United
the disease burden is high. Gilead entered into an agreement with States are prescribed a Gilead STR. In 2014, Stribild® and Eviplera®
the Egyptian government to make Sovaldi available there, and the (Complera® in the U.S.) were the most prescribed regimens for
first Egyptian patients began treatment in September 2014. Also in treatment-naïve patients in the United States and Europe, respectively.
September, agreements were established with seven Indian phar-
maceutical manufacturers that allow for the manufacturing of Sovaldi Groups across Gilead are working collaboratively to help expand
and Harvoni for distribution in 91 developing countries in which an access to HIV testing and linkage to care for those infected with the
estimated 100 million people are infected with hepatitis C. Sovaldi has virus. Data show diagnosis, earlier treatment and adherence help stem
also been approved in India, Mongolia and Pakistan and marketing the spread of the disease.
noselloT
:ngiseD
Left to right: Taiyin Yang, PhD, Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Development and Manufacturing; Gregg H. Alton, Executive Vice President,
Corporate and Medical Aff airs; John McHutchison, MD, Executive Vice President, Clinical Research; Robin L. Washington, Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Offi cer; John F. Milligan, PhD, President and Chief Operating Offi cer; John C. Martin, PhD, Chairman and Chief Executive Offi cer;
Norbert W. Bischofb erger, PhD, Executive Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Scientifi c Offi cer; Katie L. Watson, Senior Vice President,
Human Resources; Paul R. Carter, Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations; Andrew Cheng, MD, PhD, Executive Vice President, HIV Therapeutics
and Development Operations.
1As HIV patients live longer, they face additional health issues. Because Advancement in Cardiovascular and Respiratory Disease FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
of this, creating new HIV therapies that are potentially safer, better In the areas of cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, Gilead is
tolerated and achieve high efficacy rates remains a priority. focused on expanding the use of available therapies and developing
compounds with the potential to provide clinical benefit to new patient
Gilead has made exciting progress with regimens containing TAF. populations. A key achievement in this area in 2014 was the AMBITION
TAF has demonstrated high antiviral efficacy and an improved renal trial, which has the potential to change the way patients with pulmo-
and bone safety profile. Results from two Phase 3 studies showed the nary arterial hypertension (PAH) are treated. AMBITION evaluated
compound known as E/C/F/TAF (elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/ ambrisentan, approved as Letairis®, in combination with tadalafil as
tenofovir alafenamide) had more favorable renal and bone safety an initial regimen for PAH patients. Data from AMBITION showed that
profiles compared with Stribild. These encouraging results supported the combination of ambrisentan and tadalafil resulted in a 50 percent
the regulatory submissions of E/C/F/TAF in the United States and Europe reduction in risk of clinical failure compared with either drug by
and prompted us to accelerate our regulatory filing timeline for F/TAF itself. Gilead submitted an sNDA to cover the use of ambrisentan in
(emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide), which will be an important new combination with tadalafil to the U.S. FDA in December.
backbone to address long-term treatment needs across many regimens.
We are also building on the knowledge that has been gained
Finally, Gilead expanded its partnership with Janssen R&D Ireland, our dis- in understanding the mechanism of action of Ranexa®, currently
tribution partner for Complera/Eviplera, to include the development and approved for the treatment for chronic angina, which alters the activity
PRODUCT SALES TOTAL REVENUES
commercialization of R/F/TAF, which is F/TAF plus Janssen’s rilpivirine. of the cardiac late sodium current. GS-6615, a potent and selective late
($ IN MILLIONS) ($ IN MILLIONS)
Janssen is also developing D/C/F/TAF, which contains Janssen’s darunavir sodium current inhibitor, is in development to treat rare and potentially
and would be the first protease-containing STR available to patients. fatal heart conditions that lack effective therapy: long QT-3 syndrome, $ 26,000 – $ 26,000 –
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and ventricular tachycardia/ventricular $ 24,000 – $ 24,000 –
To ensure this next generation of TAF-based regimens will reach fibrillation.
$ 22,000 – $ 22,000 –
patients around the world, we expanded our agreement with the
$ 20,000 – $ 20,000 –
Medicines Patent Pool in July to speed access in the developing Progress is being made with GS-5806, an investigational fusion inhibitor
world once approved in the United States. The agreement will allow for the treatment of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). Results of a Phase $ 18,000 – $ 18,000 –
sub-licensing of TAF for HBV and HIV to generic drug companies in 2a challenge study, which were published in the New England Journal $ 16,000 – $ 16,000 –
India and China to manufacture and distribute it in 112 developing of Medicine, indicate that the compound reduced symptoms and viral
$ 14,000 – $ 14,000 –
countries. The agreement builds on the success of our earlier efforts. load in RSV-infected adult volunteers. There is no effective therapy for
$ 12,000 – $ 12,000 –
Today, more than 125 countries in the developing world are included in RSV, which accounts for more than 300,000 hospitalizations each year
Gilead’s access program and more than 7 million HIV-infected individuals in the United States. Simtuzumab, in studies for several liver diseases, $ 10,000 – $ 10,000 –
in the developing world are receiving one of Gilead’s antiretrovirals is also being evaluated as a potential treatment for idiopathic pulmo- $ 8,000 – $ 8,000 –
representing more than 60 percent of people on therapy. nary fibrosis, a disease that causes scarring and reduced function of
$ 6,000 – $ 6,000 –
the lungs.
Establishing a Foundation in Oncology $ 4,000 – Antiviral $ 4,000 –
Products
Zydelig is a first-in-class PI3K delta inhibitor approved in the In Closing $ 2,000 – Cardiopulmonary $ 2,000 –
Products
United States and European Union in 2014 for several blood cancers, 2014 was a remarkable year for Gilead. We enter 2015 with a portfolio $ 0 – Other Products $ 0 –
providing a new therapy for patient populations with few other options. of 19 marketed products, a diverse pipeline, new partners and a 12 13 14 12 13 14
Zydelig provides a foundation from which to develop new cancer continued focus on enabling worldwide access to our life-saving
therapies, including combination regimens that potentially offer cancer medications.
patients longer lasting remission rates. EARNINGS PER SHARE OPERATING CASH FLOW
The support of our shareholders, the guidance from our Board of ($ IN MILLIONS)
We are conducting studies to help us better understand the potential Directors and the incredible efforts of our employees are responsible
$ 9.00 – $ 13,000 –
benefit of Zydelig in a variety of lymphomas and at various stages for the company’s success to date, and for allowing Gilead to achieve
of the disease. In addition, we are advancing development of other its goal of providing treatment to millions of individuals around the world. $ 12,000 –
$ 8.00 –
novel, investigational anti-cancer molecules, including the Syk $ 11,000 –
inhibitor entospletinib (GS-9973) and the JAK inhibitor momelotinib. Thank you for your interest in Gilead. $ 7.00 – $ 10,000 –
Further enhancing the company’s pipeline of experimental oncology
$ 9,000 –
medicines is GS-4059, a BTK inhibitor we recently licensed from $ 6.00 –
Ono Pharmaceutical of Japan. With this agreement, Gilead now $ 8,000 –
has compounds targeting multiple signaling pathways associated $ 5.00 – $ 7,000 –
with B-cell malignancies–PI3K delta, Syk, JAK and BTK. The goal John C. Martin, PhD • N duo en - tG o A roA uP n a dm ino gu .nts may not sum $ 6,000 –
$ 4.00 –
of combination studies in the field of oncology is to achieve more Chairman and Chief Executive Officer • Non-GAAP diluted earnings per
share for 2012 exclude after-tax $ 5,000 –
pronounced and more durable response rates and to expand the acquisition-related expenses of
$0.08, restructuring expenses $ 3.00 –
number of cancers that may be treated. of $0.01 and stock-based $ 4,000 –
compensation expenses of $0.22.
Forward-Looking Statement • Non-GAAP diluted earnings per $ 2.00 – GAAP Diluted $ 3,000 –
GS-5745, the anti-MMP9 antibody, is undergoing evaluation in ulcer- This Annual Report includes forward-looking statements regarding our clinical studies share for 2013 exclude after-tax Earnings
ative colitis and gastric and pancreatic cancers. Based on promising a dn ed ve p loro pd mu ec nt tc man ild ei sd ta ot ne es s, ,i n recl gu ud li an tg o rt yh e fil ia nn gt sic aip na dt e lad u t nim chin eg s .a Sn ud c a hc sh ti ae tv ee mm ee nn tst o arf ec e pr rt ea din ic tions a o coc f q m$u 0 pi .s 1 e1i nt i a so n an d t- ir ose ntl oa ecte xkd p-b e e a nx s sp e ee d sn os fe $s 0.11. $ 1.00 – Per Share $ 2,000 –
safety and efficacy data, we anticipate moving the compound forward and involve risks and uncertainties such that actual results may differ materially. Please refer • Non-GAAP diluted earnings per N Dio lun t- eG dA EA aP rnings $ 1,000 –
in clinical development for ulcerative colitis and gastric cancer in 2015. to Gilead’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 attached to s ah ca qr ue is f io tir o 2 n-0 re14 la e tex dcl u ed xe p ea nft se er s-t ax $ 0 – Per Share $ 0 –
this report for the risks and uncertainties affecting Gilead’s business. Gilead disclaims any of $0.55 and stock-based
In addition, Phase 2 studies are planned in Crohn’s disease. obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this report. compensation expenses of $0.18. 12 13 14 12 13 14
2 3CORPORATE INFORMATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM Brian J. Druker, MD CORPORATE SECRETARY
John C. Martin, PhD John C. Martin, PhD Director, Knight Cancer Institute Gregg H. Alton
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Associate Dean for Oncology, School Executive Vice President,
Gilead Sciences of Medicine Corporate and Medical Affairs
John F. Milligan, PhD JELD-WEN Chair of Leukemia
John F. Cogan, PhD President and Chief Operating Officer Research INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
Lead Independent Director, Oregon Health & Science University PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
Gilead Sciences Norbert W. Bischofberger, PhD Investigator, Howard Hughes Medical Ernst & Young, LLP
Senior Fellow, Hoover Institution, Executive Vice President, Institute Redwood City, California
Stanford University Research and Development and
Chief Scientific Officer Mark C. Genovese, MD CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS
Etienne F. Davignon James W. Raitt Endowed Professor Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Minister of State for Belgium, Robin L. Washington of Medicine 333 Lakeside Drive
Chairman, Genfina Executive Vice President and Co-Division Chief, Division of Foster City, CA 94404 USA
Chief Financial Officer Immunology and Rheumatology (800) 445-3235 or (650) 574-3000
Carla A. Hills Stanford University School of Medicine www.gilead.com
Chair and Chief Executive Officer, Gregg H. Alton
Hills & Company International Executive Vice President, Robert A. Harrington, MD STOCKHOLDER INQUIRIES
Consultants Corporate and Medical Affairs Arthur L. Bloomfield Professor of Inquiries from our stockholders and
Medicine, Chair, Department of potential investors regarding our
Kevin E. Lofton, FACHE Paul R. Carter Medicine, Stanford University company are always welcome and will
Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President, School of Medicine receive a prompt response. Please
Catholic Health Initiatives Commercial Operations direct your requests for information to:
Paul E. Klotman, MD
John W. Madigan Andrew Cheng, MD, PhD President, Chief Executive Officer, and Investor Relations
Retired Chairman and Executive Vice President, Executive Dean Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Chief Executive Officer, HIV Therapeutics and Development John E. and Clara B. Whitmore 333 Lakeside Drive
Tribune Company Operations Professor, Baylor College of Medicine Foster City, CA 94404 USA
(800) 445-3235 or (650) 574-3000
Nicholas G. Moore John McHutchison, MD Malcolm MacCoss, PhD, FRSC
Retired Global Chairman, Executive Vice President, Founder and Member, Bohicket Information regarding Gilead is also
PricewaterhouseCoopers Clinical Research Pharma Consulting LLC available at www.gilead.com.
Visiting Professor of Chemistry for
Richard J. Whitley, MD Taiyin Yang, PhD Medicine, University of Oxford, UK STOCK LISTING
Distinguished Professor, Executive Vice President, Ex-Vice President of Drug Discovery Gilead common stock is traded on the
Loeb Scholar Chair in Pediatrics, Pharmaceutical Development and Sciences, Merck Research Nasdaq Global Select Stock Market,
Professor of Pediatrics, Microbiology, Manufacturing Laboratories, Rahway, NJ under the symbol GILD.
Medicine, and Neurosurgery, Ex-Group Vice President of Chemistry,
University of Alabama at Birmingham Katie L. Watson Schering-Plough Research Institute ANNUAL MEETING
Senior Vice President, The annual meeting of stockholders
Gayle Edlund Wilson Human Resources John W. Mellors, MD will be held at 10:00 a.m. on
Chairman Emeritus of COSMOS, Professor of Medicine, Wednesday, May 6, 2015, at the Westin
The California State Summer School SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY BOARD Chief, Division of Infectious Diseases, San Francisco Airport Hotel.
for Math and Science Joel R. Huff, PhD (Chairperson) University of Pittsburgh School
Retired Vice President of of Medicine TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR
Per Wold-Olsen Medicinal Chemistry, Communications concerning stock
Retired President, Human Health Merck Research Laboratories Eugene R. Schiff, MD transfer requirements, lost certificates
Intercontinental Division, Leonard Miller Professor of Medicine and changes of address should be
Merck & Co., Inc. Kenneth C. Anderson, M.D. Dr. Nasser Ibrahim Al-Rashid Chair in directed to the Transfer Agent:
Kraft Family Professor of Medicine, the Schiff Center for Liver Diseases
DIRECTOR EMERITUS, GILEAD Harvard Medical School Director, Schiff Center for Liver Computershare
SCIENCES BOARD OF DIRECTORS Director, LeBow Institute for Myeloma Diseases P.O. BOX 30170
George P. Shultz, PhD Therapeutics Director, Hepatology Research College Station, TX 77842-3170
Distinguished Fellow, Director, Jerome Lipper Multiple Laboratory (800) 710-0940
Hoover Institution, Myeloma Center University of Miami Miller School of www.computershare.com/investor
Stanford University Dana-Farber Cancer Institute Medicine
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
Paul Berg, PhD Robert T. Schooley, MD Gilead Sciences is proud to be an
Cahill Professor of Professor of Medicine and Head, equal opportunity employer and
Biochemistry, Emeritus, Division of Infectious Diseases, extends employment to men and
Stanford University School of Medicine Vice Chair of Department of Medicine, women from culturally diverse
University of California, San Diego backgrounds. Our environment
Francis V. Chisari, MD respects individual differences and
Professor and Head Eric J. Topol, MD recognizes each employee as an
Division of Experimental Virology Director, Scripps Translational integral member of our company.
Department of Immunology and Science Institute Our workforce reflects these values
Microbial Science Chief Academic Officer, and celebrates the individuals who
The Scripps Research Institute Scripps Health make up our growing team.
Professor of Genomics,
The Scripps Research Institute
Gilead
Sciences
Annual
Report
2014
Gilead Annual Report 2014
Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Gilead Sciences is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of 333 Lakeside Drive
unmet medical need. The company’s mission is to advance the care of patients suff ering from life-threatening diseases worldwide. Foster City, California
Gilead has operations in more than 30 countries worldwide, with headquarters in Foster City, California.
94404
AmBisome, Cayston, Complera, Emtriva, Eviplera, Gilead, Gilead Sciences, the Gilead logo design, Harvoni, Hepsera, Letairis,
650 574 3000 T
Ranexa, Sovaldi, Stribild, Truvada, Tybost, Viread, Vistide, Vitekta, Volibris and Zydelig are registered trademarks of Gilead Sciences,
Inc. or one of its related companies. Atripla is a registered trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb & Gilead Sciences, LLC. Lexiscan is 800 445 3235
a registered trademark of Astellas U.S. LLC. Tamifl u is a registered trademark of Hoff mann-La Roche Inc. Macugen is a registered
trademark of EyeTech, Inc. 650 578 9264 F
Full U.S. prescribing information for Gilead products is available at www.gilead.com. www.gilead.com
4Gilead
Sciences
Annual
Report
2014
Gilead Annual Report 2014
Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Gilead Sciences is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of 333 Lakeside Drive
unmet medical need. The company’s mission is to advance the care of patients suff ering from life-threatening diseases worldwide. Foster City, California
Gilead has operations in more than 30 countries worldwide, with headquarters in Foster City, California.
94404
AmBisome, Cayston, Complera, Emtriva, Eviplera, Gilead, Gilead Sciences, the Gilead logo design, Harvoni, Hepsera, Letairis,
650 574 3000 T
Ranexa, Sovaldi, Stribild, Truvada, Tybost, Viread, Vistide, Vitekta, Volibris and Zydelig are registered trademarks of Gilead Sciences,
Inc. or one of its related companies. Atripla is a registered trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb & Gilead Sciences, LLC. Lexiscan is 800 445 3235
a registered trademark of Astellas U.S. LLC. Tamifl u is a registered trademark of Hoff mann-La Roche Inc. Macugen is a registered
trademark of EyeTech, Inc. 650 578 9264 F
Full U.S. prescribing information for Gilead products is available at www.gilead.com. www.gilead.com