Our Focus
Gilead Sciences Annual Report 2011
Gilead
Sciences
Annual
Report
2011
Gilead Sciences, Inc.
333 Lakeside Drive
Foster City, California
Gilead Sciences is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet 94404
medical need. The company’s mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life-threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered
in Foster City, California, Gilead has operations in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. t 650 574 3000
800 445 3235
AmBisome, Cayston, Complera, Emtriva, Eviplera, Gilead, Gilead Sciences, the Gilead logo design, Hepsera, Letairis, Ranexa, Truvada,
Viread, Vistide and Volibris are registered trademarks of Gilead Sciences, Inc. or one of its related companies. Atripla is a registered
trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb & Gilead Sciences, LLC. Lexiscan is a registered trademark of Astellas U.S. LLC. Tamiflu is a registered f 650 578 9264
trademark of Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. Macugen is a registered trademark of Eyetech, Inc.
www.gilead.com
Full U.S. prescribing information for Gilead products is available at www.gilead.com.Our Focus
We are an organization of more than 4,500 individuals working at 31 sites
in 24 countries around the world. Together, we share one common focus, and
that is advancing the discovery, development and delivery of new medications
for people worldwide. Silvia, pictured on the cover of this annual report,
has been living with HIV since 1997. Her story is one of many that inspire us.
Adrian Ray, PhD, Principal Scientist, Drug Metabolism, Swami Swaminathan, PhD,
Vice President of Structural Chemistry, and other dedicated researchers at Gilead are
helping to advance therapy for HIV/AIDS and other life-threatening conditions.
FS
noselloT
:ngiseD
GILEAD 2011
1GILEAD 2011
Derek Spencer, MS, CNRP
Executive Director, JACQUES Initiative, Institute of Human Virology,
University of Maryland, School of Medicine
Derek Spencer is a nurse practitioner and a Baltimore native who
recognized that providing comprehensive care and engaging the community
in confronting HIV-related stigma could help address the epidemic in his city.
In 2003, Derek and his colleagues established the JACQUES Initiative,
a multidisciplinary and holistic healthcare program that focuses on integrating
outreach, screening and linkage to care, and treatment and retention.
Gilead’s work in the lab and in the clinic has helped create more treatment
options for patients and for healthcare professionals like Derek.
Above: Hongmei Mo, MD, Director, Biology, Gilead Sciences
2Transforming Treatment Forging Partnerships
The first single tablet regimen for HIV, Atripla® – introduced in working to develop an effective, all-oral regimen that does not Collaborations of all kinds – across departments at Gilead and therapeutic areas. In oncology, for example, we initiated a multi-
2006 – helped transform the treatment of the disease. With one pill, require burdensome interferon injections. with external partners – enhance our ability to develop and year research agreement with Yale University to search for the
patients take all of their HIV medications with each dose, which deliver new products in multiple therapeutic areas. Whether in genetic basis and underlying molecular mechanisms of several
Formulation experts like Mark and Lauren apply their scientific
can increase convenience and could reduce the risk of resistance the lab or in the field, cross-functional teams work together to forms of cancer. The investment in early-stage research today
expertise to the challenging process of combining multiple medica-
that can develop if one component of a multi-drug regimen is innovate in all aspects of our business. Gilead’s chemistry and holds the potential to yield the urgently needed, targeted cancer
tions into a single tablet. Their work is part of Gilead’s ongoing
missed. Five years later, we introduced the second single tablet biology teams work side by side, sharing information among labs treatments of the future.
effort to make safe and effective medicines that are simple to take.
regimen, Complera,® and we are now working toward the approval and across hallways – to identify and design new molecules.
1. Richard P. Lifton, MD, PhD, Sterling Professor of Genetics and Internal
of a third such antiretroviral product – Quad. Mark Menning, Senior Research Scientist, Formulation and Process Development, Medicine, Chairman, Department of Genetics at Yale University; Director, Yale Center
Gilead Sciences and Lauren Wiser, Research Scientist, Formulation and Process We work with external organizations to advance research and
for Human Genetics and Genomics; Investigator, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 2.
The concept of a complete regimen in a once-daily tablet is also Development, Gilead Sciences development and to manufacture products in each of our Tim Pigot, Senior Director, Marketing, Gilead Sciences and Louisa Leung, Associate
a long-term goal in the treatment of hepatitis C. We are now Director, Market Access and Reimbursement, Gilead Sciences
4 5Expanding Access Staying Connected
We recognize that many people who might benefit from our HIV FOCUS program, which works to make HIV screening Among our 4,500 employees is HIV therapeutic specialist Marta, helps providers understand the profile and role of Gilead’s
therapies may not yet be diagnosed, in medical care or able to routine in urban communities across the United States. In who reaches out to medical professionals in Eastern Europe products, and the feedback she receives about the ongoing
afford treatments. To help change this, Gilead supports screening the developing world, our international Access Program now from one of Gilead’s newest locations in Warsaw. Gilead’s needs of patients helps to inform and shape Gilead’s educa-
initiatives and provides assistance programs that help patients provides HIV treatment to more than 2.1 million people at growing team in the European region now generates nearly tional programs.
around the world access our medications. steep discounts, and in mid-2011 we announced a five-year 40 percent of the company’s annual revenues.
Marta Debniak-Latuszynska, Therapeutic Specialist, Gilead Sciences
donation of AmBisome® to the World Health Organization
In 2011, we took immediate action when growing wait lists for Marta meets with providers regularly to discuss therapeutic
to treat 50,000 patients with visceral leishmaniasis, one of
U.S. AIDS Drug Assistance Programs jeopardized patients’ access advances in the field of HIV. The information she shares
the deadliest parasitic diseases.
to HIV medicines around the country by instituting additional
1. Mother and child, Uganda, 2. Dayansky Anez and Gloria Lamprea, Nurse,
rebates for our antiretroviral products. We also expanded our
Urban Health Plan, 3. Huy Pham, Manager, Manufacturing, Gilead Sciences
6 7GILEAD 2011
Silvia, HIV Advocate
Silvia was born in Rome, Italy, the youngest in a family of four. She was 30 years old
when she was diagnosed with HIV – and she remembers the time as one of fear
and isolation. In London, where she now lives, Silvia was introduced to a network of
HIV-positive women, whose support and encouragement helped her to appreciate
her inner strength. Today, Silvia works with her local advocacy organization,
Positively UK, helping other HIV-positive women and men find their voices.
“Let’s not let HIV limit us. With support, treatment and care,
we can all live our lives with dignity and achieve our dreams.”
– Silvia
9“2012 marks Gilead’s 25th anniversary,
To Our Stockholders, and I am confident that our innovation,
integrity and hard work will allow us to make
Employees and Friends:
great progress in the years to come.”
– John C. Martin, PhD, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The past year was one of the most exciting Focus on Science
periods in Gilead’s nearly 25-year history.
Gilead pursues science with the goal of transforming
We closed 2011 with annual revenues of
the treatment of life-threatening diseases. Our research
$8.4 billion, 14 commercial products and a ro-
and development effort is the largest it has ever been,
bust pipeline across all of our therapeutic areas. with more than 75 Phase 2 and 3 clinical studies evalu-
ating compounds with the potential to become the
With diverse experiences, backgrounds and per- next generation of innovative therapies for HIV, hepa-
titis, serious respiratory, cardiovascular and metabolic
spectives, the contributions of our employees
conditions, cancer and inflammation.
come in many different forms – supporting the
discovery of new compounds, designing clini-
In November 2011, we announced the acquisition
cal trials, enhancing manufacturing processes, of Pharmasset, which brought us GS-7977, an oral
preparing regulatory submissions and oversee- hepatitis C compound now in Phase 3 clinical trials
that expands our existing hepatitis C pipeline. Our goal
ing the commercial launch of new products.
is to transform the standard of care for patients with
Individually, our employees focus on achieving
hepatitis C by delivering an all-oral regimen that elimi-
excellence in their designated roles. Together, nates the need for weekly injections of interferon. The
we share one focus, and that is how we can do acquisition of Pharmasset has significantly accelerated
the pace with which we could deliver on this goal, and
more to bring new medications in areas of un-
we have integrated the GS-7977 Phase 3 studies into
met medical need to patients around the world.
our R&D program.
Left to Right: Kevin Young CBE, Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations; Robin L. Washington, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer;
Norbert W. Bischofberger, PhD, Executive Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer; John C. Martin, PhD, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer;
In 2011, we saw record revenues for Atripla, Truvada, Ranexa, Letairis, Cayston and AmBisome.
Gregg H. Alton, Executive Vice President, Corporate and Medical Affairs; Kristen M. Metza, Senior Vice President, Human Resources;
John F. Milligan, PhD, President and Chief Operating Officer
10 11During 2011, important new datasets
emerged that further define the clinical
profile of our marketed products
and investigational compounds.
With the acquisitions of Calistoga Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In August 2011, the U.S. Food and Drug Administra- We also made important progress this year on our inves- the potential use of Truvada to prevent infection in
and Arresto Biosciences, Inc., in addition to our research tion (FDA) approved Complera, our second single tigational agent GS-7340, a novel prodrug of tenofovir at-risk, HIV-negative individuals – an approach known
partnership with Yale, we now have a solid foundation tablet regimen for HIV. In addition, the product was with a much smaller dose that could enable single tablet as pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP. Based on the
in oncology. GS-1101 will enter Phase 3 trials in 2012 approved in Europe as Eviplera® in November, and regimens with HIV drugs that are not currently possible. results of several multinational studies conducted by
and GS-6624 is now being evaluated in three Phase 2 we are now in the midst of launching this regimen in These could include regimens developed with Gilead government and academic institutions, Gilead sub-
studies for myelofibrosis, pancreatic cancer and colon several European countries. products and in collaboration with other companies. mitted a regulatory filing to FDA in December 2011
cancer. The recent purchase of a biologics manufac- For example, in November, we announced a partnership for approval of once-daily Truvada to reduce the risk
turing facility in Oceanside, California brings us new Additionally, we completed several Phase 3 studies to develop a single tablet regimen combining Janssen’s of HIV infection among uninfected adults.
expertise in antibody manufacturing and will support in HIV that helped to advance new once-daily single darunavir with Emtriva, GS-7340 and cobicistat.
our ability to produce clinical supplies for GS-6624 tablet regimens. In October and November 2011, we In the field of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infec-
and potential future product candidates. And our part- filed for U.S. and European approval of Quad. The piv- In May 2011, a landmark study known as HPTN 052 tion, important five-year data were presented in late
nership with Yale is focused on helping us discover otal trials for this product enrolled over 1,400 patients provided additional evidence that antiretroviral therapy 2011, showing that Viread treatment can lead to a
new targets for cancer therapy, as our scientists work and took place in 150 sites across four continents. Our not only has a role in treating HIV, but also in pre- reduction in liver fibrosis and a reversal of cirrhosis.
together to search for the genetic basis and underlying teams worked diligently to complete these studies and venting transmission. Results showed that HIV-infected Affecting more than 350 million people worldwide,
molecular mechanisms of many forms of cancer. submitted Quad data to U.S. regulatory authorities in people who began treatment immediately were 96 chronic HBV remains a significant global challenge.
record time, just six weeks after the last patient visit. percent less likely to transmit the virus to uninfected
Focus on Treatment Comprising four components – Viread® and Emtriva® partners, compared to those who delayed starting treat- In cardiovascular disease, we are investigating the
(as Truvada®), our boosting agent (cobicistat) and our ment. These data have prompted many public health expanded use of Ranexa® – established as a therapy
During 2011, important new datasets emerged that integrase inhibitor (elvitegravir) – Quad single tablet experts to call for the universal offer of treatment to for stable chronic angina. In November 2011, we
further define the clinical profile of our marketed regimen will be the first to contain an integrase inhibitor. people with HIV immediately upon their diagnosis, and initiated a multi-country Phase 3 trial in partner-
products and investigational compounds. We are preparing to launch this product in the United some local health departments have now adopted this ship with the Cardiovascular Research Foundation
States in the third quarter of 2012. policy. Additionally, new data has emerged regarding to evaluate Ranexa in angina patients with incomplete
In August, the U.S. FDA approved Complera, our second single tablet regimen for HIV. Gilead is focused on pursuing science with the goal of transforming the treatment of life-threatening diseases.
12 13The Gilead Access Program now reaches
more than 2.1 million developing world patients,
representing one-quarter of all patients on
HIV treatment worldwide.
revascularization following percutaneous coronary inter- reducing the burden of obtaining the test results prior Three-quarters of patients in our Access Program are endemic areas in the developing world. AmBisome has
vention (PCI), a patient population at risk for repeat to being given their monthly prescription. Following this taking generic versions of Gilead products produced been commercially available for more than 20 years,
hospitalization and procedures. With this study, we will change, Letairis sales increased 22 percent over 2010. by our Indian manufacturing partners. In July 2011 and continues to address significant unmet medical
determine whether the addition of Ranexa to standard we expanded our agreements with these Indian needs for systemic fungal infections. As a result of the
therapy reduces the rate of major adverse cardiovas- Finally, we initiated a Phase 3 study to evaluate our partners to include future rights to manufacture our dedicated efforts of our team in Europe and beyond,
cular events. In addition, we are evaluating whether cystic fibrosis (CF) therapy Cayston® for the treatment pipeline products, including Quad, upon their regula- AmBisome revenues grew 8 percent in 2011, to $330
Ranexa may be used to treat patients with both coro- of infections in non-CF bronchiectasis, an obstructive tory approval. These expanded agreements also permit million worldwide.
nary artery disease and diabetes. To further define this lung disease in which airways become damaged due to for the first time the sale of generic Viread for the
potential benefit, we initiated our first Phase 3 study infection, leading to poor airflow. Preliminary results treatment of hepatitis B. Also in July, Gilead became In the United States, we continue to support our
of Ranexa in January 2012 for type 2 diabetes. are expected in 2013. the first company to join the Medicines Patent Pool, patient assistance programs, which provide medicines
an organization established to facilitate expanded across all therapeutic areas at no cost for low-income,
The focused efforts of employees across our organiza- Focus on Access access to HIV treatment in the developing world uninsured patients, and a co-pay assistance program to
tion’s research, commercial, drug safety, regulatory and through the sharing of patents. help those who are unable to afford insurance co-pays.
medical affairs teams helped us achieve an important
As important to us as developing new products is
milestone for Letairis,® a treatment for pulmonary To help fight the neglected tropical disease visceral Focus on Results
ensuring that these products are available to patients
arterial hypertension. In March 2011, FDA agreed to leishmaniasis (VL), we made a product donation worth
who need them. The Gilead Access Program now
remove the Boxed Warning for the potential risk of reaches more than 2.1 million developing world more than $8 million to the World Health Organization In 2011, Gilead generated product sales of more than
liver injury for Letairis based on a collection of more patients, representing one-quarter of all patients (WHO) in December 2011. VL affects half a million $8.1 billion, a 10 percent increase over 2010. While the
than 7,800 patient years of post-marketing data, as well on HIV treatment worldwide. people each year, and if left untreated is almost always majority of our revenue is driven by the continuing
as data collected through Gilead’s LabSync program. fatal. Gilead is providing WHO with nearly 450,000 successes of Atripla and Truvada as the most-pre-
This change means that Letairis patients no longer vials of AmBisome over five years, which will treat scribed HIV regimen and product, respectively, in
are required to undergo monthly liver monitoring, 50,000 patients and support VL control efforts in the United States and major European countries,
In 2011, we achieved record market share for our combined HIV portfolio as well as our cardiopulmonary products. Gilead products are available in more than 150 countries around the world.
14 15Financial Highlights
Product Sales Total Revenues
($ in millions) ($ in millions)
$ 9,000 $ 9,000
$ 8,000 $ 8,000
$ 7,000 $ 7,000
$ 6,000 $ 6,000
$ 5,000 $ 5,000
$ 4,000 $ 4,000
Other
$ 3,000 $ 3,000
Ranexa
$ 2,000 $ 2,000
Letairis
$ 1,000 AmBisome $ 1,000
Antiviral Franchise
$ 0 $ 0
09 10 11 09 10 11
our cardiovascular and respiratory products also pro- I thank our employees, who are reaching millions
vided a larger percentage of our revenues than ever of people worldwide with life-saving medicines.
before, with an increase of 33 percent over 2010. 2012 marks Gilead’s 25th anniversary, and I am
confident that our innovation, integrity and hard
I would like to acknowledge the guidance of our work will allow us to make great progress in the
Earnings per Share Operating Cash Flow
Board of Directors and the members of our scien- years to come. Thank you for your continued
($ in millions)
tific and medical advisory boards, who have provided support of Gilead Sciences.
their expertise and have helped us to achieve these
accomplishments. $ 4.00 $ 4,000
Sincerely,
$ 3.50 $ 3,500
$ 3.00 $ 3,000
$ 2.50 $ 2,500
$ 2.00 $ 2,000
John C. Martin, PhD $ 1.50 $ 1,500
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer $ 1.00 GAAP Diluted $ 1,000
Earnings per Share
$ .50 Non-GAAP Diluted $ 500
Earnings per Share
$ 0 $ 0
09 10 11 09 10 11
Forward-Looking Statement • Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for 2009 excluded the after-tax impact of acquisition-related expenses of $0.05, the after-tax impact of restructuring expenses of $0.04 and the after-tax
impact of stock-based compensation expenses of $0.15.
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements regarding our clinical studies and product candidates, including the anticipated enrollment and completion dates of
certain clinical trials and the potential of our product candidates, including any anticipated regulatory approvals and launches. Such statements are predictions and involve risks and • Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for 2010 excluded the after-tax impact of acquisition-related expenses of $0.16, the after-tax impact of restructuring expenses of $0.03 and the after-tax
impact of stock-based compensation expenses of $0.17.
uncertainties such that actual results may differ materially. Please refer to Gilead’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, attached to this report,
• Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for 2011 excluded the after-tax impact of acquisition-related expenses of $0.11, the after-tax impact of restructuring expenses of $0.01 and the after-tax
for the risks and uncertainties affecting Gilead’s business. Gilead disclaims, and does not undertake, any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in this report.
impact of stock-based compensation expenses of $0.18.
16 17GILEAD 2011
Gilead’s Focus Areas
HIV / AIDS Liver Disease
Three decades after the first cases of HIV / AIDS were reported in 1981, tremendous Chronic hepatitis B and hepatitis C are known as “silent killers” because they can slowly
advances in treatment have transformed what was once a terminal disease into a manageable, damage the liver over many years without causing noticeable symptoms. As a result, every
chronic condition. Since the 2001 approval of our first HIV medication, Viread, Gilead has year nearly a million people worldwide die of the complications associated with these viral
played a central role in the development of simplified HIV treatment regimens of once-daily infections.
co-formulated medicines available as a single tablet. Research has shown that high adherence
to HIV medicines is critical in reducing the risk of HIV drug resistance and treatment failure. Chronic hepatitis B can be effectively treated using therapies like Viread, which not only
Gilead’s newest single tablet regimen, Quad, is now undergoing review by regulatory agencies maintains long-term viral suppression, but also is associated with a reversal of liver cirrhosis.
in the United States and Europe. In the United States and Europe, we continue to support the development of new commu-
nity-based awareness campaigns to encourage hepatitis B screening and linkage to care. With
We initiated Phase 2 studies of GS-7340, a novel prodrug of tenofovir, the active agent in Gilead’s recent expansion in Asia, we are focusing our efforts on educating the community
Viread. GS-7340 exhibits greater potency in human clinical studies at a dose ten times lower than about both the disease and the availability of effective treatment options such as Viread. We
Viread, which may enable new HIV combinations not feasible with Viread. In addition, we have also are continuing to pursue various approaches to limit durations of therapy for hepatitis
ongoing preclinical research evaluating new compounds and classes of HIV molecules, such as B, including oral therapies and therapeutic vaccines.
the non-catalytic integrase inhibitors, in-licensed from Boehringer Ingelheim in October 2011.
For patients with hepatitis C, Gilead aims to develop effective all-oral treatment regimens
Gilead is also engaged in early-stage research focused on identifying novel agents and thera- that will eliminate the need for interferon, an injectable medicine that is associated with seri-
peutic strategies that may have a role to play in helping to eradicate or “cure” HIV infection. ous side effects. Our acquisition of Pharmasset and lead compound GS-7977, which is now
in Phase 3 clinical trials, brings us an important step closer to achieving this goal. Together
with our existing pipeline of hepatitis C compounds, we are now exploring combination
regimens that will help us address the unmet need for more effective medications that are
easier to take.
CANDIDATE PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3
GS-7977
nucleotide NS5B inhibitor Hepatitis C
GS-9451
NS3 protease inhibitor Hepatitis C
GS-5885
NS5A inhibitor Hepatitis C
GS-9256
NS3 protease inhibitor Hepatitis C
GS-9190
non-nucleoside NS5B inhibitor Hepatitis C
CANDIDATE PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3
GS-6624
Quad Integrase Single Tablet Regimen
monoclonal antibody Liver Fibrosis
elvitegravir/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/cobicistat HIV / AIDS U.S. and EU Applications Submitted
GS-9669
Cobicistat
non-nucleoside NS5B inhibitor Hepatitis C
pharmacoenhancer HIV / AIDS
GS-9620
Elvitegravir
TLR-7 agonist Hepatitis C / Hepatitis B
integrase inhibitor HIV / AIDS
GS-7340
GS-7340
nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor Hepatitis B
nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV / AIDS
The colors of the imagery on pages 18, 20 and 21 have been modified.
18 19GILEAD 2011
Cardiovascular / Metabolic Respiratory
Heart disease remains a leading cause of death in the United States and around the world, Due to infections, genetic factors and environmental conditions, millions of people suffer
accounting for a quarter of all deaths globally. Gilead focuses on developing therapies that from disorders that cause breathing difficulties. These respiratory diseases are often life-
alleviate the symptoms and improve quality of life or outcomes for patients with serious threatening and can significantly impair patient quality of life. Seasonal influenza, for
cardiovascular conditions. example, causes as many as five million cases of severe illness and 250,000 to 500,000
deaths globally every year. Gilead has a strong heritage in the respiratory arena, having
Letairis helps improve exercise capacity and delays clinical worsening of patients with pul- invented the world’s leading oral antiviral for the treatment and prevention of influenza,
monary arterial hypertension (PAH), an incurable cardiovascular disease that affects some Tamiflu,® which is commercialized by Roche.
200,000 people worldwide. PAH can lead to heart failure if left untreated. Ranexa reduces
painful chronic angina attacks so that patients may return to their daily activities. Unlike Currently, we focus on providing therapies for people with cystic fibrosis (CF), an inherited
many other angina treatments, Ranexa can be taken with a wide range of other heart medica- chronic disease that affects the pulmonary and digestive system and impacts about 70,000
tions, helping doctors and patients develop a comprehensive plan for managing concurrent people worldwide. The lungs of CF patients are particularly susceptible to a chronic bacterial
cardiovascular diseases. infection called Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which can be treated with Gilead’s inhaled antibiotic
Cayston. We are now investigating its potential to treat infections in non-CF bronchiectasis,
We are exploring the full potential of Ranexa as a therapy for heart and metabolic disorders. another respiratory condition. We’re also testing an investigational monoclonal antibody for
We launched a new study with the Cardiovascular Research Foundation to assess the effi- efficacy against idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a life-threatening scarring of the lungs with no
cacy of adding Ranexa to standard therapy for patients with angina whose coronary arteries known cause.
remain partially blocked following angioplasty. We are also conducting Phase 3 studies to
determine whether Ranexa has a role to play in the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
CANDIDATE PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3
Aztreonam for Inhalation Solution
CANDIDATE PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 Non-CF Bronchiectasis
Ranolazine GS-6624
late sodium current inhibitor Incomplete Revascularization Post-PCI monoclonal antibody Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis
Ranolazine
late sodium current inhibitor Type 2 Diabetes
Ranolazine/Dronedarone Fixed-Dose Combination
Paroxysmal Atrial Fibrillation
20 21Marketed Products
PRODUCT INDICATION PARTNERS
Oncology / Inflammation
HIV / AIDS
Atripla® HIV / AIDS Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/ (U.S., Western Europe, Canada)
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg Merck & Co., Inc. (Rest of World)
While significant progress has been made in the fight against cancer in recent years, novel
targeted therapies that are designed to specifically address individual tumor biology and drug Complera® HIV / AIDS
emtricitabine/rilpivirine/tenofovir
resistance and that are more easily tolerated are urgently needed.
disoproxil fumarate
Truvada® HIV / AIDS Japan Tobacco Inc.
Improvements in our understanding of cancer genetics allow oncologists to define different
emtricitabine/tenofovir (Japan)
types of cancer, not only by the part of the body where they occur, but also by the specific disoproxil fumarate
molecular characteristics that drive them. And because many cancers show evidence of specific
Emtriva® HIV / AIDS Japan Tobacco Inc.
molecular abnormalities, they may be best treated using a targeted approach. emtricitabine (Japan)
We are pursuing potential oncology candidates such as a PI3K delta inhibitor, GS-1101, Viread® HIV / AIDS Japan Tobacco Inc.
which is currently in clinical trials for certain forms of leukemia and lymphoma. And we are tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (Japan)
testing a monoclonal antibody, GS-6624, to determine its role in combating various malig-
nancies, including myelofibrosis, a life-threatening bone marrow disorder, pancreatic cancer LIVER DISEASE
and colon cancer. In addition, through our internal discovery efforts and the partnership
Viread® Chronic Hepatitis B GlaxoSmithKline Inc.
with Yale University established in March 2011, we are working to identify new molecular tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (China, Japan, Saudi Arabia)
targets and develop novel targeted therapies to address cancer based upon unique molecular
characteristics. We are also exploring a Syk inhibitor, GS-9973, as a targeted approach to Hepsera® Chronic Hepatitis B GlaxoSmithKline Inc.
inflammatory disorders. adefovir dipivoxil (Asia, Latin America)
CARDIOVASCULAR
Lexiscan® Coronary Vasodilation Astellas Pharma Inc. (U.S., Canada)
regadenoson injection Rapidscan (Europe and select other markets)
Letairis® Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension GlaxoSmithKline Inc.
ambrisentan (WHO Group 1) (Outside U.S.)
Ranexa® Chronic Angina Menarini Group
ranolazine (Europe)
RESPIRATORY
Cayston® Cystic Fibrosis
CANDIDATE PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 aztreonam for inhalation solution
GS-1101
PI3K delta inhibitor Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Tamiflu® Influenza A and B F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
oseltamivir phosphate (Worldwide)
GS-1101
PI3K delta inhibitor Indolent non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma
OTHER
GS-6624
monoclonal antibody Myelofibrosis Macugen® Neovascular (wet) Age-related Eyetech, Inc. (U.S.)
pegaptanib sodium injection Macular Degeneration Pfizer Inc. (Outside U.S.)
GS-6624
monoclonal antibody Pancreatic Cancer
Vistide® CMV Retinitis / AIDS
GS-6624
cidofovir injection
monoclonal antibody Colorectal Cancer
GS-9973
AmBisome® Severe Fungal Infections Astellas Pharma Inc. (U.S., Canada)
Syk inhibitor Rheumatoid Arthritis
amphotericin B liposome for injection Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd. (Japan)
22 23Corporate Information
Our Focus
Board of Directors Senior Leadership Team Robert T. Schooley, MD Independent Registered Public
John C. Martin, PhD John C. Martin, PhD Professor of Medicine and Head, Accountants
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Division of Infectious Diseases, Ernst & Young LLP
Gilead Sciences Vice Chair of Department of Medicine, Palo Alto, California
John F. Milligan, PhD University of California, San Diego
James M. Denny President and Chief Operating Officer Corporate Headquarters
Gilead Sciences Annual Report 2011
Lead Independent Director, Eric J. Topol, MD Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Gilead Sciences Board of Directors Norbert W. Bischofberger, PhD Director, Scripps Translational 333 Lakeside Drive
Executive Vice President, Science Institute, Foster City, CA 94404 USA
John F. Cogan, PhD Research and Development and Chief Academic Officer, Scripps Health (800) 445-3235 or (650) 574-3000
Senior Fellow, Hoover Institution, Chief Scientific Officer Professor of Translational Genomics, www.gilead.com
Stanford University The Scripps Research Institute,
Gregg H. Alton Vice-Chairman, West Wireless Stockholder Inquiries
Etienne F. Davignon Executive Vice President, Health Institute Inquiries from our stockholders and
Minister of State, Corporate and Medical Affairs potential investors regarding our
Chairman, Genfina Bernard M. Wagner, MD company are always welcome and will
Kevin Young CBE Emeritus Research Professor receive a prompt response. Please direct
Carla A. Hills Executive Vice President, of Pathology, New York University your requests for information to:
Chair and Chief Executive Officer, Commercial Operations Medical Center
Hills & Company International Investor Relations
Consultants Kristen M. Metza Health Policy Advisory Board Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Senior Vice President, Sir Richard Feachem, KBE, FREng, 333 Lakeside Drive
Kevin E. Lofton Human Resources DSc(Med), PhD (Chairperson) Foster City, CA 94404 USA
President and Chief Executive Officer, Director, Global Health Group, (800) 445-3235 or (650) 574-3000
Catholic Health Initiatives Robin L. Washington Professor of Global Health,
Senior Vice President and University of California, San Francisco Information regarding Gilead also is
John W. Madigan Chief Financial Officer and University of California, Berkeley available at www.gilead.com.
Retired Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer, Scientific Advisory Board Seth F. Berkley, MD Stock Listing
Tribune Company Joel R. Huff, PhD (Chairperson) Chief Executive Officer, Gilead common stock is traded on the
Retired Vice President of GAVI Alliance Nasdaq Global Select Stock Market,
Gordon E. Moore, PhD Medicinal Chemistry, under the symbol GILD.
Retired Chairman and Merck Research Laboratories Michael V. Drake, MD
Chief Executive Officer, Chancellor, Annual Meeting
Intel Corporation Paul Berg, PhD University of California, Irvine The annual meeting of stockholders will
Cahill Professor of be held at 10:00 a.m. on Thursday,
Nicholas G. Moore Biochemistry, Emeritus, David Gollaher, PhD May 10, 2012 at the Westin
Retired Global Chairman, Stanford University School of Medicine President and Chief Executive Officer, San Francisco Airport Hotel.
PricewaterhouseCoopers California Healthcare Institute
Francis V. Chisari, MD Transfer Agent and Registrar
Richard J. Whitley, MD Professor of Virology and Immunology, Calvin Q. Pan, MD Communications concerning stock
Distinguished Professor, The Scripps Research Institute President, transfer requirements, lost certificates
Loeb Scholar Chair in Pediatrics, Medical Procare, PLLC and changes of address should be
Professor of Pediatrics, Microbiology, Peter B. Dervan, PhD directed to the Transfer Agent:
Medicine, and Neurosurgery, Bren Professor of Chemistry, Robert Shapiro, PhD
University of Alabama at Birmingham California Institute of Technology Chairman, Computershare
Sonecon, LLC 480 Washington Boulevard
Gayle Edlund Wilson Paul E. Klotman, MD Jersey City, NJ 07310-1900
Chair, Ralph M. Parsons Foundation President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard J. Whitley, MD USA
John E. and Clara B. Whitmore Distinguished Professor, (800) 710-0940
Per Wold-Olsen Professor, Baylor College of Medicine Loeb Scholar Chair in Pediatrics, www.computershare.com
Retired President, Human Health Professor of Pediatrics, Microbiology,
Intercontinental Division, John W. Mellors, MD Medicine, and Neurosurgery, Equal Opportunity Employer
Merck & Co., Inc. Professor of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham Gilead Sciences is proud to be an equal
Chief, Division of Infectious Diseases, opportunity employer and extends
Director Emeritus, Gilead Sciences University of Pittsburgh School Per Wold-Olsen employment to men and women
Board of Directors of Medicine Retired President, Human Health from culturally diverse backgrounds.
George P. Shultz, PhD Intercontinental Division, Our environment respects individual
Distinguished Fellow, Eugene R. Schiff, MD Merck & Co., Inc. differences and recognizes each
Hoover Institution, Leonard Miller Professor of Medicine, employee as an integral member of our
Stanford University Director for Schiff Liver Institute, Corporate Secretary company. Our workforce reflects these
Director for Center for Liver Diseases, Gregg H. Alton values and celebrates the individuals
University of Miami School Executive Vice President, Corporate who make up our growing team.
of Medicine and Medical Affairs
Gilead
Sciences
Annual
Report
2011
Gilead Sciences, Inc.
333 Lakeside Drive
Foster City, California
Gilead Sciences is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet 94404
medical need. The company’s mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life-threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered
in Foster City, California, Gilead has operations in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. t 650 574 3000
800 445 3235
AmBisome, Cayston, Complera, Emtriva, Eviplera, Gilead, Gilead Sciences, the Gilead logo design, Hepsera, Letairis, Ranexa, Truvada,
Viread, Vistide and Volibris are registered trademarks of Gilead Sciences, Inc. or one of its related companies. Atripla is a registered
trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb & Gilead Sciences, LLC. Lexiscan is a registered trademark of Astellas U.S. LLC. Tamiflu is a registered f 650 578 9264
trademark of Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. Macugen is a registered trademark of Eyetech, Inc.
www.gilead.com
Full U.S. prescribing information for Gilead products is available at www.gilead.com.
24Our Focus
Gilead Sciences Annual Report 2011
Gilead
Sciences
Annual
Report
2011
Gilead Sciences, Inc.
333 Lakeside Drive
Foster City, California
Gilead Sciences is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet 94404
medical need. The company’s mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life-threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered
in Foster City, California, Gilead has operations in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. t 650 574 3000
800 445 3235
AmBisome, Cayston, Complera, Emtriva, Eviplera, Gilead, Gilead Sciences, the Gilead logo design, Hepsera, Letairis, Ranexa, Truvada,
Viread, Vistide and Volibris are registered trademarks of Gilead Sciences, Inc. or one of its related companies. Atripla is a registered
trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb & Gilead Sciences, LLC. Lexiscan is a registered trademark of Astellas U.S. LLC. Tamiflu is a registered f 650 578 9264
trademark of Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. Macugen is a registered trademark of Eyetech, Inc.
www.gilead.com
Full U.S. prescribing information for Gilead products is available at www.gilead.com.