UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019
or
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from to
Commission File No. 0-19731
GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
Delaware 94-3047598
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) (IRS Employer Identification No.)
333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California 94404
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
650-574-3000
(Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, par value, $0.001 per share GILD The Nasdaq Global Select Market
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes x No ¨
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ¨ No x
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of
this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x No ¨
Indicate by check mark whether registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large
accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer x Accelerated filer ¨ Non-accelerated filer ¨
Smaller reporting company ☐ Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial
accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ☐ No x
The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant based upon the closing price of its Common Stock on the Nasdaq
Global Select Market on June 28, 2019 was $66.4 billion.*
The number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s Common Stock on February 18, 2020 was 1,263,636,656.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Specified portions of the registrant’s proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A in connection with the registrant’s 2020 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders, to be held on May 6, 2020, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.
* Based on a closing price of $67.56 per share on June 28, 2019. Excludes 284,647,252 shares of the registrant’s Common Stock held by executive officers, directors and any
stockholders whose ownership exceeds 5% of registrant’s common stock outstanding at June 28, 2019. Exclusion of such shares should not be construed to indicate that any such
person possesses the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of the registrant or that such person is controlled by or under common
control with the registrant.GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
2019 Form 10-K Annual Report
Table of Contents
PART I
Item 1 Business 3
Item 1A Risk Factors 13
Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 26
Item 2 Properties 26
Item 3 Legal Proceedings 26
Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 26
PART II
Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27
Item 6 Selected Financial Data 29
Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30
Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 43
Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45
Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 90
Item 9A Controls and Procedures 90
Item 9B Other Information 92
PART III
Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 92
Item 11 Executive Compensation 92
Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 92
Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 92
Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 92
PART IV
Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 92
Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 95
SIGNATURES 96
We own or have rights to various trademarks, copyrights and trade names used in our business, including the following: GILEAD®, GILEAD SCIENCES®,
AMBISOME®, ATRIPLA®, BIKTARVY®, CAYSTON®, COMPLERA®, DESCOVY®, DESCOVY FOR PREP®, EMTRIVA®, EPCLUSA®, EVIPLERA®, GENVOYA®,
HARVONI®, HEPSERA®, LETAIRIS®, ODEFSEY®, RANEXA®, SOVALDI®, STRIBILD®, TRUVADA®, TRUVADA FOR PREP®, TYBOST®, VEMLIDY®, VIREAD®,
VOSEVI®, YESCARTA® and ZYDELIG®. LEXISCAN® is a registered trademark of Astellas U.S. LLC. MACUGEN® is a registered trademark of Bausch Health Ireland
Limited. SYMTUZA® is a registered trademark of Janssen Sciences Ireland UC. TAMIFLU® is a registered trademark of Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. This report also
refers to trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies.This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations,” contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Words such as “expect,” “anticipate,”
“target,” “goal,” “project,” “hope,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “continue,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “might,” "forecast," variations of
such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements other than statements of historical fact
are forward-looking statements, including statements regarding overall trends, operating cost and revenue trends, liquidity and capital needs and other
statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions.
We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations about future events. These statements are not guarantees of future performance
and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those suggested by these forward-
looking statements for various reasons, including those identified in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.” Given
these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this
report are made only as of the date hereof. Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), we do not undertake, and specifically decline, any obligation to update any of these statements or to publicly announce the results of any
revisions to any forward-looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or
otherwise.
2PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we, our or us), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a research-based biopharmaceutical company that discovers,
develops and commercializes innovative medicines in areas of unmet medical need. With each new discovery and investigational drug candidate, we strive to
transform and simplify care for people with life-threatening illnesses around the world. We have operations in more than 35 countries worldwide, with headquarters in
Foster City, California. Gilead’s primary areas of focus include viral diseases, inflammatory and fibrotic diseases and oncology. We seek to add to our existing
portfolio of products through our internal discovery and clinical development programs, product acquisition, in-licensing and strategic collaborations.
Our Principal Products
Our innovative medicines represent advancements by offering enhanced modes of delivery, more convenient treatment regimens, improved resistance profiles,
reduced side effects and greater efficacy. Our focus on innovation has allowed us to deliver more than 24 marketed products across multiple therapeutic areas.
Our principal products and the approved indications in the United States are as follows:
HIV/AIDS
• Biktarvy® is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Biktarvy is a single tablet regimen of a fixed-dose
combination of our antiretroviral medications, bictegravir, emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide (TAF).
• Descovy® is an oral formulation indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Descovy is a
fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, emtricitabine and TAF. Descovy is also approved by U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for
a pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) indication to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection in certain at-risk patients.
• Odefsey® is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Odefsey is a single tablet regimen of a fixed-dose
combination of our antiretroviral medications, emtricitabine and TAF, and rilpivirine marketed by Janssen Sciences Ireland UC, one of the Janssen
Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson (Janssen).
• Genvoya® is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Genvoya is a single tablet regimen of a fixed-dose
combination of our antiretroviral medicines, elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine and TAF.
• Stribild® is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Stribild is a single tablet regimen of a fixed-dose
combination of our antiretroviral medications, elvitegravir, cobicistat, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) and emtricitabine.
• Complera®/Eviplera® is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. The product, marketed in the United
States as Complera and in Europe as Eviplera, is a single tablet regimen of a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, TDF and emtricitabine,
and Janssen’s rilpivirine hydrochloride.
• Atripla® is an oral formulation indicated as a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Atripla is a fixed-dose combination of
our antiretroviral medications, TDF and emtricitabine, and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS)’s efavirenz.
• Truvada® is an oral formulation indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. It is a fixed-
dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, TDF and emtricitabine. Truvada is also approved by FDA for a PrEP indication, in combination with safer
sex practices, to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection in certain at-risk patients.
Liver Diseases
• Vosevi® is an oral formulation of a once-daily, single tablet regimen of sofosbuvir, velpatasvir and voxilaprevir for the re-treatment of chronic hepatitis C
virus (HCV) infection in adults: (i) with genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 previously treated with an NS5A inhibitor-containing regimen or (ii) with genotype 1a or 3
previously treated with a sofosbuvir-containing regimen without an NS5A inhibitor.
• Epclusa® is an oral formulation of a once-daily single tablet regimen of sofosbuvir and velpatasvir for the treatment of chronic HCV infection in adults with
genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6: (i) without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis or (ii) with decompensated cirrhosis for use in combination with ribavirin.
• Harvoni® is an oral formulation of a once-daily, single tablet regimen of ledipasvir and sofosbuvir for the treatment of chronic HCV infection in: (i) adults
with genotype 1, 4, 5 or 6 without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis, (ii) adults with genotype 1 infection with decompensated cirrhosis, in combination
with ribavirin, (iii) adults with genotype 1 or 4
3who are liver transplant recipients without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis, in combination with ribavirin, or (iv) certain pediatric patients with
genotype 1, 4, 5 or 6 without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis.
• Vemlidy® is an oral formulation of TAF dosed once a day for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in adults with compensated liver
disease.
• Viread® is an oral formulation of TDF dosed once a day for the treatment of chronic HBV infection in adults and certain pediatric patients.
Hematology/Oncology
• Yescarta® (axicabtagene ciloleucel) is a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-
cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy, including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) not otherwise specified, primary mediastinal
large B-cell lymphoma, high-grade B-cell lymphoma and DLBCL arising from follicular lymphoma.
• Zydelig® (idelalisib) is an oral formulation of a kinase inhibitor for the treatment of patients with: (i) relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), in
combination with rituximab, for whom rituximab alone would be considered appropriate therapy due to other co-morbidities, (ii) relapsed follicular B-cell non-
Hodgkin lymphoma (FL) in patients who have received at least two prior systemic therapies or (iii) relapsed small lymphocytic lymphoma who have received
at least two prior systemic therapies.
Other
• Letairis® (ambrisentan) is an oral formulation of an endothelin receptor antagonist for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (WHO Group
I) (i) to improve exercise capacity and delay clinical worsening or (ii) in combination with tadalafil to reduce the risks of disease progression and
hospitalization for worsening PAH, and to improve exercise ability.
• Ranexa® (ranolazine) is an oral formulation of an extended-release tablet of an antianginal for the treatment of chronic angina.
• AmBisome® (amphotericin B liposome for injection) is a proprietary liposomal formulation of amphotericin B, an antifungal agent, for the treatment of
serious invasive fungal infections caused by various fungal species in adults.
For information about our product revenues, including the amount of revenue contributed by each of the products listed above for each of the last three fiscal
years, see Note 2. Revenues of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Commercialization and Distribution
We have U.S. and international commercial sales operations, with marketing subsidiaries in more than 35 countries. Our products are marketed through our
commercial teams and/or in conjunction with third-party distributors and corporate partners. Our commercial teams promote our products through direct field contact
with physicians, hospitals, clinics and other healthcare providers. We generally grant our third-party distributors the exclusive right to promote our product in a
territory for a specified period of time. Most of our agreements with these distributors provide for collaborative efforts between the distributor and Gilead in obtaining
and maintaining regulatory approval for the product in the specified territory.
We sell and distribute most of our products in the United States exclusively through the wholesale channel. Our product sales to three large wholesalers,
AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation, each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years ended
December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. On a combined basis, in 2019, these wholesalers accounted for approximately 87% of our product sales in the United States and
approximately 64% of our total worldwide revenues. We sell and distribute our products in Europe and countries outside the United States where the product is
approved, either through our commercial teams, third-party distributors or corporate partners.
Competition
We operate in a highly competitive environment. We face significant competition from global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialized
pharmaceutical firms and generic drug manufacturers. Our products compete with other commercially available products based primarily on efficacy, safety,
tolerability, acceptance by doctors, ease of patient compliance, ease of use, price, insurance and other reimbursement coverage, distribution and marketing. As our
products mature, private insurers and government payers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients, which increases pressure on us to reduce prices.
Further, as new branded or generic products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing and market share may be affected. For a description of
our competitors, see Item 1A. Risk Factors “We face significant competition.”
4Research and Development
Our research and development (R&D) philosophy and strategy are to develop best-in-class drugs that improve safety or efficacy for unmet medical needs. We
intend to continue committing significant resources to internal R&D opportunities and external business development activity.
Our product development efforts are focused primarily in viral diseases, inflammatory and fibrotic diseases and oncology. We have research scientists engaged
in the discovery and development of new molecules and technologies that we hope will lead to the approval of new medicines that will advance the current standard
of care and address unmet medical needs.
The development of our product candidates is subject to various risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include our ability to enroll patients in
clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our clinical trials or to perform additional trials and the risk of
failing to obtain regulatory approvals. As a result, our product candidates may never be successfully commercialized. Drug development is inherently risky and many
product candidates fail during the drug development process.
In 2019, we continued to invest in and advance our R&D pipeline across our therapeutic areas. At the end of 2019, our R&D pipeline included 104 active clinical
studies, of which 27 were Phase 3 clinical trials.
Below is a summary of our key product candidates and their corresponding current stages of development.
Product Candidates in Viral Diseases
Product Candidates Description
Phase 2
GS-6207 GS-6207, a capsid inhibitor, is being evaluated for the treatment of HIV infection.
Selgantolimod Selgantolimod, a TLR-8 agonist, is being evaluated for the treatment of chronic HBV infection.
Phase 1
Vesatolimod Vesatolimod, a TLR-7 agonist, is being evaluated as a potential cure for HIV infection.
Elipovimab Elipovimab, a broadly neutralizing antibody, is being evaluated as a potential cure for HIV infection.
GS-4224 GS-4224, a PD-L1 inhibitor, is being evaluated for the treatment of chronic HBV infection.
Product Candidates in Inflammatory and Fibrotic Diseases
Product Candidates Description
Phase 3
Filgotinib Filgotinib, a JAK1 inhibitor, is being evaluated for the treatment of (i) Crohn’s disease, (ii) ulcerative colitis and (iii)
psoriatic arthritis.
Cilofexor Cilofexor, a FXR agonist, is being evaluated for the treatment of primary sclerosing cholangitis.
GLPG-1690(2) GLPG-1690, an autotaxin inhibitor, is being evaluated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
Phase 2
Filgotinib Filgotinib is being evaluated for the treatment of (i) ankylosing spondylitis and (ii) uveitis.
GS-4875 GS-4875, a TPL2 inhibitor, is being evaluated for the treatment of ulcerative colitis.
GLPG-1972(1) GLPG-1972, an ADAMTS-5 inhibitor, is being evaluated for the treatment of osteoarthritis.
Selonsertib Selonsertib, an ASK-1 inhibitor, is being evaluated for the treatment of diabetic kidney disease.
Cilofexor, firsocostat and selonsertib combinations Cilofexor, firsocostat (an ACC inhibitor) and selonsertib combinations are being evaluated for the treatment of nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH).
GLPG-1690(2) GLPG-1690 is being evaluated for the treatment of systemic sclerosis.
GLPG-1205(1) GLPG-1205, a GPR84 inhibitor, is being evaluated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
Phase 1
GLPG-0555(1) GLPG-0555 is being evaluated for the treatment of inflammatory diseases.
GLPG-3312(1) GLPG-3312 is being evaluated for the treatment of inflammatory diseases.
GLPG-3970(1) GLPG-3970 is being evaluated for the treatment of inflammatory diseases.
GLPG-3667(1) GLPG-3667 is being evaluated for the treatment of inflammatory diseases.
5Product Candidates in Oncology
Product Candidates Description
Phase 3
Axicabtagene ciloleucel Axicabtagene ciloleucel is being evaluated for the treatment of second line DLBCL.
Phase 2
Axicabtagene ciloleucel Axicabtagene ciloleucel is being evaluated for the treatment of indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Axicabtagene ciloleucel is
also being evaluated for the treatment of (i) first line DLBCL and (ii) DLBCL in combination with either rituximab or
lenalidomide.
KTE-X19 KTE-X19, a CAR T cell therapy, is being evaluated for the treatment of (i) adult and pediatric acute lymphoblastic
leukemia and (ii) CLL.
Phase 1
Axicabtagene ciloleucel Axicabtagene ciloleucel is being evaluated for the treatment of DLBCL in combination with utomilumab.
KITE-718 KITE-718, a MAGE A3/A6, is being evaluated for the treatment of solid tumors.
KITE-439 KITE-439, an HPV E7, is being evaluated for the treatment of solid tumors.
GS-1423 GS-1423, a bi-specific antibody, is being evaluated for the treatment of solid tumors.
GS-4224 GS-4224, an oral PD-L1 inhibitor, is being evaluated for the treatment of solid tumors.
AGEN1223(1) AGEN1223, a bi-specific mAb, is being evaluated for the treatment of multiple indications in oncology.
AGEN2373(1) AGEN2373, an anti-CD137 mAb, is being evaluated for the treatment of multiple indications in oncology.
______________________________________________________
(1) Optionable partner program
(2) Optioned partner program
In addition to our internal discovery and clinical development programs, we seek to add to our portfolio of products through product acquisition, in-licensing
and strategic collaborations. In 2019, we completed 27 strategic partnerships, licensing deals and equity investments, which reflects our commitment to developing
our pipeline across a range of diseases to address areas of significant unmet medical need and positioning ourselves for the long-term growth of our business.
Patents and Proprietary Rights
U.S. and European Patent Expiration
We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be
certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents.
The following table shows the estimated expiration dates (including patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates and/or pediatric exclusivity
where granted) in the United States and the European Union for the primary (typically compound) patents for our Phase 3 product candidates. For our product
candidates that are fixed-dose combinations of single tablet regimens, the estimated patent expiration date provided corresponds to the latest expiring compound
patent for one of the active ingredients in the single tablet regimen.
Phase 3 Product Candidates Patent Expiration
U.S. E.U.
Product Candidates in Inflammatory and Fibrotic Diseases:
Filgotinib for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis and psoriatic arthritis 2030 2030
GLPG-1690 for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis 2034 2034
Cilofexor for the treatment of primary sclerosing cholangitis 2032 2032
Product Candidate in Oncology:
2027 *
Axicabtagene ciloleucel for the treatment of second line DLBCL
__________________________________________
* The composition of matter patent has expired in the European Union. In the European Union and the United States, patent applications are pending relating to proprietary
manufacturing processes of Kite, a Gilead company.
The following table shows the actual or estimated expiration dates (including patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates and/or pediatric
exclusivity where granted) in the United States and the European Union for the primary (typically compound) patents for our principal products. For our products
that are fixed-dose combinations or single tablet regimens,
6the estimated patent expiration dates provided correspond to the latest expiring compound patent for one of the active ingredients in the single tablet regimen.
Products Patent Expiration
U.S. E.U.
Letairis 2018(1) 2020
Ranexa 2019(2) 2023
Atripla 2021(3) 2017
Truvada 2021(3) 2017(4)
Descovy 2022(5) 2026
Vemlidy 2022(5) 2026
Complera/Eviplera 2025 2026
Zydelig 2025(6) 2025(6)
Odefsey 2025 2026
Yescarta 2027(6) -(7)
Stribild 2029 2028
Genvoya 2029 2028
Harvoni 2030 2030(6)
Epclusa 2032 2032
Biktarvy 2033 2033
Vosevi 2034 2033
_________________________________________
These estimated expiration dates do not include any potential additional exclusivity (e.g., patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates or pediatric exclusivity) that has not
yet been granted.
__________________________________________
(1) In 2017, Gilead and Watson Laboratories, Inc. reached an agreement to settle a patent litigation matter related to Letairis.
(2) In 2013, Gilead and Lupin Limited reached an agreement to settle a patent litigation matter related to Ranexa.
(3) In 2014, Gilead and Teva Pharmaceuticals reached an agreement to settle the patent litigation concerning patents that protect emtricitabine in our Truvada and Atripla products. For
additional information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors “We face significant competition.”
(4) Supplementary protection certificates (SPCs) have been granted in several European countries. The validity of these SPCs has been challenged by several generic manufacturers, many of
whom launched their competing products in 2017.
(5) An application for patent term extension was filed in the United States that, if granted, would extend the U.S. expiration date to at least 2025.
(6) Applications for patent term extensions are pending in the United States and/or SPCs are pending in one or more countries in the European Union for these products.
(7) The composition of matter patent has expired in the European Union. In the European Union and the United States, patent applications are pending relating to proprietary
manufacturing processes of Kite.
Patent Protection and Certain Challenges
Patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. If we have a properly drafted and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our
competitors to use our technology to create competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we
create. As part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in the United States and internationally and file additional patent applications, when
appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology.
Patents covering certain of the active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) of most of our HIV products as well as Yescarta are held by third parties. We acquired
exclusive rights to these patents in the agreements we have with these parties.
We may obtain patents for certain products many years before marketing approval is obtained. Because patents have a limited life that may begin to run prior to
the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. However, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions or
supplementary protection certificates in some countries. For example, extensions for the patents or supplementary protection certificates on many of our products
have been granted in the United States and in a number of European countries, compensating in part for delays in obtaining marketing approval. Similar patent term
extensions may be available for other products we are developing, but we cannot be certain we will obtain them in some countries.
It is also important that we do not infringe the valid patents of third parties. If we infringe the valid patents of third parties, our reputation may be harmed and
we may be required to pay significant monetary damages, we may be prevented from commercializing products or we may be required to obtain licenses from these
third parties. We may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain these licenses or
alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products. For example, we are aware of patents and patent
7applications owned by other parties that such parties may claim to cover the use of sofosbuvir, axicabtagene ciloleucel and bictegravir.
Because patent applications are confidential for a period of time until a patent is issued, we may not know if our competitors have filed patent applications for
technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent or first to file an application directed toward the technology that is the subject of our
patent applications. Competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or
compete with our products. In addition, if competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference/derivation
proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. Litigation and interference/derivation proceedings are unpredictable and expensive, such that, even if we
are ultimately successful, our results of operations may be adversely affected by such events.
Patents relating to pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology products, compounds and processes such as those that cover our existing
compounds, products and processes and those that we will likely file in the future, do not always provide complete or adequate protection. Future litigation or other
proceedings regarding the enforcement or validity of our existing patents or any future patents could result in the invalidation of our patents or substantially reduce
their protection. From time to time, certain individuals or entities may challenge our patents.
Our pending patent applications and the patent applications filed by our collaborative partners may not result in the issuance of any patents or may result in
patents that do not provide adequate protection. As a result, we may not be able to prevent third parties from developing compounds or products that are closely
related to those which we have developed or are developing. In addition, certain countries do not provide effective enforcement of our patents, and third-party
manufacturers may be able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries.
For a description of our significant pending legal proceedings, see Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Trade Secrets
We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented internal know-how and technological innovation. For example, a great deal of our
liposomal manufacturing expertise, which is a key component of our liposomal technology, is not covered by patents but is instead protected as a trade secret. We
protect these rights mainly through confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants and vendors. These agreements provide that all
confidential information developed or made known to an individual during the course of their relationship with us will be kept confidential and will not be used or
disclosed to third parties except in specified circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements provide that all inventions made by an individual while
employed by us will be our exclusive property. We cannot be certain that these parties will comply with these confidentiality agreements, that we have adequate
remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Under some of our R&D
agreements, inventions become jointly owned by us and our corporate partners and in other cases become the exclusive property of one party. In certain
circumstances, it can be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention and disputes could arise regarding those inventions. If our trade secrets or confidential
information become known or independently discovered by competitors, or if we enter into disputes over ownership of inventions, our business and results of
operations could be adversely affected.
Manufacturing and Raw Materials
Our products are manufactured either at our own facilities or by third-party contract manufacturers. We depend on third parties to perform manufacturing
activities for the majority of our API and drug products. For most of our products, including our HIV and HCV products, we use multiple third-party contract
manufacturers so that we have primary and back-up suppliers and manufacturing sites. For Yescarta, we have established clinical and commercial manufacturing
facilities for cell processing activities. For our future products, we continue to develop additional manufacturing capabilities and establish additional third-party
suppliers to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates to undertake clinical trials and to manufacture sufficient quantities of any product that is
approved for commercial sale.
Our Manufacturing Facilities
We own or lease manufacturing facilities to manufacture and distribute certain products and API for clinical and/or commercial uses. These facilities are located
in Foster City, San Dimas, La Verne, Oceanside and El Segundo, California; Dublin and Cork, Ireland; Hoofddorp, Netherlands; and Edmonton, Canada.
• Foster City, California: We conduct process chemistry research and formulation development activities, manufacture API and drug product for our clinical
trials and oversee our third-party contract manufacturers.
• San Dimas and La Verne, California: We manufacture AmBisome and also package and label the majority of our commercial products for distribution to the
Americas and Pacific Rim.
• Oceanside, California: We utilize the facility for clinical manufacturing and process development of our biologics candidates.
8• El Segundo, California: We utilize the facility for clinical and commercial manufacturing and processing of Yescarta.
• Cork and Dublin, Ireland: We utilize the Cork facility for commercial manufacturing, packaging and labeling of our products. We also perform quality control
testing, labeling, packaging and final release of many of our products for distribution to the European Union and other international markets. The Dublin
facility is also responsible for distribution activities for our products.
• Edmonton, Canada: We conduct process chemistry research and scale-up activities for our clinical development candidates, manufacture API for both
investigational and commercial products and conduct chemical development activities to improve existing commercial manufacturing processes.
• Hoofddorp, Netherlands: We utilize the facility for commercial manufacturing and processing of Yescarta.
Third-Party Manufacturers
We believe the technology we use to manufacture our products is proprietary. For products manufactured by our third-party contract manufacturers, we have
disclosed all necessary aspects of this technology to enable them to manufacture the products for us. We have agreements with these third-party manufacturers that
are intended to restrict them from using or revealing this technology, but we cannot be certain that these third-party manufacturers will comply with these
restrictions.
For more information about our third-party manufacturers, see Item 1A. Risk Factors “Manufacturing problems, including at our third-party manufacturers and
corporate partners, could cause inventory shortages and delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations.”
Regulation of Manufacturing Process
The manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not
comply with regulations. We, our third-party manufacturers and our corporate partners are subject to current Good Manufacturing Practices, which are extensive
regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards as defined by FDA and the European Medicines Agency.
Similar regulations are in effect in other jurisdictions. Our manufacturing operations are subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies.
For Yescarta, we are required by FDA to comply with the Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy program, which includes educating and certifying medical
personnel regarding the therapy procedures and the potential side effect profile of our therapy, such as the potential adverse side effects related to cytokine release
syndrome and neurologic toxicities. Additionally, we are required to maintain a complex chain of identity and custody with respect to patient material as such material
moves to the manufacturing facilities, through the manufacturing process, and back to the patient.
Access to Raw Materials
We need access to certain raw materials to conduct our clinical trials and manufacture our products. These raw materials are generally available from multiple
sources, purchased worldwide and normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of our business. We attempt to manage the risks associated with our
supply chain by inventory management, relationship management and evaluation of alternative sources when feasible. For more information, see Item 1A. Risk
Factors “We may not be able to obtain materials or supplies necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our products, which could limit our ability
to generate revenues.”
Seasonality of Operations and Backlog
Our worldwide product sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality in end-user demand. In the United States, fluctuations in wholesaler inventory
levels have impacted our product sales. We have observed that strong wholesaler and sub-wholesaler purchases of our products in the fourth quarter have resulted
in inventory draw-down by wholesalers and sub-wholesalers in the subsequent first quarter. Several other factors, including government budgets, annual grant
cycles for federal and state funds and other buying patterns, have impacted the product sales recorded in a particular quarter. For more information, see Item 1A. Risk
Factors “Our inability to accurately predict demand for our products and fluctuations in purchasing patterns or wholesaler inventories makes it difficult for us to
accurately forecast sales and may cause our forecasted revenues and earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our financial results and stock price.”
For the most part, we operate in markets characterized by short lead times and the absence of significant backlogs. We do not believe that backlog information
is material to our business as a whole.
Government Regulation
Our operations and activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States, the European Union and other
countries, including laws and regulations governing the testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion
of our products. As a result of these regulations, product
9development and product approval processes are very expensive and time consuming. The regulatory requirements applicable to drug development and approval are
subject to change. Any legal and regulatory changes may impact our operations in the future.
A country’s regulatory agency, such as FDA in the United States and European Commission for the European Union, as well as the national authorities of the
European Union Member States, must approve a drug before it can be sold in the respective country or countries. The general process for drug approval in the
United States is summarized below. Many other countries, including countries in the European Union, have similar regulatory structures.
Preclinical Testing
Before we can test a drug candidate in humans, we must study the drug in laboratory experiments and in animals to generate data to support the drug
candidate’s potential benefits and safety. We submit this data to FDA in an investigational new drug (IND) application seeking its approval to test the compound in
humans.
Clinical Trials
If FDA accepts the IND, the drug candidate can then be studied in human clinical trials to determine if the drug candidate is safe and effective. These clinical
trials involve three separate phases that often overlap, can take many years and are very expensive. These three phases, which are subject to considerable regulation,
are as follows:
• Phase 1. The drug candidate is given to a small number of healthy human control subjects or patients suffering from the indicated disease, to test for safety,
dose tolerance, pharmacokinetics, metabolism, distribution and excretion.
• Phase 2. The drug candidate is given to a limited patient population to determine the effect of the drug candidate in treating the disease, the best dose of the
drug candidate, and the possible side effects and safety risks of the drug candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate that appears promising in
Phase 1 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous and extensive Phase 2 clinical trials.
• Phase 3. If a drug candidate appears to be effective and safe in Phase 2 clinical trials, Phase 3 clinical trials are commenced to confirm those results. Phase 3
clinical trials are conducted over a longer term, involve a significantly larger population, are conducted at numerous sites in different geographic regions and
are carefully designed to provide reliable and conclusive data regarding the safety and benefits of a drug candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate
that appears promising in Phase 2 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous and extensive Phase 3 clinical trials.
FDA Approval Process
When we believe that the data from our clinical trials show an acceptable benefit-risk profile, we submit the appropriate filing, usually in the form of a New Drug
Application (NDA) or supplemental NDA, with FDA seeking approval to sell the drug candidate for a particular use. At FDA’s discretion, FDA may hold a public
hearing where an independent advisory committee of expert advisors asks additional questions and makes recommendations regarding the drug candidate. This
committee makes a recommendation to FDA that is not binding but is generally followed by FDA. If FDA agrees that the compound has met the required level of
safety and efficacy for a particular use, it will allow us to sell the drug candidate in the United States for that use. It is not unusual, however, for FDA to reject an
application because it believes that the drug candidate is not safe enough or efficacious enough or because it does not believe that the data submitted is reliable or
conclusive.
At any point in this process, the development of a drug candidate can be stopped for a number of reasons including safety concerns and lack of treatment
benefit. We cannot be certain that any clinical trials that we are currently conducting or any that we conduct in the future will be completed successfully or within
any specified time period. We may choose, or FDA may require us, to delay or suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that patients are being exposed to an
unacceptable health risk or if the drug candidate does not appear to have sufficient treatment benefit.
FDA may also require Phase 4 non-registrational studies to explore scientific questions to further characterize safety and efficacy during commercial use of our
drug. FDA may also require us to provide additional data or information, improve our manufacturing processes, procedures or facilities or may require extensive
surveillance to monitor the safety or benefits of our product candidates if it determines that our filing does not contain adequate evidence of the safety and benefits
of the drug. In addition, even if FDA approves a drug, it could limit the uses of the drug. FDA can withdraw approvals if it does not believe that we are complying
with regulatory standards or if concerns about the safety or efficacy are uncovered or occur after approval.
In addition to obtaining FDA approval for each drug, we obtain FDA approval of the manufacturing facilities for any drug we sell, including those of companies
who manufacture our drugs for us. All of these facilities are subject to periodic inspections by FDA. FDA must also approve foreign establishments that manufacture
products to be sold in the United States and these facilities are subject to periodic regulatory inspection. Our manufacturing facilities located in California also must
be licensed by the State of California in compliance with local regulatory requirements. Our manufacturing facilities in Canada, Ireland and Netherlands also must
obtain local licenses and permits in compliance with local regulatory requirements.
Drugs that treat serious or life-threatening diseases and conditions that are not adequately addressed by existing drugs, and for which the development
program is designed to address the unmet medical need, may be designated as fast track candidates by
10FDA and may be eligible for priority review. Drugs for the treatment of HIV infection that are designated for use under the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS
Relief may also qualify for an expedited review.
European Union Regulatory System and Approval Process
In the European Union (EU), our products are subject to a variety of EU and EU Member State regulations governing clinical trials, commercial sales and
distribution. We are required to obtain a marketing authorization in the EU before we can market our medicinal products on the relevant market. The conduct of
clinical trials in the EU is governed by, among others, Directive 2001/20/EC and the EU Good Clinical Practice rules. These impose legal and regulatory obligations
that are similar to those provided in applicable U.S. laws. The conduct of clinical trials in the EU must be approved by the competent authorities of each EU Member
States in which the clinical trials take place, and a positive opinion must be obtained from the relevant Ethics Committee in the relevant Member State. In 2014, the EU
legislator adopted Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 to replace Directive 2001/20/EC and to introduce a coordinated procedure for authorization of clinical trials. This
Regulation is expected to apply in 2021 or 2022.
Marketing authorization holders, manufacturers, importers, wholesalers and distributors of medicinal products placed on the market in the EU are required to
comply with a number of regulatory requirements including pharmacovigilance, Good Manufacturing Practices compliance and the requirement to obtain
manufacturing, import and/or distribution licenses issued by the competent authorities of the EU Member States. Failure to comply with these requirements may lead
to the imposition of civil, criminal or administrative sanctions, including suspension of marketing or manufacturing authorizations.
Pricing and Reimbursement
Successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third-party payer reimbursement for the cost of such
products and related treatments in the markets where we sell our products. Government health authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally
provide reimbursement. In the United States, the European Union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates,
government authorities and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services. A significant portion of our
sales of the majority of our products are subject to substantial discounts from their list prices. As a result, the price increases we implement from time to time on
certain products may have a limited effect on our product sales in certain markets. In addition, standard reimbursement structures may not adequately reimburse for
innovative therapies.
As our products mature, private insurers and government payers often reduce the amount they will reimburse providers, which increases pressure on us to
reduce prices. Further, as new branded or generic products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing and market share may be affected.
For more information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors “Our existing products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties, and we
may be required to provide rebates and other discounts on our products, which may result in an adjustment to our product revenues. Pharmaceutical pricing and
reimbursement pressures may adversely affect our profitability and our results of operations” and “Our inability to accurately predict demand for our products and
fluctuations in purchasing patterns or wholesaler inventories makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast sales and may cause our forecasted revenues and
earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our financial results and stock price.”
Patient Assistance Programs
Recently, there has been enhanced scrutiny of company-sponsored patient assistance programs, including co-pay assistance programs and manufacturer
donations to third-party charities that provide such assistance. There has also been enhanced scrutiny by governments on reimbursement support offerings, clinical
education programs and promotional speaker programs. If we, or our agents and vendors, are deemed to have failed to comply with laws, regulations or government
guidance in any of these areas, we could be subject to criminal and civil sanctions. Any similar violations by our competitors could also negatively impact our
industry reputation and increase scrutiny over our business and our products.
Health Care Fraud and Abuse Laws; Anti-Bribery Laws
We are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to health care “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claim laws. Anti-
kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of
business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the attention being given to them by law
enforcement authorities, it is possible that certain of our practices may be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws generally prohibit anyone
from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by federal and certain state payers (including Medicare and Medicaid),
or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim. Our sales, marketing, patient support and
medical activities may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. Similarly, in Europe, interactions between pharmaceutical companies and physicians are subject to
strict laws, regulations, industry self‑regulation codes of conduct and physicians’ codes of professional conduct, as applicable, including the EU Member States anti-
corruption laws and the UK Bribery Act 2010.
11In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making
improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in parts of the world
that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree. In certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and
practices or may require us to interact with doctors and hospitals, some of which may be state controlled, in a manner that is different than local custom.
Despite our training and compliance program, our internal control policies and procedures may not protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our
employees or agents. Violations of fraud and abuse laws or anti-bribery laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary
penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Violations can also lead to the imposition of a
Corporate Integrity Agreement or similar government oversight program.
U.S. Healthcare Reform
The U.S. federal and state governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to regulate the healthcare industry, including legislation that seeks
to indirectly or directly regulate pharmaceutical drug pricing.
For more information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors “Our results of operations may be adversely affected by current and potential future healthcare legislative and
regulatory actions” and “Laws and regulations applicable to the health care industry could impose new obligations on us, require us to change our business
practices and restrict our operations in the future.”
Employees
As of January 31, 2020, we had approximately 11,800 employees. We believe we have good relations with our employees.
Environment
We are subject to a number of laws and regulations that require compliance with federal, state, and local regulations for the protection of the environment. The
regulatory landscape continues to evolve, and we anticipate additional regulations in the future. Laws and regulations are implemented and under consideration to
mitigate the effects of climate change mainly caused by greenhouse gas emissions. Our business is not energy intensive. Therefore, we do not anticipate being
subject to a cap and trade system or other mitigation measure that would materially impact our capital expenditures, operations or competitive position.
Other Information
We are subject to the information requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy and
information statements and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information
statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.
The mailing address of our headquarters is 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California 94404, and our telephone number at that location is 650-574-3000. Our
website is www.gilead.com. Through a link on the “Investors” page of our website (under “SEC Filings” section), we make available the following filings free of
charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q; Current Reports on Form 8-K; and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
12ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A
manifestation of any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We note these factors
for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should
not consider the following risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face.
A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales of our HIV products. If we are unable to increase or maintain our HIV sales, then our results of
operations may be adversely affected.
We receive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales of our products for the treatment and prevention of HIV infection. During the year ended December
31, 2019, sales of our HIV products accounted for approximately 74% of our total product sales, and our HIV products account for a higher percentage of our total
product sales in 2019 than in 2018. Most of our HIV products contain tenofovir alafenamide (TAF), tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) and/or emtricitabine (FTC),
which belong to the nucleoside class of antiviral therapeutics. If the treatment paradigm for HIV changes, causing nucleoside-based therapeutics to fall out of favor,
or if we are unable to maintain or increase our HIV product sales, our results of operations would likely suffer and we would likely need to scale back our operations,
including our future drug development and spending on research and development (R&D) efforts.
In addition, future sales of our HIV products depend, in part, on the extent of reimbursement of our products by private and public payers. We may continue to
experience global pricing pressure that could result in larger discounts or rebates on our products or delayed reimbursement, which negatively impacts our product
sales and results of operations. Also, private and public payers can choose to exclude our products from their formulary coverage lists or limit the types of patients
for whom coverage will be provided, which would negatively impact the demand for, and revenues of, our products. Any change in the formulary coverage,
reimbursement levels or discounts or rebates offered on our products to payers may impact our anticipated revenues. If we are unable to achieve our forecasted HIV
sales, our stock price could be adversely impacted.
We may be unable to sustain or increase sales of our HIV products for any number of reasons including, but not limited to, the reasons discussed above and
the following:
• As our products are used over a longer period of time in many patients and in combination with other products, and additional studies are conducted, new
issues with respect to safety, resistance and interactions with other drugs may arise, which could cause us to provide additional warnings or
contraindications on our labels, narrow our approved indications or halt sales of a product, each of which could reduce our revenues.
• As our products mature, private insurers and government payers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients for these products, which increases
pressure on us to reduce prices.
• If physicians do not see the benefit of our HIV products, the sales of our HIV products will be limited.
• As new branded or generic products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing and market share may be affected.
If we fail to develop and commercialize new products or expand the indications for existing products, our prospects for future revenues and our results of
operations may be adversely affected.
The success of our business depends on our ability to introduce new products as well as expand the indications for our existing products to address areas of
unmet medical need. The launch of commercially successful products is necessary to cover our substantial R&D expenses and to offset revenue losses when our
existing products lose market share due to various factors such as competition and loss of patent exclusivity, as well as to provide for the growth of our
business. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in drug development and the introduction of new products. The product development cycle is
characterized by significant investments of resources, long lead times and unpredictable outcomes due to the nature of developing medicines for human use. We
expend significant time and resources on our product pipeline without any assurance that we will recoup our investments or that our efforts will be commercially
successful. A high rate of failure is inherent in the discovery and development of new products, and failure can occur at any point in the process, including late in the
process after substantial investment. For example, see “We face risks in our clinical trials, including the potential for unfavorable results, delays in anticipated
timelines and disruption, which may adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth and our results of operations.” We cannot state with certainty when or
whether any of our product candidates under development will be approved or launched; whether we will be able to develop, license or acquire additional product
candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. Failure to launch commercially successful new products or new
indications for existing products could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues, results of operations and long-term success.
13Our inability to accurately predict demand for our products and fluctuations in purchasing patterns or wholesaler inventories makes it difficult for us to
accurately forecast sales and may cause our forecasted revenues and earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our financial results and stock price.
We may be unable to accurately predict demand for our products, including the uptake of new products, as demand depends on a number of factors. For
example, the non-retail sector in the United States, which includes government institutions, including state AIDS Drug Assistance Programs (ADAPs), the U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs, correctional facilities and large health maintenance organizations, tends to be less consistent in terms of buying patterns and often
causes quarter-over-quarter fluctuations that do not necessarily mirror patient demand for our products. Federal and state budget pressures, as well as the annual
grant cycles for federal and state funds, may cause purchasing patterns to not reflect patient demand for our products. We expect to continue to experience
fluctuations in the purchasing patterns of our non-retail customers, which may result in fluctuations in our product sales, revenues and earnings in the future. In light
of the budget crises faced by many European countries, we have observed variations in purchasing patterns induced by cost containment measures in Europe. We
believe these measures have caused some government agencies and other purchasers to reduce inventory of our products in the distribution channels, which has
decreased our revenues and caused fluctuations in our product sales and earnings. We may continue to see this trend in the future.
We sell and distribute most of our products in the United States exclusively through the wholesale channel. During the year ended December 31, 2019,
approximately 87% of our product sales in the United States were to three wholesalers, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson
Corporation. The U.S. wholesalers with whom we have entered into inventory management agreements make estimates to determine end user demand and may not be
completely effective in matching their inventory levels to actual end user demand. As a result, changes in inventory levels held by those wholesalers can cause our
operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly if our sales to these wholesalers do not match end user demand. In addition, inventory is held at retail pharmacies and
other non-wholesaler locations with whom we have no inventory management agreements and no control over buying patterns. Adverse changes in economic
conditions, increased competition or other factors may cause retail pharmacies to reduce their inventories of our products, which would reduce their orders from
wholesalers and, consequently, the wholesalers’ orders from us, even if end user demand has not changed. In addition, we have observed that strong wholesaler and
sub-wholesaler purchases of our products in the fourth quarter typically results in inventory draw-down by wholesalers and sub-wholesalers in the subsequent first
quarter. As inventory in the distribution channel fluctuates from quarter to quarter, we may continue to see fluctuations in our earnings and a mismatch between
prescription demand for our products and our revenues.
We face significant competition.
We face significant competition from global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialized pharmaceutical firms and generic drug manufacturers.
Our products compete with other available products based primarily on efficacy, safety, tolerability, acceptance by doctors, ease of patient compliance, ease of use,
price, insurance and other reimbursement coverage, distribution and marketing.
Our TAF-containing HIV products compete primarily with products from ViiV Healthcare Company (ViiV). We also face competition from generic HIV products.
Generic versions of efavirenz, a component of Atripla, are available in the United States, Canada and Europe. We have observed some pricing pressure related to the
efavirenz component of our Atripla sales. TDF, one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Truvada, Atripla, Complera/Eviplera and Stribild, faces generic
competition in the European Union, the United States and certain other countries. In addition, because FTC, the other active pharmaceutical ingredient of Truvada,
faces generic competition in the European Union, Truvada also faces generic competition in the European Union and certain other countries outside of the United
States. Pursuant to a settlement agreement relating to patents that protect Truvada and Atripla, Teva Pharmaceuticals is permitted to launch generic fixed-dose
combinations of FTC and TDF and generic fixed-dose combinations of FTC, TDF and efavirenz in the United States on September 30, 2020.
Our hepatitis C virus (HCV) products compete primarily with products marketed by AbbVie Inc. and Merck & Co., Inc.
Our hepatitis B virus (HBV) products face competition from existing therapies for treating patients with HBV as well as generic versions of TDF. Our HBV
products also compete with products marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation (Novartis).
Yescarta competes with a CAR T cell therapy marketed by Novartis and a non-CAR T product marketed by Roche and is expected to compete with products
from other companies developing advanced T cell therapies. Yescarta and other commercial products also face competition from certain clinical trials that are enrolling
CAR T eligible patients.
In addition, a number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our existing products or research programs. These
competing companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical
companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and
may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products or programs. If any of these competitors gain market share as a result of new technologies,
commercialization strategies or otherwise, it could adversely affect our results of operations and stock price.
14We may be required to pay significant damages and royalty payments as a result of ongoing litigation related to Yescarta and Biktarvy.
Adverse outcomes in ongoing litigation related to our Yescarta and Biktarvy products could require us to pay significant monetary damages and royalty
payments for past and future sales. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these litigation matters, but the timing and magnitude of any such payments could
have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and stock price.
In October 2017, Juno Therapeutics, Inc. and Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (collectively, Juno) filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the
Central District of California alleging that the commercialization of axicabtagene ciloleucel, sold commercially as Yescarta, infringes on U.S. Patent No. 7,446,190 (the
‘190 patent). A jury trial was held on the ‘190 patent, and in December 2019, the jury found that the asserted claims of the ‘190 patent were valid, and that we willfully
infringed the asserted claims of the ‘190 patent. The jury also awarded Juno damages in amounts of $585 million in an up-front payment and a 27.6% running royalty
from October 2017 through the date of the jury’s verdict. The parties filed post-trial motions in January 2020 and will file further briefings during the first quarter of
2020, and we expect the judge to rule on these matters later in 2020. Once the district court has issued these rulings and has entered judgment, the case may be
appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Although we cannot predict with certainty the ultimate outcome of this litigation, we believe the jury’s
verdict to be in error, and we also believe that errors were made by the court with respect to certain rulings before and during trial.
If the jury’s verdict is not upheld on appeal, the loss will be zero, If the jury’s verdict is upheld in its entirety on appeal, we estimate the upper end of the range
of possible loss through December 31, 2019 to be approximately $1.6 billion, which consists of (i) the $585 million up-front payment determined by the jury, (ii)
approximately $200 million, which represents estimated royalties on our adjusted revenues from Yescarta from October 18, 2017 through December 31, 2019, and (iii)
enhanced damages requested by Juno of up to two times the sum of (i) and (ii) above as a result of the jury’s finding of willfulness. This sum excludes costs and pre-
judgment interest. Supplemental damages consisting of royalties on sales of Yescarta after December 13, 2019 through the date of judgment could be subject to the
27.6% royalty in the jury’s verdict, the 33.1% prospective royalty proposed by Juno, or to enhancement. Any post-judgment sales of Yescarta would be subject to
prospective royalties, which we have estimated could be up to 33.1%, and which would be payable on adjusted Yescarta revenues after the judgment in 2020 until the
expiry of the ‘190 patent in August 2024. We expect the judge to rule on the amount of prospective royalties and any enhanced damages in the course of deciding the
post-trial motions. The court’s determination of prospective royalties and enhanced damages, if any, can also be appealed. If the jury’s verdict is upheld on appeal,
the amount we could be required to pay to Juno could be significant, and such payment could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial
condition and stock price.
In February 2018, ViiV filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court of Delaware, alleging that the commercialization of bictegravir, sold commercially in
combination with TAF and FTC as Biktarvy, infringes on ViiV’s U.S. Patent No. 8,129,385 (the ‘385 patent), covering ViiV’s dolutegravir. Bictegravir is structurally
different from dolutegravir, and we believe that bictegravir does not infringe the claims of the ‘385 patent. To the extent that ViiV’s patent claims are interpreted to
cover bictegravir, we believe those claims are invalid. The court has set a trial date of September 2020 for this lawsuit. For more information about this litigation, as
well as related litigation in countries outside of the United States, see Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although we cannot predict with certainty the ultimate outcome of this litigation, an adverse judgment
could result in significant monetary damages and royalty payments on past and future sales, which could have a material impact on our results of operations,
financial condition and stock price.
Our results of operations may be adversely affected by current and potential future healthcare legislative and regulatory actions.
Legislative and regulatory actions affecting government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs occur relatively frequently. In the United
States, the Affordable Care Act (ACA) was enacted in 2010 to expand healthcare coverage. Since then, numerous efforts have been made to repeal, amend or
administratively limit the ACA in whole or in part. For example, in December 2019, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit held that the individual health
insurance mandate in the ACA is unconstitutional and remanded the case back to the district court to determine whether the other provisions of the ACA can stand
without the individual health insurance mandate. The ongoing challenges to the ACA and new legislative proposals have resulted in uncertainty regarding the
ACA’s future viability and destabilization of the health insurance market. The resulting impact on our business is uncertain and could be material.
Efforts to control prescription drug prices could also have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, in 2018, President Trump and the Secretary of
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) released the “American Patients First Blueprint” and have begun implementing certain portions. The
initiative includes proposals to increase generic drug and biosimilar competition, enable the Medicare program to negotiate drug prices more directly, improve
transparency regarding drug prices and lower consumers’ out-of-pocket costs. The Trump administration also proposed to establish an “international pricing index”
that would be used as a benchmark to determine the costs and potentially limit the reimbursement of drugs under Medicare
15Part B. In addition, in December 2019, U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a proposal to implement two pathways for the legal importation of certain
prescription drugs from Canada and prescription drugs that are FDA-approved, manufactured abroad, authorized for sale in a foreign country and originally intended
for sale in that foreign country. Among other pharmaceutical manufacturer industry-related proposals, Congress has proposed bills to change the Medicare Part D
benefit to impose an inflation-based rebate in Medicare Part D and to alter the benefit structure to increase manufacturer contributions in some or all benefit phases.
The volume of drug pricing-related bills has dramatically increased under the current Congress, and the resulting impact on our business is uncertain and could be
material.
In addition, a majority of states have enacted legislation that seeks to indirectly or directly regulate pharmaceutical drug pricing, such as by requiring
biopharmaceutical manufacturers to publicly report proprietary pricing information or creating review boards for recommending price caps or other means for
controlling prices of pharmaceutical products purchased by state agencies. For example, in 2017, California’s governor signed a prescription drug price transparency
state bill into law, requiring prescription drug manufacturers to provide advance notice and explanation for price increases of certain drugs that exceed a specified
threshold. Many other states have proposed or enacted similar legislation. In addition, many state legislatures are considering, or have already passed, various bills
that would reform drug purchasing and price negotiations, facilitate the import of lower-priced drugs from outside the United States, and encourage the use of generic
drugs. Such initiatives and legislation may cause added pricing pressures on our products.
Changes to the Medicaid program at the federal or state level could also have a material adverse effect on our business. Proposals that could impact coverage
and reimbursement of our products, including giving states more flexibility to manage drugs covered under the Medicaid program, could have a material adverse
effect by limiting our products’ use and coverage. Furthermore, state Medicaid programs could request additional supplemental rebates on our products for many
reasons. To the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow Medicaid coverage and payment developments, they could use the enactment of these
increased rebates to exert pricing pressure on our products, and the adverse effects may be magnified by their adoption of lower payment schedules.
Other proposed regulatory actions affecting manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business. It is difficult to predict the impact, if any, of
any such proposed legislative and regulatory actions or resulting state actions on the use and reimbursement of our products in the United States, but such actions
may adversely affect our results of operations.
Many countries outside the United States, including the European Union (EU) Member States, have established complex and lengthy procedures to obtain
price approvals, coverage and reimbursement. Many EU Member States review periodically their decisions concerning the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal
products. The outcome of this review cannot be predicted and could have an adverse effect on the pricing and reimbursement of our medicinal products in the EU
Member States. Reductions in the pricing of our medicinal products in one EU Member State could affect the price in other EU Member States and have a negative
impact on our financial results.
Our existing products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties, and we may be required to provide rebates and other
discounts on our products, which may result in an adjustment to our product revenues. Pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may adversely affect
our profitability and our results of operations.
Successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third-party payer reimbursement for the cost of such
products and related treatments in the markets where we sell our products. Government health authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally
provide reimbursement. In the United States, the European Union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates,
government authorities and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services. A substantial portion of our
product sales is subject to significant discounts from list price, including rebates that we may be required to pay certain governmental agencies. In addition, standard
reimbursement structures may not adequately reimburse for innovative therapies.
For example, for fiscal year 2020, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has established Medicare inpatient reimbursement for Yescarta that
includes payment for a severity adjusted diagnosis related group (DRG) 016, a new technology add-on payment (NTAP) for Yescarta that at most will cover 65% of
the cost of Yescarta and may cover less than that, and, in some cases, an outlier payment. Taken together, the total payment may not be sufficient to reimburse
hospitals for their cost of care for patients receiving Yescarta. CMS also has not made a decision as to how much it will pay for Yescarta in fiscal year 2021 and
beyond. If Medicare does not adequately reimburse for the cost of Yescarta, this could impact the willingness of some hospitals to offer the therapy and of doctors
to recommend the therapy and could lessen the attractiveness of our therapy to patients, which could have an adverse effect on sales of Yescarta and on our results
of operations. Additionally, in the European Union, there are barriers to reimbursement in individual countries that could limit the uptake of Yescarta.
In addition, we estimate the rebates we will be required to pay in connection with sales during a particular quarter based on claims data from prior quarters. In
the United States, actual rebate claims are typically made by payers one to three quarters in arrears. Actual claims and payments may vary significantly from our
estimates which can cause an adjustment to our product
16revenues. To the extent our actual or anticipated product revenues fall short of investors’ expectations, our stock price could be adversely impacted.
For more information concerning the EU pricing and reimbursement regime, please see “Our results of operations may be adversely affected by current and
potential future healthcare legislative and regulatory actions.”
Laws and regulations applicable to the health care industry could impose new obligations on us, require us to change our business practices and restrict our
operations in the future.
The health care industry is subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations pertaining to drug reimbursement, rebates, price reporting,
health care fraud and abuse, and data privacy and security. In the United States, these laws include anti-kickback and false claims laws, laws and regulations relating
to the Medicare and Medicaid programs and other federal and state programs, the Medicaid Rebate Statute, individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and
marketing practices, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and other federal and state laws relating to the privacy and security of health
information.
Violations of these laws or any related regulations may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, civil
monetary penalties, exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs,
and federal employee health benefit programs, actions against executives overseeing our business and significant remediation measures. In addition, these laws and
regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to change and evolving interpretations, which could require us to incur substantial costs associated with
compliance or to alter one or more of our sales or marketing practices. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could also result in negative
publicity or other consequences that could harm our reputation, disrupt our business or adversely affect our results of operations. If any or all of these events occur,
our business and stock price could be materially and adversely affected.
Recently, there has been enhanced scrutiny of company-sponsored patient assistance programs, including co-pay assistance programs, and manufacturer
donations to third-party charities that provide such assistance. There has also been enhanced scrutiny by governments on reimbursement support offerings, clinical
education programs and promotional speaker programs. If we, or our agents and vendors, are deemed to have failed to comply with laws, regulations or government
guidance in any of these areas, we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions. Any similar violations by our competitors could also negatively impact our industry
reputation and increase scrutiny over our business and our products.
In addition, government price reporting and payment regulations are complex and we are continually assessing the methods by which we calculate and report
pricing in accordance with these obligations. Our methodologies for calculations are inherently subjective and may be subject to review and challenge by various
government agencies, which may disagree with our interpretation. If the government disagrees with our reported calculations, we may need to restate previously
reported data and could be subject to additional financial and legal liability as described above.
For a description of our government investigations and related litigation, see Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Yescarta, a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy, represents a novel approach to cancer treatment that creates significant challenges for us, which may
impact our ability to increase sales of Yescarta.
Yescarta, a CAR T cell therapy, involves (i) harvesting T cells from the patient’s blood, (ii) engineering T cells to express cancer-specific receptors,
(iii) increasing the number of engineered T cells and (iv) infusing the functional cancer-specific T cells back into the patient. Advancing this novel and personalized
therapy creates significant challenges, including:
• educating and certifying medical personnel regarding the procedures and the potential side effect profile of our therapy, such as the potential adverse side
effects related to cytokine release syndrome and neurologic toxicities, in compliance with the Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy program required by
FDA for Yescarta;
• using medicines to manage adverse side effects of our therapy, such as tocilizumab and corticosteroids, which may not be available in sufficient quantities,
may not adequately control the side effects and/or may have a detrimental impact on the efficacy of the treatment;
• developing a robust and reliable process, while limiting contamination risks, for engineering a patient’s T cells ex vivo and infusing the engineered T cells
back into the patient; and
• conditioning patients with chemotherapy in advance of administering our therapy, which may increase the risk of adverse side effects.
The use of engineered T cells as a potential cancer treatment is a recent development and may not be broadly accepted by physicians, patients, hospitals,
cancer treatment centers, payers and others in the medical community. We may not be able to establish or demonstrate to the medical community or commercial or
governmental payers the safety and efficacy of Yescarta and
17the potential advantages compared to existing and future therapeutics. For challenges related to the reimbursement of Yescarta, see also “Our existing products are
subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties, and we may be required to provide rebates and other discounts on our products, which
may result in an adjustment to our product revenues. Pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may adversely affect our profitability and our results of
operations.” If we fail to overcome these significant challenges, our sales of Yescarta, results of operations and stock price could be adversely affected.
We have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, business acquisitions, licensing arrangements, collaborations, disposals of our assets and other strategic
transactions, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
We have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, business acquisitions, licensing arrangements, collaborations, disposals of our assets and other
transactions, as part of our business strategy. We may not identify suitable transactions in the future and, if we do, we may not complete such transactions in a
timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits. For example, if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products
and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. We also may not
be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. We have
also acquired, and may in the future acquire, equity investments in our strategic transactions, such as in connection with our collaboration with Galapagos NV, and
the value of our equity investments may fluctuate and decline in value. Further, we conduct annual impairment testing of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived
intangible assets in the fourth quarter, and earlier if impairment indicators exist, as required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which may result in
impairment charges. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2019 and 2018, we recognized $800 million and $820 million, respectively, of impairment charges related
to indefinite-lived intangible assets acquired in connection with our acquisition of Kite Pharma, Inc. If we fail to overcome these risks, it could cause us to incur
significant expenses and negatively affect profitability, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We could also experience negative effects on
our reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-
term assets.
We face risks associated with our global operations, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Our operations outside of the United States are accompanied by certain financial, political, economic and other risks, including those listed below:
• Foreign Currency Exchange: In 2019, approximately 25% of our product sales were outside the United States. Because a significant percentage of our
product sales is denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Overall,
we are a net receiver of foreign currencies, and therefore, we benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar. While we
use foreign currency exchange forward and options contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, our hedging program does not
eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations. We cannot predict future fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates of the U.S. dollar. If the U.S.
dollar appreciates significantly against certain currencies and our hedging program does not sufficiently offset the effects of such appreciation, our results
of operations will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline.
• Anti-Bribery: We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws that govern our international operations with
respect to payments to government officials. Our international operations are heavily regulated and require significant interaction with foreign officials.
Though our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, we operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to
some degree. In certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices or may require us to interact
with doctors and hospitals, some of which may be state controlled, in a manner that is different than local custom. It is possible that certain of our practices
may be challenged under these laws. In addition, despite our training and compliance program, our internal control policies and procedures may not protect
us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees and agents. Enforcement activities under anti-bribery laws could subject us to administrative
and legal proceedings and actions, which could result in civil and criminal sanctions, including monetary penalties and exclusion from health care programs.
• Other risks inherent in conducting a global business include:
◦ Our international operations, including the use of third-party manufacturers, distributors and collaboration arrangements outside the United States,
expose us to increased risk of theft of our intellectual property and other proprietary technology, particularly in jurisdictions with less robust
intellectual property protections than the United States, as well as restrictive government actions against our intellectual property and other foreign
assets such as nationalization, expropriation or the imposition of compulsory licenses.
18◦ We may be subject to protective economic policies taken by foreign governments, such as trade protection measures and import and export
licensing requirements, which may result in the imposition of trade sanctions or similar restrictions by the United States or other governments.
◦ Our operations may be adversely affected if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a geographic region where we operate, regardless of
cause, including war, terrorism, social unrest and political changes and instability. For example, on January 31, 2020, the United Kingdom (UK)
withdrew from the European Union (EU), which initiated a transition period during which the UK and EU will negotiate their future relationship.
There is uncertainty concerning any changes in the laws and regulations governing the conduct of clinical trials and marketing of medicinal
products in the UK following the country’s exit from the EU. This uncertainty may lead to significant complexity and risks for our company and our
ability to research, develop and market medicinal products in the EU and the UK. See also “Business disruptions from natural or man-made
disasters may adversely affect our revenues and materially reduce our earnings.”
If we were to encounter any of these risks, our global operations may be adversely affected, which could have an adverse effect on our overall business and
results of operations.
If significant safety issues arise for our marketed products or our product candidates, our reputation may be harmed and our future sales may be reduced, which
could adversely affect our results of operations.
The data supporting the marketing approvals for our products and forming the basis for the safety warnings in our product labels were obtained in controlled
clinical trials of limited duration and, in some cases, from post-approval use. As our products are used over longer periods of time by patients with underlying health
problems or other medicines, we expect to continue finding new issues related to safety, resistance or drug interactions. Any such issues may require changes to our
product labels, such as additional warnings, contraindications or even narrowed indications. If any of these were to occur, it could reduce the market acceptance and
sales of our products.
Regulatory authorities have been moving towards more active and transparent pharmacovigilance and are making greater amounts of stand-alone safety
information and clinical trial data directly available to the public through websites and other means, such as periodic safety update report summaries, risk
management plan summaries and various adverse event data. Safety information, without the appropriate context and expertise, may be misinterpreted and lead to
misperception or legal action which may potentially cause our product sales or stock price to decline.
Further, if serious safety, resistance or drug interaction issues arise with our marketed products, sales of these products could be limited or halted by us or by
regulatory authorities and our results of operations could be adversely affected.
Our operations depend on compliance with complex FDA and comparable international regulations. Failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to
maintain compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products.
The products we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory authorities and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation by FDA,
the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. We are continuing clinical trials for many of our products for
currently approved and additional uses. We anticipate that we will file for marketing approval in additional countries and for additional indications and products over
the next several years. These products may fail to receive such marketing approvals on a timely basis, or at all.
Further, how we manufacture and sell our products is subject to extensive regulation and review. Discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed
products or problems with our manufacturing, safety reporting or promotional activities may result in restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of the
products from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including those related to promotion and manufacturing, we could be subject
to penalties including fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products and criminal prosecution.
For example, under FDA rules, we are often required to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to
identify an unexpected serious risk. In certain circumstances, we may be required to implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy program for our products,
which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to healthcare providers, restrictions on distribution or use of a product and
other elements FDA deems necessary to assure safe use of the drug. Failure to comply with these or other requirements imposed by FDA could result in significant
civil monetary penalties and our operating results may be adversely affected.
We face risks in our clinical trials, including the potential for unfavorable results, delays in anticipated timelines and disruption, which may adversely affect our
prospects for future revenue growth and our results of operations.
We are required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products that we develop for each intended use through extensive preclinical studies and clinical
trials. The results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. Even successfully completed
large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable products.
19For example, in February 2019, we announced that our KITE-585 program, an anti-B cell maturation antigen being evaluated for the treatment of multiple myeloma,
would not be moving forward. We also recently announced that STELLAR-3 and STELLAR-4, Phase 3 studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of selonsertib for
the treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), did not meet the pre-specified week 48 primary endpoints. If any of our product candidates fails to achieve its
primary endpoint in clinical trials, if safety issues arise or if the results from our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate to support regulatory approval of our product
candidates, commercialization of that product candidate could be delayed or halted. In addition, we may also face challenges in clinical trial protocol design.
If the clinical trials for any of the product candidates in our pipeline are delayed or terminated, our prospects for future revenue growth and our results of
operations may be adversely impacted. For example, we face numerous risks and uncertainties with our product candidates, including filgotinib for the treatment of
rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis and psoriatic arthritis; GLPG-1690 for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis; cilofexor for the treatment
of primary sclerosing cholangitis; and axicabtagene ciloleucel for the treatment of second line diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, each currently in Phase 3 clinical trials,
that could prevent completion of development of these product candidates. These risks include our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of
unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our clinical trials or to perform additional trials and the risk of failing to obtain FDA and other
regulatory body approvals. As a result, our product candidates may never be successfully commercialized. Further, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue
development of our product candidates if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. If these programs
and others in our pipeline cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth and our results of operations may be
adversely impacted. In addition, clinical trials involving our commercial products could raise new safety issues for our existing products, which could in turn
adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business.
In addition, we extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. We rely on
independent third-party contract research organizations (CROs) to perform most of our clinical studies, including document preparation, site identification, screening
and preparation, pre-study visits, training, program management, patient enrollment, ongoing monitoring, site management and bioanalytical analysis. Many
important aspects of the services performed for us by the CROs are out of our direct control. If there is any dispute or disruption in our relationship with our CROs,
our clinical trials may be delayed. Moreover, in our regulatory submissions, we rely on the quality and validity of the clinical work performed by third-party CROs. If
any of our CROs’ processes, methodologies or results were determined to be invalid or inadequate, our own clinical data and results and related regulatory approvals
may be adversely affected.
We depend on relationships with third parties for sales and marketing performance, technology, development, logistics and commercialization of products. Failure
to maintain these relationships, poor performance by these companies or disputes with these third parties could negatively impact our business.
We rely on a number of collaborative relationships with third parties for our sales and marketing performance in certain territories. For example, we have
collaboration arrangements with Janssen Sciences Ireland UC for Odefsey, Complera/Eviplera and Symtuza. In some countries, we rely on international distributors
for sales of certain of our products. Some of these relationships also involve the clinical development of these products by our partners. Reliance on collaborative
relationships poses a number of risks, including the risk that:
• we are unable to control the resources our corporate partners devote to our programs or products;
• disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with our corporate partners;
• disagreements with our corporate partners could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or
result in litigation or arbitration;
• contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to perform;
• our corporate partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue alternative
technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors;
• our corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to pursue competing technologies or to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products
than they do to products of their own development; and
• our distributors and our corporate partners may be unable to pay us.
Given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. If these efforts fail, our product
development or commercialization of new products could be delayed or revenues from products could decline.
In addition, we rely on third-party sites to collect patients’ white blood cells, known as apheresis centers, shippers, couriers, and hospitals for the logistical
collection of patients’ white blood cells and ultimate delivery of Yescarta to patients. Any disruption or difficulties encountered by any of these vendors could result
in product loss and regulatory action and harm our Yescarta business
20and our reputation. To ensure that any apheresis center is prepared to ship cells to our manufacturing facilities, we plan to conduct quality certifications of each
apheresis center. However, apheresis centers may choose not to participate in the certification process or we may be unable to complete certification in a timely
manner or at all, which could delay or restrain our manufacturing and commercialization efforts. As a result, our sales of Yescarta may be limited which could harm our
results of operations.
Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to defend our patents and other intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally. We
may not be able to obtain effective patents to protect our technologies from use by competitors.
Patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to:
• obtain patents and licenses to patent rights;
• preserve trade secrets and internal know-how;
• defend against infringement of our patents and efforts to invalidate them; and
• operate without infringing on the intellectual property of others.
If we have a properly drafted and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive products and more
difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. As part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection
both in the United States and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and
technology.
Patent applications are confidential for a period of time before a patent is issued. As a result, we may not know if our competitors filed patent applications for
technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent or first to file an application directed toward the technology that is the subject of our
patent applications. In addition, if competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in litigation, post-grant proceedings
before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) or other proceedings to determine the right to a patent or validity of any patent granted. Litigation, post-grant
proceedings before the USPTO or other proceedings are unpredictable and expensive, and could divert management attention from other operations, such that, even
if we are ultimately successful, our results of operations may be adversely affected by such events.
Generic manufacturers have sought, and may continue to seek, FDA approval to market generic versions of our products through an abbreviated new drug
application (ANDA), the application process typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. For a description of our ANDA litigation, see Note
14. Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The entry of
generic versions of our products has, and may in the future, lead to market share and price erosion and have a negative impact on our business and results of
operations.
Our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties.
If we are found to infringe the valid patents of third parties, we may be required to pay significant monetary damages or we may be prevented from
commercializing products or may be required to obtain licenses from these third parties. We may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license
on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain these licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of
our products. For example, we are aware of patents and patent applications owned by third parties that such parties may claim cover the use of sofosbuvir,
axicabtagene ciloleucel or bictegravir. See “We may be required to pay significant damages and royalty payments as a result of ongoing litigation related to Yescarta
and Biktarvy.” See also a description of our litigation regarding sofosbuvir, axicabtagene ciloleucel, bictegravir, and TDF or TAF in combination with FTC for the use
of pre-exposure prophylaxis in Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
Furthermore, we also rely on unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented internal know-how and technological innovation. For example, a great deal
of our liposomal manufacturing expertise, which is a key component of our liposomal technology, is not covered by patents but is instead protected as a trade secret.
We protect these rights mainly through confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants and vendors. We cannot be certain that these
parties will comply with these confidentiality agreements, that we have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets, internal know-how or
technological innovation will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Under some of our R&D agreements, inventions
become jointly owned by us and our corporate partner and in other cases become the exclusive property of one party. In certain circumstances, it can be difficult to
determine who owns a particular invention and disputes could arise regarding those inventions. If our trade secrets, internal know-how, technological innovation or
confidential information become known or independently discovered by competitors or if we enter into disputes over ownership of inventions, our business and
results of operations could be adversely affected.
21Manufacturing problems, including at our third-party manufacturers and corporate partners, could cause inventory shortages and delay product shipments and
regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations.
In order to generate revenue from our products, we must be able to produce sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy demand. Many of our products are
the result of complex manufacturing processes. The manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is also highly regulated and regulators may shut down
manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations.
Our products are either manufactured at our own facilities or by third-party manufacturers or corporate partners. We depend on third parties to perform
manufacturing activities effectively and on a timely basis for the majority of our solid dose products. We, our third-party manufacturers and our corporate partners
are subject to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and
quality standards as defined by FDA and EMA. Similar regulations are in effect in other jurisdictions.
Our third-party manufacturers and corporate partners are independent entities subject to their own unique operational and financial risks that are out of our
control. If we or any of these third-party manufacturers or corporate partners fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a
timely basis or receive royalties or could cause delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval. Further, we may have to write off the costs of
manufacturing any batch that fails to pass quality inspection or meet regulatory approval. In addition, we, our third-party manufacturers and our corporate partners
may only be able to produce some of our products at one or a limited number of facilities and, therefore, have limited manufacturing capacity for certain products, and
we may not be able to locate additional or replacement facilities on a reasonable basis or at all. Our sales of such products could also be adversely impacted by our
reliance on such limited number of facilities. To the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely
affected.
Our manufacturing operations are subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. If we are unable to remedy any deficiencies cited by FDA in these
inspections, our currently marketed products and the timing of regulatory approval of products in development could be adversely affected. Further, there is risk that
regulatory agencies in other countries where marketing applications are pending will undertake similar additional reviews or apply a heightened standard of review,
which could delay the regulatory approvals for products in those countries. If approval of any of our product candidates were delayed or if production of our
marketed products were interrupted, our anticipated revenues and our stock price may be adversely affected.
We may not be able to obtain materials or supplies necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our products, which could limit our ability to
generate revenues.
We need access to certain supplies and products to conduct our clinical trials and to manufacture and sell our products. If we are unable to purchase sufficient
quantities of these materials or find suitable alternative materials in a timely manner, our development efforts for our product candidates may be delayed or our ability
to manufacture our products could be limited, which could limit our ability to generate revenues.
Suppliers of key components and materials must be named in the new drug application or marketing authorization application filed with the regulatory authority
for any product candidate for which we are seeking marketing approval, and significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. Even after a
manufacturer is qualified by the regulatory authority, the manufacturer must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control
to ensure full compliance with GMP. Manufacturers are subject to regular periodic inspections by regulatory authorities following initial approval. If, as a result of
these inspections, a regulatory authority determines that the equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable regulations and conditions
of product approval, the regulatory authority may suspend the manufacturing operations. If the manufacturing operations of any of the single suppliers for our
products are suspended, we may be unable to generate sufficient quantities of commercial or clinical supplies of product to meet market demand, which could in turn
decrease our revenues and harm our business. In addition, if deliveries of materials from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship
certain of our products for commercial supply or to supply our product candidates in development for clinical trials. In addition, some of our products and the
materials that we utilize in our operations are manufactured at only one facility, which we may not be able to replace in a timely manner and on commercially
reasonable terms, or at all. Problems with any of the single suppliers we depend on, including in the event of a disaster, such as an earthquake, equipment failure or
other difficulty, may negatively impact our development and commercialization efforts.
A significant portion of the raw materials and intermediates used to manufacture our antiviral products are supplied by third-party manufacturers and corporate
partners outside of the United States. As a result, any political or economic factors in a specific country or region, including any changes in or interpretations of trade
regulations, compliance requirements or tax legislation, that would limit or prevent third parties outside of the United States from supplying these materials could
adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our antiviral products to meet market needs and have a material and adverse effect on our operating results.
22If we were to encounter any of these difficulties, our ability to conduct clinical trials on product candidates and to manufacture and sell our products could be
impaired, which could have an adverse effect on our business.
Imports from countries where our products are available at lower prices and unapproved generic or counterfeit versions of our products could have a negative
impact on our reputation and business.
Prices for our products are based on local market economics and competition and sometimes differ from country to country. Our sales in countries with
relatively higher prices may be reduced if products can be imported and resold into those countries from lower price markets. If our HIV, HBV and HCV products,
which we have agreed to make available at substantially reduced prices to certain low- and middle-income countries participating in our Gilead Access Program, are
re-exported into the United States, Europe or other higher price markets, our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, we have entered into agreements with
generic drug manufacturers as well as a licensing agreement with the Medicines Patent Pool, a United Nations-backed public health organization, which allows
generic drug manufacturers to manufacture certain generic versions of our products for distribution in certain low- and middle-income countries. If generic versions
of our products produced and/or distributed under these agreements are then re-exported to the United States, Europe or other higher price markets, our revenues
could be adversely affected.
In the European Union, we are required to permit products purchased in one EU member state to be sold in another EU member state. Purchases of our products
in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high can affect the inventory level held by our
wholesalers and can cause the relative sales levels in the various countries to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and not reflect the actual consumer demand in any
given quarter. These quarterly fluctuations may impact our earnings, which could adversely affect our stock price and harm our business.
Additionally, use of diverted products could occur in countries where they have not been approved and patients could source the product outside the
legitimate supply chain. Therefore, the products may be handled, shipped and stored inappropriately, which may affect the efficacy of the product and could harm
patients, our brands or the commercial or scientific reputation of our products.
We are also aware of the existence of various “Buyers Clubs” around the world that promote the personal importation of generic versions of our HCV and HIV
products that have not been approved for use in the countries into which they are imported. As a result, patients may be at risk of taking unapproved medications
which may not be what they purport to be, may not have the potency they claim to have or may contain harmful substances. To the extent patients take unapproved
generic versions of one or more of our medications and are injured by these generic products, our brands or the commercial or scientific reputation of our HCV and
HIV products could be harmed.
Further, third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet the rigorous quality standards of our
manufacturing and supply chain. We actively take actions to discourage the distribution and sale of counterfeits of our products around the world, including working
with local regulatory and legal authorities to enforce laws against counterfeit drugs, raising public awareness of the dangers of counterfeit drugs and promoting
public policies to hinder the sale and availability of counterfeit drugs. Counterfeit drugs pose a serious risk to patient health and safety and may raise the risk of
product recalls. Our reputation and business could suffer as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under our brand names.
Expensive litigation and government investigations have increased our expenses which may continue to reduce our earnings.
We are involved in a number of litigation, investigation and other dispute-related matters that require us to expend substantial internal and financial resources.
We expect these matters will continue to require a high level of internal and financial resources for the foreseeable future. These matters have reduced and will
continue to reduce our earnings and require significant management attention. For a description of our litigation, investigations and other dispute-related matters, see
Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See also
“We may be required to pay significant damages and royalty payments as a result of ongoing litigation related to Yescarta and Biktarvy.” The outcome of such legal
proceedings or any other legal proceedings that may be brought against us, the investigations or any other investigations that may be initiated and any other
dispute-related matters, are inherently uncertain, and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant expenses, monetary damages, penalties or
injunctive relief against us that could significantly reduce our earnings and cash flows and harm our business and reputation.
We may face significant liability resulting from our products and such liability could materially reduce our earnings.
The testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our commercial products, as well as product candidates in development, involve substantial risk of product
liability claims. These claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. We have limited insurance for product
liabilities that may arise. If claims exceed our coverage, our financial condition will be adversely affected. In addition, negative publicity associated with any claims,
regardless of their merit, may decrease the future demand for our products and impair our financial condition. For a description of our product liability
23matters, see Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-
K.
If we fail to attract, develop and retain highly qualified personnel, our business and operations may be adversely affected.
Our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management
personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. We face competition for personnel from other
companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. Competition for qualified personnel in the
biopharmaceutical field is intense, and there is a limited pool of qualified potential employees to recruit. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on
acceptable terms. Our ability to do so also depends on how well we maintain a strong workplace culture that is attractive to employees, particularly during the
leadership transition that we are currently experiencing. Additionally, changes to U.S. immigration and work authorization laws and regulations could make it more
difficult for employees to work in or transfer to jurisdictions in which we have operations and could impair our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. If we
are unsuccessful in our recruitment, development and retention efforts or we fail to maintain a strong workplace culture, our business and reputation may be harmed.
We have recently made significant changes to our senior leadership team. In 2019, we appointed Daniel O’Day as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew
Dickinson as Chief Financial Officer, Johanna Mercier as Chief Commercial Officer, Merdad Parsey as Chief Medical Officer, Brett Pletcher as Executive Vice
President, Corporate Affairs and General Counsel, Jyoti Mehra as Executive Vice President, Human Resources, and Christi Shaw as Chief Executive Officer of Kite.
Changes in management and other key personnel may lead to potential organizational realignments and additional personnel changes, which may disrupt our
business and adversely affect our operations.
Business disruptions from natural or man-made disasters may adversely affect our revenues and materially reduce our earnings.
Our worldwide operations, third-party manufacturers or corporate partners could be subject to business interruptions stemming from natural or man-made
disasters, such as climate change, terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, earthquakes, hurricanes, flooding, fires or actual or threatened public health emergencies, or
efforts taken by third parties to prevent or mitigate such disasters, such as public safety power shutoffs and facility shutdowns, for which we or they may be
uninsured or inadequately insured. Our corporate headquarters in Foster City and our Santa Monica location, which together house a majority of our R&D activities,
and our San Dimas, La Verne, Oceanside and El Segundo manufacturing facilities are located in California, a seismically active region. As we may not carry adequate
earthquake insurance and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations, our financial condition and operating results could be materially
adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake.
We are dependent on information technology systems, infrastructure and data, which may be subject to cyberattacks, security breaches and legal claims.
We are dependent upon information technology systems, infrastructure and data, including our Kite Konnect platform, which is critical to ensure chain of
identity and chain of custody of Yescarta. The multitude and complexity of our computer systems make them inherently vulnerable to service interruption or
destruction, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy or security breaches by employees or others pose a risk that sensitive data, including our
intellectual property or trade secrets or the personal information of our employees, patients, customers or other business partners may be exposed to unauthorized
persons or to the public. Cyberattacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity. Cyberattacks could include the deployment of harmful malware,
denial-of-service, social engineering and other means to affect service reliability and threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability. Our business and
technology partners face similar risks and any security breach of their systems could adversely affect our security posture. While we have invested, and continue to
invest, in the protection of our data and information technology infrastructure, there can be no assurance that our efforts, or the efforts of our partners and vendors,
will prevent future service interruptions or identify breaches in our systems. Such interruptions or breaches could adversely affect our business and operations
and/or cause the loss of critical or sensitive information, including personal information, which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us. In
addition, our insurance may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or
breach of our systems.
Regulators globally are also imposing new data privacy and security requirements, including new and greater monetary fines for privacy violations. For example,
the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that became effective in Europe in 2018 established regulations regarding the handling of personal data, and non-
compliance with the GDPR may result in monetary penalties of up to four percent of worldwide revenue. In addition, new domestic data privacy and security laws,
such as the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) that became effective in January 2020, and others that may be passed, similarly introduce requirements with
respect to personal information, and non-compliance with CCPA may result in liability through private actions (subject to statutorily defined damages in the event of
certain data breaches) and enforcement. The GDPR, CCPA and other changes,
24or new laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of personal information, including in some cases healthcare data or other personal information,
could greatly increase our cost of providing our products and services or even prevent us from offering certain services in jurisdictions in which we operate.
Changes in our effective income tax rate could reduce our earnings.
We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions including Ireland. Due to economic and political conditions, various
countries are actively considering and have made changes to existing tax laws. We cannot predict the form or timing of potential legislative and regulatory changes
that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, the United States enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new
law are complex and will continue to significantly affect us.
In addition, significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects
on our income tax rate including, but not limited to, our portion of the non-tax deductible annual branded prescription drug fee, the accounting for stock options and
other share-based awards, mergers and acquisitions, future levels of R&D spending, ability to maintain manufacturing and other operational activities in our Irish
facilities, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings, resolution of federal, state
and foreign income tax audits. The impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative
impact on our consolidated results of operations.
Our income tax returns are subject to audit by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for
the tax years from 2013 to 2015 and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. There are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations and, as a result,
significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax
jurisdictions. Resolution of one or more of these exposures in any reporting period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period.
There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends or repurchase stock.
Our Board of Directors authorized a dividend program under which we intend to pay quarterly dividends of $0.68 per share, subject to quarterly declarations by
our Board of Directors. In the first quarter of 2016, our Board of Directors also approved the repurchase of up to $12.0 billion of our common stock (2016 Program), of
which $3.4 billion is available for repurchase as of December 31, 2019. In the first quarter of 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a new $5.0 billion stock repurchase
program (2020 Program), which will commence upon the completion of the 2016 Program. Purchases under the 2020 Program may be made in the open market or in
privately negotiated transactions. Any future declarations, amount and timing of any dividends and/or the amount and timing of such stock repurchases are subject
to capital availability and determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends and/or stock repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are
in compliance with all respective laws and our agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends and the repurchase of stock. Our ability to pay
dividends and/or repurchase stock will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions,
including acquisitions, debt service requirements, results of operations, financial condition and other factors beyond our control that our Board of Directors may
deem relevant. A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments, our dividend program and/or stock repurchases could have a negative effect on our stock
price.
25ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
Not applicable.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our corporate headquarters are located in Foster City, California, where we house our administrative and certain of our R&D activities. We also have R&D
facilities in Emeryville, Oceanside and Santa Monica, California; Gaithersburg, Maryland; Seattle, Washington; Edmonton, Canada; and Amsterdam, Netherlands. Our
principal manufacturing facilities are in El Segundo, La Verne, Oceanside and San Dimas, California; Edmonton, Canada; Cork, Ireland; and Hoofddorp, Netherlands.
For more information about our manufacturing facilities, see Item 1 - Business “Our Manufacturing Facilities.” Our global operations include offices in Europe, North
America, Asia, South America, Africa, Australia and the Middle East.
We believe that our existing properties, including both owned and leased sites, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business. We believe
our capital resources are sufficient to purchase, lease or construct any additional facilities required to meet our expected long-term growth needs.
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
For a description of our significant pending legal proceedings, please see Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
26PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES
Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GILD.”
As of February 18, 2020, we had approximately 473 stockholders of record of our common stock.
Performance Graph (1)
The following graph compares our cumulative total stockholder return for the past five years to two indices: the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index (S&P 500
Index) and the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index (NBI Index). The stockholder return shown on the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future performance, and
we do not make or endorse any predictions as to future stockholder returns.
Comparison of Cumulative Total Return on Investment for the Past Five Years (2)
______________________________________________________
(1) This section is not “soliciting material,” is not deemed “filed” with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act
whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing.
(2) Shows the cumulative return on investment assuming an investment of $100 in our common stock, the NBI Index and the S&P 500 Index on December 31, 2014, and assuming that all
dividends were reinvested.
27Equity Compensation Plan Information
The following table provides certain information with respect to our equity compensation plans in effect as of December 31, 2019 (in millions, except per share
amounts):
Number of Common
Shares Remaining
Available for Future
Issuance Under Equity
Number of Common Shares to Weighted-average Compensation Plans
be Issued Upon Exercise of Exercise Price of (Excluding Securities
Outstanding Options, Warrants Outstanding Options, Reflected in Column
and Rights Warrants and Rights(1) (a))
Plan Category (a) (b) (c)
Equity Compensation plans approved by security holders:
2004 Equity Incentive Plan 19.5 $ 61.35 79.2
Employee Stock Purchase Plan(2) 8.9
Total equity compensation plans approved by security holders 19.5 $ 61.35 88.1
Equity Compensation plans not approved by security holders — — —
Total 19.5 $ 61.35 88.1
_________________________________________
(1) Does not take into account 18 million restricted stock units, performance share awards or units and phantom shares, which have no exercise price and were granted under our 2004
Equity Incentive Plan.
(2) Under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, participants are permitted to purchase our common stock at a discount on certain dates through payroll deductions within a pre-determined
purchase period. Accordingly, these numbers are not determinable.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
In the first quarter of 2016, our Board of Directors authorized a $12.0 billion share repurchase program (2016 Program) under which repurchases may be made in
the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. During 2019, we repurchased and retired 26 million shares of our common stock for $1.7 billion through open
market transactions under the 2016 Program.
The table below summarizes our stock repurchase activity for the three months ended December 31, 2019 (in thousands, except per share amounts):
Maximum Fair
Total Number of Value of Shares
Total Number Average Shares Purchased that May Yet Be
of Shares Price Paid as Part of a Publicly Purchased Under
Purchased per Share Announced Program the Program
October 1 - October 31, 2019 712 $ 63.84 688 $ 3,459
November 1 - November 30, 2019 768 $ 65.14 557 $ 3,423
December 1 - December 31, 2019 393 $ 66.59 372 $ 3,398
Total 1,873 (1) $ 64.95 1,617 (1)
_________________________________________
(1) The difference between the total number of shares purchased and the total number of shares purchased as part of a publicly announced program is due to shares of common stock
withheld by us from employee restricted stock unit awards in order to satisfy applicable tax withholding obligations.
In the first quarter of 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a new $5.0 billion stock repurchase program (2020 Program), which will commence upon the
completion of the 2016 Program. Purchases under the 2020 Program may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.
28ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
(in millions, except per share amounts)
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME DATA(1):
Total revenues (2) $ 22,449 $ 22,127 $ 26,107 $ 30,390 $ 32,639
Total costs and expenses $ 18,162 $ 13,927 $ 11,983 $ 12,757 $ 10,446
Income from operations(2) $ 4,287 $ 8,200 $ 14,124 $ 17,633 $ 22,193
Provision for income taxes(3) $ (204) $ 2,339 $ 8,885 $ 3,609 $ 3,553
Net income(2)(3)(4) $ 5,364 $ 5,460 $ 4,644 $ 13,488 $ 18,106
Net income attributable to Gilead(2)(3)(4) $ 5,386 $ 5,455 $ 4,628 $ 13,501 $ 18,108
Net income per share attributable to Gilead
common stockholders - basic(2)(3)(4) $ 4.24 $ 4.20 $ 3.54 $ 10.08 $ 12.37
Shares used in per share calculation - basic 1,270 1,298 1,307 1,339 1,464
Net income per share attributable to Gilead
common stockholders - diluted(2)(3)(4) $ 4.22 $ 4.17 $ 3.51 $ 9.94 $ 11.91
Shares used in per share calculation - diluted 1,277 1,308 1,319 1,358 1,521
Cash dividends declared per share $ 2.52 $ 2.28 $ 2.08 $ 1.84 $ 1.29
December 31,
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA(1):
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities(5) $ 25,840 $ 31,512 $ 36,694 $ 32,380 $ 26,208
Working capital(3)(4)(5)(6) $ 20,537 $ 25,231 $ 20,188 $ 10,370 $ 14,044
Total assets(5)(6) $ 61,627 $ 63,675 $ 70,283 $ 56,977 $ 51,716
Other long-term obligations(6) $ 1,009 $ 1,040 $ 558 $ 297 $ 395
Long-term debt, including current portion(5) $ 24,593 $ 27,322 $ 33,542 $ 26,346 $ 22,055
Retained earnings(2)(3)(4)(6) $ 19,388 $ 19,024 $ 19,012 $ 18,154 $ 18,001
Total stockholders’ equity(2)(3)(4)(6) $ 22,650 $ 21,534 $ 20,501 $ 19,363 $ 19,113
_________________________________________
(1) See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of our results of
operations for 2019.
(2) In 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 (Topic 606) “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” using the modified retrospective method. As such, results for
reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our
historical accounting under Topic 605 “Revenue Recognition.”
(3) In December 2019, we recorded a deferred tax benefit of $1.2 billion related to intangible asset transfers from a foreign subsidiary to Ireland and the United States. In 2018, we
recorded a deferred tax charge of $588 million related to a transfer of acquired intangible assets from a foreign subsidiary to the United States. In December 2017, we recorded an
estimated $5.5 billion net charge related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform). Tax Reform also lowered the corporate tax rate in the United States from
35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. See Note 19. Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details.
(4)
Investments in equity securities, other than equity method investments, for which we have not elected the fair value method of accounting, are recorded at fair market value, if fair
value is readily determinable and, beginning January 1, 2018, unrealized gains and losses are included in Other income (expense), net on our Consolidated Statements of Income. For
periods presented prior to January 1, 2018, unrealized gains and losses were included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
(5) In 2019, we repaid $2.8 billion principal amount of our senior unsecured notes at maturity. In 2018, we repaid $1.8 billion principal amount of our senior unsecured notes at maturity
and repaid $4.5 billion of term loans borrowed in connection with our acquisition of Kite Pharma, Inc. In 2017, in connection with the acquisition of Kite Pharma, Inc., we issued
$3.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes and borrowed $6.0 billion aggregate principal amount term loan facility credit agreement, of which $1.5 billion was
repaid in 2017. In 2016, we issued $5.0 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes and repaid $285 million of principal balance of convertible senior notes and $700 million of
principal balance of senior unsecured notes at maturity. In 2015, we issued $10.0 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes and repaid $213 million of principal balance of
convertible senior notes at maturity.
(6) In 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 (Topic 842) “Leases,” which requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for operating leases
with a lease term greater than one year. We adopted Topic 842 using the modified retrospective method. As such, results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2019 are
presented under Topic 842, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under Topic 840 “Leases.” See Note
1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 13. Leases, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of our Annual Report on
Form 10-K for further information.
29ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand
our results of operations and financial condition. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our audited Consolidated Financial
Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and other disclosures included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (including the
disclosures under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”). Additional information related to the comparison of our results of operations between the years 2018 and 2017 is
included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our 2018 Form 10-K filed with the SEC and is
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles and are presented in U.S. dollars.
MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW
Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we, our or us), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a research-based biopharmaceutical company that discovers,
develops and commercializes innovative medicines in areas of unmet medical need. With each new discovery and investigational drug candidate, we strive to
transform and simplify care for people with life-threatening illnesses around the world. We have operations in more than 35 countries worldwide, with headquarters in
Foster City, California. Gilead’s primary areas of focus include viral diseases, inflammatory and fibrotic diseases and oncology. We seek to add to our existing
portfolio of products through our internal discovery and clinical development programs, product acquisition, in-licensing and strategic collaborations.
Our portfolio of marketed products includes AmBisome®, Atripla®, Biktarvy®, Cayston®, Complera®/Eviplera®, Descovy®, Descovy for PrEP®, Emtriva®,
Epclusa®, Genvoya®, Harvoni®, Hepsera®, Letairis®, Odefsey®, Ranexa®, Sovaldi®, Stribild®, Truvada®, Truvada for PrEP®, Tybost®, Vemlidy®, Viread®, Vosevi®,
Yescarta® and Zydelig®. We also sell and distribute authorized generic versions of Epclusa and Harvoni in the United States through our separate subsidiary,
Asegua Therapeutics, LLC. In addition, we sell and distribute certain products through our corporate partners under collaborative agreements.
2019 Business Highlights
Our financial performance in 2019 was solid, as growth across our HIV franchise continued to drive results. We took several significant steps to position us for
future growth, including an important research and development (R&D) collaboration, the introduction of a new corporate strategy and the hiring of key members of
our executive leadership team. In 2019:
• We developed a new, corporate strategy to guide our work as we seek to drive growth over the next decade, with the ambitious goal of launching 10 new,
transformative therapies over the next 10 years.
• We continued to make progress with our pipeline. We currently have 40 clinical-stage programs, with 14 programs either in registrational or in label-
enabling studies. Of these programs, four have already received Breakthrough Therapy designation from U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
• We achieved sales of $16.4 billion across our HIV franchise in 2019, an increase of 12% from 2018, reaching another all-time high. The continued revenue
growth of our HIV products was driven by the demand for Biktarvy and the increase in the number of individuals taking our products for pre-exposure prophylaxis
(PrEP). At the end of 2019, Biktarvy was available in most major markets and, in the United States, approximately 27% of individuals on PrEP were receiving Descovy.
• We entered into a transformative R&D collaboration with Galapagos NV (Galapagos) in July, building on an existing partnership, and effectively enabling
us to double our R&D footprint and accelerate our development of novel treatments for inflammatory and fibrotic diseases. We submitted a regulatory filing for
filgotinib to FDA, and the compound is now under priority review for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We also submitted filgotinib for approval in Europe and Japan and
actively prepared for competitive launches in all three regions. We and Galapagos continued to advance the Phase 3 study of GLPG-1690 for the treatment of
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. With regard to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), after the STELLAR and ATLAS studies failed to reach their primary endpoints,
we continued to work to understand the results to determine appropriate next steps for these therapies, including the potential for combination therapeutic
approaches.
• In cell therapy, Kite, a Gilead company (Kite), submitted KTE-X19 for regulatory approval in the United States and Europe as a treatment for relapsed or
refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). If approved, Kite will be the first company with two cell therapies on the market. We also continued to demonstrate the
efficacy of Yescarta. Data shared at the end of 2019 showed that approximately half of patients treated with Yescarta for refractory large B-cell lymphoma were still
alive three years following treatment in the ZUMA-1 study, confirming Yescarta’s benefit/risk profile. In addition to cell therapy, we continued to grow our research
portfolio in immuno-oncology.
• Our business also expanded geographically, including in China, where eight products have been approved since 2017 and four products (Vemlidy, Epclusa,
Harvoni and Genvoya) have been listed on the National Reimbursement Drug List effective in January 2020.
30During 2019, we continued to advance our product pipeline across our therapeutic areas with the goal of delivering best-in-class drugs that have the potential
to improve the lives of patients with serious illnesses.
Key corporate, product, pipeline and other updates included:
Viral Diseases
• Licensing and collaboration agreements with The Rockefeller University, Novartis AG and Lyndra Therapeutics, Inc.
• Approval of Vosevi and Biktarvy by the China National Medical Products Administration.
• Approval of a PrEP indication for Descovy by FDA.
• Approval of Biktarvy and Epclusa by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW).
Inflammatory and Fibrotic Diseases
• Collaborations with Kyverna Therapeutics, Inc. Glympse Bio, Inc., Renown Institute for Health Innovation, Goldfinch Bio, Inc., Insitro, Inc., Novo Nordisk
A/S and Yuhan Corporation.
• Agreement with Eisai Co., Ltd. for the distribution and co-promotion of filgotinib in Japan, pending regulatory approval from Japan’s MHLW, for the
treatment of RA.
• Submission of a New Drug Application (NDA) under priority review to FDA and submission of a NDA to Japan’s MHLW for filgotinib.
• Topline results from the Phase 2 ATLAS study of combination and monotherapy investigational treatments in patients with bridging fibrosis (F3) and
compensated cirrhosis (F4) due to NASH. While the study did not meet its primary endpoint, we continued to analyze the ATLAS data to determine
appropriate next steps for these therapies.
• Collaboration with Galapagos and equity investment in Galapagos to gain access to Galapagos’ current and future product portfolio. See Note 11.
Collaborative and Other Arrangements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for
additional information.
• European Medicines Agency’s validation of the marketing authorization application for filgotinib; the application is now under evaluation by the Agency.
Oncology
• FDA’s acceptance of our Biologics License Application and granting Priority Review designation for KTE-X19 for the treatment of adult patients with
relapsed or refractory MCL.
• European Medicines Agency’s validation of the marketing authorization application for KTE-X19; the application is now under evaluation by the Agency.
• Collaborations with Carna Biosciences Inc., Nurix Therapeutics, Inc., Humanigen, Inc. and Kiniksa Pharmaceuticals, Ltd.
Leadership Changes
• We have put in place a diverse, highly experienced leadership team. Senior leadership changes in 2019 included the appointment of Daniel P. O’Day as
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew D. Dickinson as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Merdad V. Parsey as Chief Medical
Officer, Christi L. Shaw as Chief Executive Officer of Kite, Johanna Mercier as Chief Commercial Officer; the departures of John G. McHutchison, Chief
Scientific Officer and Head of Research and Development, Gregg H. Alton, Chief Patient Officer, and Katie L. Watson, Executive Vice President, Human
Resources; and the planned retirement of Robin L. Washington from her role as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Other
• Donation to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of up to 2.4 million bottles of Truvada and Descovy annually until 2030 for uninsured
Americans at risk for HIV.
2019 Financial Highlights
Total revenues increased to $22.4 billion and total product sales increased to $22.1 billion in 2019, compared to $22.1 billion and $21.7 billion in 2018,
respectively, primarily due to higher sales of our HIV products, partially offset by lower sales of Ranexa and Letairis and our HCV products. In the United States,
product sales were $16.6 billion in 2019, compared to $16.2 billion in 2018. In Europe, product sales were $3.6 billion in 2019, compared to $3.7 billion in 2018. Product
sales in other international locations were $2.0 billion in 2019, compared to $1.8 billion in 2018.
Cost of goods sold decreased to $4.7 billion in 2019, compared to $4.9 billion in 2018, primarily due to $259 million of lower royalty expenses, and lower
amortization expenses related to intangible assets associated with Ranexa, partially offset by higher inventory write-downs. In 2019 and 2018, we recorded write-
downs of $547 million and $440 million, respectively, for
31slow moving and excess raw material and work in process inventory primarily due to lower long-term demand for our HCV products.
R&D expenses increased to $9.1 billion in 2019, compared to $5.0 billion in 2018, primarily due to up-front collaboration and licensing expenses of $3.9 billion
related to our collaboration with Galapagos as well as higher personnel costs largely to support our cell therapy business, partially offset by lower stock-based
compensation expense. In 2019 and 2018, we recorded impairment charges of $800 million and $820 million, respectively, related to in-process R&D (IPR&D) intangible
assets acquired in connection with the acquisition of Kite Pharma, Inc.
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased to $4.4 billion in 2019, compared to $4.1 billion in 2018, primarily due to promotional expenses in
the United States and expenses associated with the expansion of our business in Japan and China, partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense.
Net income attributable to Gilead changed to $5.4 billion or $4.22 per diluted share in 2019, compared to $5.5 billion or $4.17 per diluted share in 2018, primarily
due to pre-tax up-front collaboration and licensing expenses of $3.9 billion related to our collaboration with Galapagos, partially offset by the net favorable fluctuation
in tax effects of intra-entity intangible asset transfers to different tax jurisdictions and an increase in net unrealized gains from equity securities. The year-over-year
diluted earnings per share were favorably impacted by our stock repurchase activities.
As of December 31, 2019, we had $25.8 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities compared to $31.5 billion as of December 31, 2018.
During 2019, we generated $9.1 billion in operating cash flow and paid $5.6 billion in connection with the collaboration with and equity investments in Galapagos,
which was classified as cash flows from investing activities. We also repaid $2.8 billion of principal amount of debt, paid cash dividends of $3.2 billion and utilized
$1.7 billion on repurchases of common stock in 2019.
Strategy and Outlook 2020
Our focus is to create possibilities for patients through scientific breakthroughs and innovation, by leveraging our pillars of a durable core business, existing
pipeline opportunities and our strategy to drive additional growth. Our strategy includes ambitions and priorities, which enable us to achieve those ambitions. Our
strategic ambitions define what success looks like over the next decade and are summarized as (i) bring 10+ transformative therapies to patients by 2030; (ii) be the
biotech employer and partner of choice; and (iii) deliver shareholder value in a sustainable and responsible manner. Our strategic priorities reflect how we will deliver
those ambitions: (i) expand internal and external innovation; (ii) strengthen portfolio strategy and decision making; (iii) increase patient benefit and access; and (iv)
continue to evolve our culture.
In 2020, we expect underlying growth in our base business, which is expected to offset the full-year impact of our cardiopulmonary products loss of exclusivity,
which occurred in 2019, and the initial generic version of Truvada in the United States in late 2020. We will also continue to invest to support the growth of Biktarvy,
our Descovy for PrEP launch, preparation for competitive launches of filgotinib in RA in the United States, Japan and Europe, and continued investments in our
pipeline, cell therapy and external partnerships. Our overall plan is now guided by our newly established corporate strategy that provides focus and guides resource
and capital allocation priorities. We expect data read-outs in 2020 including filgotinib for ulcerative colitis, KTE-X19 for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL),
axicabtagene ciloleucel CD19 for indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (iNHL) and second line diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and GLPG-1972 for osteoarthritis. To
further augment our product pipeline, we continue to pursue opportunities for collaborations, partnerships and strategic investments that fit into our long-term
strategic plan.
Our progress on all of these initiatives is subject to a number of uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the possibility of unfavorable results from new and
ongoing clinical trials; the continuation of an uncertain global macroeconomic environment; additional pricing pressures from payers and competitors; slower than
anticipated growth in our HIV products; an increase in discounts, chargebacks and rebates due to ongoing contracts and future negotiations with commercial and
government payers; market share and price erosion caused by the introduction of generic versions of products containing tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF)
outside the United States and Viread, Letairis and Ranexa in the United States; inaccuracies in our HCV patient start estimates; potential amendments to the
Affordable Care Act or other government action that could have the effect of lowering prices; a larger-than anticipated shift in payer mix to more highly discounted
payer segment; and volatility in foreign currency exchange rates.
32RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Total Revenues
The following table summarizes the period-over-period changes in our revenues:
(In millions, except percentages) 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017
Revenues:
Product sales $ 22,119 2 % $ 21,677 (16)% $ 25,662
Royalty, contract and other revenues 330 (27)% 450 1 % 445
Total revenues $ 22,449 1 % $ 22,127 (15)% $ 26,107
Product Sales
2019 Compared to 2018
Total product sales increased by 2% to $22.1 billion in 2019, compared to $21.7 billion in 2018, primarily due to higher sales of our HIV products, partially offset
by lower sales of Ranexa and Letairis and our HCV products.
HIV product sales increased by 12% to $16.4 billion in 2019, compared to $14.6 billion in 2018, primarily due to higher sales volume as a result of the continued
uptake of Biktarvy. The increase was partially offset by decreases in sales volumes of Genvoya and our Truvada (emtricitabine (FTC)/TDF)-based products and lower
average net selling price.
HCV product sales decreased by 20% to $2.9 billion in 2019, compared to $3.7 billion in 2018, primarily due to lower average net selling price, including a decline
in U.S. Medicare prices in 2019.
Yescarta sales increased by 73% to $456 million in 2019, compared to $264 million in 2018, primarily due to a higher number of therapies provided to patients and
the continued expansion in Europe.
Other product sales, which include Vemlidy, Viread, Letairis, Ranexa, Zydelig, AmBisome and Cayston, decreased by 26% to $2.3 billion in 2019, compared to
$3.1 billion in 2018, primarily due to the expected decline in sales of Ranexa and Letairis after the entry of generic versions in the United States in early 2019.
Of our total product sales, 25% were generated outside the United States in 2019. We faced exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates,
primarily in the Euro. We used foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge a percentage of our foreign currency exposure. Foreign currency exchange, net of
hedges, had an immaterial impact on our product sales in 2019, based on a comparison using foreign currency exchange rates from 2018.
We record product sales net of estimated government and other rebates and chargebacks, cash discounts for prompt payment, distributor fees and other related
costs. These deductions are generally referred to as gross-to-net deductions, which totaled $15.3 billion, or 41% of gross product sales in 2019, compared to $16.5
billion, or 43% of gross product sales in 2018. Of the $15.3 billion in 2019, $13.5 billion or 36% of gross product sales in 2019 was related to government and other
rebates and chargebacks, and $1.8 billion was related to cash discounts for prompt payment, distributor fees and other related costs.
Product sales in the United States increased by 2% to $16.6 billion in 2019, compared to $16.2 billion in 2018, primarily due to higher sales of our HIV products,
partially offset by lower sales of Ranexa and Letairis following the entry of generic versions in 2019 and lower sales of our HCV products. The increase in sales of our
HIV products was primarily due to the continued uptake of Biktarvy and an increase in the number of individuals taking PrEP, partially offset by the decreases in
sales volumes of our other HIV products including Genvoya, Atripla and Stribild. The decrease in sales of our HCV products was primarily due to lower average net
selling price, including a decline in U.S. Medicare prices in 2019.
Product sales in Europe decreased by 3% to $3.6 billion in 2019, compared to $3.7 billion in 2018, primarily due to lower sales of our HCV products and the
broader availability of generic versions of Truvada and Atripla. The decrease in sales of our HCV products was primarily due to lower patient starts and lower
average net selling price. The decrease was partially offset by the continued uptake of Biktarvy, Odefsey and Yescarta, and favorable net adjustments for government
rebates related to sales made in prior years.
Product sales in other international locations increased by 11% to $2.0 billion in 2019, compared to $1.8 billion in 2018, primarily due to higher HIV product sales
in Japan, as a result of acquiring the rights to certain products in our HIV portfolio in Japan effective January 1, 2019, and higher HCV product sales in Japan due to
the launch of Epclusa in 2019.
33The following table summarizes the period-over-period changes in our product sales:
(In millions, except percentages) 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017
Atripla $ 600 (50)% $ 1,206 (33)% $ 1,806
Biktarvy 4,738 * 1,184 * —
Complera/Eviplera 406 (38)% 653 (32)% 966
Descovy 1,500 (5)% 1,581 30 % 1,218
Genvoya 3,931 (15)% 4,624 26 % 3,674
Odefsey 1,655 4 % 1,598 44 % 1,106
Stribild 369 (43)% 644 (39)% 1,053
Truvada 2,813 (6)% 2,997 (4)% 3,134
Other HIV(1) 47 (23)% 61 5 % 58
Revenue share - Symtuza(2) 379 * 79 * —
Total HIV 16,438 12 % 14,627 12 % 13,015
AmBisome 407 (3)% 420 15 % 366
Ledipasvir/Sofosbuvir(3) 643 (47)% 1,222 (72)% 4,370
Letairis 618 (34)% 943 6 % 887
Ranexa 216 (72)% 758 6 % 717
Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir(4) 1,965 — % 1,966 (44)% 3,510
Vemlidy 488 52 % 321 * 122
Viread 243 (21)% 307 (71)% 1,046
Vosevi 257 (35)% 396 35 % 293
Yescarta 456 73 % 264 * 7
Zydelig 103 (23)% 133 (11)% 149
Other(5) 285 (11)% 320 (73)% 1,180
Total product sales $ 22,119 2 % $ 21,677 (16)% $ 25,662
_________________________________________
* Percentage is greater than 100%
(1) Includes Emtriva and Tybost
(2) Represents our revenue from cobicistat (C), emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir alafenamide (TAF) in Symtuza (darunavir/C/FTC/TAF), a fixed dose combination product commercialized by Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
(3) Amounts consist of sales of Harvoni and the authorized generic version of Harvoni sold by our separate subsidiary, Asegua Therapeutics LLC
(4) Amounts consist of sales of Epclusa and the authorized generic version of Epclusa sold by our separate subsidiary, Asegua Therapeutics LLC
(5) Includes Cayston, Hepsera and Sovaldi
The following is additional discussion of sales of our HIV and HCV products:
• Descovy (FTC/TAF)-based products: Biktarvy, Descovy, Genvoya, Odefsey and Revenue Share - Symtuza
The following table summarizes the period-over-period changes in our sales of Descovy (FTC/TAF)-based products:
(In millions, except percentages) 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017
U.S. $ 9,716 34% $ 7,261 47% $ 4,955
Europe 1,857 22% 1,528 71% 892
Other locations 630 127% 277 83% 151
Total $ 12,203 35% $ 9,066 51% $ 5,998
% of total product sales 55% 42% 23%
% of HIV product sales 74% 62% 46%
Descovy (FTC/TAF)-based product sales increased in all major markets in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase in both the United States and Europe was
primarily due to higher demand and a shift in product mix toward Biktarvy. The increase in other international locations was primarily due to higher product sales in
Japan as a result of acquiring the rights to certain products in our HIV portfolio in Japan effective January 1, 2019.
34• Truvada (FTC/TDF)-based products: Atripla, Complera/Eviplera, Stribild and Truvada
The following table summarizes the period-over-period changes in our sales of Truvada (FTC/TDF)-based products:
(In millions, except percentages) 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017
U.S. $ 3,569 (18)% $ 4,353 (9)% $ 4,771
Europe 450 (45)% 815 (51)% 1,677
Other locations 169 (49)% 332 (35)% 511
Total $ 4,188 (24)% $ 5,500 (21)% $ 6,959
% of total product sales 19% 25% 27%
Truvada (FTC/TDF)-based product sales decreased in the United States and Europe in 2019 compared to 2018. The decrease in U.S. sales was primarily due to
lower sales volume as a result of patients switching to newer regimens containing FTC/TAF, partially offset by the increased usage of Truvada for PrEP. The
decrease in Europe sales was primarily due to lower sales volumes of Truvada and Atripla as a result of the broader availability of generic versions and patients
switching to newer regimens containing FTC/TAF. We expect a decline in our sales of Truvada in the United States as patients switch to Descovy for PrEP from
Truvada for PrEP and the expected entry of generic versions in late 2020.
• HCV products: Epclusa, Harvoni, Sovaldi, Vosevi and Authorized Generics of Epclusa and Harvoni
The following table summarizes the period-over-period changes in our sales of HCV products:
(In millions, except percentages) 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017
U.S. $ 1,465 (28)% $ 2,023 (65)% $ 5,854
Europe 742 (17)% 896 (52)% 1,853
Other locations 729 (5)% 767 (46)% 1,430
Total $ 2,936 (20)% $ 3,686 (60)% $ 9,137
% of total product sales 13% 17% 36%
The decrease in HCV product sales in the United States in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to lower average net selling price, including a decline in U.S.
Medicare prices in 2019. The decrease in HCV product sales in Europe in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to lower patient starts and lower average net
selling price, partially offset by favorable net adjustments for government rebates and discounts related to sales made in prior years. The decrease in HCV product
sales in other international locations in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to lower sales of Sovaldi, partially offset by higher sales of Epclusa.
Cost of Goods Sold and Product Gross Margin
The following table summarizes the period-over-period changes in our product sales, cost of goods sold and product gross margin:
(In millions, except percentages) 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017
Total product sales $ 22,119 2 % $ 21,677 (16)% $ 25,662
Cost of goods sold $ 4,675 (4)% $ 4,853 11 % $ 4,371
Product gross margin 79% 78% 83%
In 2019, cost of goods sold decreased by $178 million compared to 2018, primarily due to lower royalty expenses and lower amortization expense related to the
intangible assets associated with Ranexa, which was fully amortized in the first quarter of 2019, partially offset by higher inventory write-downs. In 2019, we recorded
inventory write-downs of $649 million, of which $547 million was related to slow moving and excess raw material and work in process inventory primarily due to lower
long-term demand for our HCV products. In 2018, we recorded inventory write-downs of $572 million, of which $440 million was related to excess raw materials
primarily due to a sustained decrease in demand for Harvoni as a result of a shift in the market from Harvoni to Epclusa. Royalty expenses decreased by $259 million
in 2019, compared to 2018, primarily due to lower sales of Atripla, Ranexa, Letairis and products containing elvitegravir.
Research and Development Expenses
The following table summarizes the period-over-period changes in our R&D expenses:
(In millions, except percentages) 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017
R&D expenses $ 9,106 81% $ 5,018 34% $ 3,734
35R&D expenses consist primarily of clinical studies performed by contract research organizations, materials and supplies, payments under collaborative and
other arrangements, including up-front and milestone payments, licenses and fees, as well as expense reimbursements to the collaboration partners, IPR&D
impairment charges, personnel costs, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation expense, and overhead allocations consisting of various support
and infrastructure costs.
We do not track total R&D expenses by product candidate, therapeutic area or development phase. However, we manage our R&D expenses by identifying the
R&D activities we anticipate will be performed during a given period and then prioritizing efforts based on scientific data, probability of technical and regulatory
successful development, market potential, available human and capital resources and other considerations. We continually review our R&D projects based on unmet
medical need and, as necessary, reallocate resources among our internal R&D portfolio and external opportunities that we believe will best support the long-term
growth of our business.
The following table provides a breakout of our R&D expenses by major cost type:
(In millions, except percentages) 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017
Up-front collaboration and licensing expenses $ 4,251 * $ 278 25 % $ 222
Personnel, infrastructure and other expenses 2,016 7 % 1,876 34 % 1,399
Clinical studies and outside services 1,750 5 % 1,665 (11)% 1,881
IPR&D impairment charges 800 (2)% 820 * —
Stock-based compensation expenses 289 (24)% 379 63 % 232
Total $ 9,106 81 % $ 5,018 34 % $ 3,734
_________________________________________
* Percentage is greater than 100%
In 2019, R&D expenses increased by $4.1 billion compared to 2018, primarily due to $3.9 billion of up-front collaboration and licensing expenses related to our
collaboration with Galapagos as well as higher personnel costs largely to support our cell therapy business and increased investment in our research projects,
partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense.
In 2019, we recorded an impairment charge of $800 million related to IPR&D intangible assets acquired in connection with our acquisition of Kite Pharma, Inc.
primarily for the treatment of indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma largely driven by changes in the estimated market opportunities as new therapies or combinations of
existing therapies were approved. In 2018, we recorded an impairment charge of $820 million related to IPR&D intangible assets for the KITE-585 program (an anti-B
cell maturation antigen being evaluated for the treatment of multiple myeloma) due to its discontinuance.
Stock-based compensation expense for 2019 decreased by $90 million, compared to 2018, primarily due to the 2018 impact of stock-based compensation expense
associated with our acquisition of Kite Pharma, Inc.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
The following table summarizes the period-over-period changes in our SG&A expenses:
(In millions, except percentages) 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017
SG&A expenses $ 4,381 8% $ 4,056 5% $ 3,878
SG&A expenses relate to sales and marketing, finance, human resources, legal and other administrative activities. Expenses consist primarily of personnel costs,
facilities and overhead costs, outside marketing, advertising and legal expenses and other general and administrative costs. SG&A expenses also include the Branded
Prescription Drug (BPD) fee. In the United States, we, along with other pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded drug products, are required to pay a portion of the
BPD fee, which is estimated based on select government sales during the prior year as a percentage of total industry government sales and is trued-up upon receipt
of invoices from the Internal Revenue Service.
In 2019, SG&A expenses increased by $325 million compared to 2018, primarily due to higher promotional expenses in the United States and expenses
associated with the expansion of our business in Japan and China, partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense. Stock-based compensation expense
for 2019 decreased by $106 million, compared to 2018, primarily due to the 2018 impact of stock-based compensation expense associated with our acquisition of Kite
Pharma, Inc.
BPD fee expenses were $247 million, $229 million and $385 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. BPD fee expenses are not tax-deductible.
36Other Income (Expense), Net
The following table summarizes the period-over-period changes in our Other income (expense), net:
(In millions, except percentages) 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017
Other income (expense), net $ 1,868 176% $ 676 29% $ 523
The change in Other income (expense), net in 2019, compared to 2018, was primarily due to higher net unrealized gains of $1.1 billion from changes in the fair
value of our equity securities largely relating to our equity investments in Galapagos. Starting in January 2018, we recorded unrealized gains (losses) from changes in
the fair value of our marketable equity securities in Other income (expense), net, on our Consolidated Statements of Income as a result of the adoption of Accounting
Standards Update No. 2016-01 “Financial Instruments - Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.”
Provision for Income Taxes
The following table summarizes the period-over-period changes in our Provision for income taxes:
(In millions, except percentages) 2019 Change 2018 Change 2017
Effective tax rate (4.0)% (34.0)% 30.0% (35.7)% 65.7%
Provision for income taxes $ (204) $ 2,339 $ 8,885
The decrease in effective tax rate and provision for income taxes in 2019, compared to 2018, was primarily due to a $1.2 billion deferred tax benefit in 2019 related
to intangible asset transfers from a foreign subsidiary to Ireland and the United States. The 2018 effective tax rate included a $588 million deferred tax charge resulting
from a transfer of acquired intangible assets from a foreign subsidiary to the United States.
The decrease in effective tax rate and provision for income taxes in 2018, compared to 2017, was primarily due to a $5.5 billion net tax charge in 2017 and a
reduction to the U.S. corporate tax rate in 2018 as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform) in December 2017. The 2018 effective tax rate
was further decreased due to a $202 million tax benefit recorded in 2018 related to settlement of tax examinations, offset by the $588 million deferred tax charge in 2018
discussed above, changes to the geographic mix of earnings and the tax on Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (enacted as part of Tax Reform).
See Note 19. Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details on
Tax Reform.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable debt securities and working capital:
December 31,
(In millions) 2019 2018
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities $ 25,840 $ 31,512
Working capital $ 20,537 $ 25,231
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Debt Securities
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities decreased by $5.7 billion, or 18%, compared to December 31, 2018. During 2019, we generated $9.1 billion
in operating cash flow, paid $5.6 billion in connection with our collaboration with and equity investments in Galapagos, repaid $2.8 billion of debt, paid cash
dividends of $3.2 billion and repurchased 26 million shares of our common stock for $1.7 billion through open market transactions.
Working Capital
Working capital decreased by $4.7 billion, or 19%, compared to December 31, 2018, primarily due to the use of cash noted above under the heading Cash, Cash
Equivalents and Marketable Debt Securities.
37Cash Flows
The following table summarizes our cash flow activities:
(In millions) 2019 2018 2017
Cash provided by (used in):
Operating activities $ 9,144 $ 8,400 $ 11,898
Investing activities $ (7,817) $ 14,355 $ (16,069)
Financing activities $ (7,634) $ (12,318) $ 3,393
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Cash provided by operating activities represents the cash receipts and disbursements related to all of our activities other than investing and financing
activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting our net income for non-cash items and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Cash provided by operating
activities increased by $744 million to $9.1 billion in 2019 compared to 2018, primarily due to lower tax payments in 2019, partially offset by lower collections on
accounts receivable in 2019 and the collection of a receivable from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in 2018 following the termination of a collaboration pursuant to the
terms of the existing agreements. The tax payments made in 2018 included a $500 million payment related to the first annual installment of the Tax Reform transition
tax, a $771 million deemed early payment of the Tax Reform transition tax and a $514 million settlement of a tax examination.
Starting in 2019, up-front and milestone payments related to collaborative and other arrangements are classified as cash flows from investing activities in our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Comparative prior year amounts were not material and were not reclassified to investing activities from operating activities.
Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities
Cash provided by (used in) investing activities primarily consists of purchases, sales and maturities of our marketable debt securities, capital expenditures, up-
front and milestone payments related to collaborative and other arrangements, purchases of equity securities and other investments. Cash used in investing activities
was $7.8 billion in 2019 compared to cash provided by investing activities of $14.4 billion in 2018. The change in cash provided by (used in) investing activities was
primarily due to higher purchases of marketable debt securities and the $5.6 billion payments made in connection with our collaboration with and equity investments
in Galapagos, partially offset by higher proceeds from sales of marketable debt securities. The higher purchases of marketable debt securities were the result of a shift
in our investment strategy to investing in longer dated securities in 2019 compared to 2018. In addition, we paid Japan Tobacco Inc. $365 million during 2019 in
connection with acquiring the rights to market and distribute certain HIV products in Japan.
Cash provided by investing activities was $14.4 billion in 2018 compared to cash used in investing activities of $16.1 billion in 2017. The change in cash
provided by (used in) investing activities was primarily due to higher proceeds from maturities of our marketable debt securities and lower purchases of marketable
debt securities, partially offset by lower proceeds from sales of our marketable debt securities. In addition, $10.4 billion cash was used to acquire Kite Pharma, Inc. in
2017, whereas no cash was used for business combinations in 2018.
Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities
Cash used in financing activities decreased by $4.7 billion to $7.6 billion in 2019 compared to 2018, primarily due to $3.5 billion lower repayments of debt and
$1.2 billion lower repurchases of our common stock during 2019.
Cash used in financing activities was $12.3 billion in 2018, compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.4 billion in 2017. The change in cash
provided by (used in) financing activities was primarily due to higher repayment of debt and repurchases of our common stock in 2018. In addition, we had $9.0 billion
net proceeds from debt issuances to partially fund our acquisition of Kite Pharma, Inc. in 2017, whereas no debt was issued in 2018.
Debt and Credit Facilities
In 2019 and 2018, we repaid at maturity $2.8 billion and $1.8 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes, respectively. In addition, in 2018, we repaid $4.5
billion borrowed under our term loan facility credit agreement, at which time the term loan facility credit agreement was terminated. In February 2020, we repaid at
maturity $500 million principal amount of senior unsecured notes.
As of December 31, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under our $2.5 billion five-year revolving credit facility maturing in May 2021.
38We are required to comply with certain covenants under our notes indentures, and as of December 31, 2019, we were not in violation of any covenants.
The summary of our borrowings under various financing arrangements is included in Note 12. Debt and Credit Facilities of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Capital Return Program
The details of our Stock Repurchase Programs and Dividends are included in Note 15. Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Stock Repurchase Programs
In the first quarter of 2016, our Board of Directors authorized a $12.0 billion stock repurchase program (2016 Program), under which repurchases may be made in
the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. We started repurchases under the 2016 Program in April 2016.
Repurchases under the 2016 Program were 26 million and 40 million shares of our common stock for $1.7 billion and $2.9 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of December 31, 2019, the remaining authorized repurchase amount under the 2016 Program was $3.4 billion.
In the first quarter of 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a new $5.0 billion stock repurchase program (2020 Program), which will commence upon the
completion of the 2016 Program. Purchases under the 2020 Program may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.
Dividends
We declared and paid quarterly cash dividends for an aggregate amount of $3.2 billion or $2.52 per share of our common stock and $3.0 billion or $2.28 per share
of our common stock in 2019 and 2018, respectively.
On February 4, 2020, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend increase of 8% from $0.63 to $0.68 per share of our common
stock, with a payment date of March 30, 2020 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 13, 2020. Future dividends are subject to declaration
by the Board of Directors.
Capital Resources
We believe our existing capital resources, supplemented by cash flows generated from our operations, will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the
foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to the following:
• the commercial performance of our current and future products;
• the progress and scope of our R&D efforts, including preclinical studies and clinical trials;
• the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews;
• the expansion of our sales and marketing capabilities;
• the possibility of acquiring additional manufacturing capabilities or office facilities;
• the possibility of acquiring other companies or new products;
• debt service requirements;
• the establishment of additional collaborative relationships with other companies; and
• costs associated with the defense, settlement and adverse results of government investigations and litigation.
We may in the future require additional funding, which could be in the form of proceeds from equity or debt financings. If such funding is required, we cannot
guarantee that it will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all.
39CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS
The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial
statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures. On an
ongoing basis, we evaluate and base our estimates on historical experience and on various other market specific and other relevant assumptions that we believe to be
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily
apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.
We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Revenue Recognition
Product Sales
We recognize revenue from product sales when control of the product transfers, generally upon shipment or delivery, to the customer, or in certain cases, upon
the corresponding sales by our customer to a third party. Upon recognition of revenue from product sales, provisions are made for various forms of variable
consideration, which include government and other rebates such as Medicaid reimbursements, customer incentives such as cash discounts for prompt payment,
distributor fees and expected returns of expired products, as appropriate. Variable consideration is included in the net sales price only to the extent a significant
reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized is not probable of occurring when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is
subsequently resolved. Government and other rebates and chargebacks represent the majority of our variable consideration and require complex and significant
judgment by management. Estimates are assessed each period and updated to reflect current information.
Government and Other Rebates and Chargebacks
Government and other rebates and chargebacks include amounts paid to payers and healthcare providers in the United States, including Medicaid rebates,
AIDS Drug Assistance Program rebates and chargebacks, Veterans Administration and Public Health Service chargebacks and other rebates, as well as foreign
government rebates. Rebates and chargebacks are based on contractual arrangements or statutory requirements which may vary by product, by payer and individual
payer plans.
For qualified programs that can purchase our products through wholesalers or other distributors at a lower contractual price, the wholesalers or distributors
charge back to us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower contractual price.
Our allowances for government and other rebates and chargebacks are estimated based on products sold, historical payer mix, and as available, pertinent third-
party industry information, estimated patient population, known market events or trends, and for our U.S. product sales, channel inventory data obtained from our
major U.S. wholesalers in accordance with our inventory management agreements. We also take into consideration, as available, new information regarding changes
in programs’ regulations and guidelines that would impact the amount of the actual rebates and/or our expectations regarding future payer mix for these programs.
We believe the methodology that we use to estimate our government and other rebates and chargebacks is reasonable and appropriate given the current facts and
circumstances. However, actual results may differ significantly from our estimates. Historically, our actual government rebates and chargebacks claimed for prior
periods have varied by less than 5% from our estimates.
Government and other chargebacks that are payable to our direct customers are classified as reductions of Accounts receivable in our Consolidated Balance
Sheets and totaled $655 million and $492 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Government and other rebates that are payable to third party payers and
healthcare providers are recorded in Accrued government and other rebates on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and totaled $3.5 billion and $3.9 billion at December
31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
40The following table summarizes the consolidated activities and ending balances in our government and other rebates and chargebacks accounts:
Balance at Decrease/(Increase) to Balance at End of
(in millions) Beginning of Year Product Sales Payments Year
Year ended December 31, 2019:
Activity related to 2019 sales $ — $ 13,791 $ (9,920) $ 3,871
Activity related to sales prior to 2019 4,420 (279) (3,904) 237
Total $ 4,420 $ 13,512 $ (13,824) $ 4,108
Year ended December 31, 2018:
Activity related to 2018 sales $ — $ 14,784 $ (10,953) $ 3,831
Activity related to sales prior to 2018 5,044 41 (4,496) 589
Total $ 5,044 $ 14,825 $ (15,449) $ 4,420
Legal Contingencies
We are a party to various legal actions. The most significant of these are described in Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. It is not possible to determine the outcome of these matters. We
recognize accruals for such actions to the extent that we conclude that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. We accrue for the best estimate of a loss
within a range; however, if no estimate in the range is better than any other, then we accrue the minimum amount in the range. If we determine that a loss is
reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of
the inherent uncertainty and unpredictability related to these matters, accruals are based on what we believe to be the best information available at the time of our
assessment, including the legal facts and circumstances of the case, status of the proceedings, applicable law and the views of legal counsel. Upon the final
resolution of such matters, it is possible that there may be a loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations, cash flows or financial position. We periodically reassess these matters when additional information becomes available and adjust our estimates
and assumptions when facts and circumstances indicate the need for any changes. We did not have any material accruals in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for
such matters as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Valuation of Intangible Assets
We have acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, intangible assets through acquisition or consolidation of variable interest entities. The identifiable
intangible assets are measured at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date and may be subject to revision within the measurement period, which may be
up to one year from the acquisition date. The fair values of the assets are generally determined using a probability-weighted income approach that discounts
expected future cash flows to present value. The estimated net cash flows are discounted using a discount rate that is based on the estimated weighted-average cost
of capital for companies with profiles similar to our profile and represents the rate that market participants would use to value the intangible assets. The discounted
cash flow models used in valuing these intangible assets require the use of significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to:
• estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the products or product candidates;
• the probability of technical and regulatory success for unapproved product candidates considering their stages of development;
• the time and resources needed to complete the development and approval of product candidates;
• the life of the potential commercialized products and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in developing a product
candidate such as obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; and
• risks related to the viability of and potential alternative treatments in any future target markets.
We believe the fair values used to record intangible assets acquired are based upon reasonable estimates and assumptions given the facts and circumstances
as of the related valuation dates.
Intangible assets related to IPR&D projects are considered to be indefinite-lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated R&D efforts. During the
period the assets are considered indefinite-lived, they are not amortized. When development is complete, which generally occurs if and when regulatory approval to
market a product is obtained, the associated assets would
41be deemed finite-lived and then be amortized based on their respective estimated useful lives at that point in time primarily on a straight-line basis.
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis as well as between annual tests if we become aware of any events or changes that would
indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair values of the intangible assets and/or IPR&D projects are below their respective carrying amounts. When
performing quantitative impairment assessments, we calculate the fair value using discounted cash flow models that require significant estimates and assumptions
similar to the methodology for determining the acquisition date fair value of intangible assets, as described above. If the carrying value of an intangible asset exceeds
its fair value, then the intangible asset is written-down to its fair value. Significant judgment is employed in determining these estimates and assumptions and
changes to our estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on our results of operations in any given period. For example, in 2019, we recognized an
$800 million impairment charge related to IPR&D projects primarily for the treatment of indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma due to changes in estimated market
opportunities.
There are often major risks and uncertainties associated with IPR&D projects as we are required to obtain regulatory approvals in order to be able to market
these products. Such approvals require completing clinical trials that demonstrate a product candidate is safe and effective. Consequently, the eventual realized value
of the acquired IPR&D project may vary from its fair value at the date of acquisition, and IPR&D impairment charges may occur in future periods which could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, in 2018, we concluded that the KITE-585 program acquired in connection with our acquisition of Kite
Pharma, Inc. did not justify further efforts based on the totality of the clinical data gathered and discontinued the program. As a result, the carrying value of the
IPR&D relating to the KITE-585 program was written down to zero and we recorded an impairment charge of $820 million.
See Note 9. Intangible Assets of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional
information on the impairment charges related to our indefinite-lived IPR&D intangible assets.
Provision for Income Taxes
We estimate our income tax provision, including deferred tax assets and liabilities, based on significant management judgment. We evaluate the realization of all
or a portion of our deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amounts that are more likely than
not to be realized. We consider future taxable income, ongoing tax planning strategies and our historical financial performance in assessing the need for a valuation
allowance. If we expect to realize deferred tax assets for which we have previously recorded a valuation allowance, we will reduce the valuation allowance in the
period in which such determination is first made.
We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions including Ireland. Due to economic and political conditions, various
countries are actively considering and have made changes to existing tax laws. For example, the United States enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of
the new law will continue to significantly affect us. We cannot predict the form or timing of potential legislative changes that could have a material adverse impact on
our results of operations. In addition, significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes.
We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with the guidance that clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in
an enterprise’s financial statements by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and
measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. An adverse resolution of one or more of these uncertain tax positions in any period could
have a material impact on the results of operations for that period.
See Note 19. Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.
42CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
Contractual obligations represent future cash commitments related to significant enforceable and legally binding obligations and certain purchase obligations
that we are likely to continue regardless of the fact that they may be cancelable. The expected timing and payment amounts presented below are estimated based on
existing contracts and do not reflect any future modifications to, or terminations of, existing contracts or anticipated or potential new contracts.
The following table summarizes the aggregate maturities of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019:
Payments due by Period
(In millions) Total 2020 2021-2022 2023-2024 Thereafter
Debt(1) $ 38,123 $ 3,456 $ 5,421 $ 3,962 $ 25,284
Operating lease obligations(2) 850 125 226 187 312
Purchase obligations(3) 1,682 1,315 267 84 16
Transition tax payable(4) 4,639 148 946 2,068 1,477
Total(5)(6) $ 45,294 $ 5,044 $ 6,860 $ 6,301 $ 27,089
_________________________________________
(1) Debt consists of senior unsecured notes and includes principal and future interest payments. Interest payments for our fixed rate senior unsecured notes are incurred and calculated based on terms of the related notes. See
Note 12. Debt and Credit Facilities of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
(2) See Note 13. Leases of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
(3) Amounts primarily relate to capital commitments, active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) with minimum purchase commitments and certain inventory-related items, advertising and R&D commitments. Significant R&D
commitments related to clinical studies performed by contract research organizations (CROs) are excluded from the table as material CRO contracts are cancelable by us. In addition, the table does not reflect approximately
$220 million of additional minimum purchase commitments resulting from an API contract amended in January 2020.
(4) In connection with Tax Reform we recorded a federal income tax payable for transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings that is payable over an eight-year period. The amounts included in the
table above represent the remaining federal income tax payable at December 31, 2019.
(5) As of December 31, 2019, our long-term income taxes payable includes unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties totaling $1.6 billion. Due to the high degree of uncertainty on the timing of future cash settlement
and other events that could extinguish these unrecognized tax benefits, we are unable to estimate the period of cash settlement and therefore we have excluded these unrecognized tax benefits.
(6) We have committed to make potential future milestone and other payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration, development and other arrangements. Payments under these agreements generally are
contingent upon certain future events including achievement of certain developmental, regulatory or commercial milestones. Because the achievement of these events is neither probable nor reasonably estimable and such
potential payments have not been recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, they have not been included in the table above.
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
The information required by this item is included in Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
We are exposed to market risks that may result from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risks and market price. To reduce certain of
these risks, we enter into various types of foreign currency or interest rate derivative hedging transactions, follow investment guidelines and monitor outstanding
receivables as part of our risk management program.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
We have operations in more than 35 countries worldwide. As a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign
currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. Our operating results are exposed to changes in
foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and various foreign currencies, the most significant of which is the Euro. When the U.S. dollar strengthens
against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar weakens against these
currencies, the relative amounts of such sales increase. Overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are
adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business.
Approximately 25% of our product sales were denominated in foreign currencies during 2019. To partially mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange
rates on net cash flows from our foreign currency denominated sales, we may enter into foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts. We also hedge
certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the
date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash is collected or paid. In general, the market risks of these contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses
on the transactions being hedged.
43As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts of $2.9 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. A
hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange rates at December 31, 2019 and
December 31, 2018 would have resulted in a reduction in fair value of these contracts of approximately $285 million and $218 million, respectively, on this date and, if
realized, would negatively affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. The analysis does not consider the impact that hypothetical changes in foreign
currency exchange rates would have on anticipated transactions that these foreign currency sensitive instruments were designed to offset.
Interest Rate Risk
Our portfolio of available-for-sale debt securities and our fixed rate long-term debt create an exposure to interest rate risk. With respect to our investment
portfolio, we adhere to an investment policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on credit rating, maturity, industry group and investment
type and issuer, except for securities issued by the U.S. government. The goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows:
• safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk;
• liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and
• competitive after-tax rate of return.
The following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our interest-generating assets and interest-bearing liabilities at December
31, 2019:
Expected Maturity
(In millions, except Total Fair
percentages) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Thereafter Total Value
Assets
Available-for-sale
debt securities $ 15,012 $ 1,453 $ 5 $ 3 $ 4 $ 23 $ 16,500 $ 16,500
Average interest
rate 1.88% 1.98% 2.04% 3.50% 3.53% 2.18%
Liabilities
Fixed rate long-
term debt, including
current portion(1): $ 2,500 $ 2,250 $ 1,500 $ 750 $ 1,750 $ 16,000 $ 24,750 $ 27,298
Average interest
rate 2.51% 4.44% 2.82% 2.50% 3.70% 4.21%
_________________________________________
(1) Amounts represent principal balances. In addition to the fixed rate long-term debt, we have a $2.5 billion five-year revolving credit facility that matures in May 2021. There were no amounts outstanding under the five-
year revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2019. See Note 12. Debt and Credit Facilities of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional
information.
Market Price Risk
We hold shares of common stock of certain publicly traded biotechnology companies primarily in connection with license and collaboration agreements. These
equity securities are measured at fair value with any changes in fair value recognized in earnings.
The fair value of these equity securities was approximately $3.8 billion and $881 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Changes in fair value of
these equity securities are impacted by the volatility of the stock market and changes in general economic conditions, among other factors. A hypothetical 20%
increase or decrease in the stock prices of these equity securities would increase or decrease their fair value at December 31, 2019 and 2018 by approximately $760
million and $176 million, respectively.
44ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017
CONTENTS
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 46
Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:
Consolidated Balance Sheets 48
Consolidated Statements of Income 49
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 50
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 51
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 52
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 53
Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) 88
Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 89
45Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Gilead Sciences, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated
statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related
notes and financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 24, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements
based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with
the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to
assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such
procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be
communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial
statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the
accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
Government and commercial rebates
Description of the As more fully described in Note 1, the Company estimates reductions to its revenues for amounts payable to payers and healthcare
Matter providers in the United States under various government and commercial rebate programs in the period that the related sales occur.
Rebates may vary by product, payer and individual payer plans, which may not be known at the point of sale. Estimated reductions to
revenue are based on products sold, historical payer mix, historical discount rates, and various other estimated and actual data, adjusted
for current period expectations.
Auditing the Company’s estimated reductions to revenue for rebates was complex and involved significant judgment, particularly in
assessing the reasonableness of estimated payer utilization and discount rates applied to sales during the period. These estimates rely
heavily on historical data that is adjusted for changes in utilization and discount rates over time.
46How We Addressed We evaluated and tested the design and operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over management’s estimation and
the Matter in Our review of reductions from revenue for rebate programs, including controls to assess the utilization rate and discount rate assumptions. We
Audit also tested the completeness and accuracy of data utilized in the controls, and the accuracy of calculations supporting management’s
estimates.
To test management’s estimation methodology for determining the utilization and discount rates, our audit procedures included, among
others, evaluating evidence contrary to the estimated amounts, performing a sensitivity analysis on the rates used in the estimates and
performing a comparison of actual payments related to amounts accrued during the current and prior year.
Valuation of in-process research and development intangible assets
Description of the At December 31, 2019, the Company’s in-process research and development (IPR&D) intangible assets were $1.1 billion. The Company
Matter recorded an impairment charge of $800 million during the year. As discussed in Note 1, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives related
to purchased IPR&D projects are measured at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date and are considered indefinite-lived
until the completion or abandonment of the associated R&D efforts. The Company tests indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment
on an annual basis and in between annual tests if they become aware of any events or changes that would indicate the fair values of the
assets are below their carrying amounts.
Auditing the impairment tests was complex due to the significant judgment required in estimating the fair values of the IPR&D intangible
assets. In particular, the fair value estimates were sensitive to significant assumptions (e.g., discount rate, projected research and
development costs, probability of technical success, addressable patient population, projected market share and product profitability),
which were affected by expected future market or economic conditions.
How We Addressed We evaluated and tested the design and operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over the determination of the
the Matter in Our estimated fair value of the IPR&D intangible assets. For example, we tested controls over management’s review of the valuation models
Audit and the significant assumptions used to develop the fair value estimates of the indefinite lived intangible assets. We also tested
management’s controls to validate that the data used in the fair value estimates were complete and accurate.
To test the estimated fair value of the Company’s IPR&D intangible assets, our audit procedures included, among others, evaluating the
Company’s use of appropriate valuation methodologies with the assistance of a valuation specialist, testing the significant assumptions
discussed above and testing the completeness and accuracy of the underlying data. For example, we compared the significant
assumptions to current industry, market and economic trends, to historical results of the Company’s business and other guideline
companies within the same industry and to other relevant factors. In addition, to evaluate the probability of technical success, we
considered the phase of development of the IPR&D projects, and the Company’s history of obtaining regulatory approval. We also
performed a sensitivity analysis of the significant assumptions to evaluate the change in the estimated fair values of the IPR&D intangible
assets resulting from changes in the assumptions.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1988.
San Jose, California
February 24, 2020
47GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in millions, except per share amounts)
December 31,
2019 2018
Assets
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 11,631 $ 17,940
Short-term marketable securities 12,721 12,149
Accounts receivable, net of allowances of $758 and $583, respectively 3,582 3,327
Inventories 922 814
Prepaid and other current assets 1,440 1,606
Total current assets 30,296 35,836
Property, plant and equipment, net 4,502 4,006
Long-term marketable securities 1,488 1,423
Intangible assets, net 13,786 15,738
Goodwill 4,117 4,117
Other long-term assets 7,438 2,555
Total assets $ 61,627 $ 63,675
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable $ 713 $ 790
Accrued government and other rebates 3,473 3,928
Other accrued liabilities 3,074 3,139
Current portion of long-term debt and other obligations, net 2,499 2,748
Total current liabilities 9,759 10,605
Long-term debt, net 22,094 24,574
Long-term income taxes payable 6,115 5,922
Other long-term obligations 1,009 1,040
Commitments and contingencies (Note 14)
Stockholders’ equity:
Preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share; 5 shares authorized; none outstanding — —
Common stock, par value $0.001 per share; 5,600 authorized; 1,266 and 1,282 shares issued and outstanding, respectively 1 1
Additional paid-in capital 3,051 2,282
Accumulated other comprehensive income 85 80
Retained earnings 19,388 19,024
Total Gilead stockholders’ equity 22,525 21,387
Noncontrolling interest 125 147
Total stockholders’ equity 22,650 21,534
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 61,627 $ 63,675
See accompanying notes.
48GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in millions, except per share amounts)
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Revenues:
Product sales $ 22,119 $ 21,677 $ 25,662
Royalty, contract and other revenues 330 450 445
Total revenues 22,449 22,127 26,107
Costs and expenses:
Cost of goods sold 4,675 4,853 4,371
Research and development expenses 9,106 5,018 3,734
Selling, general and administrative expenses 4,381 4,056 3,878
Total costs and expenses 18,162 13,927 11,983
Income from operations 4,287 8,200 14,124
Interest expense (995) (1,077) (1,118)
Other income (expense), net 1,868 676 523
Income before provision for income taxes 5,160 7,799 13,529
Provision for income taxes (204) 2,339 8,885
Net income 5,364 5,460 4,644
Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interest (22) 5 16
Net income attributable to Gilead $ 5,386 $ 5,455 $ 4,628
Net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders - basic $ 4.24 $ 4.20 $ 3.54
Shares used in per share calculation - basic 1,270 1,298 1,307
Net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders - diluted $ 4.22 $ 4.17 $ 3.51
Shares used in per share calculation - diluted 1,277 1,308 1,319
See accompanying notes.
49GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Net income $ 5,364 $ 5,460 $ 4,644
Other comprehensive income (loss):
Net foreign currency translation gain (loss), net of tax 6 (38) (47)
Available-for-sale debt securities:
Net unrealized gain, net of tax 54 43 218
Reclassifications to net income, net of tax (1) 4 (8)
Net change 53 47 210
Cash flow hedges:
Net unrealized gain (loss), net of tax 72 112 (304)
Reclassification to net income, net of tax (126) 87 28
Net change (54) 199 (276)
Other comprehensive income (loss) 5 208 (113)
Comprehensive income 5,369 5,668 4,531
Comprehensive (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interest (22) 5 16
Comprehensive income attributable to Gilead $ 5,391 $ 5,663 $ 4,515
See accompanying notes.
50GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
(in millions, except per share amounts)
Gilead Stockholders’ Equity
Common Stock Accumulated
Additional Other Total
Paid-In Comprehensive Retained Noncontrolling Stockholders’
Shares Amount Capital Income (Loss) Earnings Interest Equity
Balance at December 31, 2016 1,310 $ 1 $ 454 $ 278 $ 18,154 $ 476 $ 19,363
Change in noncontrolling interest
— — (3) — — (433) (436)
Net income
— — — — 4,628 16 4,644
Other comprehensive loss, net of tax
— — — (113) — — (113)
Issuances under employee stock
purchase plan
1 — 83 — — — 83
Issuances under equity incentive plans
11 — 146 — — — 146
Stock-based compensation
— — 618 — — — 618
Repurchases of common stock
(14) — (34) — (1,028) — (1,062)
Dividends declared ($2.08 per share)
— — — — (2,742) — (2,742)
Balance at December 31, 2017 1,308 1 1,264 165 19,012 59 20,501
Change in noncontrolling interest
— — — — — 83 83
Net income
— — — — 5,455 5 5,460
Other comprehensive income, net of
tax
— — — 208 — — 208
Issuances under employee stock
purchase plan
2 — 91 — — — 91
Issuances under equity incentive plans
14 — 197 — — — 197
Stock-based compensation
— — 842 — — — 842
Repurchases of common stock
(42) — (112) — (2,940) — (3,052)
Dividends declared ($2.28 per share)
— — — — (2,986) — (2,986)
Cumulative effect from the adoption of
new accounting standards
— — — (293) 483 — 190
Balance at December 31, 2018 1,282 1 2,282 80 19,024 147 21,534
Net income (loss)
— — — — 5,386 (22) 5,364
Other comprehensive income, net of
tax
— — — 5 — — 5
Issuances under employee stock
purchase plan
2 — 90 — — — 90
Issuances under equity incentive plans
10 — 118 — — — 118
Stock-based compensation
— — 638 — — — 638
Repurchases of common stock
(28) — (77) — (1,791) — (1,868)
Dividends declared ($2.52 per share)
— — — — (3,239) — (3,239)
Cumulative effect from the adoption of
new accounting standards (Note 1)
— — — — 8 — 8
Balance at December 31, 2019 1,266 $ 1 $ 3,051 $ 85 $ 19,388 $ 125 $ 22,650See accompanying notes.
51GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Operating Activities:
Net income $ 5,364 $ 5,460 $ 4,644
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation expense 255 226 233
Amortization expense 1,149 1,203 1,053
Stock-based compensation expense 636 845 638
Deferred income taxes (2,098) 289 (82)
Net gains from equity securities (1,241) (115) —
Up-front and milestone expense related to collaborative and other arrangements 4,346 — —
In-process research and development impairment 800 820 —
Write-downs for slow moving and excess raw material and work in process inventory 547 440 —
Other 184 171 304
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Accounts receivable, net (218) 480 754
Inventories (95) (310) (253)
Prepaid expenses and other (307) 903 358
Accounts payable (61) (39) (430)
Income taxes payable 272 (1,459) 5,497
Accrued liabilities (389) (514) (818)
Net cash provided by operating activities 9,144 8,400 11,898
Investing Activities:
Purchases of marketable debt securities (30,455) (10,233) (23,314)
Proceeds from sales of marketable debt securities 7,523 1,522 10,440
Proceeds from maturities of marketable debt securities 22,398 24,336 7,821
Up-front and milestone payments related to collaborative and other arrangements (4,301) — —
Purchases of equity securities (1,773) (156) —
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired — — (10,426)
Capital expenditures (825) (924) (590)
Other (384) (190) —
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (7,817) 14,355 (16,069)
Financing Activities:
Proceeds from debt financing, net of issuance costs — — 8,985
Proceeds from issuances of common stock 209 289 234
Repurchases of common stock (1,749) (2,900) (954)
Repayments of debt and other obligations (2,750) (6,250) (1,811)
Payment of dividends (3,222) (2,971) (2,731)
Other (122) (486) (330)
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (7,634) (12,318) 3,393
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (2) (85) 137
Net change in cash and cash equivalents (6,309) 10,352 (641)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 17,940 7,588 8,229
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 11,631 $ 17,940 $ 7,588
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
Interest paid, net of amounts capitalized $ 982 $ 1,070 $ 1,038
Income taxes paid $ 1,793 $ 3,198 $ 3,342
See accompanying notes.
52GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Overview
Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we, our or us), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a research-based biopharmaceutical company that discovers,
develops and commercializes innovative medicines in areas of unmet medical need. With each new discovery and investigational drug candidate, we strive to
transform and simplify care for people with life-threatening illnesses around the world. We have operations in more than 35 countries worldwide, with headquarters in
Foster City, California. Gilead’s primary areas of focus include viral diseases, inflammatory and fibrotic diseases and oncology. We seek to add to our existing
portfolio of products through our internal discovery and clinical development programs, product acquisition, in-licensing and strategic collaborations.
Our portfolio of marketed products includes AmBisome®, Atripla®, Biktarvy®, Cayston®, Complera®/Eviplera®, Descovy®, Descovy for PrEP®, Emtriva®,
Epclusa®, Genvoya®, Harvoni®, Hepsera®, Letairis®, Odefsey®, Ranexa®, Sovaldi®, Stribild®, Truvada®, Truvada for PrEP®, Tybost®, Vemlidy®, Viread®, Vosevi®,
Yescarta® and Zydelig®. We also sell and distribute authorized generic versions of Epclusa and Harvoni in the United States through our separate subsidiary,
Asegua Therapeutics, LLC. In addition, we sell and distribute certain products through our corporate partners under collaborative agreements.
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Gilead, our wholly-owned subsidiaries and certain variable interest entities for
which we are the primary beneficiary. All intercompany transactions have been eliminated. For consolidated entities where we own or are exposed to less than 100%
of the economics, we record net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests in our Consolidated Statements of Income equal to the percentage of the
economic or ownership interest retained in such entities by the respective noncontrolling parties.
We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity (VIE) at the inception of the arrangement and at each reporting date. This
assessment is based on our power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance and our obligation to absorb
losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.
Significant Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments
The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our significant accounting policies and estimates. We base our estimates on
historical experience and on various market specific and other relevant assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which
form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ
significantly from these estimates.
Revenue Recognition
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606) using the modified
retrospective method. Topic 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605 “Revenue Recognition” (Topic 605). As a result, we have changed
our accounting policies for revenue recognition as detailed below.
Policy Elections and Practical Expedients Taken
• We account for shipping and handling activities that are performed after a customer has obtained control of a good as fulfillment costs rather than as separate
performance obligations; and
• If we expect, at contract inception, that the period between the transfer of control and corresponding payment from the customer will be one year or less, we do
not adjust the amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component.
Product Sales
We recognize revenue from product sales when control of the product transfers, generally upon shipment or delivery, to the customer, or in certain cases, upon
the corresponding sales by our customer to a third party. Upon recognition of revenue from product sales, provisions are made for various forms of variable
consideration, which include government and other rebates such as Medicaid reimbursements, customer incentives such as cash discounts for prompt payment,
distributor fees and expected returns of expired products, as appropriate. Variable consideration is included in the net sales price only to the extent a significant
reversal
53in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized is not probable of occurring when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently
resolved. Our payment terms to customers generally range from 30 to 90 days.
Variable Consideration
Rebates and Chargebacks
We estimate reductions to our revenues for amounts paid to payers and healthcare providers in the United States, including Medicaid rebates, AIDS Drug
Assistance Program rebates and chargebacks, Veterans Administration and Public Health Service rebates and chargebacks, as well as foreign government rebates.
Rebates and chargebacks are based on contractual arrangements or statutory requirements which may vary by product, payer and individual payer plans. Our
estimates are based on products sold, historical payer mix, and as available, pertinent third-party industry information, estimated patient population, known market
events or trends, and for our U.S. product sales, channel inventory data obtained from our major U.S. wholesalers in accordance with our inventory management
agreements. We also take into consideration, as available, new information regarding changes in programs’ regulations and guidelines that would impact the amount
of the actual rebates and/or our expectations regarding future payer mix for these programs. Government and other chargebacks that are payable to our direct
customers are classified as reductions of Accounts receivable on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Government and other rebates that are payable to third party
payers and healthcare providers are recorded in Accrued government and other rebates on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Cash Discounts
We estimate cash discounts based on contractual terms, historical customer payment patterns and our expectations regarding future customer payment
patterns.
Distributor Fees
Under our inventory management agreements with our significant U.S. wholesalers, we pay the wholesalers a fee primarily for compliance with certain
contractually determined covenants such as the maintenance of agreed upon inventory levels. These distributor fees are based on a contractually determined fixed
percentage of sales.
Product Returns
We do not provide our customers with a general right of product return, but typically permit returns if the product is damaged, defective, or otherwise cannot be
used when received by the customer, or in the case of product sold in the United States and certain other countries, if the product has expired. We will accept returns
for product that will expire within six months or that have expired up to one year after their expiration dates. Our estimates for expected returns of expired products are
based primarily on an ongoing analysis of our historical return patterns, historical industry information reporting the return rates for similar products and contractual
agreements intended to limit the amount of inventory maintained by our wholesalers.
Royalty, Contract and Other Revenues
Royalty revenue is recognized in the period in which the obligation is satisfied and the corresponding sales by our corporate partners occur.
Research and Development Expenses
Research and development (R&D) expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation, clinical studies
performed by contract research organizations (CROs), materials and supplies, payments under collaborative and other arrangements, including up-front and milestone
payments, license and option fees, as well as expense reimbursements to the collaboration partners and overhead allocations consisting of various support and
infrastructure costs.
We charge R&D costs, including clinical study costs, to expense when incurred. Clinical study costs are a significant component of R&D expenses. Most of
our clinical studies are performed by third-party CROs. We monitor levels of performance under each significant contract including the extent of patient enrollment
and other activities through communications with our CROs. We accrue costs for clinical studies performed by CROs over the service periods specified in the
contracts and adjust our estimates, if required, based upon our ongoing review of the level of effort and costs actually incurred by the CROs. All of our material CRO
contracts are terminable by us upon written notice and we are generally only liable for actual services completed by the CRO and certain non-cancelable expenses
incurred at any point of termination.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses relate to sales and marketing, finance, human resources, legal and other administrative activities. SG&A
expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, facilities and overhead costs, outside marketing, advertising and legal expenses, and other general and administrative
costs. SG&A expenses also include the branded prescription drug (BPD) fee. In the United States, we, along with other pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded
drug products, are required to pay a portion of the BPD fee, which is estimated based on select government sales during the prior year as a percentage of total
industry government sales.
54We expense the costs of advertising, including promotional expenses, as incurred. Advertising expenses were $784 million, $587 million and $600 million for the
years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
We consider highly liquid investments with insignificant interest rate risk and an original maturity of three months or less on the purchase date to be cash
equivalents.
Marketable and Nonmarketable Securities
Marketable Debt Securities
We determine the appropriate classification of our marketable debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet
date. All of our marketable debt securities are considered available-for-sale and carried at estimated fair values and reported in cash equivalents, short-term
marketable securities or long-term marketable securities. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale debt securities are excluded from net income and reported in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Other income (expense), net, includes interest, amortization
of purchase premiums and discounts, realized gains and losses on sales of securities and other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of securities, if any. The cost
of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. We regularly review all of our investments for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. Our review
includes the consideration of the cause of the impairment, including the creditworthiness of the security issuers, the number of securities in an unrealized loss
position, the severity and duration of the unrealized losses, whether we have the intent to sell the securities and whether it is more likely than not that we will be
required to sell the securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis. When we determine that the decline in fair value of an investment is below our
accounting basis and the decline is other-than-temporary, we reduce the carrying value of the security we hold and record a loss for the amount of such decline.
Marketable and Non-Marketable Equity Securities
Investments in equity securities, other than equity method investments, are recorded at fair market value, if fair value is readily determinable and, beginning
January 1, 2018, unrealized gains and losses are included in Other income (expense), net on our Consolidated Statements of Income. For periods presented prior to
January 1, 2018, unrealized gains and losses were included in AOCI as a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
For investments in entities over which we have significant influence but do not meet the requirements for consolidation and have not elected the fair value
option, we use the equity method of accounting with our share of the underlying income or loss of such entities reported in Other income (expense), net on our
Consolidated Statements of Income. We have elected the fair value option to account for our equity investment in Galapagos NV (Galapagos) over which we have
significant influence. We believe the fair value option best reflects the underlying economics of the investment. See Note 11. Collaborative and Other Arrangements
for additional information.
Equity securities without readily determinable fair values are recorded using the measurement alternative of cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for observable
price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. Certain investments in equity securities of non-public companies are
accounted for using the equity method based on our ownership percentage and other factors that indicate we have significant influence over the investee.
Investments in equity securities without readily determinable fair values and investments in non-public companies that are accounted for using the equity method of
accounting are not material for the periods presented.
Our investments in equity securities are recorded in Prepaid and other current assets or Other long-term assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We
regularly review our securities for indicators of impairment.
Concentrations of Risk
We are subject to credit risk from our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities. Under our investment policy, we limit amounts invested in such
securities by credit rating, maturity, industry group, investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the U.S. government. We are not exposed to any
significant concentrations of credit risk from these financial instruments. The goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: safety and
preservation of principal and diversification of risk; liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and a competitive after-tax rate of return.
We are also subject to credit risk from our accounts receivable related to our product sales. Trade accounts receivable are recorded net of allowances for
wholesaler chargebacks related to government and other programs, cash discounts for prompt payment and doubtful accounts. Estimates of our allowance for
doubtful accounts are determined based on existing contractual payment terms, historical payment patterns of our customers and individual customer circumstances,
an analysis of days sales outstanding by geographic region and a review of the local economic environment and its potential impact on government funding and
reimbursement practices. The majority of our trade accounts receivable arises from product sales in the United States, Europe
55and Japan. To date, we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable. We believe that our allowance for doubtful
accounts was adequate at December 31, 2019.
Certain of the raw materials and components that we utilize in our operations are obtained through single suppliers. Certain of the raw materials that we utilize in
our operations are made at only one facility. Since the suppliers of key components and raw materials must be named in a new drug application filed with U.S. Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) for a product, significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. If delivery of material from our suppliers is
interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship our commercial products or to supply our product candidates for clinical trials.
Inventories
Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis. We periodically review our inventories to
identify obsolete, slow moving, excess or otherwise unsaleable items. If obsolete, slow moving, excess or unsaleable items are observed and there are no alternate
uses for the inventory, we record a write-down to net realizable value through a charge to Cost of goods sold on our Consolidated Statements of Income. The
determination of net realizable value requires judgment including consideration of many factors, such as estimates of future product demand, product net selling
prices, current and future market conditions and potential product obsolescence, among others.
When future commercialization is considered probable and the future economic benefit is expected to be realized, based on management’s judgment, we
capitalize pre-launch inventory costs prior to regulatory approval. A number of factors are considered, including the current status in the regulatory approval
process, potential impediments to the approval process such as safety or efficacy, anticipated R&D initiatives that could impact the indication in which the
compound will be used, viability of commercialization and marketplace trends.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are recognized using the straight-
line method. Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Estimated useful lives in years are generally as follows:
Description Estimated Useful Life
Buildings and improvements Shorter of 35 years or useful life
Laboratory and manufacturing equipment 4-10
Office and computer equipment 3-7
Leasehold improvements Shorter of useful life or lease term
Acquisitions
We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that assets acquired, including in-process research and
development (IPR&D) projects, and liabilities assumed be recorded at their fair values as of the acquisition date on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Any excess of
purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The determination of estimated fair value requires us to make significant estimates
and assumptions. As a result, we may record adjustments to the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed within the measurement period (up to one year
from the acquisition date) with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Transaction costs associated with business combinations are expensed as they are incurred.
When we determine net assets acquired do not meet the definition of a business combination under the acquisition method of accounting, the transaction is
accounted for as an acquisition of assets and, therefore, no goodwill is recorded and contingent consideration such as payments upon achievement of various
developmental, regulatory and commercial milestones generally is not recognized at the acquisition date. In an asset acquisition, up-front payments allocated to
IPR&D projects at the acquisition date and subsequent milestone payments are charged to expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income unless there is an
alternative future use.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business
combination. Intangible assets are measured at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date and may be subject to revision within the measurement period,
which may be up to one year from the acquisition date. Intangible assets related to IPR&D projects are considered to be indefinite-lived until the completion or
abandonment of the associated R&D efforts. We do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. We test goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and in between annual tests if we become aware of any events or circumstances that would indicate the fair
values of the assets are below their carrying amounts.
56When development is successfully completed, which generally occurs when regulatory approval is obtained, the associated assets are deemed finite-lived and
amortized over their respective estimated useful lives beginning at that point in time. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful
lives, primarily on a straight-line basis, and are reviewed for impairment when facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be
recoverable.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever facts or circumstances
either internally or externally may indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Should there be an indication of impairment, we test for
recoverability by comparing the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset to the carrying amount of the asset or asset
group. If the asset or asset group is determined to be impaired, any excess of the carrying value of the asset or asset group over its estimated fair value is recognized
as an impairment loss.
Foreign Currency Translation, Transaction Gains and Losses, and Hedging Contracts
Non-U.S. entity operations are recorded in the functional currency of each entity. Results of operations for non-U.S. dollar functional currency entities are
translated into U.S. dollars using average currency rates. Assets and liabilities are translated using currency rates at period end. Foreign currency translation
adjustments are recorded as a component of AOCI within stockholders’ equity. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are recorded in Other income
(expense), net, on our Consolidated Statements of Income. Net foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material for the years ended December 31,
2019, 2018 and 2017.
We hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposures related to outstanding monetary assets and liabilities as well as forecasted product sales using foreign
currency exchange forward contracts. In general, the market risk related to these contracts is offset by corresponding gains and losses on the hedged transactions.
The credit risk associated with these contracts is driven by changes in interest and currency exchange rates and, as a result, varies over time. By working only with
major banks and closely monitoring current market conditions, we seek to limit the risk that counterparties to these contracts may be unable to perform. We also seek
to limit our risk of loss by entering into contracts that permit net settlement at maturity. Therefore, our overall risk of loss in the event of a counterparty default is
limited to the amount of any unrealized gains on outstanding contracts (i.e., those contracts that have a positive fair value) at the date of default. We do not enter
into derivative contracts for trading purposes.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
We apply fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the
financial statements on a recurring basis. We define fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities which are required to be
recorded at fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact and the market-based risk measurements or assumptions
that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, such as risks inherent in valuation techniques, transfer restrictions and credit risks.
Derivative Financial Instruments
We recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of derivatives
designated as part of a hedge transaction are recorded each period in current earnings or AOCI. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not part of a hedge
transaction are recorded each period in current earnings.
We assess, both at inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are effective in offsetting the changes in
cash flows or fair values of the hedged items. If we determine that a forecasted transaction is probable of not occurring, we discontinue hedge accounting for the
affected portion of the hedge instrument, and any related unrealized gain or loss on the contract is recognized in Other income (expense), net on our Consolidated
Statements of Income.
Income Taxes
Our income tax provision is computed under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial
statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Significant estimates are
required in determining our provision for income taxes. Some of these estimates are based on interpretations of applicable tax laws or regulations.
We record liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits in accordance with the guidance that clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition
and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken
57in a tax return. An adverse resolution of one or more of these uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that
period.
We have elected to account for the tax on Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI), enacted as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform), as a
component of tax expense in the period in which the tax is incurred (period cost method).
Presentation of Cash Flows
Starting in 2019, up-front and milestone payments related to collaborative and other arrangements are classified as cash flows from investing activities in our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Comparative prior year amounts were not material and were not reclassified to investing activities from operating activities.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 “Leases” (ASU 2016-02) and
subsequently issued supplemental adoption guidance and clarification (collectively, Topic 842). Topic 842 amends a number of aspects of lease accounting,
including requiring lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for operating leases with a lease term greater than one year. Topic 842 supersedes
Topic 840 “Leases.”
On January 1, 2019, we adopted Topic 842 using the modified retrospective method. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2019 are presented
under Topic 842, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under Topic 840. We elected
the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within Topic 842, which allowed us to carry forward the historical lease classification,
retain the initial direct costs for any leases that existed prior to the adoption of the standard and not reassess whether any contracts entered into prior to the adoption
are leases. We also elected to account for lease and nonlease components in our lease agreements as a single lease component in determining lease assets and
liabilities. In addition, we elected not to recognize the right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of one year or less.
Upon adoption of Topic 842, we recorded $441 million of right-of-use assets within Other long-term assets and $490 million of operating lease liabilities,
classified primarily within Other long-term obligations on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, as of January 1, 2019. The adoption did not have a material impact on our
Consolidated Statements of Operations or Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. See Note 13. Leases for additional information.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 “Financial Instruments-Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial
Instruments” (ASU 2016-13). ASU 2016-13 requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets. In April 2019, the FASB issued
clarification to ASU 2016-13 within ASU 2019-04 “Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging,
and Topic 825, Financial Instruments.” The guidance will become effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2020 and must be adopted using a modified
retrospective approach, with certain exceptions. We do not expect the adoption of these standards to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial
Statements.
In November 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-18 “Collaborative Arrangements (Topic 808): Clarifying the Interaction between
Topic 808 and Topic 606” (ASU 2018-18). ASU 2018-18 clarifies that certain transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement should be accounted for
under ASC 606 when the counterparty is a customer. In addition, the update precludes an entity from presenting consideration from a transaction in a collaborative
arrangement as revenue if the counterparty is not a customer for that transaction. This guidance will become effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2020 and
will be applied retrospectively to January 1, 2018 when we initially adopted Topic 606. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on
our Consolidated Financial Statements.
582. REVENUES
Disaggregation of Revenues
The following table disaggregates our product sales by product and geographic region and disaggregates our royalty, contract and other revenues by
geographic region (in millions):
Year Ended December 31, 2019 Year Ended December 31, 2018 Year Ended December 31, 2017(6)
Other Other Other
U.S. Europe International Total U.S. Europe International Total U.S. Europe International Total
Product Sales:
Atripla $ 501 $ 60 $ 39 $ 600 $ 967 $ 131 $ 108 $ 1,206 $ 1,288 $ 335 $ 183 $ 1,806
Biktarvy 4,225 370 143 4,738 1,144 39 1 1,184 — — — —
Complera/Eviplera 160 214 32 406 276 327 50 653 406 503 57 966
Descovy 1,078 255 167 1,500 1,217 308 56 1,581 958 226 34 1,218
Genvoya 2,984 664 283 3,931 3,631 794 199 4,624 3,033 534 107 3,674
Odefsey 1,180 438 37 1,655 1,242 335 21 1,598 964 132 10 1,106
Stribild 268 75 26 369 505 97 42 644 811 195 47 1,053
Truvada 2,640 101 72 2,813 2,605 260 132 2,997 2,266 644 224 3,134
Other HIV(1) 30 5 12 47 40 7 14 61 43 6 9 58
Revenue share –
Symtuza(2) 249 130 — 379 27 52 — 79 — — — —
AmBisome 37 234 136 407 46 229 145 420 28 207 131 366
Ledipasvir/Sofosbuvir(3) 312 71 260 643 802 144 276 1,222 3,053 704 613 4,370
Letairis 618 — — 618 943 — — 943 887 — — 887
Ranexa 216 — — 216 758 — — 758 717 — — 717
Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir(4) 971 553 441 1,965 934 654 378 1,966 2,404 869 237 3,510
Vemlidy 309 21 158 488 245 12 64 321 111 5 6 122
Viread 32 69 142 243 50 82 175 307 514 238 294 1,046
Vosevi 178 54 25 257 304 78 14 396 267 22 4 293
Yescarta 373 83 — 456 263 1 — 264 7 — — 7
Zydelig 47 54 2 103 61 70 2 133 69 77 3 149
Other(5) 157 116 12 285 137 76 107 320 283 314 583 1,180
Total product sales 16,565 3,567 1,987 22,119 16,197 3,696 1,784 21,677 18,109 5,011 2,542 25,662
Royalty, contract and
other revenues 80 244 6 330 72 310 68 450 85 300 60 445
Total revenues $ 16,645 $ 3,811 $ 1,993 $ 22,449 $ 16,269 $ 4,006 $ 1,852 $ 22,127 $ 18,194 $ 5,311 $ 2,602 $ 26,107
_________________________________________
(1) Includes Emtriva and Tybost.
(2) Represents our revenue from cobicistat (C), emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir alafenamide (TAF) in Symtuza (darunavir/C/FTC/TAF), a fixed dose combination product commercialized by Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
(Janssen).
(3) Amounts consist of sales of Harvoni and the authorized generic version of Harvoni sold by our separate subsidiary, Asegua Therapeutics LLC.
(4) Amounts consist of sales of Epclusa and the authorized generic version of Epclusa sold by our separate subsidiary, Asegua Therapeutics LLC.
(5) Includes Cayston, Hepsera and Sovaldi.
(6) The information for the year ended December 31, 2017 has not been adjusted in accordance with our modified retrospective adoption of Topic 606 and continues to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting
under Topic 605.
Revenues Recognized from Performance Obligations Satisfied in Prior Periods
Revenues recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior years related to royalties for licenses of our intellectual property were $741 million and $541
million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Changes in estimates for variable consideration related to sales made in prior years resulted in a
$257 million increase and a $56 million decrease in revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Contract Balances
Our contract assets, which consist of unbilled amounts primarily from arrangements where the licensing of intellectual property is the only or predominant
performance obligation, totaled $144 million and $125 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Contract liabilities were not material as of December 31,
2019 and 2018.
593. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
We determine the fair value of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities using the fair value hierarchy, which establishes three levels of inputs that may
be used to measure fair value, as follows:
• Level 1 inputs include quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2 inputs include observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices for identical or
similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for
substantially the full term of the asset or liability. For our marketable securities, we review trading activity and pricing as of the measurement date. When
sufficient quoted pricing for identical securities is not available, we use market pricing and other observable market inputs for similar securities obtained
from various third-party data providers. These inputs either represent quoted prices for similar assets in active markets or have been derived from
observable market data; and
• Level 3 inputs include unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the underlying
asset or liability. Our Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair value measurements are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow
methodologies or similar valuation techniques and significant management judgment or estimation.
Our financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, marketable debt securities, accounts receivable, foreign currency exchange contracts,
equity securities, accounts payable and short-term and long-term debt. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and certain equity securities, and
foreign currency exchange contracts are reported at their respective fair values in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Equity securities without readily determinable fair
values are recorded using the measurement alternative of cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or
similar investments of the same issuer. Short-term and long-term debt are reported at their amortized costs in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The remaining
financial instruments are reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at amounts that approximate current fair values.
The following table summarizes the types of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis by level within the fair value hierarchy (in millions):
December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets:
Available-for-sale debt securities:
U.S. treasury securities $ 2,433 $ — $ — $ 2,433 $ 3,969 $ — $ — $ 3,969
Certificates of deposit — 3,517 — 3,517 — 4,361 — 4,361
U.S. government agencies securities — 1,081 — 1,081 — 938 — 938
Non-U.S. government securities — 174 — 174 — 305 — 305
Corporate debt securities — 9,204 — 9,204 — 13,067 — 13,067
Residential mortgage and asset-backed
securities — 91 — 91 — 1,524 — 1,524
Equity securities:
Equity investment in Galapagos 3,477 — — 3,477 622 — — 622
Money market funds 7,069 — — 7,069 5,305 — — 5,305
Other publicly traded equity securities 322 — — 322 259 — — 259
Deferred compensation plan 171 — — 171 124 — — 124
Foreign currency derivative contracts — 37 — 37 — 78 — 78
Total $ 13,472 $ 14,104 $ — $ 27,576 $ 10,279 $ 20,273 $ — $ 30,552
Liabilities:
Deferred compensation plan $ 171 $ — $ — $ 171 $ 124 $ — $ — $ 124
— 8 — 8 — 1 — 1
Foreign currency derivative contracts
Total $ 171 $ 8 $ — $ 179 $ 124 $ 1 $ — $ 125
Changes in the fair value of equity securities resulted in net unrealized gains of $1.2 billion and $115 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018,
respectively, which were included in Other income (expense), net, on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
60The following table summarizes the classification of our equity investment in Galapagos in our Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions):
December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Prepaid and other current assets $ — $ 622
Other long-term assets 3,477 —
Total $ 3,477 $ 622
See Note 11. Collaborative and Other Arrangements for additional information on our equity investment in Galapagos.
The following table summarizes the classification of our other equity securities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions):
December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Cash and cash equivalents $ 7,069 $ 5,305
Prepaid and other current assets 319 241
Other long-term assets 174 142
Total $ 7,562 $ 5,688
Our available-for-sale debt securities are classified as cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities and long-term marketable securities in our Consolidated
Balance Sheets. See Note 4. Available-for-Sale Debt Securities for additional information.
Level 2 Inputs
We estimate the fair values of Level 2 instruments by taking into consideration valuations obtained from third-party pricing services. The pricing services utilize
industry standard valuation models, including both income-based and market-based approaches, for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or
indirectly, to estimate the fair value. These inputs include reported trades of and broker/dealer quotes on the same or similar securities, issuer credit spreads,
benchmark securities, prepayment/default projections based on historical data and other observable inputs.
Substantially all of our foreign currency derivative contracts have maturities within an 18 month time horizon and all are with counterparties that have a
minimum credit rating of A- or equivalent by S&P Global Ratings, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. or Fitch Ratings, Inc. We estimate the fair values of these
contracts by taking into consideration the valuations obtained from a third-party valuation service that utilizes an income-based industry standard valuation model
for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly. These inputs include foreign currency exchange rates, London Interbank Offered Rates
(LIBOR) and swap rates. These inputs, where applicable, are observable at commonly quoted intervals.
The total estimated fair values of our short-term and long-term debt, determined using Level 2 inputs based on their quoted market values, were approximately
$27.3 billion and $27.1 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and the carrying values were $24.6 billion and $27.3 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018,
respectively.
Level 3 Inputs
As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the only assets or liabilities that were measured using Level 3 inputs on a recurring basis were our contingent consideration
liabilities, which were not material.
The fair values of our acquired IPR&D assets are based on probability-adjusted discounted cash flow calculations using Level 3 fair value measurements and
inputs including estimated revenues, costs, probability of technical and regulatory success and discount rates. Amounts capitalized as IPR&D are subject to
impairment testing until the completion or abandonment of the associated R&D efforts. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we recognized an impairment charge of $800
million associated with the IPR&D intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisition of Kite Pharma, Inc. (Kite) primarily for the treatment of indolent B-
cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (iNHL). During the fourth quarter of 2018, we recognized an impairment charge of $820 million to write down to zero the carrying value of
the KITE-585 program (an anti-B cell maturation antigen being evaluated for the treatment of multiple myeloma). See Note 6. Acquisitions and Note 9. Intangible
Assets for additional information.
Our policy is to recognize transfers into or out of Level 3 classification as of the actual date of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer.
There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 in the periods presented.
614. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE DEBT SECURITIES
The following table summarizes our available-for-sale debt securities (in millions):
December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Gross Gross Gross Gross
Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated
Cost Gains Losses Fair Value Cost Gains Losses Fair Value
U.S. treasury securities $ 2,433 $ — $ — $ 2,433 $ 3,978 $ — $ (9) $ 3,969
Certificates of deposit 3,517 — — 3,517 4,361 — — 4,361
U.S. government agencies securities 1,081 — — 1,081 943 — (5) 938
Non-U.S. government securities 174 — — 174 307 — (2) 305
Corporate debt securities 9,203 2 (1) 9,204 13,095 1 (29) 13,067
Residential mortgage and asset-
backed securities 91 — — 91 1,532 — (8) 1,524
Total $ 16,499 $ 2 $ (1) $ 16,500 $ 24,216 $ 1 $ (53) $ 24,164
The following table summarizes the classification of our available-for-sale debt securities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions):
December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,291 $ 10,592
Short-term marketable securities 12,721 12,149
Long-term marketable securities 1,488 1,423
Total $ 16,500 $ 24,164
The following table summarizes our available-for-sale debt securities by contractual maturity (in millions):
December 31, 2019
Amortized Cost Fair Value
Within one year $ 15,011 $ 15,012
After one year through five years 1,465 1,465
After five years 23 23
Total $ 16,499 $ 16,500
The following table summarizes our available-for-sale debt securities that were in a continuous unrealized loss position, but were not deemed to be other-than-
temporarily impaired (in millions):
Less Than 12 Months 12 Months or Greater Total
Gross Gross Gross
Unrealized Estimated Unrealized Estimated Unrealized Estimated
Losses Fair Value Losses Fair Value Losses Fair Value
December 31, 2019
Corporate debt securities $ (1) $ 1,866 $ — $ 4 $ (1) $ 1,870
December 31, 2018
U.S. treasury securities $ — $ 896 $ (9) $ 1,383 $ (9) $ 2,279
U.S. government agencies securities — 30 (5) 553 (5) 583
Non-U.S. government securities — 86 (2) 192 (2) 278
Corporate debt securities (1) 1,600 (28) 4,204 (29) 5,804
Residential mortgage and asset-backed securities — 192 (8) 1,186 (8) 1,378
Total $ (1) $ 2,804 $ (52) $ 7,518 $ (53) $ 10,322
We held a total of 305 and 1,348 positions, which were in an unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
62Based on our review of these securities, we believe we had no other-than-temporary impairments as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, because we do not intend to
sell these securities nor do we believe that we will be required to sell these securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis. Gross realized gains and gross
realized losses on available-for-sale debt securities were not material for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.
5. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Our operations in foreign countries expose us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and various
foreign currencies, primarily the Euro. To manage this risk, we may hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposures related to outstanding monetary assets and
liabilities as well as forecasted product sales using foreign currency exchange forward or option contracts. In general, the market risk related to these contracts is
offset by corresponding gains and losses on the hedged transactions. The credit risk associated with these contracts is driven by changes in interest and currency
exchange rates and, as a result, varies over time. By working only with major banks and closely monitoring current market conditions, we seek to limit the risk that
counterparties to these contracts may be unable to perform. We also seek to limit our risk of loss by entering into contracts that permit net settlement at maturity.
Therefore, our overall risk of loss in the event of a counterparty default is limited to the amount of any unrealized gains on outstanding contracts (i.e., those contracts
that have a positive fair value) at the date of default. We do not enter into derivative contracts for trading purposes.
We hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for certain monetary assets and liabilities of our entities that are denominated in a non-
functional currency. The derivative instruments we use to hedge this exposure are not designated as hedges, and as a result, changes in their fair value are recorded
in Other income (expense), net, on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
We hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for forecasted product sales that are denominated in a non-functional currency. The
derivative instruments we use to hedge this exposure are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of 18 months or less. Upon executing a hedging
contract and quarterly thereafter, we assess hedge effectiveness using regression analysis. The unrealized gains or losses in AOCI are reclassified into product sales
when the respective hedged transactions affect earnings. The majority of gains and losses related to the hedged forecasted transactions reported in AOCI at
December 31, 2019 are expected to be reclassified to product sales within 12 months.
The cash flow effects of our derivative contracts for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 are included within Net cash provided by operating
activities on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
We had notional amounts on foreign currency exchange contracts outstanding totaling $2.9 billion and $2.2 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
While all our derivative contracts allow us the right to offset assets and liabilities, we have presented amounts on a gross basis. The following table summarizes
the classification and fair values of derivative instruments in our Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions):
December 31, 2019
Asset Derivatives Liability Derivatives
Fair
Classification Fair Value Classification Value
Derivatives designated as hedges:
Foreign currency exchange contracts Other current assets $ 36 Other accrued liabilities $ (6)
Foreign currency exchange contracts Other long-term assets — Other long-term obligations (2)
Total derivatives designated as hedges 36 (8)
Derivatives not designated as hedges:
Foreign currency exchange contracts Other current assets 1 Other accrued liabilities —
Total derivatives not designated as hedges 1 —
Total derivatives $ 37 $ (8)
63December 31, 2018
Asset Derivatives Liability Derivatives
Fair
Classification Fair Value Classification Value
Derivatives designated as hedges:
Foreign currency exchange contracts Other current assets $ 73 Other accrued liabilities $ (1)
Foreign currency exchange contracts Other long-term assets 5 Other long-term obligations —
Total derivatives designated as hedges 78 (1)
Derivatives not designated as hedges:
Foreign currency exchange contracts Other current assets — Other accrued liabilities —
Total derivatives not designated as hedges — —
Total derivatives $ 78 $ (1)
The following table summarizes the effect of our foreign currency exchange contracts on our Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Derivatives designated as hedges:
Gain (loss) recognized in AOCI $ 76 $ 114 $ (315)
Gain (loss) reclassified from AOCI into product sales $ 127 $ (87) $ (28)
Gain recognized in Other income (expense), net $ — $ — $ 41
Derivatives not designated as hedges:
Gain (loss) recognized in Other income (expense), net $ 22 $ (2) $ (113)
From time to time, we may discontinue cash flow hedges, and as a result, record related amounts in Other income (expense), net, on our Consolidated
Statements of Income. There was no discontinuance of cash flow hedges for the years presented.
As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, we only held foreign currency exchange contracts. The following table summarizes the potential effect of offsetting
derivatives by type of financial instrument on our Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions):
Gross Amounts Not Offset on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets
Gross Amounts Offset on Amounts of Assets/Liabilities
Gross Amounts of the Consolidated Balance Presented on the Consolidated Derivative Financial Cash Collateral Net Amount
Description Recognized Assets/Liabilities Sheets Balance Sheets Instruments Received/Pledged (Legal Offset)
As of December 31, 2019
Derivative assets $ 37 $ — $ 37 $ (6) $ — $ 31
Derivative liabilities (8) — (8) 7 — (1)
As of December 31, 2018
Derivative assets $ 78 $ — $ 78 $ (1) $ — $ 77
Derivative liabilities (1) — (1) 1 — —
6. ACQUISITIONS
Kite Pharma, Inc.
In October 2017 (the Acquisition Date), we completed a tender offer for all of the outstanding common stock of Kite for $180 per share in cash. As a result, Kite
became our wholly-owned subsidiary. The acquisition of Kite helps establish our foundation for improving the treatment of hematological malignancies and solid
tumors.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition was $11,155 million, consisting of $10,420 million in cash to the outstanding Kite common stockholders, $645
million cash payment to vested equity award holders, $15 million to warrant holders and $75 million representing the portion of the replaced stock-based awards
attributable to the pre-combination period. In addition, $733 million was excluded from the consideration transferred, representing the portion of the replaced stock-
based awards attributable
64to the post combination period (Replacement Awards), which is expected to be recognized through 2021. As of December 31, 2019, unrecognized compensation cost
related to the Replacement Awards was not material.
The acquisition of Kite was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. This method requires, among other things,
that assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at fair value as of the acquisition date. The determination of estimated fair value requires us to make
significant estimates and assumptions. During 2018, we recorded a $42 million reduction to goodwill primarily due to revision of deferred income taxes as a result of
finalization of Kite’s pre-acquisition federal income tax return. The fair value estimates for the assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been completed.
The following table summarizes the acquisition date fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and the consideration transferred (in millions):
Cash and cash equivalents $ 652
Identifiable intangible assets
Indefinite-lived intangible assets - IPR&D 8,950
Outlicense acquired 91
Deferred income taxes (1,564)
Other assets acquired (liabilities assumed), net 81
Total identifiable net assets 8,210
Goodwill 2,945
Total consideration transferred $ 11,155
Identifiable Intangible Assets
We acquired intangible assets primarily related to IPR&D for axicabtagene ciloleucel, KITE-585 program, and KTE-X19 (formerly KTE-C19, being evaluated for
the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)), which had an estimated aggregate fair value of $8,950 million as of the Acquisition Date.
Intangible assets related to IPR&D projects are considered to be indefinite-lived assets until the completion or abandonment of the associated R&D efforts. In
October 2017, axicabtagene ciloleucel, now known commercially as Yescarta, was approved by FDA for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) after two or more lines of systemic therapy. Upon FDA approval of Yescarta, $6,200 million of the purchased IPR&D was
reclassified as a finite-lived intangible asset and is being amortized over an estimated useful life of 18 years using the straight-line method. In 2019, we recognized an
impairment charge of $800 million primarily related to axicabtagene ciloleucel for the treatment of iNHL. In 2018, we recognized an impairment charge of $820 million to
write down to zero the carrying value of the KITE-585 program. See Note 9. Intangible Assets for additional information.
Additionally, we acquired an outlicensing arrangement with Daiichi Sankyo Company Limited, which had an estimated fair value of $91 million as of the
Acquisition Date. This definite-lived intangible asset is being amortized over an estimated useful life of 14 years on a straight-line basis. The fair value was
determined by estimating the probability-weighted net cash flows attributable to the outlicense discounted to present value using a discount rate that represents the
estimated rate that market participants would use to value this intangible asset.
Goodwill
The $2,945 million goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and represents
the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. None of the goodwill is deductible
for income tax purposes.
Cell Design Labs, Inc.
In December 2017, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding stock of Cell Design Labs, Inc., a privately held company (Cell Design Labs), which was in
addition to the approximately 12.2% of shares in Cell Design Labs we obtained in the acquisition of Kite. With this acquisition, we gained new technology platforms
that will enhance R&D efforts in cellular therapy.
The cash consideration totaled $150 million, net of acquired cash. Additionally, the shareholders of Cell Design Labs, other than us, are eligible to receive
contingent development and regulatory milestone-based payments of up to $322 million. Our 12.2% equity interest in Cell Design Labs had a carrying value of $30
million. The transaction was accounted for as an asset acquisition. As a result, $172 million was expensed as acquired IPR&D within Research and development
expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
657. INVENTORIES
The following table summarizes our inventories (in millions):
December 31,
2019 2018
Raw materials $ 1,348 $ 1,888
Work in process 170 235
Finished goods 549 507
Total $ 2,067 $ 2,630
Reported as:
Inventories $ 922 $ 814
Other long-term assets 1,145 1,816
Total $ 2,067 $ 2,630
Amounts reported as other long-term assets primarily consisted of raw materials as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded inventory write-downs of $649 million, of which $547 million was related to slow moving and excess raw
material and work in progress inventory primarily due to lower long-term demand for our hepatitis C virus (HCV) products. During the year ended December 31, 2018,
we recorded inventory write-downs of $572 million, of which $440 million was related to excess raw materials primarily due to a sustained decrease in demand for
Harvoni. Inventory write-downs recorded for the year ended December 31, 2017 were not material.
8. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
The following table summarizes our Property, plant and equipment (in millions):
December 31,
2019 2018
Land and land improvements $ 404 $ 404
Buildings and improvements (including leasehold improvements) 3,358 2,344
Laboratory and manufacturing equipment 805 697
Office and computer equipment 634 558
Construction in progress 723 1,194
Subtotal 5,924 5,197
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization (1,422) (1,191)
Total $ 4,502 $ 4,006
Office and computer equipment includes capitalized software. We had unamortized capitalized software costs on our Consolidated Balance Sheets of $108
million and $121 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Capitalized interest on construction in-progress is included in property, plant and equipment.
Interest capitalized in 2019, 2018 and 2017 was not material.
669. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The following table summarizes our intangible assets, net (in millions):
December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Gross Foreign Currency Gross Foreign Currency
Carrying Accumulated Translation Net Carrying Carrying Accumulated Translation Net Carrying
Amount Amortization Adjustment Amount Amount Amortization Adjustment Amount
Finite-lived assets
Intangible asset - sofosbuvir $ 10,720 $ (4,253) $ — $ 6,467 $ 10,720 $ (3,554) $ — $ 7,166
Intangible asset - axicabtagene
ciloleucel (DLBCL) 6,200 (761) — 5,439 6,200 (416) — 5,784
Intangible asset - Ranexa 688 (688) — — 688 (678) — 10
Other 1,098 (454) (6) 638 1,096 (359) (3) 734
Total finite-lived assets 18,706 (6,156) (6) 12,544 18,704 (5,007) (3) 13,694
Indefinite-lived assets - IPR&D 1,247 — (5) 1,242 2,047 — (3) 2,044
Total intangible assets $ 19,953 $ (6,156) $ (11) $ 13,786 $ 20,751 $ (5,007) $ (6) $ 15,738
Aggregate amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets was $1.1 billion, $1.2 billion and $912 million for the years ended December 31, 2019,
2018 and 2017, respectively, and is primarily included in Cost of goods sold on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Amounts capitalized as IPR&D are subject to impairment testing until the completion or abandonment of the associated R&D efforts. During the fourth quarter
of 2019, we performed quantitative impairment testing of our IPR&D intangible assets using a probability-weighted income approach that discounts expected future
cash flows to present value. The estimated net cash flows were discounted using a discount rate of 9.5%, which is based on the estimated weighted-average cost of
capital for companies with profiles similar to our profile and represents the rate that market participants would use to value the intangible assets. The discounted cash
flow models used in valuing these intangible assets also require the use of Level 3 fair value measurements and inputs including estimated revenues, costs, and
probability of technical and regulatory success. In comparison to the 2018 assessment, we used lower estimated revenues in 2019 due to changes in the estimated
market opportunities as new therapies or combinations of existing therapies were approved. The lower estimated revenues reduced the fair value of the IPR&D
intangible assets, primarily related to axicabtagene ciloleucel for the treatment of iNHL, below carrying value resulting in the recognition of an impairment charge of
$800 million, which was recorded within Research and development expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
In 2018, we concluded that the KITE-585 program did not justify further efforts based on the totality of the clinical data gathered and discontinued the program.
As a result, the carrying value of the IPR&D relating to the KITE-585 program was written down to zero and we recorded an impairment charge of $820 million within
Research and development expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income. No IPR&D impairment charges were recorded in 2017.
The following table summarizes the estimated future amortization expense associated with our finite-lived intangible assets as of December 31, 2019 (in millions):
Fiscal Year Amount
2020 $ 1,125
2021 1,124
2022 1,124
2023 1,124
2024 1,125
Thereafter 6,922
Total $ 12,544
6710. OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Other Accrued Liabilities
The following table summarizes the components of Other accrued liabilities (in millions):
December 31,
2019 2018
Compensation and employee benefits $ 599 $ 555
Income taxes payable 287 190
Accrued payment for marketing-related rights acquired from Japan Tobacco Inc. — 365
Other accrued expenses 2,188 2,029
Total $ 3,074 $ 3,139
11. COLLABORATIVE AND OTHER ARRANGEMENTS
We enter into collaborative and other similar arrangements with third parties for the development and commercialization of certain products and product
candidates. These arrangements involve two or more parties who are active participants in the operating activities of the collaboration and are exposed to significant
risks and rewards depending on the commercial success of the activities. These arrangements may include non-refundable, up-front payments, payments by us for
options to acquire certain rights, contingent obligations by us for potential development and regulatory milestone payments and/or sales-based milestone payments,
royalty payments, revenue or profit-sharing arrangements, cost-sharing arrangements and equity investments.
Galapagos
Filgotinib Collaboration
In 2016, we closed a license and collaboration agreement with Galapagos, a clinical-stage biotechnology company based in Belgium, for the development and
commercialization of filgotinib, a JAK1-selective inhibitor being evaluated for inflammatory disease indications (the filgotinib agreement). Upon closing, we made an
up-front license fee payment and an equity investment in Galapagos by subscribing for 6.8 million new ordinary shares of Galapagos at a price of €58 per share. The
equity investment, net of issuance premium, was $357 million.
Under the terms of the filgotinib agreement, as amended in 2019, we have an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing, sublicensable license for filgotinib and
products containing filgotinib. As of December 31, 2019, Galapagos is eligible to receive from us potential future development and regulatory milestone-based
payments of up to $640 million, sales-based milestone payments of up to $600 million, plus tiered royalties on global net sales ranging from 20% to 30%, with the
exception of certain co-commercialization territories where profits would be shared equally. The co-commercialization territories are the UK, Germany, France, Italy,
Spain, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. We share global development costs for filgotinib equally. For the periods presented, the payments between
Galapagos and us for the development costs and milestones were not material. Termination of the agreement may be on a country-by-country basis and will depend
on the circumstances, including expiration of royalty term or in the co-commercialization territories, sale of a generic product, or material breach by either party. We
may also terminate the entire agreement without cause following a certain period.
Global Collaboration
In August 2019, we closed an Option, License and Collaboration Agreement (the Collaboration Agreement) and a Subscription Agreement (the Subscription
Agreement), each with Galapagos, pursuant to which the parties entered into a global collaboration that covers Galapagos’ current and future product portfolio (other
than filgotinib). Upon closing, we paid $5.05 billion for the license and option rights and for 6.8 million new ordinary shares of Galapagos at a subscription price of
€140.59 per share with a fair value of $1.13 billion, which included an issuance discount of $63 million calculated based on Galapagos’ closing stock price on the date
of closing of the Subscription Agreement. The remaining $3.92 billion of the payment was recorded within Research and development expenses on our Consolidated
Statements of Income.
Pursuant to the Subscription Agreement, we were issued warrants that confer the right to subscribe, from time to time, for a number of new shares to be issued
by Galapagos sufficient to bring the number of shares owned by us to 29.9% of the issued and outstanding shares at the time of our exercises. In the fourth quarter of
2019, we exercised a warrant to subscribe for 2.6 million ordinary shares of Galapagos at €140.59 per share and purchased shares on the open market with an
aggregate fair value of $586 million, which brought the number of shares owned by us to 16.7 million or approximately 25.8% of the shares then issued and
outstanding.
Our equity investment in Galapagos is classified as Other long-term assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as it is subject to contractual lock-up
provisions. We are subject to a 10-year standstill restricting our ability to acquire voting securities of
68Galapagos exceeding more than 29.9% of the then issued and outstanding voting securities of Galapagos. We agreed not to, without the prior consent of Galapagos,
dispose of any equity securities of Galapagos prior to the second anniversary of the closing of the Subscription Agreement or dispose of any equity securities of
Galapagos thereafter until the fifth anniversary of the closing of the Subscription Agreement, if after such disposal we would own less than 20.1% of the then issued
and outstanding voting securities of Galapagos, subject to certain exceptions and termination events. We have two designees appointed to Galapagos’ board of
directors.
We have elected the fair value option to account for our equity investment in Galapagos whereby the investment is marked to market through earnings in each
reporting period based on the market price of Galapagos’ shares. We believe the fair value option best reflects the underlying economics of the investment. See Note
3. Fair Value Measurements for additional information.
Under the Collaboration Agreement, we have an exclusive license for the development and commercialization of GLPG-1690, a Phase 3 candidate for idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis, in our territories and have an option to participate in the development and commercialization of GLPG-1972, a Phase 2b candidate for
osteoarthritis, and Galapagos’ other current and future clinical programs that have entered clinical development during the first ten years of the collaboration, subject
to extension in certain circumstances. We may exercise our option for a program after the receipt of a data package from a completed, qualifying Phase 2 study for
such program (or, in certain circumstances, the first Phase 3 study). If GLPG-1690 receives marketing approval in the United States, we will pay Galapagos $325 million
as well as tiered royalties described below. If we exercise our option to the GLPG-1972 program, we will pay a $250 million option exercise fee and Galapagos would be
eligible to receive up to $750 million in development, regulatory and commercial milestones as well as tiered royalties described below. With respect to all other
programs in Galapagos’ current and future pipeline, if we exercise our option to a program, we will pay a $150 million option exercise fee per program. In addition,
Galapagos will receive tiered royalties ranging from 20% to 24% on net sales in our territories of each Galapagos product optioned by us (including GLPG-1690 and
GLPG-1972). If we exercise our option for a program, the parties will share equally in development costs and mutually agreed commercialization costs incurred
subsequent to our exercise of the option. Galapagos retains exclusive commercialization rights for the optioned programs in the European Union, the UK, Iceland,
Norway, Lichtenstein and Switzerland, and we have exclusive commercialization rights for all other countries globally, except for GLPG-1972 where we will only
acquire the U.S. rights. We may terminate the collaboration in its entirety or on a program-by-program and country-by-country basis with advance notice as well as
following other customary termination events.
Janssen
Complera/Eviplera and Odefsey
In 2009, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Janssen Sciences Ireland UC (Janssen), formerly Tibotec Pharmaceuticals, to develop and
commercialize a fixed-dose combination of our Truvada and Janssen’s non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, rilpivirine. This combination was approved in
the United States and European Union in 2011 and is sold under the brand name Complera in the United States and Eviplera in the European Union.
The agreement was amended in 2014 to expand the collaboration to include another product containing Janssen’s rilpivirine and our emtricitabine and tenofovir
alafenamide (Odefsey).
Under the amended agreement, Janssen granted us an exclusive license to Complera/Eviplera and Odefsey worldwide, but retained rights to distribute both
combination products in certain countries outside of the United States. Neither party is restricted from combining its drugs with any other drug products except those
which are similar to the components of Complera/Eviplera and Odefsey.
We are responsible for manufacturing Complera/Eviplera and Odefsey and have the lead role in registration, distribution and commercialization of both products
except in the countries where Janssen distributes. Janssen has exercised a right to co-detail the combination product in some of the countries where we are the selling
party.
Under the financial provisions of the 2014 amendment, the selling party sets the price of the combined products and the parties share revenues based on the
ratio of the net selling prices of the party’s component(s), subject to certain restrictions and adjustments. We retain a specified percentage of Janssen’s share of
revenues, including up to 30% in major markets. Sales of these products are included in Product sales and Janssen’s shares of revenues are included in Cost of
goods sold on our Consolidated Statements of Income. Cost of goods sold relating to Janssen’s shares were $574 million, $608 million and $561 million for the years
ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Termination of the agreement may be on a product or country basis and will depend on the circumstances, including withdrawal of a product from the market,
material breach by either party or expiry of revenue share payment term. We may terminate the agreement without cause with respect to the countries where we sell
the products in which case Janssen has the right to become the selling party for such country if the product has launched but has been on the market for fewer than
10 years.
69Symtuza
In 2014, we amended a license and collaboration agreement with Janssen to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination of Janssen’s darunavir and our
cobicistat, emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide. This combination was approved in the United States and European Union in July 2018 and September 2017,
respectively, and is sold under the brand name Symtuza.
Under the terms of the 2014 amendment, we granted Janssen an exclusive license to Symtuza worldwide. Janssen is responsible for manufacturing, registration,
distribution and commercialization of Symtuza worldwide. We are responsible for the intellectual property related to cobicistat, emtricitabine and tenofovir
alafenamide (Gilead Compounds) and are the exclusive supplier of the Gilead Compounds. Neither party is restricted from combining its drugs with any other drug
products except those which are similar to the components of Symtuza.
Janssen sets the price of Symtuza and the parties share revenue based on the ratio of the net selling prices of the party’s component(s), subject to certain
restrictions and adjustments. The intellectual property license and supply obligations related to the Gilead Compounds are accounted for as a single performance
obligation. As the license was deemed to be the predominant item to which the revenue share relates, we recognize our share of the Symtuza revenue in the period
when the corresponding sales of Symtuza by Janssen occur. We record our share of the Symtuza revenue as Product sales on our Consolidated Statements of
Income primarily because we supply the Gilead Compounds to Janssen for Symtuza. See Note 2. Revenues for revenue recognized for the periods presented.
Termination of the agreement may be on a product or country basis and will depend on the circumstances, including withdrawal of a product from the market,
material breach by either party or expiry of revenue share payment term. Janssen may terminate the agreement without cause on a country-by-country basis, in which
case Gilead has the right to become the selling party for such country(ies) if the product has launched but has been on the market for fewer than 10 years. Janssen
may also terminate the entire agreement without cause.
Japan Tobacco
In 2005, Japan Tobacco, Inc. (Japan Tobacco) granted us exclusive rights to develop and commercialize elvitegravir, a novel HIV integrase inhibitor, in all
countries of the world, excluding Japan, where Japan Tobacco retained such rights and paid a royalty to us based on its product sales in Japan. Under the agreement,
we are responsible for seeking regulatory approval in our territories and are required to use diligent efforts to commercialize elvitegravir for the treatment of HIV
infection. We bear all costs and expenses associated with such commercialization efforts and pay a royalty to Japan Tobacco based on our product sales. Japan
Tobacco also marketed and distributed certain other products in our HIV portfolio in Japan and paid a royalty to us based on these product sales.
We received approval for Stribild and Genvoya (elvitegravir-containing products) in 2012 and 2015, respectively. Our sales of these products are included in
Product sales. Royalties due to Japan Tobacco based on our product sales are included in Cost of goods sold. Royalties due from Japan Tobacco based on its
product sales in Japan are included in Royalty, contract and other revenues on our Consolidated Statements of Income. Royalty expenses recognized were $358
million, $452 million and $400 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Royalty income recognized was not material for the periods
presented.
Effective in December 2018, we entered into an agreement with Japan Tobacco to acquire the rights to market and distribute certain products in our HIV
portfolio in Japan and to expand our rights to develop and commercialize elvitegravir to include Japan. We are responsible for the marketing of the products as of
January 1, 2019.
Under the terms of the agreement, we paid Japan Tobacco $559 million in cash, of which $194 million was paid as an up-front payment in 2018, and the remaining
$365 million was paid in 2019. We recognized an intangible asset of $550 million reflecting the estimated fair value of the marketing-related rights acquired from Japan
Tobacco with the remaining $9 million recorded as Prepaid and other current assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The intangible asset is being amortized over
nine years, representing the period over which the majority of the benefits are expected to be derived from the applicable products in our HIV portfolio. The
amortization expense is classified as selling expense and recorded as Selling, general and administrative expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Termination of the agreement may be on a product or country basis and will depend on the circumstances, including material breach by either party or expiry of
royalty payment term. We may also terminate the entire agreement without cause.
Gadeta
In July 2018, we entered into a collaboration arrangement with Gadeta, a privately-held company based in Utrecht, the Netherlands, to develop gamma delta T
cell receptor therapies for various cancers. Under the financial terms, we provide R&D funding for the collaboration, and Gadeta is eligible to receive future payments
upon achievement of certain regulatory milestones. In addition, we made an upfront purchase of equity in Gadeta from Gadeta’s shareholders and may acquire
additional equity in Gadeta upon achievement of certain R&D milestones. We also have the exclusive option to acquire the remaining equity in Gadeta
70for €300 million, adjusted for closing cash, transaction expenses and closing indebtedness. The option is exercisable at our discretion.
Gadeta is a VIE, and we are its primary beneficiary because we have the power to direct the activities of Gadeta that most significantly impact its economic
performance and as a result of the financial terms described above. Upon the initial consolidation of Gadeta, we recorded assets of $117 million, primarily intangible
assets related to IPR&D and $82 million to Noncontrolling interest on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Gadeta does not meet the definition of a business as defined
in ASC 805, “Business Combinations”, and as a result, no goodwill was recognized.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
North America
We had a collaboration arrangement with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) to develop and commercialize a single tablet regimen containing our Truvada
and BMS’s Sustiva (efavirenz) in the United States and Canada. This combination is sold under the brand name Atripla. We and BMS structured this collaboration as
a joint venture that operated as a limited liability company, which we consolidated.
On December 31, 2017, we terminated BMS’s participation in the collaboration following the launch of a generic version of Sustiva in the U.S. and became the
sole owner of the joint venture. BMS is not permitted to commercialize Atripla in the United States and Canada but is entitled to receive from us certain fees based on
net sales of Atripla in 2018, 2019 and 2020 on a declining annual scale. BMS supplies Sustiva to us at cost plus a markup during this three-year period but may
terminate the supply agreement after a notice period. BMS notified us of their voluntary termination of the supply agreement in 2019.
For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 we recorded $58 million and $198 million. respectively, of fee expenses within Cost of goods sold on our
Consolidated Statements of Income.
Europe
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC, our wholly-owned subsidiary, and BMS have a collaboration agreement which sets forth the terms and conditions under which we
and BMS commercialize and distribute Atripla in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland (collectively, the European Territory). The
parties formed a limited liability company which we consolidate, to manufacture Atripla for distribution in the European Territory using efavirenz that it purchases
from BMS at BMS’s estimated net selling price of efavirenz in the European Territory. The parties also formed a limited liability company to hold the marketing
authorization for Atripla in the European Territory.
Starting in 2012, except for a limited number of activities that are jointly managed, the parties no longer coordinate detailing and promotional activities in the
European Territory. We are responsible for manufacturing, product distribution, inventory management and warehousing and have primary responsibility for
regulatory activities. Through our local subsidiaries, we have primary responsibility for order fulfillment, collection of receivables, customer relations and handling of
sales returns in all the territories where we and BMS promote Atripla. In general, the parties share revenues and out-of-pocket expenses in proportion to the net
selling prices of the components of Atripla, Truvada and efavirenz. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, efavirenz purchased from BMS at BMS’s estimated net selling
price of efavirenz in the European Territory was included in Inventories on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In September 2019, BMS elected to voluntarily terminate the agreement effective March 31, 2020. Post termination, BMS is not permitted to commercialize Atripla
in the European territory but is entitled to receive from us certain fees based on net sales of Atripla on a declining annual scale for a three-year period following the
effective date of the termination.
Other collaboration arrangements that are not individually significant
During 2019 and 2018, we entered into several collaborative and other similar arrangements, including equity investments and licensing arrangements, that we
do not consider to be individually material. Cash outflows related to these arrangements totaled $467 million and $474 million for the years ended December 31, 2019
and 2018, respectively. We recorded up-front collaboration and licensing expenses related to these arrangements of $331 million and $278 million for the years ended
December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, within Research and development expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income and the remaining amounts were
recorded in current and other long-term assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We made no material cash payments related to individually insignificant
collaboration arrangements entered into in 2017.
Under the financial terms of these arrangements, we may be required to make payments upon achievement of various developmental, regulatory and commercial
milestones, which could be significant. Future milestone payments, if any, will be reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Income when the corresponding events
become probable. In addition, we may be required to pay significant royalties on future sales if products related to these arrangements are commercialized. The
payment of these amounts, however, is contingent upon the occurrence of various future events, which have a high degree of uncertainty of occurrence.
7112. DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITIES
The following table summarizes the carrying amount of our borrowings under various financing arrangements (in millions):
December 31,
Type of Borrowing Issue Date Due Date Interest Rate 2019 2018
Senior Unsecured September 2017 March 2019 3-month LIBOR + 0.22% $ — $ 750
Senior Unsecured March 2014 April 2019 2.05% — 500
Senior Unsecured September 2017 September 2019 1.85% — 999
Senior Unsecured September 2017 September 2019 3-month LIBOR + 0.25% — 499
Senior Unsecured November 2014 February 2020 2.35% 500 499
Senior Unsecured September 2015 September 2020 2.55% 1,999 1,996
Senior Unsecured March 2011 April 2021 4.50% 998 997
Senior Unsecured December 2011 December 2021 4.40% 1,248 1,247
Senior Unsecured September 2016 March 2022 1.95% 499 498
Senior Unsecured September 2015 September 2022 3.25% 998 997
Senior Unsecured September 2016 September 2023 2.50% 747 746
Senior Unsecured March 2014 April 2024 3.70% 1,745 1,744
Senior Unsecured November 2014 February 2025 3.50% 1,746 1,745
Senior Unsecured September 2015 March 2026 3.65% 2,734 2,731
Senior Unsecured September 2016 March 2027 2.95% 1,245 1,245
Senior Unsecured September 2015 September 2035 4.60% 991 990
Senior Unsecured September 2016 September 2036 4.00% 741 740
Senior Unsecured December 2011 December 2041 5.65% 995 995
Senior Unsecured March 2014 April 2044 4.80% 1,734 1,734
Senior Unsecured November 2014 February 2045 4.50% 1,731 1,730
Senior Unsecured September 2015 March 2046 4.75% 2,217 2,216
Senior Unsecured September 2016 March 2047 4.15% 1,725 1,724
Total debt, net 24,593 27,322
Less current portion 2,499 2,748
Total long-term debt, net $ 22,094 $ 24,574
Senior Unsecured Notes
We did not enter into any borrowings in 2019 or 2018. In 2017, in connection with our acquisition of Kite, we issued $3.0 billion aggregate principal amount of
senior unsecured notes, of which $750 million of principal balance was repaid at maturity in 2018 and the remaining $2.25 billion was repaid at maturity in 2019.
We collectively refer to our senior unsecured notes issued in September 2016 (the 2016 Notes), in September 2015 (the 2015 Notes), in March and November
2014 (the 2014 Notes) and in March and December 2011 (the 2011 Notes) as our Senior Notes. In 2019 and 2018, we repaid at maturity $500 million and $1.0 billion of
principal balance related to the 2014 Notes and 2015 Notes, respectively. In February 2020, we repaid at maturity $500 million of principal balance related to the 2014
Notes.
Our Senior Notes may be redeemed at our option at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed and
(ii) the sum, as determined by an independent investment banker, of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the notes to
be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis at the Treasury Rate, plus a make-
whole premium as defined in the indenture. Our Senior Notes maturing after 2020 also have a call feature, exercisable at our option, to redeem the notes at par in whole
or in part one to six months immediately preceding maturity. In each case, accrued and unpaid interest is also required to be redeemed to the date of redemption.
In the event of the occurrence of a change in control and a downgrade in the rating of our Senior Notes below investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service,
Inc. and S&P Global Ratings, the holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the
notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. We are required to comply with certain covenants under our Senior Notes and as of
December 31, 2019 and 2018, we were not in violation of any covenants.
72Interest expense on our Senior Notes related to the contractual coupon rates and amortization of the debt discount and issuance costs was $1.0 billion, $1.1
billion and $1.0 billion in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Credit Facilities
In 2017, in connection with our acquisition of Kite, we borrowed $6.0 billion against our term loan credit facility, of which $1.5 billion was repaid in 2017 and the
remaining $4.5 billion was repaid in 2018. The term loan credit facility agreement was terminated in 2018.
In 2016, we entered into a $2.5 billion five-year revolving credit facility agreement maturing in May 2021 (the Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement). The
revolving credit facility can be used for working capital requirements and for general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, acquisitions. As of December
31, 2019 and 2018, there were no amounts outstanding under the Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement.
The Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default. At
December 31, 2019, we were not in violation of any covenants. Loans under the Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest at either (i) the Eurodollar Rate
plus the Applicable Percentage, or (ii) the Base Rate plus the Applicable Percentage, each as defined in the Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement. We may terminate
or reduce the commitments and may prepay any loans under the Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty.
Contractual Maturities of Financing Obligations
As of December 31, 2019, the aggregate future principal maturities of financing obligations for each of the next five years, based on contractual due dates, are as
follows (in millions):
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Contractual Maturities $ 2,500 $ 2,250 $ 1,500 $ 750 $ 1,750
13. LEASES
Our operating leases consist primarily of properties and equipment for our administrative, manufacturing and R&D activities. We determine if an arrangement
contains a lease at inception. Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of the lease payments
over the lease term, which is the non-cancelable period stated in the contract adjusted for any options to extend or terminate when it is reasonably certain that we will
exercise that option. Some of our leases include options to extend the terms for up to 15 years and some include options to terminate the lease within one year after
the lease commencement date. Right-of-use assets are adjusted for prepaid lease payments, lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred.
As of December 31, 2019, we do not have material finance leases. As most of our operating leases do not provide an implicit interest rate, we generally utilize a
collateralized incremental borrowing rate, applied in a portfolio approach when relevant, based on the information available at the commencement date to determine
the lease liability. Operating lease expense for the minimum lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Operating lease expenses,
including variable costs and short-term leases, were $162 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Operating lease expense under the prior lease standard was
$109 million and $84 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The following table summarizes balance sheet and other information related to our operating leases as of December 31, 2019 (in millions, except weighted
average amounts):
Classification Amount
Right-of-use assets, net Other long-term assets $ 668
Lease liabilities - current Other accrued liabilities $ 99
Lease liabilities - noncurrent Other long-term obligations $ 626
Weighted average remaining lease term 8.7 years
Weighted average discount rate 3.47%
73The following table summarizes other supplemental information related to our operating leases (in millions):
Year Ended
December 31, 2019
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities $ 66
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease liabilities $ 313
The following table summarizes a maturity analysis of our operating lease liabilities showing the aggregate lease payments as of December 31, 2019 (in millions):
Fiscal Year Amount
2020 $ 125
2021 117
2022 109
2023 100
2024 87
Thereafter 312
Total undiscounted lease payments 850
Less: imputed interest (125)
Total discounted lease payments $ 725
The following table summarizes the aggregate undiscounted non-cancelable future minimum lease payments for operating leases under the prior lease standard
as of December 31, 2018 (in millions):
Fiscal Year Amount
2019 $ 89
2020 78
2021 66
2022 60
2023 52
Thereafter 229
Total minimum lease payments $ 574
14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Legal Proceedings
We are a party to various legal actions. The most significant of these are described below. We recognize accruals for such actions to the extent that we
conclude that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. We accrue for the best estimate of a loss within a range; however, if no estimate in the range is better
than any other, then we accrue the minimum amount in the range. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we
disclose the possible loss. Unless otherwise noted, it is not possible to determine the outcome of these matters, and we cannot reasonably estimate the maximum
potential exposure or the range of possible loss.
We did not have any material accruals for the matters described below in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Litigation Related to Sofosbuvir
In 2012, we acquired Pharmasset, Inc. (Pharmasset). Through the acquisition, we acquired sofosbuvir, a nucleotide analog that acts to inhibit the replication of
the HCV. In 2013, we received approval from FDA for sofosbuvir, now known commercially as Sovaldi. Sofosbuvir is also included in all of our marketed HCV
products. We have received a number of litigation claims regarding sofosbuvir. While we have carefully considered these claims both prior to and following the
acquisition and believe they are without merit, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such claims or range of loss.
We are aware of patents and patent applications owned by third parties that have been or may in the future be alleged by such parties to cover the use of our
HCV products. If third parties obtain valid and enforceable patents, and successfully prove
74infringement of those patents by our HCV products, we could be required to pay significant monetary damages. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of
intellectual property claims related to our HCV products. We have spent, and will continue to spend, significant resources defending against these claims.
Litigation with Idenix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Idenix), Universita Degli Studi di Cagliari (UDSG), Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique and L’Université
Montpellier II
In 2013, Idenix, UDSG, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique and L’Université Montpellier II sued us in U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware
alleging that the commercialization of sofosbuvir infringes U.S. Patent No. 7,608,600 (the ‘600 patent). We prevailed at all phases of litigation concerning the ‘600
patent, and in 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court denied Idenix’s petition for certiorari. Also in 2013, Idenix and UDSG sued us in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Massachusetts alleging that the commercialization of sofosbuvir infringes U.S. Patent Nos. 6,914,054 (the ‘054 patent) and 7,608,597 (the ‘597 patent). In 2014, the
court transferred the Massachusetts litigation to the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware.
Prior to trial in 2016, Idenix committed to give us a covenant not to sue with respect to any claims arising out of the ‘054 patent related to sofosbuvir and
withdrew that patent from the trial. A jury trial was held in 2016 on the ‘597 patent, and the jury found that we willfully infringed the asserted claims of the ‘597 patent
and awarded Idenix $2.54 billion in past damages. In 2018, the judge invalidated Idenix’s ‘597 patent and vacated the jury’s award of $2.54 billion in past damages.
Idenix appealed this decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (CAFC), and in October 2019, the CAFC issued an opinion affirming the trial court’s
decision that the ‘597 patent is invalid. Idenix has petitioned for rehearing by the CAFC en banc and may seek review by the U.S. Supreme Court.
Litigation with the University of Minnesota
The University of Minnesota (the University) has obtained U.S. Patent No. 8,815,830 (the ‘830 patent), which purports to broadly cover nucleosides with
antiviral and anticancer activity. In 2016, the University filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota, alleging that the
commercialization of sofosbuvir-containing products infringes the ‘830 patent. We believe the ‘830 patent is invalid and will not be infringed by the continued
commercialization of sofosbuvir. In 2017, the court granted our motion to transfer the case to California. We have also filed four petitions for inter partes review with
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) Patent Trial and Appeal Board (PTAB) alleging that all asserted claims are invalid for anticipation and obviousness. In
2018, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California stayed the litigation until after the PTAB rules on our petitions for inter partes review.
Litigation Related to Axicabtagene Ciloleucel
We own patents and patent applications that protect our axicabtagene ciloleucel chimeric DNA segments. Third parties may have, or may obtain rights to,
patents that allegedly could be used to prevent or attempt to prevent us from commercializing axicabtagene ciloleucel or to require us to obtain a license in order to
commercialize axicabtagene ciloleucel.
In October 2017, Juno Therapeutics, Inc. and Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (collectively, Juno) filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the
Central District of California, alleging that the commercialization of axicabtagene ciloleucel, sold commercially as Yescarta, infringes on U.S. Patent No. 7,446,190 (the
‘190 patent). A jury trial was held on the ‘190 patent, and in December 2019, the jury found that the asserted claims of the ‘190 patent were valid, and that we willfully
infringed the asserted claims of the ‘190 patent. The jury also awarded Juno damages in amounts of $585 million in an up-front payment and a 27.6% running royalty
from October 2017 through the date of the jury’s verdict. The parties filed post-trial motions in January 2020 and will file further briefing during the first quarter of
2020, and we expect the judge to rule on these matters later in 2020. Once the district court has issued these rulings and has entered judgment, the case may be
appealed to the CAFC. Although we cannot predict with certainty the ultimate outcome of this litigation, we believe the jury’s verdict to be in error, and we also
believe that errors were made by the court with respect to certain rulings before and during trial.
In assessing whether we should accrue a liability for this litigation in our consolidated financial statements, we considered various factors, including the legal
and factual circumstances of the case, the jury’s verdict, the district court’s pre- and post-trial orders, the current status of the proceedings, applicable law, the views
of legal counsel and the likelihood that the jury’s verdict will be upheld on appeal. As a result of this review, we have determined, in accordance with applicable
accounting standards, that it is not probable that we will incur a material loss as a result of this litigation.
If the jury’s verdict is not upheld on appeal, the loss will be zero, If the jury’s verdict is upheld in its entirety on appeal, we estimate the upper end of the range
of possible loss through December 31, 2019 to be approximately $1.6 billion, which consists of (i) the $585 million up-front payment determined by the jury, (ii)
approximately $200 million, which represents estimated royalties on our adjusted revenues from Yescarta from October 18, 2017 through December 31, 2019, and (iii)
enhanced damages requested by Juno of up to two times the sum of (i) and (ii) above as a result of the jury’s finding of willfulness. This sum excludes costs and pre-
judgment interest. Supplemental damages consisting of royalties on sales of Yescarta after December 13, 2019 through the date of judgment could be subject to the
27.6% royalty in the jury’s verdict, the 33.1% prospective royalty proposed
75by Juno, or to enhancement. Any post-judgment sales of Yescarta would be subject to prospective royalties, which we have estimated could be up to 33.1%, and
which would be payable on adjusted Yescarta revenues after the judgment in 2020 until the expiry of the ‘190 patent in August 2024. We expect the judge to rule on
the amount of prospective royalties and any enhanced damages in the course of deciding the post-trial motions. The court’s determination of prospective royalties
and enhanced damages, if any, can also be appealed.
Litigation Related to Bictegravir
In 2018, ViiV Healthcare Company (ViiV) filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court of Delaware, alleging that the commercialization of bictegravir, sold
commercially in combination with tenofovir alafenamide and emtricitabine as Biktarvy, infringes ViiV’s U.S. Patent No. 8,129,385 (the ‘385 patent) covering ViiV’s
dolutegravir. Bictegravir is structurally different from dolutegravir, and we believe that bictegravir does not infringe the claims of the ‘385 patent. To the extent that
ViiV’s patent claims are interpreted to cover bictegravir, we believe those claims are invalid. The court has set a trial date of September 2020 for this lawsuit.
In 2018, ViiV also filed a lawsuit against us in the Federal Court of Canada, alleging that our activities relating to our bictegravir compound have infringed ViiV’s
Canadian Patent No. 2,606,282 (the ‘282 patent), which was issued to Shionogi & Co. Ltd. and ViiV. The ‘282 patent is the compound patent covering ViiV’s
dolutegravir. We believe that bictegravir does not infringe the claims of the ‘282 patent. In January 2020, the court held a summary trial to assess ViiV’s infringement
allegations. The court’s decision is expected in March 2020.
In November and December 2019, ViiV filed lawsuits in France, Germany, Ireland and the UK asserting the relevant national designations of European Patent
No. 3 045 206; in Australia asserting Australian Patent No. 2006239177; in Japan asserting Japanese Patent No. 4295353; and in Korea asserting Korean Patent Nos.
1848819 and 1363875. These patents all relate to molecules which ViiV claim would act as integrase inhibitors. We believe that bictegravir does not infringe the claims
of any of ViiV’s patents. In all jurisdictions, to the extent that the claims of ViiV’s patents are interpreted to cover bictegravir, we believe that those claims are invalid.
We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of intellectual property claims related to bictegravir.
Litigation Relating to Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis
In August 2019, we filed petitions requesting inter partes review of U.S. Patent Nos. 9,044,509, 9,579,333, 9,937,191 (‘191 patent) and 10,335,423 (‘423 patent)
(collectively, HHS Patents) by PTAB. The HHS Patents are assigned to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and purport to claim a process of
protecting a primate host from infection by an immunodeficiency retrovirus by administering a combination of emtricitabine and tenofovir or TDF prior to exposure of
the host to the immunodeficiency retrovirus, a process commonly known as pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP). In November 2019, the U.S. Department of Justice filed a
lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court of Delaware, alleging that the sale of Truvada and Descovy for use as PrEP infringes the HHS Patents. In February 2020,
PTAB declined to institute our petitions for inter partes review of the HHS Patents. Although we cannot predict with certainty the ultimate outcome of this litigation,
we believe that Truvada and Descovy do not infringe the HHS Patents and that the HHS Patents are invalid over prior art descriptions of Truvada’s use for PrEP and
post-exposure prophylaxis, and because physicians and patients were using the claimed methods years before the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention filed
the applications for the patents.
Litigation with Generic Manufacturers
As part of the approval process for some of our products, FDA granted us a New Chemical Entity (NCE) exclusivity period during which other manufacturers’
applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be approved. Generic manufacturers may challenge the patents protecting products that have
been granted NCE exclusivity one year prior to the end of the NCE exclusivity period. Generic manufacturers have sought and may continue to seek FDA approval for
a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA), the application form typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic
drug. The sale of generic versions of our products earlier than their patent expiration would have a significant negative effect on our revenues and results of
operations. To seek approval for a generic version of a product having NCE status, a generic company may submit its ANDA to FDA four years after the branded
product’s approval.
Starting in December 2019, we received letters from Lupin Ltd., Apotex Inc., Shilpa Medicare Ltd., Sunshine Lake Pharma Co. Ltd., Laurus Labs, Natco Pharma
Ltd. and Cipla Ltd. (collectively, generic manufacturers) indicating that they have submitted ANDAs to FDA requesting permission to market and manufacture
generic versions of certain of our tenofovir alafenamide (TAF)-containing products. Between them, these generic manufacturers seek to market generic versions of
Odefsey, Descovy and Vemlidy. Some generic manufacturers have challenged the validity of four patents listed on the Orange Book and associated with TAF, while
others have challenged the validity of two of our Orange Book-listed patents associated with TAF. We are evaluating the letters and intend to enforce and defend
our intellectual property.
76European Patent Claims
In 2015, several parties filed oppositions in the European Patent Office (EPO) requesting revocation of one of our granted European patents covering
sofosbuvir that expires in 2028. In 2016, the EPO upheld the validity of certain claims of our sofosbuvir patent. We have appealed this decision, seeking to restore all
of the original claims, and several of the original opposing parties have also appealed, requesting full revocation. The appeal hearing is scheduled for July 2020.
In 2017, several parties filed oppositions in the EPO requesting revocation of our granted European patent relating to sofosbuvir that expires in 2024. The EPO
conducted an oral hearing for this opposition in 2018 and upheld the claims. Two of the original opposing parties have appealed, requesting full revocation.
In 2016, several parties filed oppositions in the EPO requesting revocation of our granted European patent covering TAF that expires in 2026. In 2017, the EPO
upheld the validity of the claims of our TAF patent. Three parties have appealed this decision.
In 2017, several parties filed oppositions in the EPO requesting revocation of our granted European patent relating to TAF hemifumarate that expires in 2032. In
2019, the EPO upheld the validity of the claims of our TAF hemifumarate patent. Three parties have appealed this decision.
In 2016, three parties filed oppositions in the EPO requesting revocation of our granted European patent covering cobicistat that expires in 2027. In 2017, the
EPO upheld the validity of the claims of our cobicistat patent. Two parties have appealed this decision.
The appeal process may take several years for all EPO opposition proceedings. While we are confident in the strength of our patents, we cannot predict the
ultimate outcome of these oppositions. If we are unsuccessful in defending these oppositions, some or all of our patent claims may be narrowed or revoked and the
patent protection for sofosbuvir, TAF, TAF hemifumarate and cobicistat in the European Union could be substantially shortened or eliminated entirely. If our patents
are revoked, and no other European patents are granted covering these compounds, our exclusivity may be based entirely on regulatory exclusivity granted by the
European Medicines Agency. If we lose patent protection for any of these compounds, our revenues and results of operations could be negatively impacted for the
years including and succeeding the year in which such exclusivity is lost.
Government Investigations and Related Litigation
In 2011, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California requesting documents related to the manufacture, and
related quality and distribution practices, of Complera, Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and Letairis. We cooperated with the government’s inquiry. In 2014,
the U.S. Department of Justice informed us that, following an investigation, it declined to intervene in a False Claims Act lawsuit filed by two former employees. Also
in 2014, the former employees served a First Amended Complaint, and the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California issued an order granting in its
entirety, without prejudice, our motion to dismiss the First Amended Complaint. In 2015, the plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint, and the District Court
issued an order granting our motion to dismiss the Second Amended Complaint. The plaintiffs then filed a notice of appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit (Ninth Circuit). In 2017, the Ninth Circuit granted our motion to stay the case pending an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, and we filed a Petition for a Writ of
Certiorari to the U.S. Supreme Court. In 2018, the Solicitor General submitted a brief for the United States to the U.S. Supreme Court stating its intention to file a
motion to dismiss under the federal False Claims Act. In January 2019, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the petition and the case has been remanded to the District
Court. In March 2019, the Department of Justice filed a motion to dismiss the Second Amended Complaint. The District Court granted the Department of Justice’s
motion to dismiss in November 2019, dismissing relators’ federal False Claims Act claims.
In 2016, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts requesting documents related to our support of 501(c)(3)
organizations that provide financial assistance to patients and documents concerning our provision of financial assistance to patients for our HCV products. We are
cooperating with this inquiry. In 2017, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts requesting documents related to our
copay coupon program and Medicaid price reporting methodology. We are cooperating with this inquiry.
In 2017, we received a voluntary request for information from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania requesting information related
to our reimbursement support offerings, clinical education programs and interactions with specialty pharmacies for Sovaldi and Harvoni. In 2018, we received another
voluntary request for information related to our speaker programs and advisory boards for our HCV and hepatitis B virus products. We are cooperating with these
voluntary requests. In October 2019, the U.S. Department of Justice informed us that, following an investigation, it declined to intervene in a False Claims Act lawsuit
against us relating to hepatitis B speaker programs and advisory boards brought by two plaintiffs in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Notwithstanding the government’s declination, plaintiffs have continued to pursue the lawsuit and served us with the Seconded Amended Complaint in November
2019. Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this lawsuit, we believe the action is without merit and we intend to vigorously defend against it.
77In 2017, we received a subpoena from the California Department of Insurance and the Alameda County District Attorney’s Office requesting documents related
to our marketing activities, reimbursement support offerings, clinical education programs and interactions with specialty pharmacies for Harvoni and Sovaldi. We are
cooperating with this inquiry.
In 2017, we also received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York requesting documents related to our promotional
speaker programs for HIV. We are cooperating with this inquiry.
Product Liability
We have been named as a defendant in one class action lawsuit and various product liability lawsuits related to Viread, Truvada, Atripla, Complera and
Stribild. Plaintiffs allege that Viread, Truvada, Atripla, Complera and/or Stribild caused them to suffer kidney and/or bone injuries. The lawsuits, which are pending in
state or federal court in California, Delaware or Florida, involve thousands of plaintiffs. Plaintiffs in these cases seek damages and other relief on various grounds for
alleged personal injury and economic loss. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these actions. While we believe these cases are without merit, we cannot
predict the ultimate outcome. If plaintiffs are successful in their claims, we could be required to pay significant monetary damages.
Antitrust and Consumer Protection
We (along with Japan Tobacco, BMS and Johnson & Johnson, Inc.) have been named as defendants in a class action lawsuit filed in 2019 related to various
drugs used to treat HIV, including drugs used in combination antiretroviral therapy. Plaintiffs allege that we (and the other defendants) engaged in various conduct
to restrain competition in violation of federal and state antitrust laws and state consumer protection laws. The lawsuit, a consolidated action pending in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of California, seeks to bring claims on behalf of a nationwide class of end-payor purchasers. A similar lawsuit was also recently
filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida, which may also be consolidated. Plaintiffs seek damages, permanent injunctive relief, and other
relief. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this action. While we believe this action is without merit, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome. If plaintiffs are
successful in their claims, we could be required to pay significant monetary damages or could be subject to permanent injunctive relief.
Other Matters
We are a party to various legal actions that arose in the ordinary course of our business. We do not believe that these other legal actions will have a material
adverse impact on our consolidated business, financial position or results of operations.
Other Commitments
In the normal course of business, we enter into various firm purchase commitments primarily related to active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and certain
inventory related items. As of December 31, 2019, these commitments for the next five years were approximately $271 million in 2020, $45 million in 2021, $22 million in
2022, $22 million in 2023 and $14 million in 2024. The amounts related to API represent minimum purchase commitments. Actual payments for the purchases of API
and certain inventory related items were $529 million in 2019, $1.0 billion in 2018 and $1.7 billion in 2017. In January 2020, we amended an API contract, which
increased our firm purchase commitments by approximately $220 million.
15. STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Stock Repurchase Programs
In the first quarter of 2016, our Board of Directors authorized a $12.0 billion stock repurchase program (2016 Program) under which repurchases may be made in
the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2019, the remaining authorized repurchase amount under the 2016 Program was $3.4
billion.
The following table summarizes our stock repurchases under the 2016 Program (in millions, except per share amounts):
Year ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Shares repurchased and retired 26 40 13
Amount $ 1,749 $ 2,900 $ 954
Average price per share $ 66.36 $ 72.95 $ 71.79
In addition to repurchases from the 2016 Program, we repurchased shares of common stock withheld by us from employee restricted stock awards to satisfy our
applicable tax withholding obligations, which are immaterial and excluded from the table above.
78We use the par value method of accounting for our stock repurchases. Under the par value method, common stock is first charged with the par value of the
shares involved. The excess of the cost of shares acquired over the par value is allocated to additional paid-in capital (APIC) based on an estimated average sales
price per issued share with the excess amounts charged to retained earnings.
The following table summarizes the reduction of common stock and APIC and the charge to retained earnings as a result of our stock repurchases (in millions):
Year ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Reduction of common stock and APIC $ 77 $ 112 $ 34
Charge to retained earnings $ 1,791 $ 2,940 $ 1,028
In the first quarter of 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a new $5.0 billion stock repurchase program (2020 Program), which will commence upon the
completion of the 2016 Program. Purchases under the 2020 Program may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.
Dividends
The following table summarizes cash dividends declared on our common stock (in millions, except per share amounts):
2019 2018
Dividend Per Share Amount Dividend Per Share Amount
First quarter $ 0.63 $ 814 $ 0.57 $ 752
Second quarter 0.63 810 0.57 747
Third quarter 0.63 807 0.57 746
Fourth quarter 0.63 808 0.57 741
Total $ 2.52 $ 3,239 $ 2.28 $ 2,986
Our restricted stock and performance share awards or units have dividend equivalent rights entitling holders to dividend equivalents to be paid upon vesting
for each share of the underlying unit
On February 4, 2020, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.68 per share of our common stock, with a payment date
of March 30, 2020 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 13, 2020. Future dividends are subject to declaration by the Board of Directors.
Preferred Stock
We have 5 million shares of authorized preferred stock issuable in series. Our Board is authorized to determine the designation, powers, preferences and rights
of any such series. There was no preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
79Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
The following table summarizes the changes in AOCI by component, net of tax (in millions):
Unrealized Gains
and Losses on Unrealized Gains
Foreign Currency Available-for-Sale and Losses on
Translation Debt Securities Cash Flow Hedges Total
Balance at December 31, 2017 $ 85 $ 194 $ (114) $ 165
Reclassifications to retained earnings as a result of the adoption of new accounting
standards — (293) — (293)
Balance at January 1, 2018 $ 85 $ (99) $ (114) $ (128)
Net unrealized (loss) gain (38) 43 112 117
Reclassifications to net income — 4 87 91
Net current period other comprehensive (loss) income (38) 47 199 208
Balance at December 31, 2018 $ 47 $ (52) $ 85 $ 80
Net unrealized gain 6 54 72 132
Reclassifications to net income — (1) (126) (127)
Net current period other comprehensive income (loss) 6 53 (54) 5
Balance at December 31, 2019 $ 53 $ 1 $ 31 $ 85
The amounts reclassified to net income for gains and losses on cash flow hedges are recorded as part of Product sales on our Consolidated Statements of
Income. See Note 5. Derivative Financial Instruments for additional information. The amounts reclassified to net income for gains and losses on available-for-sale
debt securities are recorded as part of Other income (expense), net, on our Consolidated Statements of Income. The income tax impact allocated to each component of
other comprehensive income was not material for the period presented.
16. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
We provide share-based compensation in the form of various types of equity-based awards, including restricted stock units (RSUs), performance share awards
or units (PSUs) and stock options. Compensation expense is recognized on the Consolidated Statements of Income based on the estimated fair value of the award on
the grant date. The estimated fair value of RSUs is based on the closing price of our common stock. For PSUs, estimated fair value is based on either the Monte Carlo
valuation methodology or the stock price on the date of grant. For stock option awards, estimated fair value is based on the Black-Scholes option valuation model.
2004 Equity Incentive Plan
In May 2004, our stockholders approved and we adopted the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (as amended, the 2004 Plan). The 2004 Plan is a
broad based incentive plan that provides for the grant of equity-based awards, including stock options, restricted stock units, restricted stock awards and
performance share awards, to employees, directors and consultants. The 2004 Plan authorized the issuance of a total of 309 million shares of common stock. As of
December 31, 2019, a total of 79 million shares remain available for future grant under the 2004 Plan.
Stock Options
The 2004 Plan provides for option grants designated as either non-qualified or incentive stock options. All stock options granted after January 1, 2006 have
been non-qualified stock options. Employee stock options generally vest over three or four years. All options are exercisable over a period not to exceed the
contractual term of ten years from the date the stock options are issued and are granted at prices not less than the fair market value of our common stock on the grant
date. Stock option exercises are settled with common stock from the 2004 Plan’s previously authorized and available pool of shares.
80The following table summarizes activity and related information under our stock option plans. All option grants presented in the table had exercise prices not
less than the fair value of the underlying common stock on the grant date:
Weighted- Weighted-Average Aggregate
Average Remaining Intrinsic
Shares Exercise Price Contractual Term Value
(in millions) (in dollars) (years) (in millions)
Outstanding at December 31, 2018 23.5 $ 53.80
Granted 2.8 $ 65.87
Forfeited (1.5) $ 69.70
Expired (0.4) $ 75.64
Exercised (4.9) $ 24.06
Outstanding at December 31, 2019 19.5 $ 61.35 5.11 $ 238
Exercisable at December 31, 2019 14.3 $ 58.74 4.03 $ 224
Expected to vest, net of estimated forfeitures at December 31, 2019 4.9 $ 68.51 8.08 $ 13
Aggregate intrinsic value represents the value of our closing stock price on the last trading day of the year in excess of the weighted-average exercise price
multiplied by the number of options outstanding or exercisable. Total intrinsic value of options exercised was $209 million for 2019, $412 million for 2018 and $337
million for 2017.
The weighted-average grant date fair value of the stock options granted was $12.15 per share for 2019, $17.03 per share for 2018 and $38.78 per share for 2017.
The weighted-average grant date fair value of stock options granted in 2017 was higher due to replacement awards granted in connection with our acquisitions of
Kite and Cell Design Labs.
As of December 31, 2019, there was $85 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options, which is expected to be recognized over an
estimated weighted-average period of 2.1 years.
Restricted Stock and Performance Share Awards
We grant time-based RSUs to certain employees as part of our annual employee equity compensation review program as well as to new hire employees and to
non-employee members of our Board. RSUs are share-based awards that entitle the holder to receive freely tradable shares of our common stock upon vesting. RSUs
generally vest over three or four years from the date of grant. The fair value of an RSU is equal to the closing price of our common stock on the grant date.
We grant PSUs which vest upon the achievement of specified market or performance goals, which could include achieving a total shareholder return compared
to a pre-determined peer group or achieving revenue targets. The actual number of common shares ultimately issued is calculated by multiplying the number of PSUs
by a payout percentage ranging from 0% to 200%, and these awards generally vest only when a committee (or subcommittee) of our Board has determined that the
specified market and performance goals have been achieved. The fair value of each PSU is estimated at the date of grant or when performance objectives are defined
for the grants. Depending on the terms of the award, fair value on the date of grant is determined based on either the Monte Carlo valuation methodology or the
closing stock price on the date of grant.
In addition, we have also granted other PSUs to certain of our employees under the 2004 Plan. The vesting of these awards is subject to the achievement of
specified individual performance goals, typically within a one to two year period. The fair value of such an award is equal to the closing price of our common stock on
the grant date.
The following table summarizes our RSU and PSU activity and related information (in millions, except per share amounts):
RSUs PSUs
Weighted- Weighted-
Average Average
Grant Date Fair Value Grant Date Fair Value
Shares Per Share Shares (1) Per Share(1)
Outstanding at December 31, 2018 14.9 $ 77.72 0.8 $ 82.42
Granted 9.6 $ 64.31 0.5 $ 68.30
Vested (5.3) $ 79.98 (0.3) $ 77.37
Forfeited (2.0) $ 72.89 (0.3) $ 69.25
Outstanding at December 31, 2019 17.2 $ 70.08 0.7 $ 80.42
_________________________________________
(1) Weighted-average grant-date fair value per share excludes shares related to grants that currently have no grant date as the performance objectives have not yet been defined.
81The weighted-average grant date fair value of RSUs granted was $64.31 per share for 2019, $77.98 per share for 2018, and $73.56 per share for 2017. The
weighted-average grant date fair value of PSUs granted was $68.30 per share for 2019, $88.76 per share for 2018, and $74.42 per share for 2017. The total grant date fair
value of our vested RSUs and PSUs was $450 million for , $481 million for 2018 and $329 million for 2017, and total fair value as of the respective vesting dates was
$372 million for 2019, $446 million for 2018 and $288 million for 2017.
As of December 31, 2019, there was $802 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested RSUs and PSUs, which is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the International Employee Stock Purchase Plan (together, as amended, the ESPP), employees can purchase
shares of our common stock based on a percentage of their compensation subject to certain limits. The purchase price per share is equal to the lower of 85% of the
fair market value of our common stock on the offering date or the purchase date. The ESPP offers a six-month look-back feature as well as an automatic reset feature
that provides for an offering period to be reset to a new lower-priced offering if the offering price of the new offering period is less than that of the current offering
period. ESPP purchases are settled with common stock from the ESPP’s previously authorized and available pool of shares. During 2019, 2 million shares were issued
under the ESPP for $90 million. A total of 79 million shares of common stock have been authorized for issuance under the ESPP, and there were 9 million shares
available for issuance under the ESPP as of December 31, 2019.
Stock-Based Compensation
The following table summarizes total stock-based compensation expenses included on our Consolidated Statements of Income (in millions):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Cost of goods sold $ 48 $ 61 $ 24
Research and development expenses 289 379 232
Selling, general and administrative expenses 299 405 393
Stock-based compensation expense included in total costs and expenses 636 845 649
Income tax effect(1) 2 (164) (280)
Stock-based compensation expense, net of tax $ 638 $ 681 $ 369
_______________________
(1) Income tax effect for the year ended December 31, 2019 included a $114 million income tax expense following the U.S. Court of Appeals decision in Altera Corp v. Commissioner,
which requires related parties in an intercompany cost sharing arrangement to share expenses related to stock-based compensation. See 19. Income Taxes, for additional information.
Stock-based compensation is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods on our Consolidated Statements of Income using the straight-line
expense attribution approach, reduced for estimated forfeitures. We estimate forfeitures based on our historical experience. The requisite service period could be
shorter than the vesting period if an employee is retirement eligible.
82Valuation Assumptions
Fair value of options granted under our 2004 Plan and purchases under our ESPP were estimated at grant or purchase dates using a Black-Scholes option
valuation model. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions
and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and
expected award life. We used the following assumptions to calculate the estimated fair value of the awards:
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Expected volatility:
Stock options 27% 28% 28%
ESPP 27% 28% 28%
Expected term in years:
Stock options 5.5 5.2 4.6
ESPP 0.5 0.5 0.5
Risk-free interest rate:
Stock options 2.3% 2.5% 2.1%
ESPP 1.8% 2.6% 1.8%
Expected dividend yield 3.6% 2.8% 2.7%
The fair value of stock options granted was calculated using the single option approach. We use a blend of historical volatility along with implied volatility for
traded options on our common stock to determine our expected volatility. The expected term of stock-based awards represents the weighted-average period the
awards are expected to remain outstanding. We estimate the weighted-average expected term based on historical cancellation and historical exercise data related to
our stock options as well as the contractual term and vesting terms of the awards. The risk-free interest rate is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the
term of the stock-based awards. The dividend yield is based on our history and expectation of dividend payouts.
Deferred Compensation
We maintain a retirement saving plan under which eligible U.S. employees may defer compensation for income tax purposes under Section 401(k) of the
Internal Revenue Code (the Gilead Sciences 401k Plan). In certain foreign subsidiaries, we maintain defined benefit plans as required by local regulatory requirements.
Our total matching contribution expense under the Gilead Sciences 401k Plan and other defined benefit plans was $110 million during 2019, $91 million during 2018 and
$74 million during 2017.
We maintain a deferred compensation plan under which our directors and key employees may defer compensation. Amounts deferred by participants are
deposited into a rabbi trust. The total assets and liabilities associated with the deferred compensation plan were $171 million as of December 31, 2019 and $124 million
as of December 31, 2018.
17. NET INCOME PER SHARE ATTRIBUTABLE TO GILEAD COMMON STOCKHOLDERS
Basic net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders is calculated based on the weighted-average number of shares of our common stock
outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders is calculated based on the weighted-average number of
shares of our common stock and other dilutive securities outstanding during the period. The potentially dilutive shares of our common stock resulting from the
assumed exercise of outstanding stock options and equivalents were determined under the treasury stock method.
Potential shares of common stock excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share attributable to Gilead common shareholders because their
effect would have been antidilutive were 14 million, 13 million and 11 million during 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
83The following table shows the calculation of basic and diluted net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders (in millions, except per share
amounts):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Net income attributable to Gilead $ 5,386 $ 5,455 $ 4,628
Shares used in per share calculation - basic 1,270 1,298 1,307
Dilutive effect of stock options and equivalents 7 10 12
Shares used in per share calculation - diluted 1,277 1,308 1,319
Net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders - basic $ 4.24 $ 4.20 $ 3.54
Net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders - diluted $ 4.22 $ 4.17 $ 3.51
18. SEGMENT INFORMATION
We have one operating segment, which primarily focuses on the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative medicines in areas of unmet
medical need. Our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), as the chief operating decision-maker, manages and allocates resources to the operations of our company on an
entity-wide basis. Managing and allocating resources on an entity-wide basis enables our CEO to assess the overall level of resources available and how to best
deploy these resources across functions and R&D projects based on unmet medical need and, as necessary, reallocate resources among our internal R&D portfolio
and external opportunities to best support the long-term growth of our business. See Note 2. Revenues for a summary of disaggregated revenues by product and
geographic region.
Revenues From Major Customers
The following table summarizes revenues from each of our customers who individually accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues (as a percentage of
total revenues):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
AmerisourceBergen Corp. 21% 20% 20%
Cardinal Health, Inc. 21% 21% 19%
McKesson Corp. 22% 21% 23%
Long-Lived Assets
The net book value of our property, plant and equipment (less office and computer equipment) in the United States was $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2019,
$3.2 billion as of December 31, 2018 and $2.6 billion as of December 31, 2017. The corresponding amount in international locations was $791 million as of December 31,
2019, $620 million as of December 31, 2018 and $520 million as of December 31, 2017. All individual international locations accounted for less than 10% of the total
balances.
19. INCOME TAXES
Income before provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Domestic $ 4,112 $ 7,074 $ 8,099
Foreign 1,048 725 5,430
Income before provision for income taxes $ 5,160 $ 7,799 $ 13,529
84The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Federal:
Current $ 1,646 $ 1,716 $ 8,817
Deferred (843) 324 (123)
803 2,040 8,694
State:
Current 135 162 97
Deferred (42) (17) (20)
93 145 77
Foreign:
Current 124 175 54
Deferred (1,224) (21) 60
(1,100) 154 114
Provision for income taxes $ (204) $ 2,339 $ 8,885
The 2019 provision for income taxes included a $1.2 billion deferred tax benefit related to intangible asset transfers from a foreign subsidiary to Ireland and the
United States. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we completed an intra-entity asset transfer of certain intangible assets from a foreign subsidiary to Ireland. The
transaction resulted in a step-up of the Irish tax-deductible basis in the transferred assets, and accordingly, created a temporary difference where the tax basis
exceeded the book basis of such intangible assets. As a result, we recognized a deferred tax asset of $1.2 billion on our consolidated financial statements. The tax
deductions for amortization of the assets will be recognized in the future and any amortization not deducted for tax purposes will be carried forward indefinitely under
Irish tax laws. We expect to be able to realize the deferred tax asset resulting from this intra-entity asset transfer. The impact of the intangible asset transfer from a
foreign subsidiary to the United States was not material.
The 2018 provision for income taxes included a $588 million deferred tax charge related to a transfer of acquired intangible assets from a foreign subsidiary to
the United States. This transaction did not result in a step-up of the U.S. tax-deductible basis; and as a result, we recognized a deferred tax liability of $588 million for
the temporary difference where the book basis exceeded the tax basis of these acquired intangible assets.
The 2017 provision for income taxes included a $5.5 billion provisional charge to income tax expense related to Tax Reform enacted in December 2017. Tax
reform made significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to
21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, implementation of a modified
territorial tax system, which has the effect of subjecting earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to U.S. taxation on GILTI. We elected to account for the tax on GILTI
under the period cost method.
The reconciliation between the federal statutory tax rate applied to income before taxes and our effective tax rate is summarized as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Federal statutory rate 21.0 % 21.0 % 35.0 %
State taxes, net of federal benefit 0.4 % 0.6 % 0.1 %
Foreign earnings at different rates (2.5)% (0.9)% (11.2)%
Research and other credits (1.9)% (1.1)% (0.6)%
US tax on foreign earnings 4.3 % 2.1 % 1.2 %
Deferred tax - intra-entity transfer of intangible assets (24.0)% 7.5 % — %
Transition tax — % (0.7)% 42.9 %
Deferred tax revaluation — % 0.8 % (2.3)%
Settlement of tax examinations (2.4)% (1.9)% — %
Other 1.1 % 2.6 % 0.6 %
Effective tax rate (4.0)% 30.0 % 65.7 %
85Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes
and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions):
December 31,
2019 2018
Deferred tax assets:
Net operating loss carryforwards $ 184 $ 344
Stock-based compensation 113 163
Reserves and accruals not currently deductible 423 426
Excess of tax basis over book basis of intangible assets 1,232 —
Up-front and milestone payments 988 97
Research and other credit carryforwards 247 363
Other, net 168 183
Total deferred tax assets before valuation allowance 3,355 1,576
Valuation allowance (217) (331)
Total deferred tax assets 3,138 1,245
Deferred tax liabilities:
Property, plant and equipment (88) (47)
Excess of book basis over tax basis of intangible assets (1,401) (1,656)
Other (93) (80)
Total deferred tax liabilities (1,582) (1,783)
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) $ 1,556 $ (538)
The valuation allowance was $217 million and $331 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease of our valuation allowance in 2019 was
primarily related to a reduction in net operating loss carryforwards under the asset recognition framework and the corresponding valuation allowance with respect to
certain foreign jurisdictions.
At December 31, 2019, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $231 million. The federal net operating loss carryforwards will start
to expire in 2021, if not utilized. We also had federal tax credit carryforwards of approximately $88 million which will start to expire in 2020, if not utilized. In addition,
we had state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $1.4 billion and $543 million, respectively. The state net operating loss will start to expire
in 2021 if not utilized and state tax credit carryforwards is carried forward indefinitely.
Utilization of net operating losses and tax credits may be subject to an annual limitation due to ownership change limitations provided in the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, and similar state provisions. This annual limitation may result in the expiration of the net operating losses and credits before utilization.
We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions. For federal income tax purposes, the statute of
limitations is open for 2013 and onwards and 2010 and onwards for California income tax purposes. For certain acquired entities, the statute of limitations is open for
all years from inception due to our utilization of their net operating losses and credits carried over from prior years.
Our income tax returns are subject to audit by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under examination by the IRS for the tax years from
2013 to 2015 and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. There are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may
arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. We periodically
evaluate our exposures associated with our tax filing positions.
Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $1.6 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, if recognized, would reduce our effective tax rate in the period
of recognition. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits included as part of provision for income taxes on our Consolidated Statements of Income
were $105 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017,
respectively, were not material. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits were $259 million and $154 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018,
respectively. As of December 31, 2019, we believe that it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits may materially change in the next 12 months due to
potential resolutions with a tax authority. An estimate of the range of the reasonably possible change cannot be determined at this time.
86In June 2019, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (Ninth Circuit) issued an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner reversing the prior decision of the United
States Tax Court and requiring related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement to share expenses related to stock-based compensation. In July 2019, the
taxpayer requested a rehearing before the full Ninth Circuit and the request was denied in November 2019. As a result, we recorded a cumulative income tax expense
of $114 million in the fourth quarter of 2019. On February 10, 2020, the taxpayer requested a hearing before the Supreme Court of the United States; and as such,
although the final outcome of the case is still uncertain, we recorded income tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2019 based on the Ninth Circuit’s denial.
The following is a rollforward of our total gross unrecognized tax benefits (in millions):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Balance, beginning of period $ 1,595 $ 2,181 $ 1,852
Tax positions related to current year:
Additions 138 64 299
Reductions — — —
Tax positions related to prior years:
Additions 405 125 67
Reductions — — (16)
Settlements (104) (774) (12)
Lapse of statute of limitations (3) (1) (9)
Balance, end of period $ 2,031 $ 1,595 $ 2,181
87SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
(in millions, except per share amounts)
1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter
2019
Total revenues $ 5,281 $ 5,685 $ 5,604 $ 5,879
Gross profit on product sales $ 4,243 $ 4,607 $ 4,481 $ 4,113
Net income (loss)(1)(2) $ 1,968 $ 1,875 $ (1,168) $ 2,689
Net income (loss) attributable to Gilead(1)(2) $ 1,975 $ 1,880 $ (1,165) $ 2,696
Net income (loss) per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders - basic(1)(2)(3) $ 1.55 $ 1.48 $ (0.92) $ 2.13
Net income (loss) per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders - diluted(1)(2)(3) $ 1.54 $ 1.47 $ (0.92) $ 2.12
2018
Total revenues $ 5,088 $ 5,648 $ 5,596 $ 5,795
Gross profit on product sales $ 4,000 $ 4,344 $ 4,369 $ 4,111
Net income(4) $ 1,539 $ 1,819 $ 2,099 $ 3
Net income attributable to Gilead(4) $ 1,538 $ 1,817 $ 2,097 $ 3
Net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders - basic(4)(5) $ 1.18 $ 1.40 $ 1.62 $ —
Net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders - diluted(4)(5) $ 1.17 $ 1.39 $ 1.60 $ —
_________________________________________
(1) Amounts for the third quarter of 2019 included up-front collaboration and licensing expenses of $3.92 billion, or $2.40 per basic and diluted share related to the collaboration with
Galapagos. See Note 11. Collaborative and Other Arrangements for additional details.
(2) Amounts for the fourth quarter of 2019 included a $1.2 billion favorable tax effect related to intra-entity intangible asset transfers and $929 million of pre-tax net gains from equity
securities, partially offset by an $800 million pre-tax impairment charge related to in-process research and development (IPR&D) intangible assets acquired in connection with the
acquisition of Kite and pre-tax write-downs of $500 million for slow moving and excess raw material and work in process inventory. See Note 3. Fair Value Measurements, Note 7.
Inventories, Note 9. Intangible Assets and Note 19. Income Taxes for additional details.
(3) Amounts for the fourth quarter of 2019 included a net favorable impact of $0.83 per basic share and $0.81 per diluted share from the factors noted above in footnote (2).
(4) Amounts for the fourth quarter of 2018 included an $820 million pre-tax impairment charge related to IPR&D intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisition of Kite, a
$588 million non-cash tax charge related to a transfer of acquired intangible assets from a foreign subsidiary to the United States and pre-tax write-downs of $410 million for excess raw
materials primarily due to a sustained decrease in demand for Harvoni. See Note 7. Inventories, Note 9. Intangible Assets and Note 19. Income Taxes for additional details.
(5) Amounts for the fourth quarter of 2018 included an unfavorable impact of $1.31 per basic share and $1.30 per diluted share from the factors noted above in footnote (4).
88GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
(in millions)
Balance at
Beginning of Additions/Charged Balance at End of
Period to Expense Deductions Period
Year ended December 31, 2019:
Accounts receivable allowances(1) $ 583 $ 7,514 $ 7,339 $ 758
Sales return allowance $ 159 $ 121 $ 143 $ 137
Valuation allowances for deferred tax assets $ 331 $ 3 $ 117 $ 217
Year ended December 31, 2018:
Accounts receivable allowances(1) $ 455 $ 7,572 $ 7,444 $ 583
Sales return allowance $ 162 $ 85 $ 88 $ 159
Valuation allowances for deferred tax assets $ 162 $ 170 $ 1 $ 331
Year ended December 31, 2017:
Accounts receivable allowances(1) $ 763 $ 7,682 $ 7,990 $ 455
Sales return allowance $ 195 $ 23 $ 56 $ 162
Valuation allowances for deferred tax assets $ 126 $ 72 $ 36 $ 162
_________________________________________
(1) Allowances are for doubtful accounts, cash discounts and chargebacks.
89ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
Not applicable.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
(a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
An evaluation as of December 31, 2019 was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” which are defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that the information required to be
disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods
specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management,
including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based upon that evaluation,
our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at December 31, 2019.
(b) Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of
the Exchange Act. Our internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations
and can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the internal control system are met.
Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, based on criteria established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO) in its 2013 Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on our evaluation, we concluded that our internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of December 31, 2019.
Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has audited our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K and have issued a report on our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019. Their report on the audit of internal control
over financial reporting appears below.
(c) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated any changes in our internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2019, and has concluded that there was no change during such quarter that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
90Report of Independent Registered Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Gilead Sciences, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Gilead Sciences,
Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance
sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) and our
report dated February 24, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required
to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California
February 24, 2020
91ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
Not applicable.
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The information required by this Item concerning our directors and executive officers is incorporated by reference to the sections of our Definitive Proxy
Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A in connection with our 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the
Proxy Statement) under the headings “The Gilead Board of Directors - Nominees,” “Board Structure,” “Executive Officers,” and, if applicable, “Delinquent
Section 16(a) Reports.”
Our written Code of Ethics applies to all of our directors and employees, including our executive officers, including without limitation our principal executive
officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions. The Code of Ethics is available on our website at
http://www.gilead.com in the Investors section under “Corporate Governance.” We intend to disclose future amendments to certain provisions of the Code of Ethics,
and waivers of the Code of Ethics granted to executive officers and directors, on the website within four business days following the date of the amendment or
waiver.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement under the headings “Executive Compensation,”
“Committees of our Board of Directors,” “Compensation Committee Report,” and “Compensation of Non-Employee Board Members.”
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to Item 5 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Equity Compensation Plan
Information” and the section of the Proxy Statement under the heading “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.”
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement under the headings “The Gilead Board of Directors,”
and “Board Processes.”
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the section of the Proxy Statement under the heading “Principal Accountant Fees and
Services.”
PART IV
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a) The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
(1) Index list to Consolidated Financial Statements:
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 46
Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:
Consolidated Balance Sheets 48
Consolidated Statements of Income 49
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 50
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity 51
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 52
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 53
(2) Schedule II is included on page 89 of this report. All other schedules are omitted because they are not required or the required information is included in the
financial statements or notes thereto.
92(3) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated by reference:
Exhibit
Footnote Exhibit Number Description of Document
(1) 3.1 Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant
(1) 3.2 Amended and Restated Bylaws of Registrant
4.1 Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 and Exhibit 3.2
(2) 4.2 Indenture related to Senior Notes, dated as of March 30, 2011, between Registrant and Wells Fargo, National Association, as Trustee
First Supplemental Indenture related to Senior Notes, dated as of March 30, 2011, between Registrant and Wells Fargo, National Association, as Trustee (including
(2) 4.3 form of Senior Notes)
Second Supplemental Indenture related to Senior Notes, dated as of December 13, 2011, between Registrant and Wells Fargo, National Association, as Trustee
(3) 4.4 (including Form of 2021 Note, Form of 2041 Note)
Third Supplemental Indenture related to Senior Notes, dated as of March 7, 2014, between Registrant and Wells Fargo, National Association, as Trustee (including
(4) 4.5 Form of 2024 Note, Form of 2044 Note)
Fourth Supplemental Indenture related to Senior Notes, dated as of November 17, 2014, between Registrant and Wells Fargo, National Association, as Trustee
(5) 4.6 (including Form of 2020 Note, Form of 2025 Note, Form of 2045 Note)
Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 14, 2015, between Registrant and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (including Form of 2020
(6) 4.7 Note, Form of 2022 Note, Form of 2026 Note, Form of 2035 Note and Form of 2046 Note)
Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 20, 2016, between Registrant and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (including Form of 2022
(7) 4.8 Note, Form of 2023 Note, Form of 2027 Note, Form of 2036 Note and Form of 2047 Note)
4.9** Description of Registrant's Securities
(8) 10.1* Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, amended and restated May 10, 2017
(9) 10.2* Form of employee stock option agreement under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants made in 2010)
(10) 10.3* Form of employee stock option agreement under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants made in 2011 through 2018)
(11) 10.4*
Form of employee stock option agreement under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants commencing in 2019)
(12) 10.5* Form of global employee stock option agreement under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (4 year vest) (for grants commencing in 2019)
(13) 10.6* Form of non-employee director stock option agreement under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants made in 2009 through 2012)
(14) 10.7* Form of non-employee director stock option agreement (U.S.) under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants made in 2013)
(14) 10.8* Form of non-employee director stock option agreement (non-U.S.) under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants made in 2013)
(15) 10.9* Form of non-employee director stock option agreement under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants made in 2014 through 2018)
(11) 10.10* Form of non-employee director stock option agreement under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants commencing in 2019)
Form of performance share award agreement - TSR Goals (U.S.) with Director Retirement Provisions under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants made in 2016
(16) 10.11* through 2018)
(16) 10.12* Form of performance share award agreement - TSR Goals (non-US) under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants made in 2016 through 2018)
(11) 10.13* Form of performance share award agreement - TSR Goals (U.S.) under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants commencing in 2019)
(16) 10.14* Form of performance share award agreement - Revenue Goals (U.S.) under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants made in 2016 through 2018)
Form of performance share award agreement - Revenue Goals (U.S.) with Director Retirement Provisions under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants made in 2016
(16) 10.15* through 2018)
(11) 10.16* Form of performance share award agreement - Revenue Goals (U.S.) under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants commencing in 2019)
(10) 10.17* Form of employee restricted stock unit issuance agreement under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants made in 2011 through 2018)
(11) 10.18* Form of employee restricted stock unit issuance agreement under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants commencing in 2019)
(12) 10.19* Form of global employee restricted stock unit issuance agreement under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (3 year vest) (for grants commencing in 2019)
(12) 10.20* Form of global employee restricted stock unit issuance agreement under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (4 year vest) (for grants commencing in 2019)
(11) 10.21* Form of non-employee director restricted stock unit issuance agreement under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (for grants commencing in 2019)
(18) 10.22* Gilead Sciences, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended and restated January 22, 2015
(11) 10.23* Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan, amended and restated April 19, 201693(12) 10.24* Gilead Sciences, Inc. Severance Plan, amended and restated July 24, 2019
(18) 10.25* Gilead Sciences, Inc. Corporate Bonus Plan, amended and restated January 1, 2019
(19) 10.26* Gilead Sciences, Inc. Retention Program for Executive Officers
(20) 10.27* Offer Letter between Registrant and Robin Washington, dated April 16, 2008
10.28*,** Offer Letter between Registrant and Laura Hamill, dated August 8, 2018
10.29*, ** Severance and General Release Agreement between Registration and Laura Hamill, dated June 6, 2019
(12) 10.30* Transition and Severance Agreement between Registrant and Gregg Alton, dated July 15, 2019
(12) 10.31* Transition and Severance Agreement between Registrant and John McHutchison, dated July 15, 2019
(21) 10.32* Offer Letter between Registrant and Daniel O'Day, dated November 30, 2018
(11) 10.33* Offer Letter between Registrant and Johanna Mercier, dated May 21, 2019
(11) 10.34* Stock option agreement for Daniel O’Day under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan
(11) 10.35* Performance share award agreement for Daniel O’Day (for TSR Goals in 2019) under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan
(11) 10.36*
Performance share award agreement for Daniel O’Day (for Revenue Goals in 2019) under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan
(11) 10.37* Form of restricted stock unit issuance agreement for Daniel O’Day (in 2019) under 2004 Equity Incentive Plan
(22) 10.38* Form of Indemnity Agreement entered into between Registrant and its directors and executive officers
(22) 10.39* Form of Employee Proprietary Information and Invention Agreement entered into between Registrant and certain of its officers and key employees
Form of Employee Proprietary Information and Invention Agreement entered into between Registrant and certain of its officers and key employees (revised
(23) 10.40* September 2006)
Amendment Agreement, dated October 25, 1993, between Registrant, the Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry (IOCB) and Rega Stichting v.z.w. (REGA),
together with the following exhibits: the License Agreement, dated December 15, 1991, between Registrant, IOCB and REGA (the 1991 License Agreement); the
License Agreement, dated October 15, 1992, between Registrant, IOCB and REGA (the October 1992 License Agreement); and the License Agreement, dated
+(24) 10.41 December 1, 1992, between Registrant, IOCB and REGA (the December 1992 License Agreement)
Amendment Agreement between Registrant and IOCB/REGA, dated December 27, 2000, amending the 1991 License Agreement and the December 1992 License
+(25) 10.42 Agreement
Sixth Amendment Agreement to the License Agreement, between IOCB/REGA and Registrant, dated August 18, 2006, amending the October 1992 License
+(26) 10.43 Agreement and the December 1992 License Agreement
Seventh Amendment Agreement to the License Agreement, between IOCB/REGA and Registrant, dated July 1, 2013, amending the October 1992 License Agreement
+(27) 10.44 and the December 1992 License Agreement
Exclusive License Agreement by and between Registrant (as successor to Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), Glaxo Group Limited, The Wellcome Foundation Limited,
+(28) 10.45 Glaxo Wellcome Inc. and Emory University, dated May 6, 1999
Royalty Sale Agreement by and among Registrant, Emory University and Investors Trust & Custodial Services (Ireland) Limited, solely in its capacity as Trustee of
+(29) 10.46 Royalty Pharma, dated July 18, 2005
Amended and Restated License Agreement by and between Registrant, Emory University and Investors Trust & Custodial Services (Ireland) Limited, solely in its
+(29) 10.47 capacity as Trustee of Royalty Pharma, dated July 21, 2005
++(30) 10.48 Amended and Restated EVG License Agreement by and between Japan Tobacco Inc. and Registrant, dated November 29, 2018
++(30) 10.49 Master Agreement by and between Registrant, Gilead Sciences K.K. and Japan Tobacco Inc., dated November 29, 2018
Amended and Restated Collaboration Agreement by and among Registrant, Gilead Sciences Ireland UC (formerly Gilead Sciences Limited) and Janssen R&D Ireland,
+(31) 10.50 dated December 23, 2014
+(32) 10.51 License Agreement by and among Kite Pharma, Inc., Cabaret Biotech Ltd. and Dr. Zelig Eshhar, dated December 12, 2013
++(12) 10.52 Option, License and Collaboration Agreement by and between Galapagos NV and Registrant, dated July 14, 2019
21.1** Subsidiaries of Registrant
23.1** Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
31.1** Certification of Chief Executive Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
31.2** Certification of Chief Financial Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
Certifications of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as required by Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the
32*** United States Code (18 U.S.C. §1350)
101.INS** XBRL Instance Document - The instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document94101.SCH** Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
101.CAL** Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
101.DEF** Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
101.LAB** Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
101.PRE** Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
104 The cover page from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, formatted in Inline XBRL
(1) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2019, and incorporated herein by reference.
(2) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 1, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference.
(3) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 13, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference.
(4) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 7, 2014, and incorporated herein by reference.
(5) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 17, 2014, and incorporated herein by reference.
(6) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 14, 2015, and incorporated herein by reference.
(7) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 20, 2016, and incorporated herein by reference.
(8) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 12, 2017, and incorporated herein by reference.
(9) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.
(10) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference.
(11) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2019, and incorporated herein by reference.
(12) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2019, and incorporated herein by reference.
(13) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.
(14) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013, and incorporated herein by reference
(15) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2014, and incorporated herein by reference.
(16) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, and incorporated herein by reference.
(17) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 8, 2015, and incorporated herein by reference.
(18) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, and incorporated herein by reference.
(19) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, and incorporated herein by reference.
(20) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.
(21) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 10, 2018, and incorporated herein by reference.
(22) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-55680), as amended, and incorporated herein by reference.
(23) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.
(24) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1994, and incorporated herein by reference.
(25) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference.
(26) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.
(27) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2013, and incorporated herein by reference.
(28) Filed as an exhibit to Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A filed on November 3, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.
(29) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.
(30) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Amendment No. 1 to Annual Report on Form 10-K/A filed on April 18, 2019, and incorporated herein by reference.
(31) Filed as an exhibit to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, and incorporated herein by reference.
(32) Filed as an exhibit to Kite Pharma, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-1/A (No. 333-196081) filed on June 17, 2014, and incorporated herein by reference.
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
** Filed herewith.
*** Furnished herewith.
+ Certain confidential portions of this Exhibit were omitted by means of marking such portions with an asterisk (the Mark). This Exhibit has been filed separately with the Secretary of the Securities and Exchange
Commission without the Mark pursuant to Registrant’s Application Requesting Confidential Treatment under Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
++ Certain confidential portions of this Exhibit were omitted by means of marking such portions with the Mark because the identified confidential portions are (i) not material and (ii) would be competitively harmful if
publicly disclosed.
ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY
None.
95SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.
By: /s/ DANIEL P. O’DAY
Daniel P. O’Day
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
POWER OF ATTORNEY
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Daniel P. O’Day and Brett A.
Pletcher, and each of them, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her
name, place, and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Report, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do
in person, hereby ratifying and confirming that all said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause
to be done by virtue hereof.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
96Signature Title Date
/s/ DANIEL P. O’DAY Chairman and Chief Executive Officer February 24, 2020
Daniel P. O’Day* (Principal Executive Officer)
/s/ ANDREW D. DICKINSON Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer February 24, 2020
Andrew D. Dickinson (Principal Financial Officer)
/s/ DIANE E. WILFONG Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer February 24, 2020
Diane E. Wilfong (Principal Accounting Officer)
/s/ JOHN F. COGAN Director February 24, 2020
John F. Cogan, Ph.D.*
/s/ KELLY A. KRAMER Director February 24, 2020
Kelly A. Kramer*
/s/ KEVIN E. LOFTON Director February 24, 2020
Kevin E. Lofton*
/s/ HARISH MANWANI Director February 24, 2020
Harish Manwani*
/s/ RICHARD J. WHITLEY Director February 24, 2020
Richard J. Whitley, M.D.*
/s/ GAYLE E. WILSON Director February 24, 2020
Gayle E. Wilson*
/s/ PER WOLD-OLSEN Director February 24, 2020
Per Wold-Olsen*
*Represents a majority of the Board of Directors
97