10-K 1 d10k.htm ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBR 31, 2004
Table of Contents
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004
Commission File Number 1-1136
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 22-0790350
(State or other jurisdiction of (IRS Employer
incorporation or organization) Identification No.)
345 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10154
(Address of principal executive offices)
Telephone: (212) 546-4000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, $0.10 Par Value New York Stock Exchange
Pacific Exchange, Inc.
$2 Convertible Preferred Stock, $1 Par Value New York Stock Exchange
Pacific Exchange, Inc.
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes xx No ¨¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. ¨¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes xx No ¨¨
The aggregate market value of the 1,951,041,834 shares of voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the
closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30,
2004) was approximately $47,800,524,933. Bristol-Myers Squibb has no non-voting common equity. At February 18, 2005, there were 1,951,786,180 shares of
common stock outstanding.Table of Contents
PART I
Item 1. BUSINESS.
General
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS or the Company) was incorporated under the laws of the State of
Delaware in August 1933 under the name Bristol-Myers Company, as successor to a New York business started in 1887. In 1989, Bristol-Myers Company changed its
name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company as a result of a merger. The Company, through its divisions and subsidiaries, is engaged in the discovery, development,
licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare related products.
Acquisitions and Divestitures
In December 2004, the Company committed to a plan to sell its Oncology Therapeutics Network (OTN) business and entered into a definitive agreement with
One Equity Partners LLC. OTN is a leading specialty distributor of pharmaceutical products to office-based oncologists in the United States. The transaction is
expected to be completed during the first half of 2005. The divestiture of OTN will further enable the Company to focus on its strategic priorities in developing its
pipeline and new product opportunities in ten critical disease areas of significant unmet medical need. The operations of OTN have been reflected as discontinued
operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Website
The Company’s internet website address is www.bms.com. The Company makes available free of charge on its website its annual, quarterly and current
reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material
to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Information relating to corporate governance at Bristol-Myers Squibb, including the Company’s Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for
Senior Financial Officers, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, (collectively, the “Codes”), Corporate Governance Guidelines, and information
concerning the Company’s Executive Committee, Board of Directors, including Board Committees and Committee charters, and transactions in Bristol-Myers Squibb
securities by Directors and executive officers, is available on the Company’s website at www.bms.com under the “Investors—Corporate Governance” caption and in
print to any stockholder upon request. Any waivers to the Codes by directors or executive officers and any material amendment to the Code of Business Conduct
and Ethics for Directors and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers will be posted promptly on the Company’s website. Information relating to stockholder
services, including the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan and direct deposit of dividends, is available on the Company’s website at www.bms.com under the
“Investors—Stockholder Services” caption.
The Company incorporates by reference certain information from parts of its proxy statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The SEC allows the
Company to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. The Company’s proxy statement for the 2005 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders and 2004 Annual Report are available on the Company’s website (www.bms.com) under the “Investors—SEC Filings” caption.
Business Segments
The Company has three reportable segments—Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Healthcare. The Pharmaceuticals segment is made up of the global
pharmaceutical and international (excluding Japan) consumer medicines business. The Nutritionals segment consists of Mead Johnson Nutritionals (Mead Johnson),
primarily an infant formula and children’s nutritionals business. The Other Healthcare segment consists of ConvaTec, Medical Imaging and Consumer Medicines
(North America and Japan) businesses. For additional information about these segments, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 18. Segment Information.”
Pharmaceuticals Segment
The Pharmaceuticals segment discovers, develops, licenses, manufactures, markets, distributes and sells branded pharmaceuticals. These products are sold
worldwide, primarily to wholesalers, retail pharmacies, hospitals, government entities and the medical profession. The Company manufactures these products in the
United States and Puerto Rico and in fifteen foreign countries. Pharmaceuticals sales accounted for 80% of the Company’s sales in 2004 and 2003, and 79% of the
Company’s sales in 2002. Domestic pharmaceuticals sales accounted for 55%, 56% and 57% of total Pharmaceuticals sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, while
pharmaceuticals sales in Europe accounted for 31%, 30% and 28% of total Pharmaceuticals sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and pharmaceuticals sales in
Japan accounted for 3% of total Pharmaceuticals sales in each of 2004, 2003 and 2002.
2Table of Contents
The Company’s strategy is to build its pipeline and support sustainable growth by focusing its discovery and development efforts in ten critical disease areas,
increasing its sales and marketing emphasis on specialists and high value primary care physicians, investing in research and development and establishing a
biologics business. In addition to discovering and developing products through its own research and development efforts, the Company actively pursues products
through research collaborations and strategic alliances with others in the pharmaceutical industry. For additional information, see “—Strategic Alliances” and “—
Research and Development” below.
The Pharmaceuticals segment competes with other worldwide research-based drug companies, smaller research companies and generic drug manufacturers.
The Company has experienced substantial revenue losses in the last few years due to the expiration of market exclusivity protection for certain of its products. The
Company expects substantial incremental revenue losses in each of 2005, 2006 and 2007 representing continuing declines in revenues of those products as well as
declines in revenues of certain additional products that will lose market exclusivity primarily in 2005 and 2006. For 2005, the Company estimates reductions of net
sales in the range of $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion from the 2004 levels for products which have lost or will lose exclusivity protection in 2003, 2004 or 2005, specifically
MONOPRIL in the United States, Canada and Europe, GLUCOPHAGE* XR and GLUCOVANCE* in the United States, CEFZIL in the United States, PARAPLATIN in
the United States, VIDEX EC in the United States, TAXOL® in Europe and PRAVACHOL in Europe. The Company also expects substantial incremental revenue
losses in each of 2006 and 2007 representing continuing declines in net sales of the products that lost exclusivity protection in 2002, 2003 and 2004 and additional
declines attributable to products that will lose exclusivity protection primarily in 2005 and 2006. These products (and the years in which they lose exclusivity
protection) include GLUCOPHAGE*/GLUCOVANCE*/GLUCOPHAGE*XR in the United States (2002 to 2004), TAXOL® in Europe and Japan (2003), PRAVACHOL in
the United States (2006) and in Europe (2002 to 2007), PARAPLATIN in the United States (2004), MONOPRIL in the United States (2003), Canada (2003) and Europe
(2001 to 2008), ZERIT in the United States (2008) and in Europe (2007 to 2011), CEFZIL in the United States (2005) and in Europe (2004 to 2009) and VIDEX/VIDEX EC
(2004 to 2009). The timing and amounts of sales reductions from exclusivity losses, their realization in particular periods and the eventual levels of remaining sales
revenues are uncertain and dependent on the levels of sales at the time exclusivity protection ends, the timing and degree of development of generic competition
(speed of approvals, market entry and impact) and other factors.
Although anticipated revenue losses due to continued exclusivity losses during 2005 and 2006 are expected to be more or less offset by growth in net sales of
the Company’s in-line, recently launched and potential new products during the same period, changes in product mix will adversely impact gross margin because the
products that have lost or are expected to lose exclusivity generally have higher margins. These in-line and recently launched products include PLAVIX*,
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, ABILIFY*, REYATAZ and ERBITUX*. The Company’s compounds in late stage development include muraglitazar, a dual PPAR agonist for
type 2 diabetes, abatacept, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and entecavir, for hepatitis B. Expectations of continued sales growth are subject to competitive
factors including those relating to PRAVACHOL discussed below, the outcome of the PLAVIX* patent litigation discussed below, and risks of product development
and regulatory approval. In addition, earnings will be adversely affected by the Company’s investments to support the introduction of new products and the
development and launch of additional new compounds. In 2007, based on management’s current estimates of growth of the Company’s in-line and recently launched
products and a risk-adjusted assessment of potential new product launches, the Company expects earnings growth will resume.
PRAVACHOL, an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin), had net sales of $2.6 billion in 2004. During 2004, the Company experienced increased competition for
PRAVACHOL from established brands and new entrants. U.S. prescriptions for PRAVACHOL declined 10% in 2004 compared to 2003. While the product has begun
to lose exclusivity in some markets, between now and its anticipated loss of U.S. exclusivity in April 2006, its expected rate of decline in sales and in market share
could be accelerated by increased competition from established brands and new entrants.
The Company’s expectations for future sales growth include substantial expected increases in sales of PLAVIX*, which had net sales of $3.3 billion for 2004,
and is currently the Company’s largest product ranked by net sales. The composition of matter patent for PLAVIX*, which expires in 2011, is currently the subject of
litigation in the United States. Similar proceedings involving PLAVIX* have been instituted outside the United States. The Company continues to believe that the
patent is valid and that it is infringed, and with its alliance partner and patent-holder Sanofi-Aventis (Sanofi), is vigorously pursuing these cases. It is not possible at
this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these litigations, or if there were an adverse determination in these litigations, the timing of potential generic
competition for PLAVIX*. However, if generic competition were to occur, the Company believes it is very unlikely to occur before the second half of 2005. The loss of
market exclusivity of PLAVIX* and the subsequent development of generic competition would be material to the Company’s results of operations and could be
material to its financial condition and liquidity.
The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this
time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few
years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the Company, if not favorably resolved, is reasonably likely to be
material to the Company’s results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The Company’s expectations for the next
several years described above do not reflect the potential impact of litigation on the Company’s results of operations.
3Table of Contents
For more information about these and other matters, see “—Products,” “—Competition” and “—Research and Development” below, “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outlook,” and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 21. Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies.”
Products
Most of the Company’s pharmaceutical revenues come from products in the following therapeutic classes: cardiovascular, virology, including human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), infectious diseases, oncology, affective (psychiatric) disorders, and metabolics.
In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market
exclusivity. Market exclusivity is based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when these patent
rights and other forms of exclusivity expire and generic versions of a medicine are approved and marketed, there are often very substantial and rapid declines in the
sales of the original innovative product. The Company’s business is focused on innovative pharmaceutical products, and the Company relies on patent rights and
other forms of protection to maintain the market exclusivity of its products. For further discussion of patents rights and regulatory forms of exclusivity, see “—
Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” below. For further discussion of the impact of generic competition on the Company’s business, see “—Generic
Competition” below.
The chart below shows the net sales of key products in the Pharmaceuticals segment, together with the year in which the basic exclusivity loss (patent rights
or data exclusivity) occurred or is estimated to occur in the United States, the European Union (EU) and Japan. The Company also sells its pharmaceutical products in
other countries; however, data is not provided on a country-by-country basis because individual country sales are not significant outside the United States, the EU
and Japan. In many instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed below is the expiration date of the patent that claims the active ingredient of the drug or the
method of using the drug for the approved indication. In some instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed in the chart is the expiration date of the data exclusivity
period. In situations where there is only data exclusivity without patent protection, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial
data to obtain marketing approval.
The Company estimates the market exclusivity period for each of its products on a case-by-case basis for the purposes of business planning only. The length
of market exclusivity for any of the Company’s products is impossible to predict with certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory
forms of exclusivity and the inherent uncertainties regarding patent litigation. Although the Company provides these estimates for business planning purposes,
these are not intended as an indication of how the Company’s patents might fare in any particular patent litigation brought against potential infringers. There can be
no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimate or that the exclusivity will be limited to the
estimate.
Past or Currently Past or Currently
Estimated Estimated Past or Currently
Year of Year of Estimated Year of
U.S. Basic EU Basic Exclusivity Japanese Basic
Pharmaceutical Products 2004 2003 2002 Exclusivity Loss Loss(a) Exclusivity Loss
(dollars in millions)
Cardiovascular
PLAVIX* $3,327 $2,467 $1,890 2011 2013 ++
PRAVACHOL 2,635 2,827 2,266 2006 2002-2007 ++
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 930 757 586 2011 2012 ++
MONOPRIL 274 470 426 2003 2001-2008 ++
COUMADIN 255 303 300 1997 (b) ++
Virology
SUSTIVA 621 544 455 2013 2013 ++
REYATAZ 414 88 — 2017 2017 2017
VIDEX/VIDEX EC 274 267 262 2001/2004 2001 2001
ZERIT 272 354 443 2008 2007-2011 2008
Infectious Diseases
CEFZIL 270 327 287 2005 2004-2009 ++
TEQUIN 169 208 184 2007 ++ ++
Oncology
TAXOL® 991 934 857 2000 2003 2005-2013
PARAPLATIN 673 905 727 2004 2000 1998
ERBITUX* 261 — — 2017 ++ ++
Affective (Psychiatric) Disorders
ABILIFY* 593 283 25 2009 ++ ++
Metabolics
GLUCOVANCE* 169 424 246 2004 ++ ++
GLUCOPHAGE* IR 68 118 220 2000 ++ ++
GLUCOPHAGE* XR 67 395 297 2003 ++ ++
Note: The currently estimated year of basic exclusivity loss includes any statutory extensions of exclusivity that have been earned, but not those that are
speculative. In some instances, there may be later-expiring patents that cover particular forms or compositions of the drug, as well as methods of manufacture
or methods of using the drug. Such patents may sometimes result in a favorable market position for the Company’s product, but product exclusivity cannot be
predicted or assured.
* Indicates brand names of products, which are registered trademarks not owned by the Company or its subsidiaries.
4Table of Contents
++ The Company does not currently market the product in the jurisdiction indicated.
(a) References to the EU throughout this Form 10-K include the following current 25 member states: Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain,
Sweden, and the United Kingdom. In some instances the date of basic exclusivity loss will be different in various EU member states. In such instances, the
earliest and latest dates of basic exclusivity loss are listed. For those EU countries where the basic patent was not obtained, there may be data protection
available.
(b) EU basic exclusivity expired before BMS acquired the product.
Below is a summary of the indication, intellectual property position, licensing arrangements, if any, and third-party manufacturing arrangements, if any, for
each of the above products in the United States and where applicable, the EU and Japan.
Cardiovascular
PLAVIX* Clopidogrel bisulfate is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, which is approved for protection against fatal or non-fatal heart
attack or stroke in patients with a history of heart attack, stroke, peripheral arterial disease or acute coronary syndrome.
Clopidogrel bisulfate was codeveloped and is jointly marketed with Sanofi. The worldwide alliance operates under the
framework of two geographic territories: one in the Americas and Australia (BMS’s primary territory) and the other in
Europe and Asia (Sanofi’s primary territory).
The composition of matter patent in the United States expires in 2011 (which includes a statutory patent term extension).
This patent is currently the subject of litigation. The Company continues to believe that the patent is valid and that it is
infringed, and with its alliance partner and patent-holder Sanofi, is vigorously pursuing the litigation. It is not possible at
this time reasonably to assess the outcome of this litigation, or if there were an adverse determination in this litigation, the
timing of potential generic competition for PLAVIX*. For more information about this litigation, see “Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.” For more information about the potential effects of generic
competition on PLAVIX*, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Outlook.” In the EU, regulatory data exclusivity extends to 2008 and the key composition of matter patent
expires in 2013.
Bulk requirements for clopidogrel are supplied to each territory by Sanofi, which produces bulk clopidogrel in its own
facilities and obtains a portion of the bulk clopidogrel requirements from a third party, under an arrangement that includes
royalty payments based on product sales, and each territory then produces finished product for sale.
For more information about the Company’s arrangements with Sanofi, see “—Strategic Alliances” below and “Item 8.
Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Investments.”
PRAVACHOL Pravastatin sodium is an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise for patients with
primary hypercholesterolemia, for lowering the risk of a first heart attack in people without clinically evident coronary heart
disease who have elevated cholesterol, and for reducing the risk of heart attack and stroke in patients with clinically evident
coronary heart disease.
The Company has licensed a patent covering pravastatin, marketed by the Company in the U.S. as PRAVACHOL, from
Sankyo Company, Ltd. (Sankyo) of Japan, with the agreement expiring as
5Table of Contents
exclusivity expires on a market-by-market basis. Exclusivity in the U.S. under the patent (including pediatric extension) lasts
until April 2006. Under the terms of the license, the Company may market and sell pravastatin throughout the world,
excluding Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Thailand (markets in which Sankyo retains exclusive patent rights). Sankyo also
copromotes and comarkets pravastatin in certain European and Latin American countries.
The composition of matter patent was scheduled to expire in the United States in October 2005, but has been extended for
six months to April 2006 under the law that provides exclusivity extensions for pediatric research. In the EU, the composition
of matter patent was not obtained in Greece, Luxembourg or Portugal and expired in Spain in July 2002. The composition of
matter patent expired in August 2004 in Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands and the United
Kingdom. In Austria, expiration occurred in November 2004. In France and Sweden, expiration will occur in August and
March 2006, respectively. In Italy, expiration will occur on January 1, 2008.
The Company’s bulk requirements for pravastatin are supplied by Sankyo. The Company finishes the product in its own
facilities.
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* Irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of
hypertension and diabetic nephropathy.
Irbesartan was codeveloped and is jointly marketed with Sanofi. The worldwide alliance operates under the framework of
two geographic territories: one in the Americas and Australia (BMS’s primary territory) and the other in Europe and Asia
(Sanofi’s primary territory).
The basic composition of matter patent in the United States expires in 2011 and in the EU in 2012. Data exclusivity in the EU
expires in 2007.
Irbesartan is manufactured by both the Company and Sanofi. Bulk irbesartan is sold to the territory joint ventures at a fixed
price per kilogram. Under intellectual property license arrangements, Sanofi collects a royalty based on a percentage of net
sales.
For more information about the Company’s arrangements with Sanofi, see “—Strategic Alliances” below and “Item 8.
Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Investments.”
MONOPRIL Fosinopril sodium is a second-generation angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor with once-a-day dosing indicated
for the treatment of hypertension. MONOPRIL was developed internally.
The basic composition of matter patent in the United States expired in June 2003. The basic composition of matter patent
expired in Denmark, Greece and Portugal in 2001 and in Spain in October 2002. A composition of matter patent was not
obtained in Finland. For the rest of the EU, the composition of matter patent expires on a country-by-country basis through
2008.
COUMADIN Warfarin sodium is an oral anti-coagulant used predominantly in patients with atrial fibrillation or deep venous
thrombosis/pulmonary embolism.
Market exclusivity expired in the United States in 1997. Basic patent protection and regulatory data protection had expired
before the Company acquired COUMADIN in 2001.
The Company obtains its bulk requirements for warfarin from a third party and produces the majority of finished goods in its
own facilities.
Virology
SUSTIVA Efavirenz is an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Rights to market efavirenz in the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy and Spain are licensed
from Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck) for a royalty based on a percentage of net sales.
The basic composition of matter patent expires in 2013 in the United States. A separate method of use patent expires in 2014.
The basic composition of matter patents in the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Germany, Italy and Spain expire in 2013.
Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2009.
The Company obtains its bulk requirements for efavirenz from third parties and produces finished goods in its own facilities.
REYATAZ Atazanavir sulfate is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV. REYATAZ was launched in the United States in July
2003.
The Company developed atazanavir under a worldwide license from Novartis AG (Novartis) for which it pays a royalty
based on a percentage of net sales.
6Table of Contents
VIDEX/VIDEX EC Didanosine is an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with HIV. Didanosine is marketed
by the Company in three different formulations. The first is for use in an oral solution. The second is a reduced mass tablet.
The third is an enteric coated capsule formulation (VIDEX EC).
The Company has a license to the U.S. Government’s patent series that claims the method of using didanosine to treat HIV.
This patent series covers the approved use of all three of the aforementioned formulations. The Company’s license became
non-exclusive in October 2001. Another company has obtained a license from the U.S. Government and is marketing
didanosine.
The U.S. Government’s method of use patent expires in 2007 in the United States (which includes an earned pediatric
extension) and Japan. In Europe, the U.S. Government was granted the use patent in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany,
Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the patent is pending in Ireland. Expiration of this use
patent in the EU occurs between 2006 and 2009 on a country-by-country basis. This method of use patent was not obtained
by the U.S. Government in Denmark, Finland, Greece, Portugal or Spain.
VIDEX (reduced mass formulation): the Company has patents covering the reduced mass formulation of VIDEX in the
United States, EU and Japan that expire in 2012. Another company may attempt to develop a reduced mass formulation of
didanosine that does not infringe these patents.
VIDEX EC (enteric coated capsule): the Company also has pending patent applications that cover the VIDEX EC formulation
in the United States, the EU and Japan. If these patents are issued, expiration will be in 2018.
U.S. data exclusivity for VIDEX EC expired in May 2004. Japanese data exclusivity for VIDEX EC expires in March 2005.
The Company obtains the materials necessary for bulk manufacture of didanosine from a third party and produces the
finished product in its own facilities.
ZERIT Stavudine is used in the treatment of HIV.
The Company holds an exclusive patent license for ZERIT from Yale University pursuant to which it pays a royalty based
on product sales. In Japan, the Company has an exclusive license for ZERIT from Yamasa Corporation pursuant to which it
pays a royalty based on net sales in Japan.
The use patent expires in the United States in June 2008. However, a pediatric extension has been earned, and thus,
exclusivity is expected to expire in December 2008. This patent series expires in the EU from 2007 through 2011 (patent
applications are pending in Denmark and Finland), and in Japan in December 2008.
Infectious Diseases
CEFZIL Cefprozil is a semi-synthetic broad-spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic for the treatment of mild to moderately severe bacterial
infections of the throat, ear, sinuses, respiratory tract and skin.
Cefprozil was discovered and developed internally.
The basic composition of matter patent protecting cefprozil in the United States (including patent term extension) expires
December 23, 2005. In several European countries including Austria, Finland, Italy, Switzerland and United Kingdom, the
composition of matter patent expires in 2008-2009 (including term extension). In Spain, the patent expired February 5, 2005,
and for other European countries and Japan, the patent expired in 2004.
TEQUIN Gatifloxacin is a broad-spectrum 8-methoxy fluoroquinolone antibiotic indicated for the treatment of respiratory tract
infections in adults 18 years or older, such as acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, acute sinusitis and
community-acquired pneumonia caused by indicated susceptible strains of gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria.
Gatifloxacin is licensed from Kyorin Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. (Kyorin). The Company purchases bulk gatifloxacin, inclusive
of a royalty, based on a percentage of net sales.
The basic U.S. patent expires in 2007; however, it is expected that the patent will be eligible for a statutory patent term
extension until 2009. This patent term extension is granted to compensate patent holders for a portion of the patent life lost
during the regulatory approval process.
7Table of Contents
This patent is currently the subject of litigation. The Company believes that the patent is valid and that it is infringed, and
with its partner and patent-holder Kyorin, is vigorously pursuing the litigation. It is not possible at this time reasonably to
assess the outcome of this litigation, or if there were an adverse determination in this litigation, the timing of potential
generic competition for TEQUIN. For more information about this litigation, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 21.
Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Gatifloxacin is manufactured by a third party.
Oncology
TAXOL® Paclitaxel is used in the treatment of refractory ovarian cancer, first-line treatment of ovarian cancer in combination with
cisplatin, second-line treatment of AIDS related Kaposi’s Sarcoma, treatment of metastatic breast cancer after failure of
combination chemotherapy, adjuvant treatment of node positive breast cancer and in the treatment of non-small cell lung
carcinoma with cisplatin.
Paclitaxel was developed under a collaborative research and development agreement with the U.S. Government. Under the
agreement, the Company obtained rights to the U.S. Government’s TAXOL® data.
The active ingredient in TAXOL®, paclitaxel, did not have patent protection in the United States, the EU or Japan but did
have regulatory protection in the form of data exclusivity. Data exclusivity in the United States expired in 1997. An initial
approval for a U.S. generic version was granted in October 2000, revoked by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
in November 2001 and then reinstated in January 2002. Data exclusivity in the EU expired in September 2003. Data exclusivity
for TAXOL® in Japan expired in July 2003. A patent claiming the approved dosing and administration schedule expires in
Japan in 2013. A nullity action was filed in November 2004 in the Japanese Patent Office seeking to have this patent
invalidated and the Company is defending the patent. Numerous factors make it impossible to predict when loss of market
exclusivity in Japan will actually occur.
The Company is supplied with its bulk requirements for paclitaxel from third parties and produces finished goods in its own
facilities.
PARAPLATIN Carboplatin is a chemotherapeutic agent used in the treatment of ovarian cancer.
The patent for carboplatin in the U.S. expired in April 2004, but was extended for six months to October 2004 under the law
that provides exclusivity extensions for pediatric research. Prior to the expiration of the U.S. patent in October 2004, the
Company held an exclusive patent license for carboplatin from Research Corporation Technologies and the University of
Michigan under which the Company had rights to market PARAPLATIN worldwide and paid a royalty based on a
percentage of product sales. In the EU, the basic patent covering carboplatin was obtained in France, Germany, the
Netherlands, Sweden and the United Kingdom. The last patent to expire in these countries was France in 2000. In Japan, the
basic patent expired in 1998.
The Company entered into an agreement with Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva), allowing Teva’s authorized affiliate,
Sicor Pharmaceuticals Sales, Inc., to distribute an unbranded version of carboplatin supplied by BMS commencing on June
24, 2004. This agreement expires in June 2005.
The Company obtains its bulk requirements for carboplatin from a third party and produces finished goods in its own
facilities.
ERBITUX* ERBITUX* (cetuximab) is an IgG1 monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth
Factor Receptor (EGFR), which is expressed on the surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as some
normal cells. ERBITUX* was approved by the FDA in February 2004 for the treatment in combination with irinotecan of
patients with EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer who had failed an irinotecan-based regimen and as monotherapy
for patients who are intolerant of irinotecan.
ERBITUX* is marketed in North America by the Company under a distribution and copromotion agreement with ImClone
Systems Incorporated (ImClone). The Company and ImClone will share distribution rights to ERBITUX* with Merck KGaA
in Japan. For a description of the Company’s alliance with ImClone, see “—Strategic Alliances” below and “Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Investments.”
8Table of Contents
There is no composition of matter patent that specifically claims ERBITUX*. ERBITUX* has been approved for
monotherapy, for which there is no use patent. The use of ERBITUX* in combination with an anti-neoplastic agent is
approved by the FDA. Such combination use is claimed in a granted U.S. patent that expires in 2017. For more information
about biologics patents, see “—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” below. The inventorship of this use patent is
being challenged by three scientists from the Weizmann Institute who claim they should have been named as co-inventors.
For more information about this litigation, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 22. Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies.” The European equivalent of this use patent has been opposed.
The Company purchases all of its bulk requirements for ERBITUX* from ImClone, and ImClone and other third parties
produce finished goods in their own facilities. For a description of the Company’s supply agreement with ImClone, see “—
Manufacturing and Quality Assurance” below.
Affective (Psychiatric) Disorders
ABILIFY* Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic agent for patients with schizophrenia. ABILIFY* was introduced in the United
States in November 2002 and has been approved for marketing in the EU and Switzerland. Applications are pending in other
countries.
Aripiprazole is copromoted in the United States by the Company and Otsuka. BMS’s rights to commercialize aripiprazole in
the United States terminate in 2012. Thereafter, Otsuka has the sole right to commercialize aripiprazole in the United States.
The Company also has the right to copromote ABILIFY* in several European countries (the United Kingdom, France,
Germany and Spain) and to act as exclusive distributor for the product in the rest of the EU. The Company is the exclusive
licensee for the product in the rest of the world, excluding Japan and certain other countries. The Company records alliance
revenue for its contractual share of the net sales in these copromotion countries, excluding the United Kingdom, and
records all expenses related to the product. Alliance revenue is recorded by the Company as net sales based upon 65% of
Otsuka’s net sales in the copromotion countries. The Company recognizes this alliance revenue when ABILIFY* is shipped
and all risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to Otsuka’s customers. In the UK, the Company records 100% of
the net sales and related cost of products sold. In countries where the Company has an exclusive right to sell ABILIFY*, as
sales commence, the Company will record 100% of the net sales and related cost of products sold. For more information
about the Company’s arrangement with Otsuka, see “—Strategic Alliances” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note
2. Alliances and Investments.”
The basic U.S. composition of matter patent for ABILIFY* expires in 2009 (and may be extended until 2014 if a pending
patent term extension is granted). In August 2004, Otsuka filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
a Request for Reexamination of a U.S. composition of matter patent (U.S. Patent Number No. 5,006,528, the “‘528 Patent”)
covering ABILIFY* (aripiprazole). The USPTO granted the request for reexam. Otsuka determined that the original ‘528
Patent application mistakenly identified a prior art reference by the wrong patent number. In addition, Otsuka has taken the
opportunity to bring other citations to the attention of the USPTO. The Reexamination will allow the USPTO to consider the
patentability of the patent claims in light of the correctly identified patent reference and newly cited documents. The USPTO
is expected to make a final decision on the reexamination by 2006.
The Company and Otsuka believe that the subject matter claimed in the ‘528 Patent is patentable over the prior art and
expect that the USPTO will reconfirm that in the reexamination. However, there can be no guarantee as to the outcome. If the
patentability of the ‘528 Patent were not reconfirmed following a reexamination, there may be sooner than expected loss of
market exclusivity of ABILIFY* in the U.S. and the subsequent development of generic competition which would be material
to the Company.
There is no composition of matter patent in Austria, Belgium, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Portugal, Latvia,
Hungary, Cypress, Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia, Poland, Malta and Lithuania. For the other EU member states, the
composition of matter patent expires in 2009 (and may be extended until 2014 if pending supplemental protection certificates
are granted).
Otsuka supplies the bulk requirements for aripiprazole and both Otsuka and the Company produce the finished product in
their own facilities.
9Table of Contents
Metabolics
GLUCOVANCE*/ GLUCOPHAGE* IR/ Metformin hydrochloride/glyburide and metformin hydrochloride are oral anti-diabetic agents for type 2 diabetes.
GLUCOPHAGE* XR Metformin was developed by Merck Sante S.A.S. Under the terms of the arrangement, the Company may market and sell
metformin in the United States. The Company purchases bulk metformin at a price (including a royalty) based on a
percentage of net sales.
Data exclusivity for GLUCOPHAGE* IR expired in March 2000. Regulatory exclusivity expired for GLUCOPHAGE* XR in
October 2003 and for GLUCOVANCE* in January 2004.
The Company obtains its bulk requirements for metformin from Merck Sante and produces the finished product in its own
facilities.
In addition to the pharmaceutical products discussed above, the Company’s Pharmaceuticals segment also includes the Company’s wholly owned UPSA
business in Europe. The UPSA brand of acetaminophen, EFFERALGAN, is marketed for pain relief across the European continent. The Company also markets
ASPIRINE UPSA, DAFALGAN and FERVEX in Europe and other overseas markets.
Strategic Alliances and Arrangements
The Company enters into strategic alliances and arrangements with third parties, which give the Company rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell
pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are owned by such third parties. The Company also enters into strategic alliances and arrangements with third parties,
which give such third parties the rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are owned by the Company. These
alliances and arrangements can take many forms, including licensing arrangements, codevelopment and comarketing agreements, copromotion arrangements and joint
ventures. Such alliances and arrangements reduce the risk of incurring all research and development expenses that do not lead to revenue-generating products;
however, the gross margins on alliance products are generally lower, sometimes substantially so, than the gross margins on the Company’s own products because
profits from alliance products are shared with the Company’s alliance partners. While there can be no assurance that new alliances will be formed, the Company
actively pursues such arrangements and views alliances as an important complement to its own discovery and development activities. The Company’s most
significant current alliances and arrangements for the Company’s in-line products are those with Sanofi for PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, Otsuka for
ABILIFY*, ImClone for ERBITUX*, and Sankyo for PRAVACHOL. The Company’s most significant alliances and arrangements for products under development,
subject to approval from regulatory authorities, are with Merck for muraglitazar, the rights to which are owned by the Company, with Pierre Fabre Medicament S.A.
(Pierre Fabre) for JAVLOR*, the rights to which are owned by Pierre Fabre, with Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) for MDX-010, the rights to which are owned by Medarex,
with Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) for a fixed dose combination of the Company’s product SUSTIVA and Gilead’s TRUVADA* and with Somerset Pharmaceuticals,
Inc. (Somerset) for EMSAM*, the rights to which are owned by Somerset. Each of these significant alliances and arrangements are discussed in more detail below.
Additionally, the Company has licensing arrangements with Yale for ZERIT, with the U.S. Government for VIDEX, with Novartis for REYATAZ and with Kyorin for
TEQUIN. In general, the Company’s strategic alliances and arrangements are for periods co-extensive with the periods of market exclusivity protection on a country-
by-country basis. Based on the Company’s current expectations with respect to the expiration of market exclusivity in the Company’s significant markets, the
licensing arrangements with Yale for ZERIT are expected to expire in 2008 in the U.S., between 2007-2011 in the EU and in 2008 in Japan; with the U.S. Government for
VIDEX, which by its terms became non-exclusive in 2001, are expected to expire in 2007 in the U.S. (which includes an earned pediatric extension) and Japan and in EU
countries between 2006-2009; with Novartis for REYATAZ are expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., the EU and Japan; and with Kyorin for TEQUIN are expected to
expire in 2007 in the U.S. For further discussion of market exclusivity protection, including a chart showing net sales of key products together with the year in which
basic exclusivity loss occurred or is expected to occur in the U.S., the EU and Japan, see “—Products” and “—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity.”
Each of the Company’s strategic alliances and arrangements with third parties who own the rights to manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products
contain customary early termination provisions typically found in agreements of this kind and are generally based on the other party’s material breach or bankruptcy
(voluntary or involuntary) and product safety concerns. The amount of notice required for early termination generally ranges from immediately upon notice to 90
days after receipt of notice. Termination immediately upon notice is generally available where the other party files a voluntary bankruptcy petition. Termination upon
30 to 90 days notice is generally available where an involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and not been dismissed) or a material breach by the other party
has occurred (and not been cured). Early termination due to product safety concerns typically arises when a product is determined to create significant risk of harm to
patients due to concerns regarding the product’s efficacy or level of toxicity. The Company’s strategic alliances and arrangements typically do not otherwise contain
any provisions that provide the other party the right to terminate the alliance on short notice. In general, where the other party to the Company’s strategic alliance
and arrangement will continue to have exclusivity protection upon the expiration or termination of the alliance, the Company does not retain any rights to the product
or to the other party’s intellectual property. The loss of rights to one or more products that are
10Table of Contents
marketed and sold by the Company pursuant to strategic alliance arrangements with third parties in one or more countries or territories could be material to the
Company’s results of operations and cash flows and, in the case of PLAVIX*, could be material to its financial condition and liquidity. As is customary in the
pharmaceutical industry, the terms of the Company’s strategic alliances and arrangements generally is co-extensive with the exclusivity period, which as discussed
above, may vary on a country-by-country basis. As discussed below, the Company’s strategic alliance with Otsuka expires in November 2012 in the United States
and Puerto Rico, which may be prior to expiration of market exclusivity protection for ABILIFY* which is expected to expire in 2009 in the U.S. but may be extended
until 2014 if a pending statutory patent term extension is granted.
Sanofi In 1993, the Company entered into codevelopment and commercialization agreements, which were subsequently restructured in 1997, with Sanofi for two
products: AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* (irbesartan), an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic nephropathy, which is
copromoted in certain countries outside the U.S. under the tradename APROVEL* and comarketed in certain countries outside the U.S. by the Company under the
tradename KARVEA; and PLAVIX* (clopidogrel), a platelet aggregation inhibitor, which is copromoted in certain countries outside the U.S. under the tradename
PLAVIX* and comarketed in certain countries outside the U.S. by the Company under the tradename ISCOVER.
The worldwide alliance operates under the framework of three territorial partnerships: Territory A for PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in Europe and
Asia, Territory B for PLAVIX* in the Americas (principally the U.S., Canada, Puerto Rico and Latin American countries) and Australia and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in
Australia and the Americas not including the U.S., and the U.S. for AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*. This last partnership was formed in the fourth quarter of 2001, when the
Company and Sanofi modified their previous exclusive license to the Company for AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in the U.S. to form a copromotion joint venture, as part of
which the Company contributed the AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* intellectual property and Sanofi agreed to pay the Company a total of $200 million in 2001 and $150
million in 2002. The Company accounts for these as a sale of an interest in a license and defers and amortizes the total amount of $350 million into income over the
expected life of the license, which is approximately eleven years.
The territory partnerships manage central expenses, such as marketing, research and development and royalties and supply finished product to the individual
country marketing entities. At the individual country level, agreements either to copromote or to comarket are in place with the parties’ local affiliates.
The territory partnerships are governed by a series of committees with enumerated functions, powers and responsibilities. Each territory has two senior
committees (Senior Committees) which have final decision making authority with respect to that territory as to the enumerated functions, powers and responsibilities
within its jurisdiction.
The Company acts as the operating partner for the territory covering the Americas and Australia and owns a 50.1% majority controlling interest in this
territory. As such, the Company consolidates all country partnership results for these territories and records Sanofi’s share of the results as a minority interest
expense, net of taxes, which was $502 million in 2004, $351 million in 2003 and $292 million in 2002. The Company recorded sales in these territories and in comarketing
countries (Germany, Italy, Spain and Greece) of $4,257 million in 2004, $3,224 million in 2003 and $2,476 million in 2002.
Sanofi acts as the operating partner for Territory A covering Europe and Asia and owns a 50.1% majority financial controlling interest in this territory. The
Company’s ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. The Company accounts for the investment in partnership entities in this territory under the equity method
and records its share of the results in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated statement of earnings. The Company’s share of net income from these
partnership entities before taxes was $269 million in 2004, $187 million in 2003 and $120 million in 2002. For further discussion of this matter, see “Item 8. Financial
Statements - Note 2. Alliances and Investments.”
The agreements with Sanofi expire on the later of (i) with respect to PLAVIX*, 2013 and, with respect to AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, 2012 in the Americas and
Australia and 2013 in Europe and Asia, and (ii) the expiration of all patents and other exclusivity rights in the applicable territory.
The alliance arrangements may be terminated by the Company or Sanofi, either in whole or in any affected country or Territory, depending on the
circumstances, in the event of (i) voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or insolvency, which in the case of involuntary bankruptcy continues for 60 days or an order
or decree approving same continues unstayed and in effect for 30 days; (ii) a material breach of an obligation under a major alliance agreement that remains uncured
for 30 days following notice of the breach except where commencement and diligent prosecution of cure has occurred within 30 days after notice; (iii) deadlocks of
one of the Senior Committees which render the continued commercialization of the product impossible in a given country or Territory or, in the case of
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in the U.S., with respect to advertising and promotion spending levels or the amount of sales force commitment; (iv) an increase in the
combined cost of goods and royalty which exceeds a specified percentage of the net selling price of the product; or (v) a good faith determination by the terminating
party that commercialization of a product should be terminated for reasons of patient safety.
11Table of Contents
In the case of each of these termination rights, the agreements include provisions for the termination of the relevant alliance with respect to the applicable
product in the applicable country or territory or, in the case of a termination due to bankruptcy or insolvency or material breach, both products in the applicable
territory. Each of these termination procedures is slightly different; however, in all events, the Company could lose all rights to either or both products, as applicable,
in the relevant country or territory even in the case of a bankruptcy or insolvency or material breach where the Company is not the defaulting party.
Otsuka In 1999, the Company entered into a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka, to codevelop and copromote ABILIFY* (aripiprazole) for the
treatment of schizophrenia and related psychotic disorders, except in Japan, China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan
and Egypt. The Company began copromoting the product with Otsuka in the U.S. and Puerto Rico in November 2002. In June 2004, the Company received marketing
approval from the European Commission. The product is currently copromoted with Otsuka in the United Kingdom and Germany, and the Company and Otsuka will
also copromote it in France and Spain. The Company records alliance revenue for its contractual share of the net sales in these copromotion countries, excluding the
United Kingdom, and records all expenses related to the product. Alliance revenue is recorded by the Company as net sales based upon 65% of Otsuka’s net sales in
the copromotion countries. The Company recognizes this alliance revenue when ABILIFY* is shipped and all risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to
Otsuka’s customers. In the UK, the Company records 100% of the net sales and related cost of products sold.
The Company also has an exclusive right to sell ABILIFY* in a number of other countries in Europe, the Americas and Asia. In these countries, as sales
commence, the Company will record 100% of the net sales and related cost of products sold. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company purchases the product
from Otsuka and performs finish manufacturing for sale by the Company to its customers. The agreement expires in November 2012 in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. For
the countries in the European Union where the Company has the exclusive right to sell ABILIFY*, the agreement expires in June 2014. In each other country where
the Company has the exclusive right to sell ABILIFY*, the agreement expires on the later of the tenth anniversary of the first commercial sale in such country or
expiration of the applicable patent, if any, in such country. Early termination is available based on the other party’s voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy, failure to
make minimum payments, failure to commence the first commercial sale with three months after receipt of all necessary approvals and material breach. The amount of
notice required for early termination of the strategic alliance is immediately upon notice (i) in the case of voluntary bankruptcy, (ii) where minimum payments are not
made to Otsuka, or (iii) if first commercial sale has not occurred within three months after receipt of all necessary approvals, 30 days where a material breach has
occurred (and not been cured or commencement of cure has not occurred within 90 days after notice of such material breach) and 90 days in the case where an
involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and not been dismissed). In addition, termination is available to Otsuka upon 30 days notice in the event that the
Company were to challenge Otsuka’s patent rights or, on a market-by-market basis, the Company were to market a product in direct competition with ABILIFY*.
Upon termination or expiration of the alliance, the Company does not retain any rights to ABILIFY*.
The Company recorded total revenue for ABILIFY* of $593 million in 2004, $283 million in 2003 and $25 million in 2002. Total milestone payments made to
Otsuka from 1999 through 2004 were $217 million, of which $157 million was expensed as acquired in-process research and development in 1999. The $60 million of
capitalized payments are amortized into cost of products sold over the remaining life of the agreement in the U.S., which is approximately eight years. Included in the
$60 million of capitalized payments is a $10 million payment made in July 2004 for attainment of marketing approval by the European Union.
ImClone In November 2001, the Company purchased 14.4 million shares of ImClone for $70 per share, or $1,007 million, which represented approximately 19.9%
of the ImClone shares outstanding just prior to the Company’s commencement of a public tender offer for those ImClone shares. ImClone is a biopharmaceutical
company focused on developing targeted cancer treatments, which include growth factor blockers, cancer vaccines, and anti-angiogenesis therapeutics. The equity
investment in ImClone is part of a strategic agreement between the Company and ImClone that also included an arrangement expiring in September 2018 to codevelop
and copromote the cancer drug, ERBITUX*, for a series of payments originally totaling $1 billion. The Company paid ImClone a milestone payment of $200 million in
2001, which was expensed. On March 5, 2002, the agreement with ImClone was revised to reduce the total payments to $900 million from $1 billion. In accordance with
the agreement, the Company paid ImClone $140 million in March 2002, $60 million in March 2003, and $250 million in March 2004 upon the approval by the FDA of the
Biologics License Application (BLA) for ERBITUX* for use in combination with irinotecan in the treatment of patients with EGFR-expressing, metastatic colorectal
cancer who are refractory to irinotecan-based chemotherapy and for use as a single agent in the treatment of patients with EGFR-expressing, metastatic colorectal
cancer who are intolerant to irinotecan-based chemotherapy. In June 2004, the FDA approved ImClone’s Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls supplemental
Biologics License Application (sBLA) for licensure of its BB36 manufacturing facility. An additional $250 million is payable upon FDA approval for use in treating
another tumor type, which is anticipated to occur in late 2005. The Company also has codevelopment and copromotion rights in Canada and Japan to the extent the
product is commercialized in such countries. In Japan, the Company and ImClone will share distribution rights to ERBITUX* with Merck KGaA. Under the agreement,
ImClone will receive a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of product revenues in North America. The Company will purchase all of its commercial
requirements for bulk ERBITUX* from ImClone at a price equal to manufacturing cost plus 10%.
12Table of Contents
Payments made subsequent to the March 2004 approval will be capitalized and amortized to cost of products sold over the remaining term of the agreement.
With respect to the $200 million of milestone payments the Company paid ImClone in 2002 and 2003, $160 million was expensed in the first quarter of 2002 as acquired
in-process research and development, and $40 million was recorded as an additional equity investment to eliminate the income statement effect of the portion of the
milestone payment for which the Company has an economic claim through its ownership interest in ImClone. The Company accounts for the $250 million approval
milestone paid in March 2004 as a license acquisition and amortizes the payment into cost of products sold over the expected useful life of the license, which is
approximately fourteen years. The Company amortized into cost of products sold $14 million for 2004. The unamortized portion of the $250 million payment is
recorded in intangible assets, net in the consolidated balance sheet and was $236 million as of December 31, 2004.
The Company determines its equity share in ImClone’s net income or loss by eliminating from ImClone’s results the milestone revenue ImClone recognizes for
the pre-approval milestone payments that were recorded by the Company as additional equity investment. The Company recorded net income of $9 million in 2004,
and net losses of $36 million and $40 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively, for its share of ImClone’s net income/losses. The Company records its share of the results
in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated statement of earnings. The Company recorded net sales for ERBITUX* of $261 million since its approval by
the FDA in February 2004.
The Company’s recorded investment in, and the market value of, ImClone common stock as of December 31, 2004 was $72 million and approximately $660
million, respectively. On a per share basis, the carrying value of the ImClone investment and the closing market price of the ImClone shares as of December 31, 2004
were $5.03 and $46.08, respectively.
Early termination is available based on material breach and is effective 60 days after notice of the material breach (and such material breach has not been cured
or commencement of cure has not occurred). Upon termination or expiration of the alliance, the Company does not retain any rights to ERBITUX*.
The Company is the exclusive distributor of ERBITUX* in North America. Under the terms of an agreement with McKesson Corporation (McKesson) entered
into in February 2004, McKesson provides warehousing, packing and shipping for filling orders for ERBITUX*. To maintain the integrity of the product, special
storage conditions and handling are required. Accordingly, all sales of ERBITUX*, including purchase requests from other wholesalers, are processed through the
Company, and McKesson will only ship ERBITUX* to end-users of the product and not to other intermediaries to hold for later sales. Either the Company or
McKesson may unilaterally terminate the agreement on not less than six months prior notice to the other party. This agreement expires on March 31, 2005, however
the Company has the option to extend the agreement to June 30, 2005.
For further discussion of the Company’s strategic alliance with ImClone, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Investments.”
Sankyo The Company has licensed a patent covering pravastatin, marketed by the Company in the U.S. as PRAVACHOL, from Sankyo, with the agreement
expiring as exclusivity expires on a market-by-market basis. Exclusivity in the U.S. under the patent (including pediatric extension) lasts until April 2006. Under the
terms of the license, the Company may market and sell pravastatin throughout the world, excluding Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Thailand (markets in which Sankyo
retains exclusive patent rights). Sankyo also copromotes and comarkets pravastatin in certain European and Latin American countries. Early termination is available
based on the other party’s voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy and material breach. The amount of notice required for early termination of the strategic alliance is
immediately upon notice in the case of either voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy and 90 days after notice in the case where a material breach has occurred (and not
been cured or commencement of cure has not occurred). Upon termination or expiration of the alliance, the Company does not retain any patent or other exclusivity
rights in relation to pravastatin.
In 2004, the Company entered into the following significant alliances and arrangements for products in clinical development:
Merck In April 2004, the Company entered into a collaboration agreement with Merck for worldwide codevelopment and copromotion for muraglitazar, the
Company’s dual PPAR (peroxisome proliferator activated receptor) agonist, currently in Phase III clinical development for use in treating Type 2 diabetes. The
Company and Merck will jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy for muraglitazar, share equally in future development and commercialization costs and
copromote the product to physicians on a global basis, with Merck to receive payments based on net sales levels. A New Drug Application (NDA) for muraglitazar
was submitted to the FDA in December 2004 for United States regulatory approval. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company received a $100 million non-
refundable upfront payment in May 2004 and was entitled to receive an additional $55 million milestone payment in December 2004, which was subsequently received
in January 2005. The Company is entitled to receive $220 million in additional payments upon achievement of certain regulatory milestones.
The upfront payment of $100 million received in May 2004 was deferred and is being amortized into other income over the expected remaining useful life of the
agreement, which is approximately sixteen years. In 2004, the Company recognized $4 million
13Table of Contents
in other income. The $55 million milestone payment was deferred and recorded as a receivable in December 2004, and will be amortized into other income, beginning in
January 2005, over the remaining useful life of the agreement. In addition, the Company records Merck’s share of codevelopment costs as a reduction to research and
development expense and Merck’s share of copromotion costs as a reduction to advertising and product promotion expense.
The agreement expires on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis upon the latest of (i) the expiration of the last to expire Bristol-Myers Squibb
patent or patent that is jointly funded in each case with respect to the applicable product in the applicable country, (ii) the expiration of any additional statutory or
administrative protections that grant exclusivity with respect to the applicable product in the applicable country, and (iii) the cessation of the sale of the applicable
product in the applicable country following first commercial sale of that product in that country. The basic composition of matter patent for muraglitazar in the United
States expires in 2020. Patent applications in various countries in the European Union are pending. The Company also may be entitled to additional statutory or
administrative protections in the United States and the European Union that would grant exclusivity with respect to muraglitazar beyond 2020.
In addition to customary termination provisions for cause, Merck also has the right to terminate the agreement for any reason upon not less than six months
prior written notice to the Company. However, this right of termination can be exercised by Merck with respect to any product only during the period between the
completion of Phase III clinical trials relating to such product and the time the NDA for such product is filed with the FDA. This right also can be exercised by Merck
after the second anniversary of the date of filing of the NDA for such product with the FDA if the product has not been commercially launched in the United States at
such time, or, if commercially launched in the United States, after the second anniversary of the commercial launch of such product in the United States. With respect
to the European Union, Merck can exercise this right of termination after the second anniversary of the commercial launch of such product in the European Union or,
if not commercially launched in the European Union, the third anniversary of the commercial launch of the product in the United States. Upon any early termination,
the Company will retain control of all rights to muraglitazar.
The agreement also provides for certain standstill provisions which remain in effect for the term of the collaboration between the Company and Merck. Under
such provisions, each party may not, directly or indirectly, without the consent of the other party: (i) acquire any beneficial ownership or interest in any voting
securities of the other party; (ii) effect or initiate any (A) tender offer, merger, or other business combination involving the other party, or (B) any restructuring,
dissolution, sale of all or substantially all of its assets or other extraordinary transaction with respect to the other party; (iii) make or participate in any solicitation of
proxies to vote with respect to the other party; (iv) deposit any voting securities of the other party into a voting trust or subject any such securities to any voting
arrangement or agreement; (v) initiate, propose or otherwise solicit stockholders of the other party for the approval of certain stockholder proposals; (vi) seek the
election or removal of any member on the board of directors of the other party; (vii) call any meeting of the stockholders of the other party; (viii) request or obtain any
list of holders of voting securities of the other party; (ix) form or participate in a “group” (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) with respect to
any voting securities of the other party; (x) seek to control the board of directors or influence the management of the other party except as it believes is required
under applicable law; (xi) enter into any agreements, discussions or arrangements with any person other than the Company, Merck or an affiliate of either of them
with respect to any of the foregoing; or (xii) seek to waive, amend or modify any of the provisions contained above.
The standstill provisions do not prohibit a party from acquiring voting securities of the other party by or through (i) a diversified mutual or pension fund
managed by an independent investment adviser or pension plan established for the benefit of the employees, (ii) any employee benefit plan of such party, or (iii) any
stock portfolios not controlled by such party that invest in the other party among other companies provided that such party does not request the trustee or
administrator or investment adviser of such fund, plan or portfolio to acquire such voting securities and provided that no such fund, plan or portfolio acquires more
than 5% of any class of voting securities of such other party. Further, the standstill provisions do not prevent any party from acquiring securities of another
pharmaceutical or biotechnology company or other person that beneficially owns any securities of the other party.
The standstill provisions may be suspended solely to permit a party to take any of the actions described above to the extent the other party specifically invites
such party to take such actions or to compete in certain transactions which would result in a direct or indirect divestiture of assets, tender or exchange offer, or any
merger, consolidation or similar transaction that if consummated would result in any person or group beneficially owning 35% of the voting securities and/or market
capitalization of such party if such transactions were publicly proposed by the other party or by an unaffiliated person.
Medarex In November 2004, the Company entered into a worldwide collaboration and share purchase agreement with Medarex to codevelop and copromote
MDX-010, a fully human antibody currently in Phase III development for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. The agreement became effective in January 2005, after
the companies received certain governmental clearances and approvals, and the receipt of consent from the U.S. Public Health Service of the sublicense to the
Company of Medarex’s rights to MDX-1379 (gp100), a vaccine that is being developed in conjunction with MDX-010. The FDA has granted Fast Track status to
MDX-010 in combination with MDX-1379 for treatment of patients with late stage unresectable metastatic melanoma who have
14Table of Contents
failed or are intolerant to first line therapy. In January 2005, under the terms of the agreement, the Company made a cash payment of $25 million to Medarex which was
expensed as research and development, and an additional $25 million equity investment in Medarex. Further milestone payments are expected to be made upon the
successful achievement of various regulatory and sales related stages. The Company and Medarex will also share in future development and commercialization costs.
Medarex could receive up to $205 million if all regulatory milestones are met, and up to $275 million in sales-related milestones. Medarex will have an option to
copromote and receive 45% of the profits with the Company in the United States. The Company will receive an exclusive license outside of the U.S. and pay royalties
to Medarex.
The agreement with Medarex does not expire unless and until one of the following events occurs: (1) the Company voluntarily terminates the agreement in its
entirety, on a product-by-product basis (but only if a second product is then in GLP toxicology studies or later) or a country-by-country basis by providing Medarex
with six months prior written notice depending on the circumstances; (2) the Company terminates Medarex’s co-promotion option and rights in the United States on
sixty days written notice after the end of the second calendar year in the event Medarex provides less than sixty percent of certain performance obligations in any
two out of three consecutive calendar years (such termination right to be exercised only with respect to those indications as to which Medarex failed to meet such
performance obligation). Upon such termination by the Company, Medarex will no longer have a right to share in the profits and losses of the product and, instead
the Company will pay Medarex royalties on net sales of the product; or (3) Medarex terminates the agreement with respect to all products on sixty days written notice
if the Company provides less than sixty percent of certain performance obligations in any two out of three consecutive calendar years. Generally, upon termination,
the Company will assign all rights to the product to Medarex and receive a royalty thereafter on intellectual property licensed by the Company to Medarex. Medarex
may also elect not to copromote a product for one or more indications in the United States, in which event it will receive a royalty on sales of the product for such
indication.
Pierre Fabre In April 2004, the Company and Pierre Fabre entered into three related agreements (a patent and know-how license agreement, a trademark license
agreement and a supply agreement) to develop and commercialize JAVLOR* (vinflunine), a novel investigational anti-cancer agent. JAVLOR* is currently in Phase III
clinical trials in Europe for the treatment of bladder and non-small cell lung cancer, and Phase II clinical trials in breast and ovarian cancer. An Investigational New
Drug application for a Phase II clinical trial in bladder cancer was approved by FDA in November 2004. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will receive an
exclusive license to JAVLOR* in the United States, Canada, Japan, Korea and select Southeast Asian markets. Pierre Fabre will be responsible for the development
and marketing of JAVLOR* in all other countries, including those of Europe, and will supply the Company’s requirements for the product. Under the terms of the
agreement, the Company made and expensed upfront and milestone payments of $35 million in 2004, with the potential for an additional $175 million in milestone
payments over time.
The patent and know-how license agreement, under which the Company licensed the right to market JAVLOR*, expires, on a country-by-country and product
form-by-product form basis, on the date that is the later of: (i) the expiration of applicable patent or data exclusivity for a given Product form in a country, or (ii) the
tenth anniversary of commercial sale of such product form in such country, at which time, the Company may exercise a royalty-free, nonexclusive right to market the
product. The Agreement may be terminated sooner, as follows: (1) a party may terminate the agreement for voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or insolvency of the
other party that is not dismissed within a certain period of time; (2) a party may terminate for material breach by the other that is not cured with a specified period.
Such termination shall relate only to the countries and product forms relating to the material breach, unless the product form is the IV form (in which case all forms
can be terminated) and unless the breach pertains to the United States (in which case all countries can be terminated); (3) by Pierre Fabre, if Pierre Fabre terminates
the supply agreement for material breach by the Company; (4) by either party, upon 60 days notice, if justifiable and demonstrable safety, efficacy, technical or
regulatory reasons preclude development of the IV form for any indication, as determined by the Joint Steering Committee; (5) by Pierre Fabre, if (a) the Company fails
to file or process a registrational filing required to be filed under the Agreement without justifiable and demonstrable safety, efficacy, technical or regulatory reasons;
(b) if the Company does not launch the IV product form in a country within a time period required by the agreement (generally, ninety days) following receipt of
regulatory (and if applicable, pricing) approval; (c) if the Company should challenge or contest Pierre Fabre Patent Rights; (d) if the Company makes an improper
contract assignment; or (e) if the Company fails to meet certain minimum sales levels under the agreement.; or (6) by the Company, without cause, on a country-by-
country basis, by giving Pierre Fabre at least (i) ninety days’ prior written notice, if such notice is given prior to the regulatory approval of the first approved
indication in the United States, or (ii) one hundred eighty days’ prior written notice after regulatory approval of a first approved indication in the United States.
Generally, for any termination made by Pierre Fabre or for termination by the Company without cause, the Company shall retain no rights to the product and all rights
shall revert to Pierre Fabre.
Gilead In December 2004, the Company and Gilead entered into a joint venture to develop and commercialize the fixed-dose combination of the Company’s
SUSTIVA (efavirenz) and Gilead’s TRUVADA* (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) in the United States. If approved by the FDA, the new product
would be the first complete Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) treatment regimen for HIV available in the United States in a fixed-dose combination taken
once daily. Fixed-dose combinations contain multiple medicines formulated together and may help simplify HIV therapy for patients and providers. Guidelines issued
by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services list the combination of emtricitabine, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and efavirenz as one of the preferred non-
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-based treatments for use in appropriate patients that have never taken anti-HIV medicines before.
15Table of Contents
Through the joint venture, the Company and Gilead will work in partnership to complete development and U.S. regulatory filings for this fixed-dose
combination regimen. Subject to receiving marketing approval of the fixed-dose combination regimen, the companies would share responsibility for commercializing
the product in the United States. Both companies will provide funding and field-based sales representatives in support of promotional efforts for the combination
product. The Company and Gilead will receive revenues from future net sales at percentages relative to the contribution represented by their individual products that
comprise the fixed-dose combination.
The joint venture between the Company and Gilead will continue until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties or otherwise as described below. If no
NDA for the combination product is filed by December 31, 2006, or no NDA is approved by the FDA by December 31, 2007, then either party may terminate the joint
venture. In the event of a material breach by one party, the non-breaching party may terminate the joint venture only if both parties agree that it is both desirable and
practicable to withdraw the combination product from the market in the United States. At such time as one or more generic versions of SUSTIVA appear on the
market in the United States, Gilead will have the right to terminate the joint venture and thereby acquires all the rights to the combination product; however, the
Company will continue for three years to receive a percentage of the net sales based on the contribution of SUSTIVA to the combination product.
Somerset In December 2004, the Company and Somerset, a joint venture between Mylan Laboratories Inc. and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., entered into an
agreement for the commercialization and distribution of Somerset’s EMSAM* (selegiline transdermal system), an investigational monoamine oxidase inhibitor
administered as a transdermal patch for the acute and maintenance treatment of patients with major depressive disorder. Somerset received an approvable letter from
the FDA for EMSAM* in February 2004, and if approved by the FDA, EMSAM* would be the first transdermal treatment for major depressive disorder.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Company receives exclusive distribution rights to commercialize EMSAM*, if approved, in the U.S. and Canada, with an
opportunity to negotiate, within a specified time frame, rights in all or specific portions of the rest of the world. The Company made and expensed a $5 million upfront
payment in December 2004 and will make a further payment following regulatory approval in the U.S. In addition to the upfront payment, Somerset will receive
milestone payments based on achievement of certain sales levels, as well as reimbursement of certain development costs incurred over the terms of the agreement.
Somerset will supply products to the Company and receive royalties on the Company’s sales of EMSAM*.
Unless earlier terminated or extended in accordance with its terms, the agreement will terminate on the fifth anniversary of the date of the first commercial sale
of EMSAM*. The agreement may be earlier terminated by either party in the event of a material breach of the agreement by or the bankruptcy of the other party. In
addition to the general rights of termination, the Company has the rights to terminate the agreement (i) prior to the date of first commercial sale of EMSAM* upon the
imposition of certain regulatory requirements or restrictions relating to EMSAM*, the failure of the parties to agree with respect to the allocation of specified excess
development costs or the failure of Somerset to deliver launch inventories, or (ii) at any time following the launch of a generic product, the occurrence of a material
safety issue relating to EMSAM*, or after the date which is 30 months after the date of first commercial sale of EMSAM* upon 180 days prior notice. Somerset also
has the right to terminate the agreement prior to the date of first commercial sale of EMSAM* upon failure of the parties to agree with respect to the allocation of
specified excess development costs, or at any time following the occurrence of a material safety issue relating to EMSAM* or the failure of the Company to meet
specified detailing requirements.
For information on alliances relating to drug discovery, see “—Research and Development” below.
Nutritionals Segment
The Nutritionals segment, through Mead Johnson, manufactures, markets, distributes and sells infant formulas and other nutritional products, including the
entire line of ENFAMIL products. In 2002, the Company commenced sales of ENFAMIL LIPIL, the first infant formula in the United States to contain the nutrients
DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) and ARA (arachidonic acid). Also naturally found in breast milk, DHA and ARA are believed to support infant brain and eye
development. The Company obtains these nutrients from a sole provider pursuant to a non-exclusive worldwide licensing and supply arrangement, under which there
is no guaranty of supply and pricing is subject to change. The agreement expires beginning in 2024 on a country-by-country basis 25 years after the Company
commences sales in a country.
The Company’s Nutritionals products are generally sold by wholesalers and retailers and are promoted primarily to healthcare professionals. The Company
also promotes Nutritionals products directly to consumers worldwide through advertising. The Company manufactures these products in the United States and in
seven foreign countries. Nutritionals sales accounted for 10% of the Company’s sales in 2004, and 11% of the Company’s sales in 2003 and 2002. Domestic
Nutritionals sales accounted for 48%, 54% and 53% of total Nutritionals sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, while international Nutritionals sales accounted for
52%, 46% and 47% of total Nutritionals sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Approximately one-half of U.S. gross sales of infant
16Table of Contents
formula are subject to rebates issued under the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) program. Sales subject to WIC rebates have much lower margins than those of
non-WIC program sales.
Net sales of selected products and product categories in the Nutritionals segment were as follows:
2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions)
ENFAMIL / ENFALAC $859 $808 $746
NUTRAMIGEN 167 138 127
Children’s Nutritional 468 421 383
In February 2004, the Company completed the divestiture of its Adult Nutritional business to Novartis for $386 million, including a $20 million contingent
consideration achieved in 2004 and a $22 million upfront payment for a supply agreement. In 2003, Adult Nutritional products recorded sales of over $200 million.
Other Healthcare Segment
The Other Healthcare segment consists of ConvaTec, Medical Imaging and Consumer Medicines (North America and Japan). Other Healthcare sales
accounted for 10% of the Company’s sales in 2004, 9% of the Company’s sales in 2003 and 10% of the Company’s sales in 2002. Domestic Other Healthcare sales
accounted for 56%, 55% and 57% of total Other Healthcare sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, while international Other Healthcare sales accounted for 44%,
45% and 43% of total Other Healthcare sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
ConvaTec
ConvaTec manufactures, distributes and sells ostomy and modern wound and skin care products. Principal brands of ConvaTec include NATURA, SUR-FIT,
ESTEEM, AQUACEL and DUODERM. These products are marketed worldwide, primarily to hospitals, the medical profession and medical suppliers. The Company
mainly relies on an internal sales force, and sales are made through various distributors around the world. The Company manufactures these products in the United
States and the United Kingdom.
ConvaTec sales accounted for approximately 5% of the Company’s sales in 2004, 4% of the Company’s sales in 2003 and 5% of the Company’s sales in 2002.
Domestic ConvaTec sales accounted for 32%, 33% and 34% of total ConvaTec sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, while international ConvaTec sales
accounted for 68%, 67% and 66% of total ConvaTec sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
In April 2004, the Company completed the acquisition of Acordis Speciality Fibres (Acordis) for $150 million, which is headquartered in the United Kingdom
that licenses patent rights and supplies materials to ConvaTec for its Wound Therapeutics line.
Medical Imaging
Medical Imaging manufactures, distributes and sells medical imaging products including radiopharmaceuticals and an ultra-sound agent. Principal brands of
Medical Imaging include CARDIOLITE and DEFINITY. These products are marketed through an internal sales force in the United States and sold worldwide,
primarily to radiopharmacies, hospitals, clinics and the medical profession, in certain cases, using a small and concentrated network of radiopharmacies for
distribution. In connection with the Company’s international business, Medical Imaging owns certain radiopharmacies outside the United States. CARDIOLITE is
covered by a series of patents that claim its components. The patent coverage differs somewhat on a country-by-country basis. In the United States, these patents
expire between December 2004 and 2008, and the Company’s currently expected year of basic exclusivity loss is 2008. In the EU, these patents expire between
December 2006 through 2008. In Japan, these patents expire between August 2006 and 2008. The Company manufactures these products in the United States and
Puerto Rico.
Medical Imaging sales accounted for 3% of the Company’s sales in each of 2004, 2003 and 2002. Domestic Medical Imaging sales accounted for 85% of total
Medical Imaging sales in 2004 and 2003, and 84% of total Medical Imaging sales in 2002, while international Medical Imaging sales accounted for 15% of total Medical
Imaging sales in 2004 and 2003, and 16% of total Medical Imaging sales in 2002. On January 1, 2004, the Company entered into a new license and supply agreement
with Cardinal Health Nuclear Pharmacy Services, which provides Cardinal the right to sell CARDIOLITE in the U.S. from certain of its radiopharmacy locations. The
Company also has entered into license and supply agreements with other radiopharmacies providing the right to sell CARDIOLITE in the U.S.
17Table of Contents
Consumer Medicines
Consumer Medicines manufactures, distributes and sells over-the-counter health care products. Principal consumer healthcare brands include the EXCEDRIN
brand of products for headache relief, BUFFERIN analgesics, COMTREX for cold, cough and flu, and the KERI line of moisturizers. In addition, the Company began
marketing its ChoiceDM line of diabetic care products in August 2003. These products are generally sold to retailers and promoted primarily to consumers in the
United States and Japan through advertising. These products are manufactured in the United States, Puerto Rico and Japan.
Consumer Medicines sales accounted for 2% of the Company’s sales in each of 2004, 2003 and 2002. North American Consumer Medicines sales accounted for
77% of Consumer Medicines sales in 2004 and 72% of Consumer Medicines sales in 2003 and 2002, while Consumer Medicines sales in Japan accounted for 23% of
Consumer Medicines sales in 2004 and 28% of Consumer Medicines sales in 2003 and in 2002.
In January 2005, the Company announced its intent to divest its U.S. and Canadian Consumer Medicines business. The Company’s Consumer Medicines
business in Japan, and other consumer medicines products in Asia Pacific, Latin America, Europe, Middle East and Africa which are included in the Pharmaceuticals
segment, are not included in the planned divestiture.
Sources and Availability of Raw Materials
In general, the Company purchases its raw materials in the open market. Substantially all such materials are obtainable from a number of sources, and the loss
of any one source of supply would not likely have a material adverse effect on the Company. For further discussion of sourcing, see “—Manufacturing and Quality
Assurance” below and discussions of particular products.
Manufacturing and Quality Assurance
The Company seeks to design and operate its manufacturing facilities and maintain inventory in a way that will allow it to meet all expected product demand
while maintaining flexibility to reallocate manufacturing capacity to improve efficiency and respond to changes in supply and demand. Pharmaceutical production
processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product. Shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a very lengthy process requiring
significant capital expenditures and regulatory approvals. For further discussion of the regulatory impact on the Company’s manufacturing, see “—Government
Regulation and Price Constraints” below.
Pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities require significant ongoing capital investment for both maintenance and to comply with increasing regulatory
requirements. In addition, as the Company adds to its product line and realigns its focus over the next several years, the Company expects to close, partially close or
modify many of its existing facilities and devote substantial resources in excess of historical levels to convert its facilities or to meet heightened processing standards
that may be required for sterile or newly introduced products, in particular biologics. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of
traditional pharmaceutical operations. Although the Company does have the capacity to manufacture biologics for clinical trials and commercial launch, its capacity
to manufacture larger commercial volumes of these products is limited. As biologics become more important to the Company’s product portfolio, the Company may
continue to make arrangements with third-party manufacturers or may make substantial investments in facilities to increase and maintain its capacity to produce
biologics on a commercial scale.
The Company relies on third parties to manufacture, or to supply it with active ingredients necessary for it to manufacture certain products, including
PRAVACHOL, PLAVIX*, ABILIFY*, ERBITUX*, COUMADIN, PARAPLATIN, SUSTIVA, TAXOL®, TEQUIN and VIDEX/VIDEX EC. To maintain a stable supply of
these products, the Company takes a variety of actions designed to provide that there is a reasonable level of these ingredients held by the third-party supplier, the
Company or both, so that the Company’s manufacturing operations are not interrupted. As an additional protection, in some cases, the Company takes steps to
maintain an approved back-up source where available.
The Company also expects to rely initially on Lonza to manufacture abatacept (CTLA4Ig) and LEA29Y on a commercial scale if these products are
commercialized. Abatacept and LEA29Y are investigational biologics compounds in late stage development. The Company has not made any filings with the FDA
seeking approval for Lonza to manufacture these products. While the Company has filed a rolling BLA with the FDA for abatacept, the Company has not sought
approval from the FDA to market and sell LEA29Y, and there can be no assurance that regulatory approval of either of these products will be obtained. However, the
Company has entered into an agreement with Lonza to reserve a portion of Lonza’s biologics manufacturing capacity for the Company’s future requirements of these
products if regulatory approval is obtained. The Company also has the capacity to supply limited quantities of abatacept and has filed a BLA for licensure of its
manufacturing facility in Syracuse, New York. Pending such approval from the FDA, the Company will seek supplemental approval for Lonza to manufacture
abatacept. For additional information about abatacept and LEA29Y, see “—Research and Development” below.
If the Company or any third-party manufacturer that the Company relies on for existing or future products is unable to maintain a stable supply of products,
operate at sufficient capacity to meet its order requirements, comply with government regulations for
18Table of Contents
manufacturing pharmaceuticals or meet the heightened processing requirements for biologics, the Company’s business performance and prospects could be
negatively impacted. Additionally, if the Company or any of its third-party suppliers were to experience extended plant shutdowns or substantial unplanned increases
in demand or suspension of manufacturing for regulatory reasons, the Company could experience an interruption in supply of certain products or product shortages
until production could be resumed or expanded.
In connection with divestitures, licensing arrangements or distribution agreements of certain of the Company’s pharmaceuticals or in certain other
circumstances, the Company has entered into agreements under which the Company has agreed to supply such products to third parties. In addition to liabilities that
could arise from the Company’s failure to supply such products under the agreements, these arrangements could require the Company to invest in facilities for the
production of non-strategic products, result in additional regulatory filings and obligations or cause an interruption in the manufacturing of its own products.
The Company’s success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in the quality of its products and in the integrity of the data that support their
safety and effectiveness. Product quality arises from a total commitment to quality in all parts of the Company’s operations, including research and development,
purchasing, facilities planning, manufacturing, and distribution. The Company maintains quality-assurance procedures relating to the quality and integrity of
scientific information and production processes.
Control of production processes involves rigid specifications for ingredients, equipment and facilities, manufacturing methods, processes, packaging materials,
and labeling. The Company performs tests at various stages of production processes and on the final product to assure that the product meets all regulatory
requirements and the Company’s standards. These tests may involve chemical and physical chemical analyses, microbiological testing, or a combination of these
along with other analyses. Quality control is provided by business unit/site quality assurance groups that monitor existing manufacturing procedures and systems
used by the Company, its subsidiaries and third-party suppliers.
Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity
The Company owns or is licensed under a number of patents in the United States and foreign countries primarily covering its pharmaceutical products. The
Company has also developed many brand names and trademarks for products in all areas. The Company considers the overall protection of its patent, trademark,
license and other intellectual property rights to be of material value and acts to protect these rights from infringement.
In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market
exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there can often be
very substantial and rapid declines in the product’s sales. The rate of this decline varies by country and by therapeutic category. For a discussion of how generic
versions of a product can impact that product’s sales, see “—Generic Competition” below.
A product’s market exclusivity is generally determined by two forms of intellectual property: patent rights held by the innovator company and any regulatory
forms of exclusivity to which the innovative drug is entitled.
Patents are a key determinant of market exclusivity for most branded pharmaceuticals. Patents provide the innovator with the right to exclude others from
practicing an invention related to the medicine. Patents may cover, among other things, the active ingredient(s), various uses of a drug product, pharmaceutical
formulations, drug delivery mechanisms and processes for (or intermediates useful in) the manufacture of products. Protection for individual products extends for
varying periods in accordance with the expiration dates of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country,
depends upon the type of patent, its scope of coverage and the availability of meaningful legal remedies in the country.
Market exclusivity is also sometimes influenced by regulatory intellectual property rights. Many developed countries provide certain non-patent incentives for
the development of medicines. For example, the United States, the EU and Japan each provide for a minimum period of time after the approval of a new drug during
which the regulatory agency may not rely upon the innovator’s data to approve a competitor’s generic copy. Regulatory intellectual property rights are also available
in certain markets as incentives for research on new indications, on orphan drugs and on medicines useful in treating pediatric patients.
Regulatory intellectual property rights are independent of any patent rights that the Company may possess and can be particularly important when a drug
lacks broad patent protection. However, most regulatory forms of exclusivity do not prevent a competitor from gaining regulatory approval on the basis of the
competitor’s own safety and efficacy data on its drug, even when that drug is identical to that marketed by the innovator.
The Company estimates the likely market exclusivity period for each of its products on a case-by-case basis. It is not possible to predict the length of market
exclusivity for any of the Company’s products with certainty because of the complex interaction between
19Table of Contents
patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity, and inherent uncertainties concerning patent litigation. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy
market exclusivity for the full period of time that the Company currently estimates or that the exclusivity will be limited to the estimate. The Company expects to have
continued exclusivity challenges over the next several years. For further discussion of these exclusivity challenges, see “—Pharmaceuticals Segment” above and
“Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outlook” below.
In addition to patents and regulatory forms of exclusivity, the Company also holds intellectual property in the form of trademarks, on products such as
EXCEDRIN, ENFAMIL, THERAGRAN, KERI and BUFFERIN. Trademarks have no effect on market exclusivity for a product, but are considered to have marketing
value. Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark
protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely.
Specific aspects of the law governing market exclusivity for pharmaceuticals vary from country to country. The following summarizes key exclusivity rules in
markets representing significant Company sales:
United States
A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical in the United States must file a complete set of safety and efficacy data to the FDA. The type of
application filed depends on whether the drug is a chemical (a small molecule) or a biological product (a large molecule). If the innovative pharmaceutical is a
chemical, the company files a NDA. If the medicine is a biological product, a BLA is filed. The type of application filed affects regulatory exclusivity rights.
A competitor seeking to launch a generic substitute of a chemical innovative drug in the United States must file an Abbreviated New Drug Application
(ANDA) with the FDA. In the ANDA, the generic manufacturer needs to demonstrate only “bioequivalence” between the generic substitute and the approved NDA
drug. The ANDA relies upon the safety and efficacy data previously filed by the innovator in its NDA.
Medicines approved under an NDA can receive several types of regulatory data protection. An innovative chemical pharmaceutical (also known as a new
chemical entity) is entitled to five years of regulatory data protection in the U.S., during which an ANDA cannot be filed with the FDA. If an innovator’s patent is
challenged, as described below, the generic manufacturer may file its ANDA after the fourth year of the five-year data protection period. A pharmaceutical drug
product that contains an active ingredient that has been previously approved in an NDA, but is approved in a new formulation or for a new indication on the basis of
new clinical trials, receives three years of data protection. Finally, an NDA that is designated as an Orphan Drug, which is a drug that gains an indication for
treatment of a condition that occurs only rarely in the United States, can receive seven years of exclusivity for the orphan indication. During this time period neither
NDAs nor ANDAs for the same drug product can be approved for the same orphan use.
Because a significant portion of patent life can be lost during the time it takes to obtain regulatory approval, the innovator can extend one patent to
compensate the innovator for the lost patent term, at least in part. More specifically, the innovator may identify one patent, which claims the product or its approved
method of use, and, depending on a number of factors, may extend the expiration date of that patent. There are two limits to these extensions. First, the maximum term
a patent can be extended is 5 years, and second, the extension cannot cause the patent to be in effect for more than 14 years from the date of NDA approval.
A company may also earn six months of additional exclusivity for a drug where specific clinical trials are conducted at the written request of the FDA to study
the use of the medicine to treat pediatric patients, and submission to the FDA is made prior to the loss of basic exclusivity. This six-month period extends most forms
of exclusivity (patent and regulatory) that are listed with the FDA at the time the studies are completed and submitted to the FDA.
Currently, generic versions of biological products cannot be approved under U.S. law; however, the FDA is taking steps toward allowing generic versions of
biologics, and these laws could change in the near future. Competitors seeking approval of biological products must file their own safety and efficacy data, and
address the challenges of biologics manufacturing, which involves more complex processes and are more costly than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations.
Beyond the minimum period of regulatory exclusivity provided by U.S. law, many (but not all) innovative drugs are also covered by patents held by the NDA
sponsor.
The innovator company is required to list certain of its patents covering the medicine with the FDA in what is commonly known as the Orange Book. Absent a
successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an ANDA until after the innovator’s listed patents expire. However, after the innovator has marketed its
product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an ANDA and allege that one or more of the patents listed in the Orange Book under an innovator’s NDA is
either invalid or not infringed. This allegation
20Table of Contents
is commonly known as a “Paragraph IV certification.” The innovator then must choose whether to file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect its patents. If
one or more of the NDA-listed patents are successfully challenged, or if the innovator chooses not to sue, the first filer of a Paragraph IV certification may be entitled
to a 180-day period of market exclusivity as against all other generic manufacturers. From time to time ANDAs, including Paragraph IV certifications, are filed with
respect to certain of the Company’s products. The Company evaluates these ANDAs on a case-by-case basis and, where warranted, files suit against the generic
manufacturer to protect its patent rights.
Several recent developments in the United States have increased the likelihood of generic challenges to innovators’ intellectual property, and thus, increased
the risk of loss of innovators’ market exclusivity. First, generic companies have increasingly sought to challenge innovators’ basic patents covering major
pharmaceutical products. For a discussion of one such litigation related to patent challenges by generic companies, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 21. Legal
Proceedings and Contingencies—PLAVIX* Litigation.” Second, new statutory and regulatory provisions in the United States limit the ability of an innovator
company to prevent generic drugs from being approved and launched while patent litigation is ongoing. Third, the FDA is actively considering ways to expand the
use of a regulatory mechanism that allows for regulatory approval of drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less
extensive data than is required for a full NDA. As a result of all of these developments, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular
Company product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. For more information about
new legislation, see “—Government Regulation and Price Constraints” below.
European Union
In the EU, most innovative pharmaceuticals are entitled to ten years of regulatory data protection if marketing approval is obtained via the “centralized
procedure.” A product that receives approval under the centralized procedure automatically receives approval in every member state of the EU. However, a company
then must obtain pricing and reimbursement for the pharmaceutical product, which is typically subject to member state law. The pricing and reimbursement procedure
can take months, and sometimes years, to obtain. Consequently, regardless of whether or not the innovative medicine is covered by patents, generic copies relying
on the innovator’s data usually cannot be approved for a minimum of ten years after approval. For innovative pharmaceuticals that gain marketing approval using the
non-centralized mutual recognition procedure, this period is six or ten years depending on the individual EU member state. However, regardless of regulatory
exclusivity, competitors may obtain approval of an identical product on the basis of their own safety and efficacy data at any time. For more information regarding the
regulation of pharmaceutical products in the EU, see “—Government Regulation and Price Constraints” below.
Patents on pharmaceutical products are generally enforceable in the EU. However, in contrast to the United States, patents are not listed with regulatory
authorities. Generic copies can be approved after data protection expires, regardless of whether the innovator holds patents covering its drug. Thus, it is possible
that an innovator may be seeking to enforce its patents against a generic competitor that is already marketing its product. Also, the European patent system has an
opposition procedure in which generic manufacturers may challenge the validity of patents covering innovator products within nine months of grant. As in the
United States, patents in the EU may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. Such extensions are granted on a
country-by-country basis.
In general, EU law treats chemically synthesized drugs and biologically derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity.
Japan
In Japan, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded six years of protection for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical
products are enforceable. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data protection and patent expirations. As in the United States, patents in Japan may
be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process.
In general, Japanese law treats chemically synthesized and biologically derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity.
Rest of World
In countries outside of the United States, the EU and Japan, there is a wide variety of legal systems with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity
of pharmaceuticals. Most other developed countries utilize systems similar to either the United States (e.g., Canada) or the EU (e.g., Switzerland). Among less
developed countries, some have adopted patent laws and/or regulatory exclusivity laws, while others have not. Some less developed nations have formally adopted
laws in order to comply with World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments, but have not taken steps to implement these laws in a meaningful way. Enforcement of
WTO obligations is a long process, and there is no assurance of the outcome. Thus, in assessing the likely future market exclusivity of
21Table of Contents
the Company’s innovative drugs in less developed countries, the Company takes into account not only formal legal rights but political and other factors as well.
Marketing, Distribution and Customers
In the Company’s Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals segments and in its ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses, the Company promotes its products in
medical journals and directly to healthcare providers such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, technologists, hospitals, Pharmacy
Benefit Managers (PBMs), Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) and government agencies. The Company also markets directly to consumers in the United States
through direct-to-consumer print, radio and television advertising. In addition, the Company sponsors general advertising to educate the public about its innovative
medical research. For a discussion of the regulation of promotion and marketing of pharmaceuticals, see “—Government Regulation and Price Constraints” below.
Through the Company’s sales and marketing organizations, the Company explains the approved uses and advantages of its products to medical professionals.
The Company works to gain access to health authority, PBM and MCO formularies (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products) and
reimbursement lists by demonstrating the qualities and treatment benefits of its products. Marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals is limited to the approved uses
of the particular product, but the Company continues to develop information about its products and provides such information in response to unsolicited inquiries
from doctors and other medical professionals. All drugs must complete clinical trials required by regulatory authorities to show they are safe and effective for treating
one or more medical problems. A manufacturer may choose, however, to undertake additional studies, including comparative clinical trials with competitive products,
to demonstrate additional advantages of a compound. Those studies can be costly and take years to complete, and the results are uncertain. Balancing these
considerations makes it difficult to decide whether and when to undertake such additional studies. But, when they are successful, such studies can have a major
impact on approved marketing claims and strategies.
The Company’s operations include several pharmaceutical marketing and sales organizations. Each organization markets a distinct group of products
supported by a sales force and is typically based on particular therapeutic areas or physician groups. These sales forces often focus on selling new products when
they are introduced, and promotion to physicians is increasingly targeted at specialists and high value primary care physicians. In addition, Ventiv Pharma Services,
LLC, a division of Ventiv Health, Inc., provides the Company with a sales force of over 375 representatives focused on CEFZIL and TEQUIN.
The Company’s prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but the Company also sells directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics,
government agencies and pharmacies. In 2004, sales to three pharmaceutical wholesalers in the United States, McKesson, Cardinal and AmerisourceBergen
Corporation (AmerisourceBergen) accounted for approximately 19%, 17% and 10%, respectively, of the Company’s total net sales. In 2003, sales to McKesson,
Cardinal and AmerisourceBergen accounted for approximately 17%, 15% and 13%, respectively, of the Company’s total net sales. In 2002, sales to McKesson and
AmerisourceBergen each accounted for approximately 16% of the Company’s total net sales and sales to Cardinal accounted for 15% of the Company’s total net
sales. Sales to these U.S. wholesalers were concentrated in the Pharmaceuticals segment.
Through 2002, the Company experienced a substantial buildup of wholesaler inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals business. For further discussion see “Item
7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements.” In 2003, the
Company took steps intended to moderate inventory buying by U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which can result in sales fluctuations unrelated to consumer
demand. In 2003, the Company entered into new inventory management agreements (IMAs) with AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal, McKesson and other wholesalers.
The agreements have terms of 2 years, cancelable by either party after 1 year. The IMAs generally establish limits on inventory levels of BMS pharmaceutical
products held by the wholesalers, permit limited buy-ins of BMS pharmaceutical products by the wholesalers after price increases at pre-price increase prices, and
require the wholesalers to provide the Company with data relating to the wholesalers’ sales and inventory levels of BMS pharmaceutical products. The IMAs will
expire between September 2005 and December 2005. The Company has had discussions with certain of its U.S. wholesaler customers about extending and renewing
its agreements for periods beyond their current expiration. The Company expects these discussions to continue during 2005.
The Company is the exclusive distributor of ERBITUX* in North America. Under the terms of an agreement with McKesson, McKesson provides
warehousing, packing and shipping for filling orders for ERBITUX*. To maintain the integrity of the product, special storage conditions and handling are required.
Accordingly, all sales of ERBITUX*, including purchase requests from other wholesalers, are processed through the Company, and McKesson will only ship
ERBITUX* to end-users of the product and not to other intermediaries to hold for later sales. This agreement expires March 31, 2005, however the Company has the
option to extend the agreement to June 30, 2005.
For information on sales and marketing of consumer medicines and nutritionals, see “—Nutritionals Segment” and “—Other Healthcare Segment—Consumer
Medicines” above.
22Table of Contents
Competition
The markets in which the Company competes are generally broad-based and highly competitive. The principal means of competition vary among product
categories and business groups.
The Company’s Pharmaceuticals segment competes with other worldwide research-based drug companies, many smaller research companies with more limited
therapeutic focus and generic drug manufacturers. Important competitive factors include product efficacy, safety and ease of use, price and demonstrated cost-
effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, service and research and development of new products and processes. Sales of the Company’s products
can be impacted by new studies that indicate a competitor’s product has greater efficacy for treating a disease or particular form of disease than one of the
Company’s products. The Company’s sales also can be impacted by additional labeling requirements for better tolerability, safety or convenience that may be
imposed on its products by the FDA or by similar regulatory agencies in different countries. If competitors introduce new products and processes with therapeutic or
cost advantages, the Company’s products can be subject to progressive price reductions or decreased volume of sales, or both. For example, in the growing market
for statins, which reduce cholesterol, PRAVACHOL, the Company’s second largest product ranked by 2004 net sales ($2.6 billion), experienced increased competition
from established brands and new entrants. U.S. prescriptions for PRAVACHOL declined 10% in 2004 compared to 2003. PRAVACHOL has begun to lose exclusivity
in Europe. Between now and its anticipated loss of U.S. exclusivity in April 2006, its expected rate of decline in sales and in share of the statin segment could be
accelerated by increased competition.
To successfully compete for business with managed care and pharmacy benefits management organizations, the Company must often demonstrate that its
products offer not only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care. Most new products that the Company introduces must
compete with other products already on the market or products that are later developed by competitors. Manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals typically invest far
less in research and development than research-based pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products significantly lower than branded products.
Accordingly, when a branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. In certain countries
outside the United States, patent protection is weak or nonexistent and the Company must compete with generic versions shortly after it launches its innovative
product.
Many other companies, large and small, manufacture and sell one or more products that are similar to those marketed by the Company’s Nutritionals and Other
Healthcare segments. Sources of competitive advantage include product quality and efficacy, brand identity, advertising and promotion, product innovation, broad
distribution capabilities, customer satisfaction and price. Significant expenditures for advertising, promotion and marketing are generally required to achieve both
consumer and trade acceptance of these products.
The Company believes its long-term competitive position depends upon its success in discovering and developing innovative, cost-effective products that
serve unmet medical needs, together with its ability to manufacture the products efficiently and to market them effectively in a highly competitive environment. There
can be no assurance that the Company’s research and development efforts will result in commercially successful products or that its products or processes will not
become outmoded from time to time as a result of products or processes developed by its competitors.
Managed Care Organizations
The growth of MCOs in the United States has been a major factor in the competitive make-up of the healthcare marketplace. Over half the U.S. population now
participates in some version of managed care. Because of the size of the patient population covered by MCOs, marketing of prescription drugs to them and the PBMs
that serve many of those organizations has become important to the Company’s business. MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan
administrators, health-maintenance organizations, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. Those organizations have been
consolidating into fewer, even larger entities, enhancing their purchasing strength and importance to the Company.
A major objective of MCOs is to contain and, where possible, reduce health care expenditures. They typically use formularies, volume purchases and long-term
contracts to negotiate discounts from pharmaceutical providers. MCOs and PBMs typically develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. Formularies can
be based on the prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines are often favored. The breadth of the
products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one MCO to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of
particular medical problems. MCOs use a variety of means to encourage patients’ use of products listed on their formularies.
Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies
compete aggressively to have their products included. Where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as
greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects. A lower overall
23Table of Contents
cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. The
Company has been generally, although not universally, successful in having its major products included on MCO formularies.
Generic Competition
One of the biggest competitive challenges that the Company faces in the United States and, to a less extent, internationally is from generic pharmaceutical
manufacturers. Upon the expiration or loss of market exclusivity on a product, the Company can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period
of time. In the United States, the FDA approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, and
allows generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the pioneer product. Therefore, generic competitors operate without the Company’s large research
and development expenses and its costs of conveying medical information about the product to the medical community. For more information about market
exclusivity, see “—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” above.
The rate of sales decline of a product after the expiration of exclusivity varies by country. In general, the decline in the U.S. market is more rapid than in most
other developed countries. Also, the declines in developed countries tend to be more rapid than in less developed countries.
The rate of sales decline after the expiration of exclusivity has also historically been influenced by product characteristics. For example, drugs that are used in a
large patient population (e.g., those prescribed by primary care physicians) tend to experience more rapid declines than drugs in specialized areas of medicine (e.g.,
oncology). Drugs that are more complex to manufacture (e.g., sterile injectable products) usually experience a slower decline than those that are simpler to
manufacture.
As noted above, MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. Many governments also encourage
the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs. Laws in the United States generally allow, and in many cases require,
pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to a brand-name drug. The substitution
must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. These laws and policies provide an added incentive for generic manufacturers to seek marketing
approval as the automatic substitution removes the need for generic manufacturers to incur many of the sales and marketing costs, which innovators must incur.
Research and Development
The Company invests heavily in research and development because it believes it is critical to its long-term competitiveness. Pharmaceutical research and
development is carried out by the Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute, which has major facilities in Princeton, Hopewell and New Brunswick, New
Jersey and Wallingford, Connecticut. Pharmaceutical research and development is also carried out at various other facilities in the United States and in Belgium,
Canada, France, and the United Kingdom. Management continues to emphasize leadership, innovation, productivity and quality as strategies for success in the
Pharmaceutical Research Institute.
The Company spent $2,500 million in 2004, $2,279 million in 2003 and $2,206 million in 2002 on Company sponsored research and development activities.
Company sponsored pharmaceutical research and development spending (including certain payments under third-party collaborations and contracts), as a
percentage of Pharmaceutical sales, was 14.8% in 2004, compared with 14.2% in 2003 and 16.5% in 2002. At the end of 2004, the Company employed approximately
7,300 people in research and development throughout the Company, including over 5,500 in the Pharmaceutical Research Institute, including a substantial number of
physicians, scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees and higher skilled technical personnel.
The Company concentrates its pharmaceutical research and development efforts in the following ten critical disease areas: Affective (psychiatric) disorders,
Alzheimer’s/dementia, atherosclerosis/thrombosis, diabetes, hepatitis, human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS), obesity,
oncology, rheumatoid arthritis and related diseases and solid organ transplant. However, the Company continues to analyze and may selectively pursue promising
leads in other areas. In addition to discovering and developing new molecular entities, the Company looks for ways to expand the value of existing products through
new uses and formulations that can provide additional benefits to patients.
To supplement the Company’s internal efforts, the Company collaborates with independent research organizations, including educational institutions and
research-based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and contracts with others for the performance of research in their facilities. The Company uses the
services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools and other research organizations worldwide to conduct clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of
new products. The Company actively seeks out investments in external research and technologies that hold the promise to complement and strengthen its own
24Table of Contents
research efforts. These investments can take many forms, including licensing arrangements, codevelopment and comarketing agreements, copromotion arrangements
and joint ventures.
Drug development is time-consuming, expensive and risky. In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the
United States and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new molecular entities through preclinical tests and controlled
clinical evaluation. Before a new drug may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the NDA or the BLA
to the FDA for the required approval. The development of certain other products is also subject to government regulations covering safety and efficacy in the United
States and many foreign countries. There can be no assurance that a compound developed as a result of any program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary
for it to be marketed for any particular disease indication.
On average, only about one in ten thousand chemical compounds discovered by pharmaceutical industry researchers proves to be both medically effective
and safe enough to become an approved medicine. The process from discovery to regulatory approval typically takes ten years or longer. Drug candidates can fail at
any stage of the process, and even late-stage product candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval. The Company believes its investments in research,
both internally and in collaboration with others, have been rewarded by the number of new pharmaceutical compounds and indications it has in all stages of
development.
The Company’s drug discovery program includes many alliances and collaborative agreements. These agreements bring new products into the pipeline or help
the Company remain on the cutting edge of technology in the search for novel medicines.
Listed below are several investigational compounds that the Company has in the later stages of development. All of these compounds are in or entering Phase
II or Phase III clinical trials. Whether or not any of these investigational compounds ultimately becomes one of the Company’s marketed products depends on the
results of pre-clinical and clinical studies, the competitive landscape of the potential product’s market and the manufacturing processes necessary to produce the
potential product on a commercial scale, among other factors. The Company filed applications to the FDA for entecavir in September 2004 and muraglitazar in
December 2004. The Company also filed a rolling BLA for abatacept (CTLA4Ig) under the provisions of the FDA’s Continuous Marketing Application, Pilot 1 and
expects that submission to be completed in early 2005. However, as noted above, there can be no assurance that the Company will seek regulatory approval of any of
these compounds or that, if such approval is sought, it will be obtained. At this stage of development, the Company cannot determine all intellectual property issues
or all the patent protection that may, or may not, be available for these investigational compounds. The patent coverage highlighted below does not include potential
term extensions.
Abatacept CTLA4Ig, a biological product which has been developed internally and is currently in Phase III clinical trials, is a fusion protein with novel
immunosuppressive activity targeted initially at rheumatoid arthritis. Abatacept has been granted fast track status by the U.S. FDA and the
Company is filing a rolling BLA for abatacept under the provisions of Continuous Marketing Application, Pilot 1. Complete Non-Clinical and
Clinical sections have already been submitted to the FDA and the remaining sections will be submitted in early 2005. The Company has a
series of patents covering CTLA4Ig and its method of use. The latest of the composition of matter patents expires in the United States in
2016. U.S. litigation with Repligen Corporation (Repligen) concerning the inventorship of CTLA4Ig has been concluded in favor of the
Company. Repligen has received a U.S. patent that claims a use of CTLA4Ig to treat specific autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid
arthritis. For more information about this litigation, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Entecavir Entecavir, which has been developed internally and is currently under regulatory review, is a potent and selective inhibitor of hepatitis B
virus. The Company submitted an NDA to the FDA and a marketing authorization application to the European Medicines Evaluation
Agency in October 2004. The Company has a composition of matter patent that expires in the United States in 2010.
Muraglitazar Muraglitazar, which has been developed internally and is currently under regulatory review, is a dual PPAR agonist for the treatment of type
2 diabetes and other metabolic disorders. The Company submitted an NDA to the FDA in December 2004. The product is being codeveloped
and copromoted under a collaboration agreement with Merck. The Company has a composition of matter patent which expires in the United
States in 2020.
EMSAM* EMSAM*, an investigational monoamine oxidase inhibitor administered as a transdermal patch for the acute and maintenance treatment of
patients with major depressive disorder, is being codeveloped with Somerset and has received an approvable letter from the FDA in
February 2004.
25Table of Contents
Ixabepilone Ixabepilone, an epothilone, which has been developed internally and is currently in Phase III clinical trials, is a novel tubulin inhibitor for
multiple tumor types. The Company has a composition of matter patent in the United States that expires in 2018.
JAVLOR* Vinflunine, which is being codeveloped with Pierre Fabre and is currently in Phase III clinical trials, is a novel investigational anti-cancer
agent. Pierre Fabre has a composition of matter patent that expires in the U.S. in 2014.
MDX-010 MDX-010, which is being codeveloped with Medarex and is currently in Phase III clinical trials, is a monoclonal antibody being investigated
as a late-stage anticancer treatment. It is in a novel class of agents intended to potentiate elements of the immunologic response. The
Company owns a composition of matter patent that expires in the U.S. in 2016 and has rights to method of use patents owned by Medarex
that expire in the U.S. in 2015. The Company also has rights to pending Medarex patent applications covering composition of matter and
method of use of MDX-010.
LEA29Y LEA29Y, a biological product, which is being developed internally and is currently transitioning to Phase III clinical trials, is a fusion protein
with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted at solid organ transplant. The Company has pending patent applications in the United
States and Japan, and a granted patent application in the EU, covering LEA29Y.
Saxagliptin Saxagliptin, which is being developed internally and is currently in Phase II clinical trials, is an oral compound for the potential treatment of
diabetes. A patent application covering the composition of matter has been issued, and will expire in 2021 in the United States.
SRC/ABL SRC/ABL, which is being developed internally and is currently transitioning to an accelerated Phase II program, is a kinase inhibitor for
chronic myelosenous leukemia. The Company has a composition of matter patent which expires in 2020.
The Company will not pursue further development of Razaxaban, the Company’s first factor Xa inhibitor studied in patients. Although Razaxaban provided
proof of principle for the molecular target in Phase II clinical trials for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis, the Company has identified another factor Xa inhibitor,
which was a follow-on to Razaxaban, that has a more favorable profile. That factor Xa inhibitor is being developed internally for the prevention of deep vein
thrombosis and is currently in Phase II clinical trials. The Company has one or more patent(s) and/or pending patent application(s) that cover the composition of
matter, which expire (or, in the case of a pending patent application, will expire if issued), in the U.S. between 2019 and 2022.
The Company’s competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to research and development. In addition, the consolidation that has occurred in the
pharmaceutical industry has created companies with substantial research and development resources. The extent to which the Company’s competitors are successful
in their research could result in erosion of the sales of its products and unanticipated product obsolescence.
Government Regulation and Price Constraints
The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive global regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(FDC Act), other federal statutes and regulations, various state statutes and regulations, and laws and regulations of foreign governments govern to varying degrees
the testing, approval, production, labeling, distribution, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, and promotion of the Company’s
products. The lengthy process of laboratory and clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing, development, and regulatory review necessary for required
governmental approvals is extremely costly and can significantly delay product introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing, and
distribution of pharmaceutical products are extensively regulated in all major world markets. In addition, the Company’s operations are subject to complex federal,
state, local, and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations. The Company anticipates that the laws and regulations affecting the
manufacture and sale of current products and the introduction of new products will continue to require substantial scientific and technical effort, time, expense and
significant capital investment.
Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States. It has jurisdiction over virtually all of the Company’s businesses and imposes requirements covering
the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of the Company’s pharmaceutical products. The
FDA also regulates most of the Company’s Nutritionals and Other Healthcare products. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and
money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States.
26Table of Contents
The Company’s pharmaceutical products are subject to pre-market approval requirements in the United States. New drugs are approved under, and are subject
to, the FDC Act and related regulations. Biological drugs are subject to both the FDC Act and the Public Health Service Act (PHS Act), and related regulations.
Biological drugs are licensed under the PHS Act.
The FDA mandates that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) established by the
FDA. In complying with cGMP regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to
ensure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements to ensure product safety and efficacy. The FDA periodically inspects drug
manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements subjects the
manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. Adverse experiences
with the use of products must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restrictions through labeling changes or in product removal.
Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product occur
following approval.
The federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of pharmaceutical manufacturers, including authority to withdraw product
approvals, commence actions to seize and prohibit the sale of unapproved or non-complying products, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance
with cGMPs, and to impose or seek injunctions, voluntary recalls, and civil monetary and criminal penalties. Such a restriction or prohibition on sales or withdrawal of
approval of products marketed by the Company could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.
Marketing authorization for the Company’s products is subject to revocation by the applicable governmental agencies. In addition, modifications or
enhancements of approved products or changes in manufacturing locations are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals, which may or may not
be received and which may be subject to a lengthy application process.
The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, known as “PDMA,” as part of the FDC Act, which regulates
such activities at both the federal and state level. Under the PDMA and its implementing regulations, states are permitted to require registration of manufacturers and
distributors who provide pharmaceuticals even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. States are also permitted to adopt
regulations limiting the distribution of product samples to licensed practitioners. The PDMA also imposes extensive licensing, personnel record keeping, packaging,
quantity, labeling, product handling and facility storage and security requirements intended to prevent the sale of pharmaceutical product samples or other
diversions.
The marketing practices of all U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturers are subject to federal and state health care laws that are used to protect the integrity of
government health care programs. The Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (OIG) oversees compliance with
applicable federal laws, in connection with the payment for products by government funded programs (primarily Medicaid and Medicare.) These laws include the
federal anti-kickback statute which criminalizes the offering of something of value to induce the recommendation, order or purchase of products or services
reimbursed under a government health care program. The OIG has issued a series of Guidances to segments of the health care industry, including a recommendation
that pharmaceutical manufacturers, at a minimum, adhere to the PhRMA Code, a voluntary industry code of marketing practices. The Company subscribes to the
PhRMA Code, and has implemented a compliance program to address the requirements set forth in the OIG Guidance and its compliance with the health care laws.
Failure to comply with these health care laws could subject the Company to administrative and legal proceedings, including actions by the state and federal
government agencies. Such actions could result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive remedies, the
impact of which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
The Company is also subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal and state regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Federal
Trade Commission (FTC), the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services in the United States. The Company is also licensed by the
U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency to procure and produce controlled substances. The Company is, therefore, subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings
and actions by those organizations. Such actions may result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive or
administrative remedies.
Various federal and state agencies have regulatory authority regarding the manufacture, storage, transportation and disposal of many Medical Imaging
products because of their radioactive nature.
The Company’s activities outside the United States are also subject to regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness,
manufacturing, labeling and marketing of the Company’s products. These regulatory requirements vary from country to country. In the EU, there are two ways that a
company can obtain marketing authorization for a pharmaceutical product. The first route is the “centralized procedure.” This procedure is compulsory for certain
pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, but also is available for certain new chemical compounds and products. The second
route to obtain
27Table of Contents
marketing authorization in the EU is the “mutual recognition procedure.” Applications are made to a single member state, and if the member state approves the
pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member
states. As set forth above, pricing and reimbursement of the product continues to be the subject of member state law.
Whether or not FDA approval or approval of the European Medicines Evaluation Agency has been obtained for a product, approval of the product by
comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the United States or the EU, as the case may be, must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those
countries. The approval process may be more or less rigorous from country to country and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required
in the United States. Approval in one country does not assure that such product will be approved in another country.
In many markets outside the United States, the Company operates in an environment of government-mandated, cost-containment programs. Several
governments have placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and/or enacted across-
the-board price cuts as methods of cost control. Most European countries do not provide market pricing for new medicines, except the United Kingdom and Germany.
Pricing freedom is limited in the United Kingdom by the operation of a profit control plan and in Germany by the operation of a reference price system. Companies
also face significant delays, mainly in France, Spain, Italy and Belgium, in market access for new products, and more than two years can elapse before new medicines
become available on some national markets. Additionally, member states of the EU have regularly imposed new or additional cost containment measures for
pharmaceuticals. In recent years, Italy, for example, has imposed mandatory price decreases. The existence of price differentials within Europe due to the different
national pricing and reimbursement laws leads to significant parallel trade flows.
In recent years, Congress and some state legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have enacted laws that could effect major changes in the
healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid access and reimbursement restrictions have been implemented
in some states and proposed in many others. Similar cost containment issues exist in many foreign countries where the Company does business.
On December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act (MMA) was enacted to provide outpatient prescription drug
coverage to senior citizens in the United States. Under the legislation, an interim drug discount card program began in June 2004 allowing Medicare beneficiaries to
obtain a Medicare endorsed, drug-discount card from an MCO, PBM or other private sector provider, while the main drug benefit, eligibility for a stand-alone drug
plan, is scheduled to begin in 2006. The new drug benefit will be administered regionally through private insurance plans or PBMs, and the law allows Medicare to
negotiate directly with pharmaceutical companies in regions without a private drug benefit program. The legislation allows for the importation of less expensive
prescription drugs from Canada, but only if the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services certifies that such importation would be safe and would result in
savings to customers, which it has so far not done. There can be no assurance that this certification requirement will be maintained in future legislation or that the
certification will continue to be withheld. Prior to the MMA, federal law would have permitted importation of medicines into the U.S. from a considerably larger group
of developed countries, provided the U.S. Health and Human Services Department made the same safety and cost-savings certifications. The Company cannot
predict the potential impact that this legislation will have on its business, because it is not clear how the law will be implemented by regulators or received by
consumers and physicians. While usage of pharmaceuticals may increase as the result of the expanded access to medicines afforded by the partial reimbursement
under Medicare, this may be offset by increased pricing pressures due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector providers that will negotiate on behalf
of Medicare beneficiaries. The impact of this legislation was negative for the Company’s U.S. oncology business in 2004, as reimbursement levels have been reduced
for certain oncology products administered in the outpatient setting, including PARAPLATIN. The impact could also be negative over the intermediate and longer
term for the Company’s U.S. pharmaceutical business generally as greater federal involvement and budget constraints may increase the likelihood of pricing
pressures or controls in the future.
Federal and state governments also have pursued direct methods to reduce the cost of drugs for which they pay. The Company participates in state
government-managed Medicaid programs as well as certain other qualifying federal and state government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to
participating state and local government entities. Rebates under Medicaid and related state programs reduced revenues by $673 million in 2004, $523 million in 2003
and $490 million in 2002. The Company also participates in prime vendor programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of
Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. These entities receive minimum discounts based off a defined “non-federal average manufacturer price” for
purchases. Other prime vendor programs in which the Company participates provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service
entities and “disproportionate share” hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria). The Company recorded discounts related to the prime vendor programs of $1,319
million in 2004, $1,228 million in 2003 and $1,028 million in 2002.
28Table of Contents
In 2004, the Company conducted an analysis of its past and proposed systems for calculating prices for reporting under governmental rebate and pricing
programs. The results of this analysis identified the need for revisions to the methodology and processes used for calculating past rebate amounts and reported
pricing. In the third quarter of 2004, based on the results of the Company’s analysis to date, the Company recorded a liability, which was not material, equal to the
estimated additional rebate liability resulting from these revisions. Upon completion of the analysis in the fourth quarter, the Company determined that this liability
was not necessary and, consequently, has reversed it. The Company has remediated its internal controls over these processes and procedures the Company believes
resulted in these proposed revisions to its rebate calculation methodology and continues to strengthen such internal controls. For additional information, see “Item 8.
Financial Statements—Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies—Pricing, Sales and Promotional Practices Litigation and Investigations.”
In the United States, governmental cost containment efforts have extended to the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for WIC. All states
participate in the WIC program and have sought and obtained rebates from manufacturers of infant formula whose products are used in the program. All states have
conducted competitive bidding for infant formula contracts, which require the use of specific infant formula products by the state WIC program, unless a physician
requests a non-contract formula for a WIC customer. States participating in the WIC program are required to engage in competitive bidding or to use other cost
containment measures that yield savings equal to or greater than the savings generated by a competitive bidding system. Mead Johnson participates in this program
and approximately half of its gross U.S. sales are subject to rebates under the WIC program.
Pending pharmaceutical legislation in the EU, which is expected to be implemented by the member states this year, will have an impact on the procedures for
authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU under both the centralized and mutual recognition procedures. In particular, the legislation contains new data
protection provisions. All products (regardless of whether they have been approved under the centralized or the mutual recognition procedures) will be subject to an
“8+2+1” regime. Eight years after the innovator has received its first community authorization for a medicinal product, a generic company may file a marketing
authorization application for that product with the health authorities. However, the generic company may not commercialize the product until after either ten or eleven
years have elapsed from the initial marketing authorization granted to the innovator. The possible one year extension is available if the innovator, during the first
eight years of the marketing authorization, obtains an additional indication that is of significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing treatments. There is a
transitional provision for these new data protection requirements, and it is expected that these provisions will apply as new marketing authorization applications are
submitted under the new legislation.
The merger of two separate Japanese pharmaceutical regulatory offices may lead to gains in efficiency and timeliness of drug registration in Japan. However,
the pricing environment for pharmaceuticals in Japan remains challenging due to reference pricing and biennial government mandated price reductions.
Environmental Regulation
The Company’s facilities and operations are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health
and safety, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous, radioactive and biological
materials and wastes, and the cleanup of contamination. Pollution controls and permits are required for many of the Company’s operations, and these permits are
subject to modification, renewal or revocation by the issuing authorities.
A corporate environment, health and safety group monitors operations around the world, providing the Company with an overview of regulatory requirements
and overseeing the implementation of Company standards for compliance. The Company also incurs operating and capital costs for such matters on an ongoing
basis. The Company expended approximately $60 million, $55 million and $27 million on capital environmental projects undertaken specifically to meet environmental
requirements in 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively, and expects to spend approximately $50 million in 2005. Although the Company believes that it is in substantial
compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements and the permits required for its operations, the Company nevertheless could incur
additional costs, including civil or criminal fines or penalties, clean-up costs, or third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, for violations or liabilities
under these laws.
Many of the Company’s current and former facilities have been in operation for many years, and, over time, the Company and other operators of those facilities
have generated, used, stored or disposed of substances or wastes that are considered hazardous under environmental laws. As a result, the soil and groundwater at
or under certain of these facilities is or may be contaminated, and the Company may be required to make significant expenditures to investigate, control and remediate
such contamination. The Company is also potentially responsible for environmental conditions at a number of waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by
third parties. Currently, the Company is involved in investigation or remediation activities at approximately 50 sites, and has been named as a potentially responsible
party (PRP) under the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) at approximately 25 of these sites.
29Table of Contents
CERCLA and similar state statutes may impose liability for the entire cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites on any party, regardless of fault
or ownership at the time of the disposal or release. Generally, where there are multiple potentially responsible parties, liability has been apportioned based on the
nature and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties.
Based on the Company’s current estimates of cleanup costs and its expected share of financial responsibility, the Company does not expect its expenditures in
connection with CERCLA or other remediation matters to be material. Expenditures could rise in the future if substantial unknown contamination is discovered at one
of the Company’s current or former facilities, applicable standards become more stringent, or if other PRPs fail to participate in cost-sharing at any site at which the
Company has financial responsibility.
For additional information about these matters, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Employees
The Company employed approximately 43,000 people at December 31, 2004.
Foreign Operations
The Company has significant operations outside the United States. They are conducted both through the Company’s subsidiaries and through distributors,
and involve all three of the same business segments as the Company’s U.S. operations —Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Healthcare.
Revenues from operations outside the United States of $8.8 billion accounted for 45% of the Company’s total revenues in 2004. In 2004, revenues exceeded
$500 million in each of France, Japan, Germany, Spain, Italy, Canada, and the U.K. No single country outside the United States contributed more than 10% of the
Company’s total revenues. For a geographic breakdown of net sales, see the table captioned Geographic in “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 18. Segment
Information” and for further discussion of the Company’s sales by geographic area see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations—Geographic Areas.”
International operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business abroad, including currency fluctuations, possible
nationalization or expropriation, price and exchange controls, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises and other restrictive governmental actions. The
Company’s international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws on pricing or reimbursement for use of products.
Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or reduce the reported dollar value of the Company’s net
assets and results of operations. In 2004, the change in foreign exchange rates had a net favorable impact on revenues. While the Company cannot predict with
certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on it, the Company attempts to mitigate their impact through operational means and by
using various financial instruments. See the discussion under “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 17. Financial Instruments.”
Item 2. PROPERTIES.
The Company’s world headquarters is located at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York, where it leases approximately 375,000 square feet of floor space,
approximately 215,000 square feet of which is sublet to others.
The Company manufactures products at 38 major worldwide locations with an aggregate floor space of approximately 12.2 million square feet. All facilities are
owned by the Company. The following table illustrates the geographic location of the Company’s significant manufacturing facilities by business segment.
Total Other
Company Pharmaceuticals Nutritionals Healthcare
United States 12 8 2 2
Europe, Middle East and Africa 13 11 1 1
Other Western Hemisphere 6 4 2 —
Pacific 7 4 3 —
Total 38 27 8 3
30Table of Contents
Portions of these facilities and other facilities owned or leased by the Company in the United States and elsewhere are used for research, administration,
storage and distribution. For further information about the Company’s facilities, see “Item 1. Business—Manufacturing and Quality Assurance.”
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies” and is
incorporated by reference herein.
Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2004.
31Table of Contents
PART IA
Executive Officers of the Registrant
Listed below is information on executive officers of the Company as of February 28, 2005. Executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors for an initial
term, which continues until the first Board meeting following the next annual meeting of stockholders and thereafter are elected for a one-year term or until their
successors have been elected. All executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
Name and Current Position Age Employment History for the Past 5 Years
Lamberto Andreotti 54 1999 to 2000 – Senior Vice President and General Manager of Italy, CEEI
Senior Vice President and President International & European Oncology, a division of the Company.
Member of the Executive Committee 2000 to 2002 – President, Europe, Worldwide Medicines Group, a
division of the Company.
2002 to present – Senior Vice President and President International,
Worldwide Medicines Group, a division of the Company.
Stephen E. Bear 54 1998 to 1999 – Vice President, Strategic Business Development,
Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Worldwide Beauty Care/Nutritionals & Medical Devices, Corporate Staff
Corporate Staff of the Company.
Member of the Executive Committee 1999 to 2001 – Vice President, Marketing and Business Development of
the New York Botanical Gardens, a non-profit organization.
2001 to present – Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Corporate
Staff of the Company.
Andrew G. Bodnar, M.D. 57 1999 to 2000 – Vice President, Corporate Development, Worldwide
Senior Vice President, Strategy and Medicines Group, a division of the Company.
Medical & External Affairs, Corporate Staff 2000 to 2001 – Vice President, Medical and External Affairs, Corporate
Member of the Executive Committee Staff of the Company.
2001 to 2002 – Senior Vice President, Medical and External Affairs,
Corporate Staff of the Company.
2002 to present – Senior Vice President, Strategy and Medical & External
Affairs, Corporate Staff of the Company.
Andrew R. J. Bonfield 42 1999 to 2000 – Chief Financial Officer, SmithKline Beecham PLC.
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 2000 to 2002 – Executive Director, Finance, BG Group PLC.
Corporate Staff 2002 to present – Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
Member of the Executive Committee Corporate Staff of the Company.
Carlo de Notaristefani, Ph.D. 47 2000 to 2001 – Vice President, IO International, Aventis Pharma.
President, Pharmaceutical Group/Technical Operations Member of the 2001 to 2003 – Vice President, IO International, Latin America and Japan,
Executive Committee Aventis Pharma.
2003 to 2004 – Senior Vice President, Global Finishing Solids, Aventis
Pharma.
2004 to present – President, Pharmaceutical Group/Technical
Operations, a division of the Company.
Wendy L. Dixon, Ph.D 49 1996 to 2001 – Vice President, Marketing, Merck & Co.
Chief Marketing Officer and President, Global Marketing 2001 to 2001 – Senior Vice President, Merck & Co.
Member of the Executive Committee 2001 to present, Chief Marketing Officer and President, Global
Marketing, Worldwide Medicines Group, a division of the Company.
32Table of Contents
Peter R. Dolan 49 1998 to 2000 – Senior Vice President, Strategy and Organizational
Chairman of the Board and Chief Effectiveness, Corporate Staff of the Company.
Executive Officer 2000 to 2001 – President and Director of the Company.
Member of the Executive Committee 2001 to present – Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company.
Edward M. Dwyer 48 1997 to 2004 – Vice President and Treasurer, AT&T.
Vice President and Treasurer, Corporate Staff 2004 to present – Vice President and Treasurer, Corporate Staff of the
Company.
Donald J. Hayden 49 1998 to 2000 – Senior Vice President and President, Worldwide
Executive Vice President and President, Americas Medicines Group, a division of the Company.
Member of the Executive Committee 2000 to 2001 – Executive Vice President, e-Business & Strategy,
Corporate Staff of the Company.
2001 to 2001 – Executive Vice President, e-Business & Strategy, Investor
Relations and Corporate Intelligence, Corporate Staff of the Company.
2001 to 2002 – Executive Vice President, Health Care Group, a division of
the Company.
2002 to 2002 – Executive Vice President and President, North America
Medicines, a division of the Company.
2002 to present – Executive Vice President and President, Americas,
Worldwide Medicines Group, a division of the Company.
Anthony C. Hooper 50 1999 to 2000 – Vice President and General Manager, Northern Europe,
President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals International Medicines, a division of the Company.
Member of the Executive Committee 2000 to 2001 – President, Asia-Pacific, Middle East & Southern Africa,
International Medicines, a division of the Company.
2001 to 2002 – President, Intercontinental, International Medicines, a
division of the Company.
2002 to 2004 – President, Europe, Middle East & Africa, Worldwide
Medicines Group, a division of the Company.
2004 to present – President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals, Worldwide Medicines
Group, a division of the Company.
Tamar D. Howson 56 1998 to 2000 – Senior Vice President and Director, Business
Senior Vice President, Corporate and Business Development, Development of SmithKline Beecham Corporation.
Corporate Staff 2000 to 2001 – biotechnology consultant to chief executive officers and
Member of the Executive Committee other business executives.
2001 to present – Senior Vice President, Corporate and Business
Development, Corporate Staff of the Company.
Sandra Leung 44 1999 to 2002 – Corporate Secretary, Corporate Staff of the Company.
Vice President and Corporate Secretary, 2002 to present – Vice President and Corporate Secretary, Corporate
Corporate Staff Staff of the Company.
John L. McGoldrick 64 1998 to 2000 – General Counsel and Senior Vice President, Corporate
Executive Vice President and General Staff of the Company and President, Medical Devices Group, a division
Counsel, Corporate Staff of the Company.
Member of the Executive Committee 2000 to 2001 – Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Corporate
Staff of the Company and President, Medical Devices Group, a division
of the Company.
2001 to present – Executive Vice President and General Counsel,
Corporate Staff of the Company.
33Table of Contents
Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D. 53 1999 to 2001 – Senior Vice President, Early Discovery and Applied
Chief Scientific Officer and President, Technology, Pharmaceutical Research Institute, a division of the
Pharmaceutical Research Institute Company.
Member of the Executive Committee 2001 to 2002 – Senior Vice President, Drug Discovery & Exploratory
Development, Pharmaceutical Research Institute, a division of the
Company.
2002 to 2004 – Senior Vice President, Global Clinical and Pharmaceutical
Development, Pharmaceutical Research Institute, a division of the
Company.
2004 to present – Chief Scientific Officer and President, Pharmaceutical
Research Institute, a division of the Company.
David L. Zabor 50 2000 to 2000 – Vice President, Assistant Treasurer, Corporate Staff of the
Vice President, Financial Operations and Controller, Corporate Staff Company.
2000 to 2001 – Vice President, Finance, Technical Operations, Worldwide
Medicines Group, a division of the Company.
2001 to 2002 – Vice President, Financial Analysis, Corporate Staff of the
Company.
2002 to 2002 – Vice President and Acting Controller, Corporate Staff of
the Company.
2002 to 2003 – Vice President and Controller, Corporate Staff of the
Company.
2003 to 2004 – Vice President and Operations Controller, Corporate Staff
of the Company.
2004 to present – Vice President, Financial Operations and Controller,
Corporate Staff of the Company.
Robert T. Zito 51 1999 to 2004 – Executive Vice President, Communications, New York
Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs Stock Exchange
Member of the Executive Committee 2004 to present – Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Corporate
Staff of the Company.
34Table of Contents
PART II
Item 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
Market Prices
Bristol-Myers Squibb common and preferred stocks are traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange, Inc. (symbols: BMY; BMYPR). A
quarterly summary of the high and low market prices is presented below:
Common:
2004 2003
High Low High Low
First Quarter $ 30.64 $ 24.00 $ 25.41 $ 21.13
Second Quarter 26.18 24.02 28.86 21.85
Third Quarter 24.68 22.50 27.60 25.17
Fourth Quarter 25.83 22.95 28.60 24.25
Preferred:
2004 2003
High Low High Low
First Quarter $525.00 $485.00 * *
Second Quarter * * $398.00 $398.00
Third Quarter * * 433.00 430.00
Fourth Quarter * * 429.50 429.50
* During the first quarter of 2003, and the second, third and fourth quarters of 2004, there were no trades of the Company’s preferred stock. The preferred stock pays
a quarterly dividend of $.50 per share.
Holders of Common Stock
The number of record holders of common stock at December 31, 2004 was 87,076.
The number of record holders is based upon the actual number of holders registered on the books of the Company at such date and does not include holders
of shares in “street names” or persons, partnerships, associations, corporations or other entities identified in security position listings maintained by depository trust
companies.
Voting Securities and Principal Holders
Reference is made to the 2005 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2005 with respect to voting securities and principal holders, which is
incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by this Item 5.
Dividends
Dividends declared per share in 2004 and 2003 were:
Common Preferred
2004 2003 2004 2003
First Quarter $ .28 $ .28 $ .50 $ .50
Second Quarter .28 .28 .50 .50
Third Quarter .28 .28 .50 .50
Fourth Quarter .28 .28 .50 .50
$1.12 $1.12 $2.00 $2.00
In December 2004, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $.28 per share on the common stock of the Company, which was
paid on February 1, 2005 to shareholders of record as of January 7, 2005.
35Table of Contents
Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
Five-Year Financial Summary
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
Income Statement Data:(1)(2)
(in millions, except per share data)
Net Sales $19,380 $18,653 $16,208 $ 16,612 $ 16,438
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Minority Interest and Income Taxes 4,418 4,680 2,748 2,252 5,244
Earnings from Continuing Operations 2,378 3,097 2,059 1,866 3,675
Earnings from Continuing Operations per Common Share:
Basic $ 1.23 $ 1.60 $ 1.07 $ .96 $ 1.87
Diluted $ 1.21 $ 1.59 $ 1.06 $ .95 $ 1.84
Average common shares outstanding
Basic 1,942 1,937 1,936 1,940 1,965
Diluted 1,976 1,950 1,942 1,965 1,997
Dividends paid on common and preferred stock $ 2,174 $ 2,169 $ 2,168 $ 2,137 $ 1,930
Dividends declared per Common Share $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.11 $ 1.01
Financial Position Data at December 31:(3)
Total Assets $30,435 $27,448 $25,106 $ 27,864 $ 17,924
Cash and cash equivalents 3,680 2,549 2,451 4,552 3,085
Marketable securities 3,794 3,013 1,622 1,102 300
Long-term debt 8,463 8,522 6,261 6,237 1,336
Stockholders’ Equity 10,202 9,786 8,756 8,762 7,634
(1) The Company recorded items that affected the comparability of results, which are set forth in the table under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Expenses” for the years 2004, 2003 and 2002. For a discussion of these items, see “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Expenses,” “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Investments,”
“—Note 3. Restructuring and Other Items,” “—Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures” and “—Note 5. Discontinued Operations.”
(2) Excludes discontinued operations of OTN in all years; and Clairol and Zimmer in 2000 through 2002.
(3) Includes discontinued operations for all years.
36Table of Contents
Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
About the Company
Bristol-Myers Squibb is a worldwide pharmaceutical and related healthcare products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life. The
Company is engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare related
products. The Company employs approximately 43,000 people.
In 2004, the Company reported annual global sales from continuing operations of $19.4 billion. Sales increased 4% from the prior year level due to the favorable
impact from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. U.S. sales remained constant at $10.6 billion, as increased sales of key brands and newer products were offset by
exclusivity losses on older brands, while international sales increased 10%, to $8.8 billion including an 8% favorable foreign exchange impact. In 2004, two product
lines achieved sales of over $2.5 billion each—PLAVIX* and PRAVACHOL. PLAVIX* sales grew 35%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $3.3
billion, while PRAVACHOL sales decreased 7%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $2.6 billion. An additional 44 product lines achieved more than
$50 million each in annual sales, including 30 product lines with more than $100 million each in annual sales, of which 7 had annual sales in excess of $500 million
each.
In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company signed a definitive agreement to sell its Oncology Therapeutics Network (OTN) business, a distributor of
pharmaceutical products to office-based oncologists. Further, in January 2005, the Company announced that it intends to divest its U.S. and Canadian Consumer
Medicines businesses.
In support of its mission to extend and enhance human life by developing the highest-quality products, in 2004, the Company invested $2.5 billion in research
and development, a 10% growth over 2003, and expects to increase spending on drug development in 2005 to accelerate the development of its late-stage pipeline.
Research and development dedicated to pharmaceutical products, including milestone payments for in-licensing and development programs, was $2.3 billion and as a
percentage of Pharmaceutical sales was 14.8% compared to 14.2% in 2003.
In August 2004, the Company announced it entered into a settlement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), concluding the SEC’s
investigation regarding wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent Order under which the Company is currently
operating. The SEC’s investigation arose from the Company’s announcement in April 2002 that the Company experienced a substantial buildup of wholesaler
inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals business over several years, primarily in 2000 and 2001, and that the buildup was primarily due to sales incentives offered by
the Company, as well as the Company’s subsequent restatement (2002 Restatement) of its consolidated financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2002
and prior periods in March 2003. For a discussion of these matters, see “—Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statement” and “—SEC Consent Order”
below.
To help ensure the circumstances that led to the need for financial restatement do not recur, the Company has taken steps to enhance the effectiveness of its
disclosure controls and procedures, including internal control over financial reporting. After completing the 2002 Restatement, the Company continued to identify
and implement actions to improve the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. These actions contributed
significantly to the Company identifying additional errors relating to prior periods not reflected in the 2002 Restatement and accordingly, the Company restated its
consolidated financial statements in 2004 to correct these errors for the years 2001 and 2002. The Company continues to strengthen disclosure controls and
procedures surrounding internal controls over financial reporting, specifically with respect to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These actions include
the establishment of policies and procedures to enhance compliance and focus on risk management.
Business Environment
The pharmaceutical industry in which the Company conducts its business is highly competitive and subject to numerous government regulations. Sales of the
Company’s products can be affected significantly by many competitive factors, including product efficacy, safety, price and cost-effectiveness, marketing
effectiveness, product labeling, quality control and quality assurance of its manufacturing, operating and research and development of new products. To
successfully compete for business in the healthcare industry, the Company must not only demonstrate that its products offer medical benefits, but also cost
advantages. Currently, most of the new products introduced by the Company must compete with other products in the same therapeutic category already on the
market. The Company manufactures branded products, which are subject to higher prices than generic products. Generic competition is one of the Company’s
biggest challenges globally.
37Table of Contents
In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market
exclusivity. When a product loses exclusivity, it is no longer protected by a patent and is subject to new competing products in the form of generic brands. Upon
exclusivity loss of a product, the Company can lose a major portion of that product’s sales in a short period of time. For further discussion on product exclusivity, see
“Item 1. Business–Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity.”
Both in the U.S. and internationally, the healthcare industry is subject to various government-imposed regulations which authorize prices or price controls
which could have an impact on the Company’s sales. In the U.S., Congress and some state legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have enacted
laws that could effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid access and
reimbursement restrictions have been implemented in some states and proposed in many others. For example, in December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug
Improvement and Modernization Act (MMA) was enacted to provide outpatient prescription drug coverage to senior citizens in the United States. The Company
cannot predict the potential impact that this legislation will have on its business; however it could have a negative impact on the Company’s U.S. pharmaceutical
business as greater federal involvement and budget constraints may increase the likelihood of pricing pressures or controls in the future. In many markets outside the
United States, the Company operates in environments of government-mandated, cost-containment programs. Most European countries, except the United Kingdom
and Germany, do not provide market pricing for new medicines. Pricing freedom is limited in the United Kingdom by the operation of a profit control plan and in
Germany by the operation of a reference price system. Companies also face significant delays in market access for new products, and more than two years can elapse
before new medicines become available on some national markets.
The growth of Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) in the U.S. has played a large role in the competition that surrounds the healthcare industry. MCOs seek
to reduce healthcare expenditures for participants by making volume purchases and entering into long-term contracts to negotiate discounts with various
pharmaceutical providers. Because of the market potential created by the large pool of participants, marketing prescription drugs to MCOs has become an important
part of the Company’s strategy. Companies compete for inclusion in an MCO formulary and the Company has generally been successful in having its major products
included.
Pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product. Shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be
a lengthy process requiring significant capital expenditures and regulatory approvals. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of
traditional pharmaceutical operations. Although the Company does have the capacity to manufacture biologics for clinical trials and commercial launch, its current
capacity to manufacture larger commercial volumes of these products is limited.
The Company has maintained a competitive position in the market and strives to uphold this position, which is dependent on its success in discovering and
developing innovative, cost-effective products that serve unmet medical needs.
Strategy
The Company is implementing a new strategy to discover and develop innovative, cost-effective medicines that address significant unmet medical needs in ten
critical disease areas. These areas are: Affective (psychiatric) disorders, Alzheimer’s/dementia, atherosclerosis/thrombosis, diabetes, hepatitis, human
immunodeficiency virus/auto-immune immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS), obesity, oncology, rheumatoid arthritis and related diseases and solid organ transplant.
The Company continuously strives to create better treatments for patients by building a high quality drug discovery and development pipeline.
Since 2003, the Company has undergone a transition in its pharmaceutical product portfolio as older product lines, including the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise,
MONOPRIL, TAXOL® and PARAPLATIN, have experienced exclusivity loss. With the successful launches of newer products including ABILIFY* for the treatment
of psychiatric disorders, REYATAZ for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and ERBITUX* for cancer, the portfolio is being refocused on growth brands which fall
within the ten critical disease areas targeting specialists and high value primary care physicians. Sales of products within the ten disease areas have been increasing
steadily, and are expected to comprise about half of pharmaceutical product sales by the end of 2005. The Company is making significant investments behind its new
product launches, and re-deploying marketing and promotional spending from older products to its newer products.
In 2004, the Company submitted two New Drug Applications (NDAs) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for regulatory approval, including
entecavir for hepatitis B and muraglitazar for type 2 diabetes. A rolling Biologics License Application (BLA) for abatacept for the potential treatment of rheumatoid
arthritis is also expected to be completed in early 2005. The successful launch of these investigational compounds will further enhance the Company’s strategy to
transition its product portfolio to cover all of the ten disease areas discussed above.
While internal growth is vital to the Company’s future success, the Company is continually evaluating and pursuing external possibilities through alliances
and other collaborative agreements. The Company has a notable record of executing successful
38Table of Contents
licensing arrangements to supplement its own pipeline, and many of these arrangements have led to fruitful codevelopment, copromotion and comarketing
agreements. The Company expects to continue to complement its pipeline in 2005 with additional licensed products. Another component of the Company’s strategy
includes entry into the biologics business, which requires increased investments in manufacturing facilities and third-party manufacturing arrangements to meet
future commercial demand expected to be generated from new product launches. In addition, the Company continues to maintain collaborations with major
biotechnology and research institutions to enhance the life cycle of the Company’s product portfolio beyond initial approval/commercialization, such as offering
combination therapy and product extensions.
Another major aspect of the Company’s strategy relates to how it does business, specifically in marketing and sales approaches. Specialists are playing an
even greater role in decisions related to patient treatment and care, particularly in the ten critical disease areas where the Company is focusing its efforts. For this
reason, the Company is recasting its business model to focus on specialists as well as with those primary care physicians who are involved in treating patients in
these select disease areas. In order to achieve its strategic objectives, the Company also plans to moderate selling, general and administrative spending for the next
several years, through the customer model noted above, as well as the elimination of organizational inefficiencies.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussion of the Company’s results of continuing operations excludes the results related to the OTN business, which have been segregated
from continuing operations and are reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See “—Discontinued Operations” below.
% Change
2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002
(dollars in millions)
Net Sales $19,380 $18,653 $16,208 4% 15%
Earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income tax $ 4,418 $ 4,680 $ 2,748 (6)% 70%
% of net sales 22.8% 25.1% 17.0%
Provision on income taxes $ 1,519 $ 1,210 $ 386 26% **
Effective tax rate 34.4% 25.9% 14.0%
Earnings from continuing operations $ 2,378 $ 3,097 $ 2,059 (23)% 50%
% of net sales 12.3% 16.6% 12.7%
** Change is in excess of 200%
Net Sales
Net sales from continuing operations for 2004 increased 4% to $19.4 billion due to the favorable impact from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. U.S. net sales
in 2004 remained constant at $10.6 billion compared to 2003, with growth in prescription demand for key brands including PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* and
SUSTIVA, and new product introductions including ABILIFY*, REYATAZ and ERBITUX*, offset by lower sales of other products as a result of exclusivity losses
for MONOPRIL, PARAPLATIN and the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise. U.S. net sales increased 13% in 2003 from $9.4 billion in 2002 while international net sales
increased 18% to $8.0 billion in 2003 from $6.8 billion in 2002, or 8% excluding favorable foreign exchange. International net sales increased 10% to $8.8 billion in 2004,
or 2% excluding favorable foreign exchange. This 2% growth in sales was primarily attributable to increased sales of PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* and the
launch of REYATAZ and ABILIFY* in Europe, offset by a decline in PRAVACHOL. In 2003, net sales from continuing operations increased 15% to $18.7 billion,
including a 4% favorable impact from foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
The composition of the net increase in sales is as follows:
2004 2003
Volume — 9%
Selling prices, net — 2%
Foreign exchange 4% 4%
Increase in sales 4% 15%
39Table of Contents
In general, the Company’s business is not seasonal. For information on U.S. pharmaceuticals prescriber demand, reference is made to the table within Business
Segments under the Pharmaceuticals section below, which sets forth a comparison of changes in net sales to the estimated total prescription growth (for both retail
and mail order customers) for certain of the Company’s primary care pharmaceutical products.
The Company operates in three reportable segments—Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Healthcare. In 2004, the Company signed a definitive agreement
to sell OTN, which was previously presented as a separate segment. As such, the results of operations for OTN are presented as part of the Company’s results from
discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” Accordingly, OTN results of
operations in prior periods have been reclassified to discontinued operations to conform with current year presentations. The percent of the Company’s sales by
segment were as follows:
Net Sales % Change
2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002
(dollars in millions)
Pharmaceuticals $15,482 $14,925 $12,814 4% 16%
% of net sales 80% 80% 79%
Nutritionals 2,001 2,023 1,821 (1)% 11%
% of net sales 10% 11% 11%
Other Healthcare 1,897 1,705 1,573 11% 8%
% of net sales 10% 9% 10%
Total $19,380 $18,653 $16,208 4% 15%
The Company recognizes revenue for sales when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, which generally occurs
on the date of shipment. When substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership do not transfer, the Company uses a consignment model to recognize the
revenue. Under this model, the Company does not recognize revenue upon shipment of product. Rather, upon shipment of product the Company invoices the
wholesaler, records deferred revenue at gross invoice sales price and classifies the inventory held by the wholesalers as consignment inventory at the Company’s
cost of such inventory. The Company recognizes revenue (net of the gross to net sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and
judgments) when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, which is not later than when such inventory is sold through to the wholesalers’
customers, on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis. The Company’s aggregate cost of pharmaceutical products that were accounted for using the consignment model (and
accordingly, were reflected as consignment inventory on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet) were not significant at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The
deferred revenue related to the inventory of pharmaceutical products accounted for using the consignment model was fully worked down by December 31, 2004.
Deferred revenue recorded at gross invoice sales price was approximately $12 million at December 31, 2003. Approximately $10 million, $321 million and $1,397 million
of deferred revenue was recognized in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The corresponding effect on earnings from continuing operations before minority interest
and income taxes was an increase of $8 million, $237 million and $1,095 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
40Table of Contents
The Company recognizes revenue on a gross sales basis and deducts various sales adjustments to arrive at net sales as reported on the Consolidated
Statement of Earnings. These adjustments are referred to as gross-to-net sales adjustments and are further described in “—Critical Accounting Policies” below. The
following table summarizes the Company’s gross-to-net sales adjustments for each significant category:
For the Year Ended December 31,
2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions)
Gross Sales $23,896 $22,992 $20,117
Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments
Prime Vendor Charge-Backs (1,319) (1,228) (1,028)
Women, Infants and Children (WIC) Rebates (846) (854) (993)
Managed Health Care Rebates and Other Contract Discounts (660) (710) (503)
Medicaid Rebates (673) (523) (490)
Cash Discounts (311) (319) (281)
Sales Returns (276) (348) (345)
Other Adjustments (431) (357) (269)
Total Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments (4,516) (4,339) (3,909)
Net Sales $19,380 $18,653 $16,208
In 2004, the increase from 2003 for prime vendor charge-backs and Medicaid rebates were primarily due to a shift in sales to products with higher discounts in
prime vendor and Medicaid programs while the decrease in sales returns were primarily attributable to higher sales returns in 2003 resulting from discontinued
products and product conversions. The overall increase in gross-to-net sales adjustments in 2003 from 2002 was primarily due to sales growth and increases in
managed care rebates principally due to a shift in sales to products with higher discounts, partially offset by a decrease in WIC rebates due to a decline in state WIC
contracts.
The following table sets forth the activities and ending balances of each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustments:
Managed
Women, Healthcare
Prime Infants and Rebates and
Vendor Children Other
Charge- (WIC) Contract Medicaid Cash Sales Other
Backs Rebates Discounts Rebates Discounts Returns Adjustments Total
(dollars in millions)
Balance at December 31, 2002 $ 134 $ 282 $ 230 $ 220 $ 16 $ 165 $ 87 $1,134
Provision related to sales made in current period 1,228 849 710 522 319 335 360 4,323
Provision related to sales made in prior periods — 5 — 1 — 13 (3) 16
Returns and payments (1,261) (928) (692) (510) (305) (246) (322) (4,264)
Impact of foreign currency translation — — 1 — — 1 2 4
Balance at December 31, 2003 101 208 249 233 30 268 124 1,213
Provision related to sales made in current period 1,314 843 646 618 311 270 463 4,465
Provision related to sales made in prior periods 5 3 14 55 — 6 (32) 51
Returns and payments (1,314) (820) (711) (534) (308) (316) (385) (4,388)
Impact of foreign currency translation — — — — — 1 6 7
Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 106 $ 234 $ 198 $ 372 $ 33 $ 229 $ 176 $1,348
In 2004, the Company recorded charges of $55 million for Medicaid rebates related to sales made in prior periods. These charges include $34 million for rebate
claims from prior years by certain states, primarily in relation to Medicaid utilization of oncology products not previously reported to the Company, and other
revisions resulting from the availability of additional information. In addition, the Company recorded $32 million for other adjustments as a result of lower than
expected rebates to foreign governments. No other significant revisions were made to the estimates for gross-to-net sales adjustments in 2004 and 2003.
41Table of Contents
Pharmaceuticals
The composition of the net increase in pharmaceutical sales is as follows:
Analysis of % Change
Total Foreign
Change Volume Price Exchange
2004 vs. 2003 4% 1% (1)% 4%
2003 vs. 2002 16% 9% 2% 5%
In 2004, worldwide Pharmaceuticals sales increased 4% to $15,482 million due to favorable foreign exchange impact. Domestic sales in 2004 remained constant
at $8,446 million compared to $8,431 million in 2003. Domestic sales were negatively affected by increased competition for PRAVACHOL, and exclusivity losses of
PARAPLATIN and the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise, offset by increased sales of PLAVIX* and newer products, including ABILIFY*, REYATAZ and ERBITUX*.
International sales in 2004 increased 8% to $7,036 million, or a decrease of 1% excluding favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily due to generic competition for
PRAVACHOL and TAXOL®, partially offset by the launches of ABILIFY*, REYATAZ and continued growth in PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*.
In 2003, worldwide Pharmaceuticals sales increased 16% to $14,925 million, or 11% excluding favorable foreign exchange impact. Domestic sales in 2003
increased 16% to $8,431 million primarily due to increased sales of PLAVIX*, PRAVACHOL, ABILIFY*, GLUCOVANCE* and PARAPLATIN and partly due to the
impact on 2002 sales from the workdown of non-consignment wholesaler inventory, and the launch of REYATAZ in July 2003, partially offset by decreased sales of
GLUCOPHAGE* IR and TAXOL® primarily due to generic competition. International sales in 2003 increased 17% to $6,494 million, including an 11% favorable foreign
exchange impact, primarily due to increased sales of PRAVACHOL, TAXOL®, PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* and Analgesic products in Europe partially offset by
price declines principally in Germany and Italy.
Key pharmaceutical products and their sales, representing 79%, 78% and 74% of total pharmaceutical sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are as follows:
% Change
2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002
(dollars in millions)
Cardiovascular
PLAVIX* $3,327 $2,467 $1,890 35% 31%
PRAVACHOL 2,635 2,827 2,266 (7)% 25%
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 930 757 586 23% 29%
MONOPRIL 274 470 426 (42)% 10%
COUMADIN 255 303 300 (16)% 1%
Virology
SUSTIVA 621 544 455 14% 20%
REYATAZ 414 88 — ** —
VIDEX/VIDEX EC 274 267 262 3% 2%
ZERIT 272 354 443 (23)% (20)%
Infectious Diseases
CEFZIL 270 327 287 (17)% 14%
TEQUIN 169 208 184 (19)% 13%
Oncology
TAXOL® 991 934 857 6% 9%
PARAPLATIN 673 905 727 (26)% 24%
ERBITUX* 261 — — — —
Affective (Psychiatric) Disorders
ABILIFY* (total revenue) 593 283 25 110% **
Metabolics
GLUCOVANCE* 169 424 246 (60)% 72%
GLUCOPHAGE* IR 68 118 220 (42)% (46)%
GLUCOPHAGE* XR 67 395 297 (83)% 33%
** Change is in excess of 200%
• Sales of PLAVIX*, a platelet aggregation inhibitor sold by the Company primarily in the U.S., increased 35%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange
impact, to $3,327 million in 2004 from 2003, primarily due to strong prescription growth of 24% in the U.S. market. Sales in 2003 were $2,467 million, an
increase of 31%, including a 3% favorable foreign exchange impact, from $1,890 million in 2002, primarily due to strong prescription growth of 29% in the
U.S. PLAVIX* is a cardiovascular product launched from the alliance between the Company and Sanofi-Aventis (Sanofi). Market exclusivity for
PLAVIX* is expected to expire in 2011 in the U.S. and 2013 in the EU. Statements on exclusivity are subject to any adverse determination that may occur
with respect to the PLAVIX* patent litigation. For additional information on the PLAVIX* patent litigation, see “Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 21.
Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
42Table of Contents
• Sales of the PRAVACHOL, an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor, decreased 7%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $2,635 million in 2004.
Domestic sales decreased 12% to $1,420 million in 2004, as total U.S. prescription demand decreased 10%. International sales decreased 1%, including a
10% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $1,215 million due to exclusivity loss in select European markets, including Germany and the UK. Sales for
PRAVACHOL increased 25% to $2,827 million in 2003 from $2,266 million in 2002 primarily due to wholesaler workdown of inventory in the U.S. in 2002
and continued growth in Europe, particularly in France, the UK and Italy. Market exclusivity protection for PRAVACHOL is expected to expire in April
2006 in the U.S. Market exclusivity in the EU expired in 2004, with the exception of France and Sweden, for which expiration will occur in August and
March 2006, respectively, and in Italy, for which expiration will occur in January 2008.
• Sales of AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, an angiotensin II receptor blocker for the treatment of hypertension, increased 23%, including a 5% favorable foreign
exchange impact, to $930 million in 2004 driven by increased sales in Europe and strong U.S. prescription growth of approximately 15%. Sales increased
29%, including a 6% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $757 million in 2003 from $586 million in 2002, primarily due to strong U.S. prescription growth
and price increases. AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* are cardiovascular products launched from the alliance between the Company and Sanofi. Market
exclusivity for AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* (known in the EU as APROVEL/KARVEA) is expected to expire in 2011 in the U.S. and 2012 in countries in the
EU; AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* is not currently marketed in Japan.
• Sales of MONOPRIL, a second generation angiotesin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor for the treatment of hypertension, decreased 42%, including a
4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $274 million due to the impact of market exclusivity loss. Sales in 2003 were $470 million, an increase of 10%,
including a 5% favorable foreign exchange impact, from $426 million in 2002, resulting from the introduction of a branded generic product and a new
government contract. Market exclusivity protection for MONOPRIL expired in 2003 in the U.S. and has expired or is expected to expire between 2001 and
2008 in countries in the EU. MONOPRIL is not currently marketed in Japan.
• Sales of COUMADIN, an oral anti-coagulant used predominately in patients with atrial fibrillation or deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism,
decreased 16% to $255 million in 2004 compared to 2003 sales, due to increased generic competition. Sales in 2003 increased 1% to $303 million from $300
million in 2002. Market exclusivity for COUMADIN expired in the U.S. in 1997.
• Sales of SUSTIVA, a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, increased 14%, including a 5% favorable foreign exchange
impact, to $621 million in 2004 from the prior year primarily due to increased demand in 2004 and higher prices. U.S. sales increased 9% to $364 million in
2004, while total U.S. prescription growth increased by 4% in 2004. International sales of SUSTIVA increased 22%, including a 13% favorable foreign
exchange impact, to $257 million in 2004 driven by increased sales in Spain, the UK, France and Italy. In 2003, SUSTIVA sales increased 20% to $544
million from $455 million in 2002, primarily due to the workdown of U.S. wholesaler inventory in the third quarter of 2002. Market exclusivity protection
for SUSTIVA is expected to expire in 2013 in the U.S. and in countries in the EU; the Company does not (but others do) market SUSTIVA in Japan.
• Sales of REYATAZ, a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, which was launched in the U.S. in the third quarter of 2003 and in Europe in the second
quarter of 2004, were $414 million compared with $88 million in 2003. REYATAZ has achieved a weekly new prescription share of the U.S. protease
inhibitors market of approximately 28%. Market exclusivity for REYATAZ is expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., in countries in the EU and Japan.
• Sales of VIDEX/VIDEX EC, an antiretroviral agent used in the treatment of HIV, increased 3%, or decreased 3% excluding a 6% favorable foreign
exchange impact, to $274 million in 2004. VIDEX/VIDEX EC sales increased 2% to $267 million in 2003 from $262 million in 2002, due to increased sales in
Europe, partially offset by sales declines in the U.S. The Company has a licensing arrangement with the U.S. Government for VIDEX/VIDEX EC, which
by its terms became non-exclusive in 2001. The U.S. Government’s method of use patent expires in 2007 in the U.S. (which includes an earned pediatric
extension) and in Japan, and between 2006 and 2009 in countries in the EU. The license to the Company is non-exclusive, which has allowed another
company to obtain a license from the U.S. Government and receive approval for marketing. With respect to VIDEX/VIDEX EC, the Company has patents
covering the reduced mass formulation of VIDEX/VIDEX EC that expire in 2012 in the U.S., the EU and Japan. However, these patents apply only to the
type of reduced mass formulation specified in the patent. Other reduced mass formulations may exist. There is currently no issued patent covering the
VIDEX EC formulation.
43Table of Contents
• Sales of ZERIT an antiretroviral agent used in the treatment of HIV, decreased 23%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $272 million in
2004, primarily as a result of continued decrease in demand due to potential adverse side effects. ZERIT sales decreased 20%, including a 5% favorable
foreign exchange impact, to $354 million in 2003 from $443 million in 2002, primarily as a result of decreased demand due to potential adverse side effects.
Market exclusivity protection for ZERIT is expected to expire in 2008 in the U.S., between 2007 and 2011 in countries in the EU and 2008 in Japan.
• Sales of CEFZIL, an antibiotic for the treatment of mild to moderately severe bacterial infections, decreased 17%, including a 2% favorable foreign
exchange impact, to $270 million in 2004, primarily due to decreased domestic demand, partially offset by higher international sales. CEFZIL sales
increased 14% to $327 million in 2003 from $287 million in 2002. Market exclusivity is expected to expire in 2005 in the U.S., between 2007 and 2009 in the
EU and expired in 2004 in Japan.
• TEQUIN, an antibiotic used for the treatment of respiratory tract infections, had sales of $169 million in 2004, a decrease of 19% compared 2003 sales. In
2003, sales increased 13% to $208 million from $184 million in 2002. TEQUIN is a seasonal product with sales increasing during the flu season. The sales
fluctuations from 2002 to 2004 were due to a strong flu season in 2003 and a weak flu season in 2004. The basic U.S. patent expires in 2007; however, it is
expected that the patent will be eligible for a statutory patent term extension until 2009.
• Sales of TAXOL®, the Company’s leading anti-cancer agent, were $991 million in 2004 compared to $934 million in 2003. Sales of TAXOL®, which are
almost exclusively international, increased 6%, or decreased 3% excluding favorable foreign exchange, primarily as a result of generic competition in
Europe. Generic competition for TAXOL® in a majority of the major European markets began in the second quarter of 2004 and increased in the second
half of 2004. In 2003, TAXOL® sales increased 9% or decreased 3% excluding favorable foreign exchange to $934 million from $857 million in 2002,
primarily due to generic competition in the U.S., partially offset by strong sales in Japan and France. Market exclusivity protection for TAXOL® expired in
2002 in the U.S., in 2003 in the EU and is expected to expire between 2003 and 2013 in Japan.
• Sales of PARAPLATIN, an anticancer agent, decreased 26%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $673 million due to generic
competition in the U.S. which began in mid-2004 and increased with the entry of multiple generic competitors in the fourth quarter. Domestic sales of
PARAPLATIN decreased 30% to $537 million. In 2003, PARAPLATIN sales increased 24%, with no significant foreign exchange impact, to $905 million
from $727 million in 2002, primarily due to the introduction of a new formulation of PARAPLATIN in 2003 and price increases. Market exclusivity
protection for PARAPLATIN expired in October 2004 in the U.S., in 2000 in the EU and in 1998 in Japan.
• ERBITUX*, an injection used in combination with irinotecan in the treatment of patients with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR)-expressing
metastatic colorectal cancer who are refractory to irinotecan-based chemotherapy and as a single agent in the treatment of patients with EGFR-
expressing metastatic colorectal cancer who are intolerant to irinotecan-based chemotherapy, was approved by the FDA in February 2004. Sales of
ERBITUX*, which is sold almost exclusively in the U.S., were $261 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. A patent relating to combination
therapy with ERBITUX* expires in 2017. The Company’s right to market ERBITUX* in North America and Japan expires in September 2018. The
Company does not, but others do, market ERBITUX* in countries in the EU.
• Total revenue for ABILIFY*, which is primarily domestic alliance revenue for the Company’s 65% share of net sales in copromotion countries with
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), was $593 million in 2004, compared with $283 million and $25 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively, due to
continued growth in prescription demand since its launch. The schizophrenia agent was introduced in the United States in November 2002 and by
December 2004, had achieved more than a 10% weekly new prescription share of the U.S. antipsychotic market. The European Commission granted
marketing authorization for ABILIFY* in June 2004 and total revenue has reached $26 million since public sales commenced in June 2004. In September
2004, the FDA approved ABILIFY* for the treatment of acute bipolar mania in the U.S. Market exclusivity protection for ABILIFY* is expected to expire
in 2009 in the U.S. (and may be extended until 2014 if a pending patent term extension is granted). The Company also has the right to copromote
ABILIFY* in several European countries (the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Spain) and to act as exclusive distributor for the product in the rest
of the European Union (EU). Market exclusivity protection for ABILIFY* is expected to expire in 2009 for the EU (and may be extended until 2014 if
pending supplemental protection certificates are granted). The Company’s right to market ABILIFY* expires in November 2012 in the U.S. and Puerto
Rico and, for the countries in the EU where the Company has the exclusive right to market ABILIFY* in June 2014. For additional information on revenue
recognition of ABILIFY*, see “Item 8. Financial Statements-Note 2. Alliances and Investments.”
• GLUCOPHAGE* franchise sales decreased 65% to $336 million in 2004, compared to a 22% increase to $948 million in 2003 from $778 million in 2002. The
decrease in sales in 2004 primarily resulted from increased generic competition.
44Table of Contents
GLUCOPHAGE* IR, an oral medication for treatment of non-insulin dependent (type 2) diabetes, experienced a sales decrease of 42% to $68 million. Sales
decreased 46% to $118 million in 2003 from $220 million in 2002. GLUCOVANCE*, an oral combination drug, and GLUCOPHAGE* XR (Extended Release)
tablets had sales in 2004 of $169 million and $67 million, respectively, compared with sales in 2003 of $424 million and $395 million, respectively, and sales
in 2002 of $246 million and $297 million, respectively. Market exclusivity protection expired in March 2000 for GLUCOPHAGE* IR, in October 2003 for
GLUCOPHAGE* XR, and in January 2004 for GLUCOVANCE*. The Company does not (but others do) market these products in the EU and Japan.
In most instances, the basic exclusivity loss date indicated above is the expiration date of the patent that claims the active ingredient of the drug or the method
of using the drug for the approved indication. In some instances, the basic exclusivity loss date indicated is the expiration date of the data exclusivity period. In
situations where there is only data exclusivity without patent protection, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to
obtain marketing approval. The Company assesses the market exclusivity period for each of its products on a case-by-case basis. The length of market exclusivity for
any of the Company’s products is difficult to predict with certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity and other
factors. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that the Company currently anticipates. For further
discussion of market exclusivity protection, including a chart showing net sales of key products together with the year in which basic exclusivity loss occurred or is
expected to occur in the U.S., the EU and Japan, see “Item 1. Business—Products” and “—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity.”
The following table sets forth a comparison of reported net sales changes and the estimated total U.S. prescription growth (for both retail and mail order
customers) for certain of the Company’s U.S. pharmaceutical prescription products. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data
provided by IMS Health, a supplier of market research to the pharmaceutical industry. A significant portion of the Company’s domestic pharmaceutical sales is made
to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand.
2004 2003 2002
% Change % Change in % Change % Change in % Change % Change
in U.S. U.S. Total in U.S. U.S. Total in U.S. in U.S. Total
Net Sales(a) Prescriptions(b) Net Sales(a) Prescriptions(b) Net Sales(a) Prescriptions(b)
PLAVIX* 36 24 27 29 63 35
PRAVACHOL (12) (10) 22 2 1 5
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 19 15 24 15 16 13
MONOPRIL (85) (77) 16 (16) 2 (8)
COUMADIN (18) (17) 1 (15) ** (16)
SUSTIVA 9 4 13 17 ** 16
VIDEX/VIDEX EC (3) (4) (11) 3 15 13
ZERIT (32) (29) (29) (25) (13) (11)
CEFZIL (31) (30) 14 (4) (7) (14)
GLUCOVANCE* (61) (51) 72 3 (9) 48
GLUCOPHAGE*XR (83) (78) 33 (3) 29 81
** In excess of 200%.
(a) Reflects change in net sales in dollar terms, including change in average selling prices and wholesaler buying patterns.
(b) Reflects change in total prescriptions in unit terms, based on third-party data.
The following table sets forth for each of the Company’s key pharmaceutical products sold by the Company’s U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the amount of
the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business’s net sales of the applicable product for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the estimated number of months on hand of the
applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel as of December 31, 2004.
Net Sales
(in millions) Months on Hand
PLAVIX* $ 2,833 0.8
PRAVACHOL 1,420 0.8
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 562 0.7
ABILIFY 554 0.7
PARAPLATIN 537 1.2
SUSTIVA 364 0.6
GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise 315 0.9
REYATAZ 305 0.6
COUMADIN 228 0.8
TEQUIN 124 0.6
ZERIT 119 0.7
VIDEX/VIDEX EC 106 0.6
MONOPRIL 34 0.8
45Table of Contents
The Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the wholesaler distribution channel by the
estimated amount of out-movement of the product over a period of four weeks calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Company’s estimates
include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesale list prices, new product launches, new warehouse
openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers.
PARAPLATIN lost exclusivity in October 2004 and demand has since decreased significantly, resulting in the estimated months on hand of greater than one
month. The value of PARAPLATIN inventory over one month on hand at December 31, 2004 was approximately $4 million. The Company plans to continue to
monitor PARAPLATIN sales with the intention of working down wholesaler inventories to less than one month on hand.
The Company maintains inventory management agreements (IMAs) with most of its U.S. wholesalers which account for nearly 100% of total gross sales of
U.S. Pharmaceutical products. Under the current terms of the IMAs, these wholesalers provide the Company with information with respect to inventory levels of
product on hand and the amount of out-movement of products. The inventory information received from wholesalers is a product of their record-keeping process and
excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals. The Company determines the amount of out-movement of a product over
a period of one month by using the most recent prior four weeks of out-movement of a product as provided by these wholesalers. The Company also determines
months on hand estimates by using such factors as historical sales made to those wholesalers and from third-party market research data related to prescription trends
and patient demand.
Nutritionals
The composition of the net increase in nutritional sales is as follows:
Analysis of % Change
Total Change Volume Price Foreign Exchange
2004 vs. 2003 (1)% (7)% 6% —
2003 vs. 2002 11% 7% 5% (1)%
Key Nutritional product lines and their sales, representing 94%, 84% and 85% of total Nutritional sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are as follows:
% Change
2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002
(dollars in millions)
Infant Formulas $1,405 $1,284 $1,172 9% 10%
Toddler/Children’s Nutritionals 468 421 383 11% 10%
Worldwide Nutritional sales decreased 1% to $2,001 million in 2004 from 2003. Excluding the impact of the Adult Nutritional business that was divested during
the first quarter of 2004, worldwide sales increased 9% to $1,973 million from $1,817 million in 2003.
International sales, excluding the impact of the Adult Nutritional business, increased 15%, primarily due to increased sales of infant formula and children’s
nutritional products. The increase in international sales is primarily due to a 15% increase in ENFAGROW, a toddler and children’s nutritional product, and a 15%
increase in ENFAMIL, the Company’s largest-selling infant formula, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact. Domestic sales, excluding the impact of the
Adult Nutritional business, increased 3% to $945 million in 2004 from $920 million in 2003, primarily due to increased sales of ENFAMIL.
In 2003, Nutritionals sales were $2,023 million, an increase of 11%, including a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange, over 2002. International sales
increased 9%, including a 2% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to $938 million from $862 million in 2002 while domestic sales increased 13% to $1,085 million from
$959 million in 2002. Worldwide infant formula sales increased
46Table of Contents
10% to $1,284 million in 2003, primarily due to increased sales of ENFAMIL. International sales of ENFAMIL increased 5% to $239 million in 2003 from $228 million in
2002 and domestic sales of ENFAMIL increased 10% to $569 million in 2003 from $518 million in 2002. Worldwide toddler and children’s nutritionals sales increased
10%, including a 5% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to $421 million in 2003 from $383 million in 2002, as a result of a 29% increase in sales of ENFAGROW,
primarily throughout the Pacific region, to $156 million in 2003.
Other Healthcare
The Other Healthcare segment includes ConvaTec, the Medical Imaging business and Consumer Medicines in the United States and Japan. The composition
of the net increase in other healthcare sales is as follows:
Analysis of % Change
Total Change Volume Price Foreign Exchange
2004 vs. 2003 11% 6% 1% 4%
2003 vs. 2002 8% 2% 1% 5%
Other Healthcare sales by business and their key products for the years ended December 31, were as follows:
% Change
2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002
(dollars in millions)
ConvaTec $954 $843 $734 13% 15%
Ostomy 551 512 453 8% 13%
Wound Therapeutics 391 319 273 23% 17%
Medical Imaging 589 508 462 16% 10%
CARDIOLITE 406 324 299 25% 8%
Consumer Medicines 354 354 377 — (6)%
• In 2004, the increase in ConvaTec sales was due to a 6% increase in volume, an 8% increase due to foreign exchange partially offset by a 1% decrease
from changes in selling prices. The increase over 2003 was a result of increased worldwide sales of wound therapeutics products, which increased 23%,
including an 8% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $391 million. Ostomy sales were flat, excluding an 8% increase due to foreign exchange impact. In
2003, the increase in ConvaTec sales over 2002 was due to a 13% increase in worldwide sales of ostomy products to $512 million and strong growth of
worldwide wound therapeutics products, which increased 17% to $319 million. Foreign exchange contributed 9% to the sales increase in 2003.
• In 2004, the increase in Medical Imaging sales was due to a 9% increase in volume, a 6% increase from changes in selling prices and a 1% increase due to
foreign exchange. The increase in Medical Imaging sales in 2004 and 2003 were primarily driven by increased sales of CARDIOLITE. This increase was
partially due to a change in the timing of revenue recognition as a result of new distribution agreements entered into in January 2004.
• Consumer Medicines sales remained flat at $354 million in 2004 compared to 2003 and declined from $377 million in 2002. In 2004, the sales increase in the
U.S., primarily driven by higher sales of EXCEDRIN, was offset by decreased sales in Japan, primarily due to lower sales of BUFFERIN and other over-
the-counter medicines. The sales decline in 2003 was in part due to distributors reducing U.S. inventory levels to more desirable levels.
47Table of Contents
Geographic Areas
At least some of the Company’s products are available in most countries in the world. The largest markets are in the United States, France, Japan, Spain,
Germany, Italy, Canada, and the UK The Company’s sales by geographic areas were as follows:
% Change
2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002
(dollars in millions)
United States $10,613 $10,656 $ 9,450 — 13%
% of Total 55% 57% 58%
Europe, Middle East and Africa 5,470 4,985 4,041 10% 23%
% of Total 28% 27% 25%
Other Western Hemisphere 1,425 1,333 1,215 7% 10%
% of Total 7% 7% 8%
Pacific 1,872 1,679 1,502 11% 12%
% of Total 10% 9% 9%
Total $19,380 $18,653 $16,208 4% 15%
Sales in the United States remained constant in 2004, with growth in prescription demand for key brands including PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, and
SUSTIVA, and newer products including ABILIFY*, REYATAZ, and ERBITUX*, offset by lower sales of other products as a result of exclusivity losses for
MONOPRIL, PARAPLATIN, and the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise. In 2003, sales in the United States increased 13%, primarily due to increased sales of PLAVIX*,
PRAVACHOL, ABILIFY*, GLUCOVANCE* and PARAPLATIN. These sales increases were partially offset by the continued impact of generic competition in the
United States on GLUCOPHAGE* IR and TAXOL® and the result of loss of exclusivity and a label change indicating a potential serious side effect of SERZONE.
Sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa increased 10%, or decreased 1% excluding the impact from foreign exchange, as a result of sales decline of
PRAVACHOL due to exclusivity loss in select markets, including Germany and the UK, and TAXOL®, where generic competition in a majority of the major European
markets began in the second quarter of 2004. This decrease in sales was mostly offset by increased sales of PLAVIX* in Germany and Spain, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*
in Italy and Spain, and SUSTIVA in the majority of the major markets. In 2003, sales increased 23%, including a 16% increase from foreign exchange, as a result of
sales growth of PRAVACHOL in France, TAXOL® in France, Germany, Spain and Italy, analgesics in France, PLAVIX* in Germany and Spain, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*
in Italy and SUSTIVA in Spain.
Sales in the Other Western Hemisphere countries increased 7%, including a 2% increase from foreign exchange, primarily due to increased sales of PLAVIX*
and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in Canada. In 2003, sales increased 10%, including a 5% decrease from foreign exchange, primarily due to increased sales of PLAVIX* in
Canada.
Pacific region sales increased 11%, including a 5% increase from foreign exchange in 2004, as a result of increased sales of TAXOL® and PARAPLATIN in
Japan, and PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in Australia. In 2003, sales increased 12%, including a 6% increase from foreign exchange, as a result of increased
sales of TAXOL® in Japan and increased sales of ENFAGROW throughout the region.
Expenses
% Change
2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002
(dollars in millions)
Cost of products sold $ 5,989 $ 5,406 $ 4,691 11% 15%
% of net sales 30.9% 29.0% 28.9%
Marketing, selling and administrative $ 5,016 $ 4,620 $ 4,081 9% 13%
% of net sales 25.9% 24.8% 25.2%
Advertising and product promotion $ 1,411 $ 1,415 $ 1,142 — 24%
% of net sales 7.3% 7.6% 7.0%
Research and development $ 2,500 $ 2,279 $ 2,206 10% 3%
% of net sales 12.9% 12.2% 13.6%
Acquired in-process research and development $ 63 $ — $ 169 — (100)%
% of net sales — — 1.0%
Provision for restructuring and other items, net $ 104 $ 26 $ 14 ** 86%
% of net sales 0.5% 0.1% 0.1%
Litigation charges, net $ 420 $ 199 $ 659 111% (70)%
% of net sales 2.2% 1.1% 4.1%
Equity in net income of affiliates $ (273) $ (151) $ (80) (81)% (89)%
% of net sales (1.4)% (0.8)% (0.5)%
Other expense, net $ 52 $ 179 $ 229 (71)% (22)%
% of net sales 0.3% 1.0% 1.4%
Total Expenses, net $14,962 $13,973 $13,460 7% 4%
% of net sales 77.2% 74.9% 83.0%
**Change is in excess of 200%
48Table of Contents
• Cost of products sold, as a percentage of sales, increased over the last 2 years to 30.9% in 2004 compared with 29.0% in 2003 and 28.9% in 2002. The
increase is primarily due to an increase in accelerated depreciation of $36 million to $100 million, a $75 million increase in product liability reserves and the
unfavorable impact of U.S. Pharmaceutical sales mix due to the impact of generic competition in the U.S. for the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise and
PARAPLATIN and launch of lower margin ERBITUX*, partially offset by sales growth of ABILIFY*, REYATAZ, and PLAVIX*. Cost of products sold
also included $26 million of commercial litigation expense and $25 million of product liability insurance recovery. In 2003, cost of products sold included
$53 million of accelerated depreciation of assets in manufacturing facilities in North America expected to be closed by the end of 2006 and a $14 million
charge for asset impairment and other restructuring expenses. Cost of products sold in 2002 included a $15 million reversal of prior period reserves for
inventory write-offs related to cancelled actions.
• Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, were 25.9% in 2004, 24.8% in 2003, and 25.2% in 2002. In 2004, marketing, selling
and administrative expenses increased 9% to $5,016 million from 2003, primarily due to increased sales and marketing support for newer products,
including additional sales representatives supporting ABILIFY*. In addition, the increase was also related to costs associated with the compliance with
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and unfavorable foreign exchange driven by the strengthening of the euro. Marketing, selling and administrative
expenses increased 13% to $4,620 million in 2003 from $4,081 million in 2002, primarily due to increased sales support for ABILIFY* and
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, higher pension costs, higher charges related to system infrastructure, higher insurance premiums, and unfavorable foreign
exchange impact, principally related to the Euro.
• Advertising and product promotion expenditures remained constant at $1.4 billion as compared to 2003, with increased investments in ABILIFY*,
REYATAZ and PLAVIX*, offset by lower spending on in-line and non-exclusive products. In 2003, advertising and promotion expenses increased 24%
to $1,415 million from $1,142 million in 2002, primarily as a result of promotional support for the ABILIFY* and REYATAZ launches and PLAVIX* in the
U.S., and additional support for in-line products and unfavorable foreign exchange impact in Europe.
• The Company’s investment in research and development totaled $2,500 million in 2004, an increase of 10% over 2003 and an increase from 2003 of 3%
over 2002, and as a percentage of sales were 12.9% in 2004 compared with 12.2% in 2003 and 13.6% in 2002. In 2004, the increase in research and
development expenses was primarily due to higher spending on new development projects, including investments in late-stage development, including
muraglitazar, a dual PPAR agonist for diabetes; abatacept for the potential treatment of rheumatoid arthritis; and entecavir for hepatitis B, and
investments in the area of biologics, partially offset by Merck’s share of codevelopment costs related to muraglitazar. Research and development costs
also included $58 million consisting primarily of upfront and milestone payments in 2004, $102 million of charges related to the upfront payments for
licensing agreements in 2003 and $69 million of accelerated depreciation on research facilities in 2002. In 2004, research and development spending
dedicated to pharmaceutical products increased to 14.8% of Pharmaceuticals sales compared with 14.2% in 2003 and decreased compared with 16.5% in
2002. The increase reflects the Company’s strategic focus on ten critical disease areas – affective (psychiatric) disorders, Alzheimer’s/dementia,
atherosclerosis/thrombosis, diabetes, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS, obesity, oncology, rheumatoid arthritis and related diseases and solid organ transplant. The
Company is focusing its research and development activities so that it can fully realize the value of its research and development pipeline. The new
priorities include rebalancing drug discovery and development to increase support for the Company’s full late-stage development pipeline and closing
unnecessary facilities. They also include devoting greater resources to ensuring successful near-term product launches and increasing the Company’s
efforts on in-licensing opportunities.
• In 2004, the $63 million charge for acquired in-process research and development was related to the purchase of Acordis, a UK-based company which is
expected to strengthen the Company’s leadership position in wound therapeutics. In 2002, the charges related to acquired in-process research and
development were $169 million, primarily related to milestone payments to ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone) for ERBITUX*. Of the $200 million
milestone payment to ImClone, $160 million was expensed as acquired in-process research and development in the first quarter of 2002. The
49Table of Contents
remaining $40 million was recorded as an additional equity investment to eliminate the income statement effect of the portion of the milestone payment
for which the Company has an economic claim through its ownership interest in ImClone.
• Restructuring programs have been implemented to downsize, realign and streamline operations in order to increase productivity, reduce operating
expenses and to rationalize the Company’s manufacturing network, research facilities, and the sales and marketing organizations. Actions under the 2004
restructuring program are expected to be complete by 2006 while actions under the 2003 restructuring programs have been substantially completed, and
actions under the 2002 restructuring programs were completed at December 31, 2004. As a result of these actions, the Company expects the future annual
benefit to earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes to be approximately $186 million, $64 million and $150 million for
the 2004, 2003 and 2002 programs, respectively. For additional information on restructuring, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Restructuring
and Other Items.”
• Litigation charges, net of settlement income, were $420 million in 2004, compared to $199 million in 2003 and $659 million in 2002. The $420 million in 2004
consisted of $336 million related to private litigation and governmental investigations related to wholesaler inventory issues and accounting matters, $50
million related to the Platinol litigation settlement and $34 million related to pharmaceutical pricing and sales practices. In 2003, the Company established
reserves for liabilities in the total amount of $250 million, comprised of $150 million in relation to wholesaler inventory issues and certain other
accounting matters, and $100 million in relation to pharmaceutical pricing and sales and marketing practices. In addition, the Company recorded charges
of $31 million for other litigation matters and recognized income of $82 million. The $82 million income consists primarily of $30 million of income for
patent defense cost reimbursement, $27 million in litigation settlement income and $21 million from the settlement of anti-trust litigation involving vitamin
manufacturers. The 2002 charges of $659 million primarily related to BUSPAR and TAXOL® settlements. For additional information on litigation, see
“Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
• Equity in net income of affiliates for 2004 was $273 million, compared with $151 million and $80 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Equity in net
income of affiliates principally related to the Company’s joint venture with Sanofi and investment in ImClone. In 2004 and 2003, the increases in equity in
net income of affiliates primarily reflects higher net income in the Sanofi joint venture. For additional information on equity in net income of affiliates, see
“Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Investments.”
• Other expenses, net of income were $52 million, $179 million and $229 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Other expenses include net interest
expense, foreign exchange gains and losses, income from third-party contract manufacturing, royalty income, and gains and losses on disposal of
property, plant and equipment. The favorability in 2004 was primarily due to higher income from third-party contract manufacturing, lower net interest
expense and lower net foreign exchange losses. The decrease in expenses in 2003 from 2002 was primarily due to net gains from interest rate swaps.
During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company recorded several items that affected the comparability of results of the periods
presented herein, which are set forth in the following table. For a discussion of these items, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Investments,”
“—Note 3. Restructuring and Other Items,” “—Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures” and “—Note 5. Discontinued Operations.”
Year ended December 31, 2004
Provision
Acquired in- for Litigation
Cost of Research process Gain on restructuring settlement Other
products and research and sale of and other expense / expense,
sold development development business items, net (income) net Total
Litigation Matters: (dollars in millions)
Private litigation and governmental investigations (a) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 336 $ — $336
Product liability 75 — — — — — 11 86
Pharmaceutical pricing and sales litigation (b) — — — — — 34 — 34
Commercial litigation 26 — — — — — — 26
Anti-trust litigation — — — — — 50 — 50
Product liability insurance recovery (25) — — — — — — (25)
76 — — — — 420 11 507
Other:
Gain on sale of Adult Nutritional business — — — (320) — — — (320)
Accelerated depreciation 100 3 — — — — 4 107
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations 1 — — — 104 — — 105
Upfront and milestone payments — 55 — — — — — 55
Acordis IPR&D write-off — — 63 — — — — 63
$ 177 $ 58 $ 63 $ (320) $ 104 $ 420 $ 15 517
Income taxes on items above (130)
Deferred taxes in anticipation of repatriation of foreign earnings 575
Other tax adjustments 10
Reduction to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $972
(a) relates to wholesaler inventory and accounting matters consisting of $16 million of reserves recorded in the fourth quarter and $320 million disclosed by the
Company in the second quarter of 2004. These amounts are incremental to the $150 million recorded last year, bringing the total reserve to $486 million.
(b) incremental to the $100 million reserve recorded by the Company last year, bringing the total reserve to $134 million.
50Table of Contents
Year ended December 31, 2003
Provision for Litigation
Cost of restructuring settlement
products Research and and other expense /
sold development items, net (income) Total
(dollars in millions)
Litigation Matters:
Private litigation and governmental investigations $ — $ — $ — $ 150 $ 150
Product liability — — — 15 15
Pharmaceutical pricing and sales litigation — — — 100 100
Litigation settlement income — — — (66) (66)
— — — 199 199
Other:
Upfront payments for licensing agreements — 102 — — 102
Accelerated depreciation and asset impairment charges 64 — — — 64
Termination benefits and other exit costs — — 53 — 53
Relocation and retention 3 — 13 — 16
Change in estimates — — (40) — (40)
$ 67 $ 102 $ 26 $ 199 394
Income taxes on items above (36)
Reduction to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 358
Year ended December 31, 2002
Acquired in- Provision for Litigation
Cost of process restructuring settlement Other
products Research and research and and other expense / Asset expense/
sold development development items, net (income) Impairment (income) Total
(dollars in millions)
Litigation Matters:
Anti-Trust Litigation $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 635 $ — $ — $ 635
Commercial Litigation — — — — 18 — — 18
Other Litigation — — — — 6 — — 16
— — — — 659 — — 659
Other:
Sale of Product rights — — — — — — (30) (30)
Termination benefits and other exit costs (15) 69 — 14 — — — 68
Acquired in-Process research and development — — 169 — — — — 169
Asset Impairment charge — — — — — 379 — 379
$ (15) $ 69 $ 169 $ 14 $ 659 $ 379 $ (30) 1,245
Income taxes on items above (472)
Settlement of prior year tax matters (261)
Reduction to Net Earnings from Continuing
Operations $ 512
Earnings
Earnings From Continuing
Operations Before Minority
Interest and Income Taxes % Change
2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002
(dollars in millions)
Pharmaceuticals $4,257 $4,369 $3,187 (3)% 37%
Nutritionals 586 542 486 8% 12%
Other Healthcare 573 408 427 40% (4)%
Total segments 5,416 5,319 4,100 2% 30%
Corporate/Other (998) (639) (1,352) (56)% 53%
Total $4,418 $4,680 $2,748 (6)% 70%
51Table of Contents
In 2004, earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes decreased 6% to $4,418 million from $4,680 million in 2003. Contributing
to the decrease in 2004 were increases in costs of products sold as a result of a change in product mix, products losing exclusivity, increased investment in research
and development, and income and expenses that affected the comparability of results as discussed above, partially offset by higher international sales. Net earnings
from continuing operations decreased 23% in 2004 to $2,378 million from $3,097 million in 2003. In 2004, basic earnings per share from continuing operations
decreased 23% to $1.23 from $1.60 in 2003, while diluted earnings per share from continuing operations decreased 24% to $1.21 from $1.59 in 2003.
In 2003, earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes increased 70% to $4,680 million from $2,748 million in 2002. The increase
was primarily a result of increased sales and charges of $1,207 million recorded in 2002 for litigation settlements, asset impairments and write-offs for in-process
research and development. This increase was partially offset by increased investment in advertising and promotion, and in marketing, selling and administrative
expenses. Earnings from continuing operations increased 50% in 2003 to $3,097 million from $2,059 million in 2002. In 2003, basic and diluted earnings per share from
continuing operations increased 50% each to $1.60 and $1.59, respectively, from $1.07 and $1.06 in 2002, respectively.
The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes was 34.4% in 2004 compared with 25.8% in 2003
and 14.0% in 2002. The higher effective tax rate in 2004 is attributable primarily to a $575 million charge for estimated deferred taxes taken in the fourth quarter in
anticipation of repatriating in 2005 approximately $9 billion in special dividends from the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries, pursuant to the American Jobs Creation
Act of 2004, an increase in estimates for contingent tax matters in 2004 compared to 2003, and a charge related to the establishment of a valuation allowance against
certain charitable contribution carryforwards. This increase was partially offset by the favorable resolution of certain tax refund claims, increased foreign tax credits,
and in 2003, the effect of certain litigation reserves as non-deductible in 2003. The Company’s estimate of the tax cost related to the dividend repatriation at December
31, 2004 was based on tax laws then in effect. The estimate may be revised as a result of additional guidance or clarifying language that may be issued by Congress
and/or the Department of the Treasury, or any changes in the Company’s factual assumptions that may occur. The increase in the 2003 effective tax rate over the 2002
effective tax rate was primarily due to the decrease in effective tax rate benefit from operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and Switzerland, the treatment of provisions for
certain litigation reserves as non-deductible, and an increase in estimates for contingent tax matters in 2003 compared to 2002. The Company has recorded valuation
allowances for certain state net deferred tax assets, state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and
charitable contribution carryforwards. The Company currently believes that the state net deferred tax assets, state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards,
foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and charitable contribution carryforwards for which valuation allowances have been provided, more likely
than not, will not be realized in the future.
Pharmaceutical
Earnings before minority interest and income taxes of $4,257 million in 2004 decreased from $4,369 million in 2003 primarily driven by gross margin erosion due
to generic competition and product mix, additional sales representatives supporting ABILIFY*, increased spending on research and development, higher non-clinical
grants and litigation settlement income in 2003, partially offset by higher sales. Earnings before minority interest and income taxes in 2002 were $3,187 million. The
increase in 2003 from 2002 was primarily due to increased sales, partially offset by increased advertising and product spending on new and existing in-line products.
Nutritional
Earnings before minority interest and income taxes increased to $586 million in 2004 from $542 million in 2003. This increase is primarily due to increased global
infant formula sales, a price increase in the infant formula line, favorable manufacturing variances and tight operating expense management. In 2003, earnings before
minority interest and income taxes in the Nutritionals segment increased from $486 million in 2002 as a result of increased sales of ENFAMIL.
Other Healthcare
Earnings before minority interest and income taxes in the Other Healthcare segment increased to $573 million in 2004 from $408 million in 2003, primarily due to
sales growth in the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses, in addition to favorable pricing and product mix. In 2003, earnings before minority interest and
income taxes in this segment decreased from $427 million in 2002, primarily as a result of unfavorable product mix and inventory write-offs for EXCEDRIN
QUICKTABS in the Consumer Medicines business.
Discontinued Operations
In December 2004, the Company committed to a plan to sell OTN and entered into a definitive sale agreement with One Equity Partners LLC. OTN was formerly
reported as a distinct operating segment. The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2005. The sale price will be equal to $210 million, plus certain
price adjustments based on OTN’s excess of current assets
52Table of Contents
over current liabilities on the closing date. The sale will result in a pre-tax gain of $40 to $50 million, subject to certain price adjustments and other post-closing
matters. The gain from the sale of OTN will be recognized on the closing date. For further discussions of OTN, see “Item 8. Financial Statements-Note 5. Discontinued
Operations.”
The following amounts related to the OTN business have been segregated from continuing operations and are reflected as discontinued operations for all
periods presented:
Year ended December 31,
2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions)
Net sales $2,506 $2,241 $1,898
Earnings before income taxes 15 14 13
Net earnings from discontinued operations 10 9 8
The net earnings from discontinued operations of $40 million reflected in the 2002 statement of earnings primarily reflects a reduction of $32 million in the tax
contingency reserve related to the spin-off of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. in 2001.
Developments
In January 2005, the Company announced that it intends to divest its U.S. and Canadian Consumer Medicines business. The Company’s primary consumer
medicine brands in the U.S. and Canada are EXCEDRIN, KERI, CHOICE and COMTREX. For the year ended December 31, 2004, sales of consumer medicines brands
in the U.S. and Canada totaled approximately $270 million. The Company’s consumer medicines businesses in Japan, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Europe, Middle East
and Africa are not included in this divestiture.
In December 2004, the Company provided an update on the rolling BLA for abatacept submitted under the provisions of FDA’s Continuous Marketing
Application, Pilot 1. Abatacept is an investigational biologic drug for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and its development program was granted Fast Track
status by the FDA. Complete Non-Clinical and Clinical sections of the BLA have already been submitted to the FDA and the remaining section is expected to be
submitted early this year.
In December 2004, the Company and Somerset Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Somerset), a joint venture between Mylan Laboratories Inc. and Watson Pharmaceuticals,
Inc., entered into an agreement for the commercialization and distribution of Somerset’s EMSAM® (selegiline transdermal system), an investigational monoamine
oxidase inhibitor administered as a transdermal patch for the acute and maintenance treatment of patients with major depressive disorder. Somerset received an
“Approvable” letter from the FDA for EMSAM® in February 2004, and if approved by the FDA, EMSAM® would be the first transdermal treatment for major
depressive disorder.
In December 2004, the Company and Corgentech Inc. announced top-line results from the first of two Phase 3 clinical trials for edifoligide (E2F Decoy). In a trial
involving patients undergoing peripheral artery vein grafts, the primary and secondary endpoints failed to show a benefit in the edifoligide-treated group compared
to the placebo group as defined as the rate of vein graft failure over the 12 months following surgery. Edifoligide is an investigational product to prevent vein graft
failure in the coronary and peripheral arteries.
In December 2004, the Company and Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) entered into a joint venture to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination of the
Company’s SUSTIVA and Gilead’s TRUVADA* (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) in the United States. If approved, the new product would be the
first complete Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) treatment regimen for HIV available in a fixed-dose combination taken once daily.
In November 2004, the Company and Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) entered into a worldwide collaboration to develop and commercialize MDX-010, a fully human
antibody investigational product targeting the CTLA-4 receptor. MDX-010 was developed by Medarex and is currently in Phase III clinical development for the
treatment of metastatic melanoma. The collaboration agreement became effective in January 2005, at which time the Company made a cash payment of $25 million to
Medarex which was expensed as research and development, and an additional $25 million equity investment in Medarex.
In September 2004, the Company completed the submission of a NDA to the FDA for entecavir, an investigational antiviral agent under development for the
treatment of chronic Hepatitis B. In addition, the FDA granted the Company a priority review for entecavir. The Company also submitted a marketing authorization
application for entecavir to the European Medicines Evaluation Agency.
53Table of Contents
In August 2004, the FDA approved the Company’s supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) to include new long-term virologic and clinical data from BMS
Study 006 in its prescribing information related to SUSTIVA (efavirenz). The new data demonstrate the long-term durability of virologic response in people living with
HIV-1 who are naive to protease inhibitors, lamivudine (3TC) and non-nucleoside reverse transriptase inhibitors (NNRTI) through more than three years of treatment
on a combination regimen containing SUSTIVA.
In July 2004, the FDA approved the Company’s sNDA to include new scientific data and dosing in its package insert or labeling related to REYATAZ. With
the sNDA, the REYATAZ labeling now includes data indicating that combination HIV treatments containing REYATAZ/ritonavir and Kaletra (lopinavir/ritonavir;
Abbott Laboratories, Inc.) were similar for the primary efficacy outcome measurement of time-averaged difference in change from baseline in HIV RNA level in HIV-
infected patients previously taking anti-HIV medicines.
In June 2004, the Company and Otsuka announced that the European Commission granted marketing authorization for ABILIFY*, an antipsychotic medication,
for the treatment of schizophrenia. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Europe Ltd., Otsuka’s European holding company, holds the marketing authorization for ABILIFY* in
Europe. The Company and Otsuka currently copromote ABILIFY* in the United Kingdom and Germany, and will also copromote it in France and Spain. In addition,
the Company also has an exclusive right to sell ABILIFY* in a number of other countries in Europe. In the U.S., the FDA approved ABILIFY* for the treatment of
acute bipolar mania in September 2004, and in December 2004, the Company and Otsuka received approval from the FDA for an oral solution formulation of
ABILIFY*. The oral solution became available in U.S. pharmacies in February 2005.
In May 2004, the Company entered into a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals (Solvay) to codevelop
and copromote the investigational compound SLV319 which is currently in Phase I development with potential for use in treating obesity and other metabolic
disorders. The Company may also elect to develop and market two additional investigational compounds selected from Solvay’s pool of eligible compounds. The
Company paid Solvay an upfront milestone payment of $10 million in July 2004, which was expensed as research and development. Further milestone payments are
expected to be made upon the successful outcome of certain development and regulatory stages.
In April 2004, the Company entered into a collaboration agreement with Merck for worldwide codevelopment and copromotion for muraglitazar, the Company’s
dual PPAR (peroxisome proliferator activated receptor) agonist, currently in Phase III clinical development for use in treating Type 2 diabetes. An NDA for
muraglitazar was submitted to the FDA in December 2004 for U.S. regulatory approval. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company received a $100 million upfront
payment in May 2004, and received an additional $55 million milestone payment in January 2005 for the filing of the NDA. The Company is entitled to receive $220
million in additional payments upon achievement of certain regulatory milestones. The Company and Merck will jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy for
muraglitazar, share equally in future development and commercialization costs and copromote the product to physicians on a global basis, with Merck to receive
payments based on net sales levels.
In April 2004, the Company and Pierre Fabre Medicament S.A. (Pierre Fabre), entered into an agreement to develop and commercialize JAVLOR** (vinflunine), a
novel investigational anti-cancer agent. JAVLOR* is currently in Phase III clinical trials in Europe for the treatment of bladder and non-small cell lung cancer, and
Phase II clinical trials in breast and ovarian cancer. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company received an exclusive license to JAVLOR* in the United States,
Canada, Japan, Korea, and select Southeast Asian markets. Pierre Fabre will be responsible for the development and marketing of JAVLOR* in all other countries,
including Europe. Under the agreement, the Company made and expensed upfront and milestone payments of $35 million in 2004, with the potential for an additional
$175 million in milestone payments over time.
In April 2004, the Company announced the completion of the acquisition of Acordis for $158 million. Acordis is a privately held company based in the U.K.
that licenses patent rights and supplies materials to ConvaTec for its Wound Therapeutics line. The acquired business was incorporated as part of the Company’s
ConvaTec division. This acquisition will enable ConvaTec to strengthen its position in the field of wound care management and continue to provide new treatment
options for patients with acute or chronic wound care needs. See “Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures.”
In March 2004, the Company announced that its Medical Imaging business entered into an agreement with Kereos, Inc. (Kereos) for the development and
commercialization of novel molecular imaging agents. Under the terms of the agreement, the companies will work together to develop molecular imaging agents for
cardiovascular diseases and cancer using Kereos’ core technology. Medical Imaging has obtained exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize select
cardiovascular molecular imaging agents for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Kereos has obtained exclusive worldwide rights to use a family of Medical Imaging
targeting molecules with Kereos’ core technology to develop and commercialize molecular cancer imaging agents and targeted therapeutics, including KI-001 —
Kereos’ lead candidate for early MRI detection of tumors.
In February 2004, the FDA approved the BLA for ERBITUX*, the anticancer agent that the Company is developing in partnership with ImClone. ERBITUX*
Injection is for use in combination with irinotecan in the treatment of patients with Epidermal
54Table of Contents
Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR)-expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are refractory to irinotecan-based chemotherapy and for use as a single agent in the
treatment of patients with EGFR-expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are intolerant to irinotecan-based chemotherapy. In accordance with the agreement, the
Company paid ImClone $250 million in March 2004 as a milestone payment for the approval of ERBITUX* by the FDA. The FDA also approved ImClone’s Chemistry,
Manufacturing and Controls supplemental BLA for licensure of its BB36 manufacturing facility for ERBITUX* in June 2004.
Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $7.5 billion at December 31, 2004, compared with $5.6 billion at December 31, 2003. The
Company continues to maintain a high level of working capital, which was $5.0 billion at December 31, 2004, increasing from $4.5 billion at December 31, 2003. In 2005,
the Company expects cash generated by its U.S. operations, together with borrowings from the capital markets, to sufficiently cover cash needs for working capital,
capital expenditures, milestone payments and dividends paid in the United States. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, the conversion of other working-
capital items and borrowings are expected to fund near-term operations.
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had approximately $16.9 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Company accrued a provision for
$575 million of estimated deferred taxes in the fourth quarter of 2004 which is expected to be paid in 2005, in anticipation of repatriating approximately $9 billion of the
undistributed earnings in 2005 pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA). Taxes were not provided on the balance of undistributed earnings of
approximately $7.9 billion, as the Company has invested or expects to invest these undistributed earnings permanently offshore. If in the future these earnings are
repatriated to the United States, or if the Company determines such earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required.
Due to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that would have to
be provided.
The AJCA, which President Bush signed into law on October 22, 2004, provides for a temporary 85 percent dividends received deduction for certain cash
distributions of the earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The deduction would result in a federal tax rate of approximately 5.25% on the repatriated earnings (assuming a
marginal federal tax rate of 35% on those earnings). To qualify for the deduction, the repatriated earnings must be reinvested in the United States pursuant to a
domestic reinvestment plan approved by a company’s chief executive officer and subsequently by its board of directors. In January 2005, the Department of Treasury
issued guidelines for permitted investments under the plan. The Company expects to meet the requirements and criteria to qualify for the deduction. However, several
provisions in the AJCA require further clarification which may be addressed in the coming months by the Treasury or Congress. The Company’s estimate of the tax
cost related to the repatriation at December 31, 2004 was based on tax laws then in effect. To the extent the tax laws and guidance changes, the estimate will be
revised. The Company’s estimate may also be revised as a result of any changes in the Company’s factual assumptions that may occur.
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2004 primarily consisted of U.S. dollar denominated bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Marketable securities at December 31, 2004 primarily consisted of U.S. dollar denominated floating rate instruments with a ‘AAA/aaa’ credit rating. Due to the nature
of these instruments, the Company considers it reasonable to expect that their fair market values will not be significantly impacted by a change in interest rates, and
that they can be liquidated for cash at short notice. The average interest yield on cash and cash equivalents was 2.3% and 1.2% at December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively, while interest yields on marketable securities averaged 2.5% and 1.3%, respectively.
Long-term debt at December 31, 2004 was denominated primarily in U.S. dollars but also included Japanese yen debt of $187 million. Long-term debt remained
constant at $8.5 billion at December 31, 2004 and 2003. A majority of the Company’s debt is fixed rate. The Company, however, has entered into fixed to floating
interest rate swaps for $6.2 billion of its long-term debt. Interest expense, net of interest swap gains, was $310 million, $277 million, and $364 million, in 2004, 2003 and
2002, respectively. The increase in interest expense in 2004 over 2003 was primarily due to increased short-term borrowings and higher interest rates; the decrease in
2003 over 2002 was driven by the net gains from interest rate swaps. U.S. commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2004 was $1.6 billion with an average interest
rate of 2.3%. There was no U.S. commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2003. The average interest rate for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, on
international short-term borrowings were 9.3% and 8.0%, respectively, and on current installments of long-term debt were 2.8% and 1.3%, respectively.
In December 2004, the Company replaced its prior $1 billion revolving credit facilities with a new $2 billion five year revolving credit facility from a syndicate of
lenders, which is extendable on the anniversary date with the consent of the lenders. The availability of the facility is subject to the Company’s ability at the time of
borrowing to meet certain conditions, including a financial covenant in which net debt to capital cannot exceed 50%. This facility does not contain a material adverse
change representation in the Company’s business as a condition to borrowing. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had a ratio of consolidated net debt to
consolidated capital of 14%, and has been in compliance with this covenant since the inception of the facility. Changes in public
55Table of Contents
credit ratings will not affect the availability of the credit facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facilities at December 31, 2004 and
2003. The Company also had unused short-term lines of credit with foreign banks of $158 million and $363 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
In April 2003, Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) lowered the Company’s long-term credit rating from Aa2 to A1 and in March 2003, affirmed the Prime-1
short-term credit rating for the Company. In July 2003, Standard & Poor’s (S&P) lowered its long-term credit rating on the Company from AA to AA- and affirmed its
A-1+ short-term rating. In March 2004, S&P placed both long-term and short-term ratings of the Company on watch with negative implications. In August 2004, S&P
downgraded the short-term credit rating for the Company to A1 and the long-term credit rating of the Company to A+. Both Moody’s and S&P’s long-term credit
rating remains on negative outlook.
The following is a discussion of working capital and cash flow activities:
2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions)
Working capital $4,958 $4,536 $1,573
Cash flow from:
Operating activities 3,176 3,512 945
Investing activities (1,622) (2,419) (2,030)
Financing activities (463) (1,031) (1,033)
• The increase in working capital of $422 million from 2003 was primarily due to: increased receivables resulting from higher sales and higher foreign
withholding taxes expected to be refunded; higher inventories resulting from new product introductions and higher demand for existing key brands;
partially offset by higher accounts payable due to higher purchasing activities in 2004; and higher accrued expenses, rebates and returns mainly due to
increases in royalties, higher unrealized losses from derivatives and Medicaid rebates.
• Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.2 billion in 2004, $3.5 billion in 2003 and $0.9 billion in 2002. The decrease in net cash provided by
operating activities for 2004 is mainly attributable to lower earnings and higher usage of working capital. The significant changes in operating assets and
liabilities between 2004 and 2003 are: a $260 million increase in inventory primarily due to the introduction of new products including REYATAZ and
ERBITUX* and higher demand for key brands including PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* and SUSTIVA; a $350 million decrease in deferred revenue
on consigned inventory due to the workdown of the consignment inventory in 2003; and a $146 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued
expenses including advertising and promotion, deferred revenue for ABILIFY* and milestone payments. The increase in 2003 over 2002 was primarily
due to income tax payment in 2002 related to the gain arising from the sale of the Clairol business, increase in earnings, higher rate of decrease in
deferred revenue on consigned inventory due to the workdown of the consignment inventory, higher accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially
offset by reduction in accounts receivable and increased litigation settlement payments.
• Net cash used in investing activities was $1.6 billion in 2004 compared to $2.4 billion in 2003 and $2.0 billion in 2002. The decrease in net cash used in
investing activities is mainly attributable to $364 million cash proceeds from the sale of the Company’s Adult Nutritional business, lower purchases in
marketable securities and $261 million of lower capital spending, partially offset by a milestone payment of $250 million to ImClone, $150 million payment
for the Acordis acquisition and increased purchases of trademarks, patents and licenses.
• Net cash used in financing activities was $0.5 billion in 2004, and $1.0 billion in both 2003 and 2002. The decrease in 2004 from 2003 was mainly
attributable to an increase in short-term borrowings in 2004 partially offset by the proceeds received from the issuance of convertible debt in 2003.
Cash provided from operations and borrowings were primarily used over the past three years to pay dividends of $6.5 billion. The Company has also invested
$2.7 billion over the past three years in capital expansion to improve plant efficiency and maintain superior research facilities.
During 2004 and 2003, the Company did not repurchase any of its common stock. The Company repurchased 5 million shares of common stock at a cost of $164
million in 2002, bringing the total shares acquired since the share repurchase program’s inception to 372 million shares. The share repurchase program authorizes the
Company to purchase common stock from time to time in the open market or through private transactions as market conditions permit. This program is intended to
reduce the increase in shares outstanding from option exercises and to obtain shares for general corporate purposes.
56Table of Contents
Dividends declared per common share were $1.12 for each of 2004, 2003, and 2002. In December 2004, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $.28 per
common share and indicated a dividend for the full year 2005 of $1.12 per share. Dividend decisions are made on a quarterly basis by the Board of Directors.
The Company’s financial condition and liquidity could be affected by obligations to make milestone or other one-time payments and by the outcome of
pending litigations and investigations, including the challenge to the PLAVIX* patent. For more information, see “Item 1. Business—Strategic Alliances and
Arrangements,” “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Investments” and “—Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Contractual Obligations
Payments due by period for the Company’s contractual obligations at December 31, 2004, are as follows:
Obligations Expiring by Period
Later
Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Years
(dollars in millions)
Short-term borrowings $ 1,883 $1,883 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Long-term debt(1) 8,463 — 2,512 2 1,735 1 4,213
Operating leases 485 123 99 78 65 62 58
Purchase obligations 1,237 364 230 185 129 115 214
Stand-by letters of credit 61 61 — — — — —
Other liabilities 1,300 191 241 209 199 198 262
Total $13,429 $2,622 $3,082 $474 $2,128 $ 376 $4,747
(1) 2005 long-term debt obligations are included in short-term borrowings on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2004 and all balances
represent the outstanding nominal long-term debt values. The contractual obligations table above excludes interest payment obligations.
In addition to the above, the Company has committed to make potential future “milestone” payments to third-parties as part of in-licensing and development
programs. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial
milestones. Because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on the
Company’s consolidated balance sheet.
For a discussion of contractual obligations, reference is made to “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 15. Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt,” “—
Note 17. Financial Instruments,” “—Note 19. Leases” and “—Note 20. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans.”
Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements
As previously disclosed, the Company experienced a substantial buildup of wholesaler inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals business in 2000 and 2001. This
buildup was primarily due to sales incentives offered by the Company to its wholesalers. These incentives were generally offered towards the end of a quarter in
order to incentivize wholesalers to purchase products in an amount sufficient to meet the Company’s quarterly sales projections established by the Company’s
senior management. In April 2002, the Company disclosed this substantial buildup, and developed and subsequently undertook a plan to work down in an orderly
fashion these wholesaler inventory levels by reducing the amount of sales made by the Company to wholesalers relative to the amount of sales made by wholesalers
to customers, thereby reducing the inventories of the Company’s products held by wholesalers.
In October 2002, based on further review and consideration of the previously disclosed buildup of wholesaler inventories in the Company’s U.S.
pharmaceuticals business and the incentives offered to certain wholesalers, and on advice from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), an independent registered
public accounting firm, the Company determined that it was required to restate its sales and earnings to correct errors in timing of revenue recognition for certain
sales made to the two largest wholesalers of the U.S. pharmaceuticals business. The Company determined that these sales should be accounted for under the
consignment model, based, in part, on the relationship between the amount and nature of incentives offered to these wholesalers and the amount of inventory held
by these wholesalers.
Following that determination, the Company also determined that it would correct its historical accounting policies to conform the accounting to GAAP and
known errors made in the application of GAAP that were previously not recorded because in each such case the Company believed the amount of any such error was
not material to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In addition, as part of the restatement process, the Company investigated its accounting practices in
areas that involved significant judgment and determined to restate additional items with respect to which the Company concluded errors were made in the application
of GAAP, including revisions of inappropriate accounting.
57Table of Contents
In March 2003, the Company completed the restatement of its financial statements for these items and restated its financial statements for the three years
ended December 31, 2001 (2002 Restatement).
After completing the 2002 Restatement, the Company continued to identify and implement actions to improve the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and
procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with this effort, the Company (i) has substantially strengthened the organization and
personnel of the senior financial and control functions, (ii) adopted more rigorous policies and procedures with respect to its balance sheet review process, (iii)
focused its internal audit function on financial reporting controls, (iv) engaged a consultant to assist in the evaluation and documentation of certain financial
reporting and disclosure processes throughout the Company, in particular with respect to designing standard operating procedures and implementing tools to ensure
that disclosure issues are effectively identified, managed and controlled globally and (v) engaged a consultant to assist the Company’s personnel to conduct a
comprehensive and detailed review of certain of the Company’s tax reporting and accounting, in particular with respect to developing more effective processes for
establishing and monitoring deferred income taxes, valuation allowances and the Company’s annual effective tax rate. In addition, at the request of the Company’s
Audit Committee, an independent registered public accounting firm performed more extensive procedures with respect to the Company’s interim financial information
during 2003 and, based on the auditors’ assessment of the Company’s risk profile, expanded the scope and amount of field work to be performed for certain areas in
connection with its audit of the Company for 2003. These actions contributed significantly to the Company identifying additional errors relating to prior periods not
reflected in the 2002 Restatement. In March 2004, the Company corrected these errors by restating its financial statements for the two years ended December 31, 2002.
SEC Consent Order
As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, the Company entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning certain
wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which was attached as Exhibit 10s to the Company’s
quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004. In the Consent, the Company agreed, without admitting or denying any liability, not to violate
certain provisions of the securities laws. The Company also agreed to establish a $150 million fund for a class of shareholders to be distributed under the court’s
supervision. The $150 million fund, which included a $100 million civil penalty, will be distributed to certain Company shareholders under a plan of distribution
established by the SEC.
Under the terms of the Consent, the Company has agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to its direct customers
(including wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and government purchasers) based on expected demand or on amounts that do not exceed
approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a timely public disclosure of any change in practice. The Company has established a company-wide
policy to limit its sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the Consent. This policy includes the adoption of various procedures to monitor and
limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the terms of the Consent. These procedures include a governance process to escalate to appropriate management
levels any potential questions or concerns regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In addition, compliance with
the policy will be monitored on a regular basis.
The Company maintains inventory management agreements (IMAs) with most of its U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers which account for nearly 100% of total
gross sales of U.S. pharmaceuticals products. Under the current terms of the IMAs, these wholesalers provide the Company with information about the inventory
levels of product on hand and the amount of out-movement of products. The information received from these wholesalers is a product of their own record-keeping
process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals. The Company determines the outmovement of a product
over a period of one-month by using the most recent prior four weeks of out-movement of a product as provided by these wholesalers. The Company also determines
the months on hand estimates for its U.S Pharmaceuticals business by using such factors as historical sales made to those wholesalers and from third party market
research data related to prescription trends and patient demand.
In contrast, for the Company’s pharmaceuticals business outside of the United States, nutritionals and other healthcare business units around the world, the
Company has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out movement information and
the reliability of third party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, the Company relies on a variety of methods to estimate direct customer
product level inventory and to calculate months on hand for these business units. The Company expects to complete its analysis of direct customer inventory levels
in these businesses in the first quarter of 2005 and will provide additional disclosure of information with respect to direct customer inventory levels. The Company
has and will continue to enhance its methods to estimate direct customer product level inventory and months on hand for these business units, taking into account
the complexities described above.
The Company will continue to disclose for each of its key pharmaceutical products sold by the U.S. Pharmaceutical business the amount of net sales and the
estimated number of months on hand in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel as of the end of the immediately preceding quarter and as of the end of the
applicable quarter in its quarterly and annual reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K. For all other business units, the Company expects to disclose on a quarterly basis the
key product level inventories. The information
58Table of Contents
required to estimate months on hand in the direct customer distribution for the non-U.S. Pharmaceuticals business is not available prior to the time the Company is
required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Accordingly, the Company expects to disclose this information on its website approximately 60 days after the end of
each quarter. In addition to the foregoing quarterly disclosure, the Company will include all the foregoing information for all business units for each quarter in its
Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The Company believes the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to ensure compliance with the Consent Order and provides sufficient
information to comply with disclosure requirements.
The Company has agreed in the Consent to certain measures that it has implemented or will implement including: (a) establishing a formal review and
certification process of its annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC; (b) establishing a business risk and disclosure group; (c) retaining an outside consultant
to comprehensively study and help re-engineer the Company’s accounting and financial reporting processes (d) publicly disclosing any sales incentives offered to
direct customers for the purpose of inducing them to purchase products in excess of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that the Company’s budget process gives
appropriate weight to inputs that come from the bottom to the top, and not just those that come from the top to the bottom, and adequately documenting that
process.
The Company also agreed in the Consent to retain an “Independent Adviser” through the date that the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended 2005 is filed
with the SEC. The Consent defines certain powers and responsibilities of the Independent Adviser. The Consent includes a process for the Independent Adviser to
make recommendations regarding the Company’s compliance with applicable federal securities laws and corporate obligations. The Company has agreed in the
Consent to adopt the Independent Adviser’s recommendations regarding compliance with applicable federal securities laws and corporate obligations.
The settlement does not resolve the ongoing investigation by the SEC of the activities of certain current and former members of the Company’s management in
connection with the wholesaler inventory issues and other accounting matters, which investigation is ongoing. In addition, an investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s
Office for the District of New Jersey concerning the inventory and accounting matters covered by the Company’s settlement with the SEC is continuing. The
Company is continuing to cooperate with those investigations.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (SFAS
No. 123R), Share-Based Payment. This standard eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic value-based method
under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and requires instead that such transactions be accounted for using a
fair-value-based method. SFAS No. 123R is effective for financial statements issued for the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2005. Currently, the Company
discloses the pro forma net income and related pro forma income per share information in accordance with SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation, and SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Costs—Transition and Disclosure. The Company is evaluating the impact of this
statement which could have a material impact on its results of operations.
In December 2004, the FASB issued a final staff position (FSP) No. 109-1—Application of SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction
on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The effect of the adoption of FSP No. 109-1 is not material to the Company’s
consolidated financial statements. See “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies-Income Taxes.”
In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets. The provisions of this Statement is effective for nonmonetary asset
exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The provisions of this Statement should be applied prospectively, and eliminates the exception
from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary
Transactions, and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. The adoption of this accounting pronouncement is not
expected to have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs – an Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. The standard requires abnormal amounts of
idle facility and related expenses to be recognized as current period charges and also requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion
be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005.
The Company is evaluating the impact that this statement will have on its financial position and results of operations.
In June 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. 106-2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003 (the Medicare Act). The Medicare Act introduces a prescription drug benefit under Medicare as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of
retiree health care benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. FSP No. 106-2 requires that the effects of the new law
be accounted for under SFAS No.
59Table of Contents
106, Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. The Company adopted FSP No. 106-2 in the third quarter of 2004, retroactive to
January 1, 2004. There was a reduction in net periodic benefit cost for other benefits of $8 million for 2004, based on the re-measurement of the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation as of January 1, 2004. The effect of the adoption of FSP No. 106-2 was not material to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements. See “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 20. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans.”
In March 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on Issue No. 03-06, Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method Under
FAS 128, which requires the use of the two-class method of computing earnings per share for those enterprises with participating securities or multiple classes of
common stock. The consensus is effective for fiscal periods beginning after March 31, 2004. The adoption of EITF No. 03-06 did not affect the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.
In December 2003, the FASB revised Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46). FIN 46 requires a variable interest entity to be
consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the variable interest entity’s activities or entitled to receive a majority of
the entity’s residual returns or both. FIN 46 also requires disclosures about variable interest entities that a company is not required to consolidate but in which it has
a significant variable interest. The consolidation requirements of FIN 46 (as revised) apply immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003 and
to existing entities in the first fiscal year or interim period ending after March 15, 2004. Certain of the disclosure requirements apply to all financial statements issued
after January 31, 2003, regardless of when the variable interest entity was established. This accounting pronouncement did not have a material effect on the
consolidated financial statements.
Critical Accounting Policies
The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, including disclosure of
contingent assets and contingent liabilities, at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
The Company’s critical accounting policies are those that are both most important to the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and require the
most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of
matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates or judgments used in the preparation of the consolidated
financial statements, actual results may vary from these estimates.
The Company believes that the following discussion represents its critical accounting policies. Management and the Company’s independent registered public
accounting firm have discussed the Company’s critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with SAB No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, as amended by SAB No. 104, Revenue
Recognition. The Company’s accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on its reported results and relies on certain estimates that require
difficult, subjective and complex judgments on the part of management. The Company recognizes revenue for sales when substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership have transferred to the customer, which generally occurs on the date of shipment, with the exceptions described below.
In previous years, certain transactions with the Company’s U.S. Pharmaceuticals wholesalers were accounted for using the consignment model. In the case of
sales made to wholesalers (1) as a result of incentives, (2) in excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary course of business inventory level, (3) at a time when there was an
understanding, agreement, course of dealing or consistent business practice that the Company would extend incentives based on levels of excess inventory in
connection with future purchases, and (4) at a time when such incentives would cover substantially all, and vary directly with, the wholesaler’s cost of carrying
inventory in excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary course of business inventory level, substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership do not transfer upon
shipment, and accordingly, such sales should be accounted for using the consignment model. The determination of when, if at all, sales to a wholesaler meet the
foregoing criteria involves evaluation of a variety of factors and a number of complex judgments. Under the consignment model, the Company did not recognize
revenue upon shipment of product. Rather, upon shipment of product the Company invoiced the wholesaler, recorded deferred revenue at gross invoice sales price,
and classified the inventory held by the wholesalers as consignment inventory at the Company’s cost of such inventory. The Company recognized revenue (net of
the gross to net sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and judgments) when the consignment inventory is no longer subject
to the incentive arrangements described above, but not later than when such inventory is sold through to the wholesalers’ customers, on a FIFO basis.
In the case of new products for which the product introduction is not an extension of an existing line of product or where the Company determines that there
are not products in a similar therapeutic category, such that the Company cannot reliably estimate
60Table of Contents
expected returns of the new product, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the right of return no longer exists or until the Company has developed
sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns.
For discussions on revenue recognition, see “Item 8. Financial Statements-Note 1. Accounting Policies—Revenue Recognition,” “-Sales Rebate and Return
Accruals” and “—Note 11. Consignment.”
Gross to Net Sales Adjustments
The Company has the following significant categories of gross to net sales adjustments which impact the Company’s three reportable segments: prime vendor
charge-backs, WIC rebates, managed health care rebates and other contract discounts, Medicaid rebates, cash discounts, sales returns, and other adjustments, all of
which involve significant estimates and judgments and require the Company to use information from external sources. The Company accounts for these gross to net
sales adjustments in accordance with EITF Issue No. 01-9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor’s
Products), and SFAS 48, Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists (SFAS 48), as applicable. See “—Net Sales” section above for reconciliations of the
Company’s gross sales to net sales by each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustments.
Prime vendor charge-backs
The Company’s U.S. businesses participate in prime vendor programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of
Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties whereby pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price to participating
entities. These entities purchase products through wholesalers at the lower prime vendor price, and the wholesalers charge the difference between their
acquisition cost and the lower prime vendor price back to the Company. The Company accounts for prime vendor charge-backs by reducing accounts
receivable in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of charge-back claims attributable to a sale. The Company determines its estimate of the prime vendor
charge-backs primarily based on historical experience regarding prime vendor charge-backs and current contract prices under the prime vendor programs. The
Company considers prime vendor payments, levels of inventory in the distribution channel, and the Company’s claim processing time lag and adjusts the
reduction to accounts receivable periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
WIC rebates
The Company’s U.S. Nutritionals business participates on a competitive bidding basis in nutrition programs sponsored by states, tribal governments, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Territory of Guam for women, infants, and children (WIC). Under these programs, the Company reimburses these
entities for the difference between wholesaler list price and the contract price on eligible products. The Company accounts for WIC rebates by establishing an
accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of WIC rebate claims attributable to a sale. The Company determines its estimate of the WIC rebate
accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding WIC rebates and current contract prices under the WIC programs. The Company considers levels of
inventory in the distribution channel, new WIC contracts, terminated WIC contracts, changes in existing WIC contracts, and WIC participations and adjusts
the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
Managed health care rebates and other contract discounts
The Company offers rebates and discounts to managed health care organizations in the U.S. and globally to other contract counterparties such as hospitals
and group purchasing organizations. The Company accounts for managed health care rebates and other contract discounts by establishing an accrual in an
amount equal to the Company’s estimate of managed health care rebates and other contract discounts attributable to a sale. The Company determines its
estimate of the managed health care rebates and other contract discounts accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding these rebates and
discounts and current contract prices. The Company considers the sales performance of products subject to managed health care rebates and other contract
discounts and levels of inventory in the distribution channel and adjusts the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
Medicaid rebates
The Company’s U.S. businesses participate in state government-managed Medicaid programs as well as certain other qualifying federal and state government
programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating state and local government entities. Discounts and rebates provided through these
latter programs are included in the Company’s Medicaid rebate accrual and are considered Medicaid rebates for the purposes of this discussion. The Company
accounts for Medicaid rebates by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of Medicaid rebate claims attributable to a sale. The
Company determines its estimate of the Medicaid rebates accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding Medicaid rebates, as well as any expansion
on a prospective basis of its participation in the non-mandatory aspects of the qualifying federal and state government programs, legal interpretations of the
applicable laws related to the Medicaid and qualifying
61Table of Contents
federal and state government programs, and any new information regarding changes in the Medicaid programs’ regulations and guidelines that would impact
the amount of the rebates. The Company considers outstanding Medicaid claims, Medicaid payments, and levels of inventory in the distribution channel and
adjusts the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
Cash Discounts
In the U.S. and certain other countries, the Company offers cash discounts, generally approximately 2% of the sales price, as an incentive for prompt payment.
The Company accounts for cash discounts by reducing accounts receivable by the full amount of the discounts. The Company considers payment
performance and adjusts the accrual to reflect actual experience.
Sales Returns
The Company accounts for sales returns in accordance with SFAS 48 by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of sales
recorded for which the related products are expected to be returned. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, provision for sales returns were $276 million, $348 million and $345
million, respectively, or 1%, 2% and 2%, respectively, of gross sales.
For returns of established products, the Company determines its estimate of the sales return accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding sales
returns but also considers other factors that could impact sales returns. These factors include levels of inventory in the distribution channel, estimated shelf
life, product recalls, product discontinuances, price changes of competitive products, introductions of generic products and introductions of competitive new
products. The Company considers all of these factors and adjusts the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
The Company considers the level of inventory in the distribution channel and determines whether it believes an adjustment to the sales return accrual is
appropriate. For example, if levels of inventory in the distribution channel increase, the Company analyzes the reasons for the increase and if the reasons
indicate that sales returns will be larger than expected, the Company adjusts the sales return accrual, taking into account historical experience, the Company’s
returned goods policy and the shelf life of the Company’s products, which ranges, on average, from approximately 12 to 48 months. In situations where the
Company is aware of products in the distribution channel nearing their expiration date, the Company analyzes the situation and if the analysis indicates that
sales returns will be larger than expected, the Company adjusts the sales return accrual, taking into account historical experience, the Company’s returned
goods policy, and levels of inventory in the distribution channel.
In the event of a product recall or product discontinuance, the Company considers the reasons for and impact of such actions and adjusts the sales return
accrual as appropriate, taking into account historical experience, levels of inventory in the distribution channel and, for product discontinuances, estimates of
continuing demand.
Although the Company considers price changes of competitive products, introductions of generic products and introductions of competitive new products,
the Company generally does not believe that these factors impact sales returns based on historical experience and the Company’s returned goods policy.
Returns from new products are significantly more difficult for the Company to assess. The Company determines its estimate of the sales return accrual primarily
based on the historical sales returns experience of similar products, such as those within the same line of product or those within the same or similar
therapeutic category. In limited circumstances, where the new product is not an extension of an existing line of product or where the Company has no historical
experience with products in a similar therapeutic category, such that the Company cannot reliably estimate expected returns of the new product, the Company
defers recognition of revenue until the right of return no longer exists or until the Company has developed sufficient historical experience to estimate sales
returns. The Company also considers the shelf life of new products and determines whether it believes an adjustment to the sales return accrual is appropriate.
The shelf life in connection with new products tends to be shorter than the shelf life for more established products because the Company may still be
developing an optimal manufacturing process for the new product that would lengthen its shelf life, or an amount of launch quantities may have been
manufactured in advance of the launch date to ensure sufficient supply exists to satisfy market demand. In those cases, the Company assesses the reduced
shelf life, together with levels of inventory in the distribution channel and projected demand, and determines whether it believes an adjustment to the sales
return accrual is appropriate.
Other adjustments
In addition to the significant gross to net sales adjustments described above, the Company makes other gross to net sales adjustments. For example, the
Company offers sales discounts, most significantly in its non-U.S. businesses, and also offers consumer coupons and rebates, most significantly in its U.S.
Nutritionals, Consumer Medicines and Pharmaceuticals businesses. In addition, in a number of countries outside the U.S., including major European countries, the
Company provides rebates to government entities.
62Table of Contents
The Company generally accounts for these other gross to net adjustments by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of the
adjustments attributable to a sale. The Company generally determines its estimates of the accruals for these other gross to net sales adjustments primarily based on
historical experience, performance on commitments to government entities and other relevant factors, including levels of inventory in the distribution channel in some
cases, and adjusts the accruals periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
Use of Information from External Sources
The Company uses information from external sources to estimate its significant gross to net sales adjustments. The Company’s estimates of inventory at the
wholesalers and deferred revenue on consigned inventory are based on the projected prescription demand-based sales for its products and historical inventory
experience, as well as the Company’s analysis of third-party information, including written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers with respect to their
inventory levels and sell-through to customers and third-party market research data, and the Company’s internal information. The inventory information received
from wholesalers is a product of their record-keeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals. The
Company receives information from IMS Health, a supplier of market research to the pharmaceutical industry, which it uses to project the prescription demand-based
sales for many of its U.S. Pharmaceutical products. The Company also uses information from external sources to identify prescription trends, patient demand and
average selling prices. The Company’s estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party information, as certain third-party information
was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags between the date as of which third-party information is generated and the date on which
the Company receives third-party information.
Retirement Benefits
The Company’s pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are accounted for using actuarial valuations required by SFAS No. 87, Employers’ Accounting
for Pensions, and SFAS No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. The Company considers accounting for retirement plans
critical because management is required to make significant subjective judgments about a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, salary growth,
long-term return on plan assets, retirement, turnover, health care cost trend rates, and mortality rates. Depending on the assumptions and estimates used, the pension
and postretirement benefit expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. In addition, the assumptions can materially
affect accumulated benefit obligations and future cash funding.
Plan Description
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for regular full-time employees. The principal
defined benefit pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan and the principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings and
Investment Program.
Approximately 80% of total Company defined benefit pension plan assets and liabilities are held in U.S. plans. The assets for the U.S. plans are held in a single
trust with a common asset allocation. Unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to total Company plans (i.e., U.S. plans together with international
plans).
Benefits under the Company’s defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on years of credited service and on participants’ compensation. Assets under
the Company’s defined benefit plans consist primarily of equity and fixed-income securities. At December 31, 2004, the fair market value of plan assets for the
Company’s defined benefit plans increased to $4,602 million from $4,085 million at December 31, 2003. For the U.S. plans, assets were allocated 70% to equity
securities (compared to 71% at the end of 2003), 23% to fixed income securities (compared to 23% at the end of 2003) and 7% to private equity and other investments
(compared to 6% at the end of 2003). Bristol-Myers Squibb common stock represented less than 1% of assets for the U.S. plans at the end of 2004 and 2003.
The Company provides comprehensive medical and group life benefits for substantially all U.S. retirees who elect to participate in the Company’s
comprehensive medical and group life plans. The asset allocation for these postretirement plans is identical to the asset allocation described above for the U.S.
defined benefit pension plans.
Accrual Accounting and Significant Assumptions
Consistent with the requirements of SFAS No. 87, Employers’ Accounting for Pensions, the Company accounts for pension benefits using the accrual method,
recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. The accrual method of accounting for pension benefits necessarily requires actuarial
assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments.
63Table of Contents
The Company’s key assumptions used in calculating its cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase, and the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets. The Company, in consultation with its actuaries, evaluates the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in
calculating its cost of pension benefits, such as retirement, turnover and mortality rates, based on expectations or actual experience, as appropriate, and determines
such assumptions on December 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension expense for the following year. Depending on the
assumptions used, the pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. In addition, the assumptions can
materially affect accumulated benefit obligations and future cash funding. Actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and
other factors.
The assumed discount rate used by the Company for determining future pension obligations under the U.S. plans is based on indice of AA-rated corporate
bonds. The indices of high quality corporate bonds selected reflect the weighted-average remaining period of benefit payments. The assumed rate of compensation
increase used by the Company for determining future pension obligations reflects an estimate of the change in actual future compensation levels due to general price
levels, productivity, seniority and other factors.
In 2004, net pension expense for the Company’s defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before minority interest and income taxes was $276 million
compared to $136 million in 2003.
The U.S. plans pension expense for 2004 was determined using a 6.25% assumed discount rate and a 3.56% assumed rate of compensation increase. The
present value of benefit obligations at December 31, 2004 for the U.S. plans was determined using a 5.75% assumed discount rate and the same salary increase rate. If
the assumed discount rate used in determining the U.S. plans pension expense for 2004 had been reduced by 0.5%, such expense would have increased by
approximately $30.2 million. If the assumed rate of compensation increase used in determining the U.S. plans pension expense for 2004 had been reduced by 0.25%,
such expense would have decreased by approximately $8.5 million. If the assumed discount rate used in determining the accumulated benefit obligation at December
31, 2004 had been reduced by 0.5%, the accumulated benefit obligation would have increased by $251.9 million.
The U.S. plans pension expense for 2004 was determined using a 9% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. If the expected long-term rate of return
on plan assets used in determining the U.S. plans pension expense for 2004 had been reduced by 1%, such expense would have increased by $33 million.
Actual rates of return earned on U.S. plan assets for each of the last ten years were as follows:
Year Return Year Return
2004 12.6% 1999 18.2%
2003 25.0% 1998 13.3%
2002 (13.4)% 1997 22.2%
2001 (6.1)% 1996 17.0%
2000 3.5% 1995 23.0%
As discussed below, GAAP provides that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees.
At December 31, 2004, the Company lowered its assumed discount rate for U.S. plans from 6.25% to 5.75% and maintained its assumed rate of compensation
increase at 3.56%. Compensation is assumed to increase on a scale with different rates for different ages. The 3.56% rate disclosed at December 31, 2004 is the single
rate which, if used at each age, would produce the same present value of benefit obligations. The reduction in the discount rate had the effect of increasing the
present value of benefit obligations and, accordingly, will have the effect of increasing pension expense for 2005. In addition, the Company revised, based upon a
review of experience, its assumption for lump sum utilization. This revision had the effect of increasing the present value of benefit obligations, and accordingly, will
have the effect of increasing pension expense for 2005.
Following many years of strong performance, the global equity market fell sharply in 2000 through 2002 (e.g., the S&P 500 declined by a cumulative 37.6%).
This was reversed in 2003-2004 (e.g., the S&P 500 rose by a cumulative 42.7%). The Company reduced the expected rate of return on U.S. plan assets from 9% in 2004
to 8.75% for 2005. This revision will have the effect of increasing pension expense for 2005.
The Company expects that the net pension expense for its defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before minority interest and income taxes will be
approximately $75 million higher in 2005 than the $276 million in 2004, reflecting, among other things, the decrease in the assumed discount rate.
64Table of Contents
The Company has used the same assumed discount rates and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets in calculating its cost of pension benefits and
its cost of other postretirement benefits for U.S. plans except in the case of the discount rates at December 31, 2004 and 2003. Rates of 5.75% and 6.25% were used for
pension benefits versus 5.50% and 6.00%, respectively, for other postretirement benefits to reflect the shorter duration of the other postretirement liabilities.
U.S. health care costs for the retiree population are assumed to increase 9.0% in 2005 and then trend down to an expected increase of 4.5% per year by 2012. If
actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put significant upward pressure on the Company’s expense for retiree health care.
On December 8, 2003, President Bush signed into law the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. The effects of the
Medicare Act are reflected in 2004 net periodic postretirement benefit cost (a reduction of $8 million) and accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at December
31, 2004 (a reduction of $58 million).
Delayed Recognition of Actuarial Gains and Losses
At December 31, 2004 and 2003, unrecognized net actuarial losses for the Company’s defined benefit plans were $2,017 million and $1,676 million, respectively,
based on the fair market value of plan assets. These unrecognized net actuarial losses reflect in large part the steady reduction of the weighted-average discount rate
over the years.
SFAS No. 87 provides for delayed recognition of actuarial gains and losses, including amounts arising from changes in the estimated plan benefit obligations
due to changes in the assumed discount rate, differences between the actual and expected returns on plan assets, and other assumption changes. SFAS No. 87
requires that unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss, determined based on the market-related value of plan assets (which differs from fair market value and is a
calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years), be amortized in pension income or expense
for the year to the extent that such unrecognized net actuarial loss or gain exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of
plan assets at the beginning of the year. These net gains and losses are recognized as pension income or expense prospectively over a period that approximates the
average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits under the plans (approximately 10 years) to the extent that they are not offset by
losses and gains in subsequent years.
At December 31, 2004, the unrecognized net actuarial loss, determined based on the market-related value of plan assets, was $2,278 million. This amount
exceeded 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets by $1,730 million. Unless offset by future unrecognized gains
from higher discount rates or higher than expected returns on plan assets, amortization of this unrecognized loss is expected to increase pension expense for each of
the following ten years by approximately $173 million per year, which amount is reflected in the higher expense expected in 2005. At December 31, 2003, the
unrecognized net actuarial loss, determined based on the market-related value of plan assets, was $1,717 million. This amount exceeded 10% of the greater of the
projected benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets by $1,241 million.
In the event the fair market value of pension plan assets of a particular plan is less than the accumulated benefit obligation for such plan at year-end, GAAP
may require an additional minimum liability, and in such circumstances, a reduction in stockholders’ equity or an establishment of an intangible asset. At December
31, 2004, the fair market value of the Company’s defined benefit pension plan assets was $4,602 million and the related accumulated benefit obligation was $4,828
million. The Company recognized an additional minimum liability of $146 million (cumulatively $349 million) at December 31, 2004, which was offset by a $153 million
charge in other comprehensive income included in stockholders’ equity and a $7 million reduction in the intangible asset. At December 31, 2003, the fair market value
of the Company’s defined benefit pension plan assets was $4,085 million and the related accumulated benefit obligation was $4,154 million. The Company recognized
an additional minimum liability of $53 million (cumulatively $203 million) at December 31, 2003, which was offset by a $53 million charge in other comprehensive
income included in stockholders’ equity.
Plan Funding
The Company’s funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute amounts to provide for current service and to fund past service liability. The Company
contributed $367 million and $332 million to the defined benefit plans in 2004 and 2003, respectively.
For discussions on retirement benefits, see “Item 8. Financial Statements-Note 20. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans.”
Acquired In-Process Research and Development
The fair value of in-process research and development acquired in a business combination is determined by independent appraisal based on the present value
of each research project’s projected cash flows. An income approach is utilized that is consistent with guidance in the practice aid issued by the American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants entitled, “Assets Acquired in a
65Table of Contents
Business Combination to Be Used in Research and Development Activities: A Focus on Software, Electronic Devices and Pharmaceutical Industries.” Future cash
flows are predominately based on the net income forecast of each project, consistent with historical pricing, margins, and expense levels of similar products.
Revenues are estimated based on relevant market size and growth factors, expected industry trends, individual project life cycles, and the life of each research
project’s underlying patent. In determining the fair value of each research project, expected revenues are first adjusted for technical risk of completion. The resulting
cash flows are then discounted at a rate approximating the Company’s weighted average cost of capital.
For discussions on acquired in-process research and development, see “Item 8. Financial Statements-Note 1. Accounting Policies-Acquired In-Process
Research and Development.”
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
In accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, the Company periodically evaluates whether current facts
or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its depreciable long-lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are
determined to exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows produced by the long-lived asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the
carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset’s
fair value and its carrying value. An estimate of the asset’s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. If quoted market prices are not
available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques, including a discounted value of estimated future cash flows. The Company reports an
asset to be disposed of at the lower of its carrying value or its estimated net realizable value.
Goodwill is evaluated at least annually for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS No. 142 requires that
goodwill be tested for impairment using a two-step process. The first step is to identify a potential impairment, and the second step measures the amount of the
impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is deemed to be impaired if the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. SFAS No. 142 requires
that indefinite-lived intangible assets be tested for impairment using a one-step process, which consists of a comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the
intangible asset. Such intangible assets are deemed to be impaired if their net book value exceeds their estimated fair value.
The estimates of future cash flows, based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections, require management’s judgment. Any changes in key
assumptions about the Company’s businesses and their prospects, or changes in market conditions, could result in an impairment charge.
For discussions on impairment of long-lived assets, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” and
“—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”
Equity Investments
The Company reviews its equity investments for impairment based on its determination of whether the decline in market value of the investment below the
Company’s carrying value is other than temporary. In making this determination, the Company considers Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18, The Equity
Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock and related interpretations, which set forth factors to be evaluated in determining whether a loss in value
should be recognized, including the Company’s ability to hold its investment, the market price and market price fluctuations of the investment’s publicly traded
shares and inability of the investee to sustain an earnings capacity, which would justify the carrying amount of the investment. The Company’s investment in
ImClone is subject to this accounting. See “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Investments” for a discussion of the Company’s investment in
ImClone.
For discussions on equity investments, see “Item 8. Financial Statements-Note 1. Accounting Policies—Investments” and “—Note 2. Alliances and
Investments.”
Restructuring
To downsize and streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities, the Company has periodically recorded restructuring charges. As a result, the
Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when the
restructuring actions take place. Actual results could vary from these estimates, resulting in an adjustment to earnings.
For discussions on restructuring, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Restructuring” and “—Note 3. Restructuring and Other
Items.”
66Table of Contents
Contingencies
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of its business, that cover a wide
range of matters, including government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability. In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for
Contingencies, the Company records accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
estimated.
For discussions on contingencies, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Income Taxes,” “—Contingencies,” “—Note 8. Income
Taxes” and “—Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Income Taxes
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had approximately $16.9 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Company accrued a provision for
$575 million of estimated deferred taxes in the fourth quarter of 2004 in anticipation of repatriating approximately $9 billion of these earnings in 2005 pursuant to the
AJCA. Taxes were not provided on the balance of undistributed earnings of approximately $7.9 billion, as the Company has invested or expects to invest these
undistributed earnings permanently offshore. If in the future these earnings are repatriated to the United States, or if the Company determines such earnings will be
remitted in the foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would have to be made, it
is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that would have to be provided.
The Company evaluates the need for a deferred tax asset valuation allowance by assessing whether it is more likely than not that it will realize its deferred tax
assets in the future. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including the forecast of future taxable
income and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such
assessments are made. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had net deferred tax assets of $1,713 million, net of a valuation allowance of $507 million.
In addition, the Company conducts business in various countries throughout the world and is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. As a result of its
business activities, the Company files a significant number of tax returns that are subject to audit by various tax authorities. Tax audits are often complex as tax
authorities may disagree with the treatment of items reported by the Company and may require several years to resolve. The Company has recorded accruals for tax
contingencies related to potential audit exposures, including, but not limited to, transfer pricing, certain tax credits, and various state and foreign tax matters. Such
accruals are based on management’s judgment and best estimate as to the ultimate outcome of tax audits. Actual audit results could vary from these estimates.
For discussions on income taxes, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Income Taxes” and “—Note 8. Income Taxes.”
67Table of Contents
Outlook
As previously disclosed, although anticipated sales declines due to continued exclusivity losses during 2005 and 2006 are expected to be more or less offset
by growth in sales of the Company’s in-line, recently launched and potential new products during the same period, changes in product mix will adversely impact
gross margins because the products that have lost or are expected to lose exclusivity generally have higher margins. In addition, earnings will be adversely affected
by the Company’s investments to support the introduction of new products and the development and launch of additional new compounds. In 2007, based on
management’s current estimates of growth of the Company’s in-line and recently launched products and a risk-adjusted assessment of potential new product
launches, the Company expects earnings growth will resume. The Company has and will continue to rationalize its cost base in line with its strategy to increase its
sales and marketing emphasis on specialists and high value primary care physicians.
As previously disclosed, the Company has experienced substantial revenue losses in the last few years due to the expiration of market exclusivity protection
for certain of its products. The Company expects substantial incremental revenue losses in each of 2005, 2006 and 2007 representing continuing declines in revenues
of those products as well as declines in revenues of certain additional products that will lose market exclusivity primarily in 2005 and 2006. For 2005, the Company
estimates reductions of net sales in the range of $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion from the 2004 levels for products which have lost or will lose exclusivity protection in 2003,
2004 or 2005, specifically MONOPRIL in the United States, Canada and Europe, GLUCOPHAGE* XR and GLUCOVANCE* in the United States, CEFZIL in the United
States, PARAPLATIN in the United States, VIDEX EC in the United States, TAXOL® in Europe and PRAVACHOL in Europe. The Company also expects substantial
incremental revenue losses in each of 2006 and 2007 representing continuing declines in net sales of the products that lost exclusivity protection in 2002, 2003 and
2004 and additional declines attributable to products that will lose exclusivity protection primarily in 2005 and 2006. These products (and the years in which they lose
exclusivity protection) include GLUCOPHAGE*/GLUCOVANCE*/GLUCOPHAGE*XR in the United States (2002 to 2004), TAXOL® in Europe and Japan (2003),
PRAVACHOL in the United States (2006) and in Europe (2002 to 2007), PARAPLATIN in the United States (2004), MONOPRIL in the United States (2003), Canada
(2003) and Europe (2001 to 2008), ZERIT in the United States (2008) and in Europe (2007 to 2011), CEFZIL in the United States (2005) and in Europe (2004 to 2009) and
VIDEX/VIDEX EC (2004 to 2009). The timing and amounts of sales reductions from exclusivity losses, their realization in particular periods and the eventual levels of
remaining sales revenues are uncertain and dependent on the levels of sales at the time exclusivity protection ends, the timing and degree of development of generic
competition (speed of approvals, market entry and impact) and other factors.
PRAVACHOL, an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin), had net sales of $2.6 billion in 2004. During 2004, the Company experienced increased competition for
PRAVACHOL from established brands and new entrants. U.S. prescriptions for PRAVACHOL declined 10% in 2004 compared to 2003. While the product has begun
to lose exclusivity in some markets, between now and its anticipated loss of U.S. exclusivity in April 2006, its expected rate of decline in sales and in market share
could be accelerated by increased competition from established brands and new entrants.
The Company’s expectations for future sales growth include substantial expected increases in sales of PLAVIX*, which had net sales of $3.3 billion for 2004,
and is currently the Company’s largest product ranked by net sales. The composition of matter patent for PLAVIX*, which expires in 2011, is currently the subject of
litigation in the United States. Similar proceedings involving PLAVIX* have been instituted outside the United States. The Company continues to believe that the
patent is valid and that it is infringed, and with its alliance partner and patent-holder Sanofi, is vigorously pursuing these cases. It is not possible at this time
reasonably to assess the outcome of these litigations, or if there were an adverse determination in these litigations, the timing of potential generic competition for
PLAVIX*. However, if generic competition were to occur, the Company believes it is very unlikely to occur before the second half of 2005.
The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this
time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few
years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the Company’s
results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The Company’s expectations for the next several years described
above do not reflect the potential impact of litigation on the Company’s results of operations.
Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results
This annual report on Form 10-K (including documents incorporated by reference) and other written and oral statements the Company makes from time to time
contain certain “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You can identify these forward-looking statements by the fact they use words such as “should”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “target”, “may”, “will”, “project”,
“guidance”, “intend”, “plan”, “believe” and other words and terms of similar meaning and expression in connection with any discussion of future operating or
financial performance. One can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking
statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties,
68Table of Contents
including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes to differ materially from current expectations. These statements are
likely to relate to, among other things, the Company’s goals, plans and projections regarding its financial position, results of operations, cash flows, market position,
product development, product approvals, sales efforts, expenses, performance or results of current and anticipated products and the outcome of contingencies such
as legal proceedings, and financial results, which are based on current expectations that involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including internal or external factors
that could delay, divert or change any of them in the next several years.
Although it is not possible to predict or identify all factors, they may include but are not limited to the following:
• New government laws and regulations, such as (i) health care reform initiatives in the United States at the state and federal level and in other countries;
(ii) changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may cause delays in approving, or preventing the approval of, new products; (iii)
tax changes such as the phasing out of tax benefits heretofore available in the United States and certain foreign countries; (iv) new laws, regulations and
judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing within or across jurisdictions; and (v) changes in intellectual property law.
• Competitive factors, such as (i) new products developed by competitors that have lower prices or superior performance features or that are otherwise
competitive with the Company’s current products; (ii) generic competition as the Company’s products mature and patents expire on products; (iii)
technological advances and patents attained by competitors; (iv) problems with licensors, suppliers and distributors; and (v) business combinations
among the Company’s competitors or major customers.
• Difficulties and delays inherent in product development, manufacturing and sale, such as (i) products that may appear promising in development but fail
to reach market or be approved for additional indications for any number of reasons, including efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain
necessary regulatory approvals and the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture; (ii) failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain commercial
viability; (iii) seizure or recalls of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (iv) the failure to obtain, the imposition of
limitations on the use of, or loss of patent and other intellectual property rights; (v) failure of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply
with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other application regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to temporary
manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; and (vi) other manufacturing or distribution problems including
changes in manufacturing production sites and manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, such as
biologics, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply.
• Legal difficulties, including lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations, any of which can preclude or delay commercialization of products or
adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, including (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) adverse decisions in litigation,
including product liability and commercial cases; (iii) the inability to obtain adequate insurance with respect to this type of liability; (iv) recalls of
pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and
other customers which may result in liability; (vi) government investigations including those relating to wholesaler inventory, financial restatement and
product pricing and promotion; (vii) claims asserting violations of securities, antitrust, federal and state pricing and other laws; (viii) environmental,
health and safety matters; and (ix) tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in scope of these matters or that any future
lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations will not be material.
• Increasing pricing pressures worldwide, including rules and practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, judicial
decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform and potential impact of importation legislative or
otherwise, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general.
• Fluctuations in buying patterns and inventory levels of major distributors, retail chains and other trade buyers, which may result from seasonality,
pricing, wholesaler buying decisions (including the effect of incentives offered), the Company’s wholesaler inventory management policies (including
the workdown or other changes in wholesaler inventory levels) or other factors.
• Greater than expected costs and other difficulties, including unanticipated effects and difficulties of acquisitions, dispositions and other events,
including obtaining regulatory approvals in connection with evolving business strategies, legal defense costs, insurance expense, settlement costs and
the risk of an adverse decision related to litigation.
• Changes to advertising and promotional spending and other categories of spending that may affect sales.
• Changes in product mix that may affect margins.
69Table of Contents
• Changes in the Company’s structure, operations, revenues, costs, staffing or efficiency resulting from acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances,
restructurings or other strategic initiatives.
• Economic factors over which the Company has no control such as changes of business and economic conditions including, but not limited to, changes
in interest rates and fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates.
• Changes in business, political and economic conditions due to political or social instability, military or armed conflict, nationalization of assets, debt or
payment moratoriums, other restrictions on commerce, and actual or threatened terrorist attacks in the United States or other parts of the world and
related military action.
• Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the FASB, the SEC or the AICPA, which may require adjustments to financial statements.
• Capacity, efficiency, reliability, security and potential breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of information systems.
• Reliance of the Company on vendors, partners and other third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations in relation to their
arrangements with the Company.
• Results of clinical studies relating to the Company’s or a competitor’s products.
Although the Company believes it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking
statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. The Company
undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
70Table of Contents
Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.
The Company is exposed to market risk due to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. To reduce that risk, the Company enters into certain
derivative financial instruments, when available on a cost-effective basis, to hedge its underlying economic exposure. These instruments are managed on a
consolidated basis to efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of any natural offsets. Derivative financial instruments are not used for speculative purposes.
Gains and losses on hedging transactions are offset by gains and losses on the underlying exposures being hedged. Any ineffective portion of hedges is reported in
earnings as it occurs.
Foreign exchange option contracts and forward contracts are used to hedge anticipated transactions. The Company’s primary foreign currency exposures in
relation to the U.S. dollar are the euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, and Mexican peso.
The table below summarizes the Company’s outstanding foreign exchange contracts as of December 31, 2004. The fair value of all foreign exchange contracts is
based on year-end currency rates (and the Black-Scholes model in the case of option contracts). The fair value of option contracts and forward contracts should be
viewed in relation to the fair value of the underlying hedged transactions and the overall reduction in exposure to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates.
Weighted
Average Notional Fair
Strike Price Amount Value Maturity
(dollars in millions, except currency rates)
Foreign Exchange Forwards:
Australian Dollar .71 $ 157 $ (12) 2005/2006
British Pound 1.74 101 (9) 2005
Canadian Dollar 1.33 426 (46) 2005-2007
Euro 1.23 2,270 (257) 2005/2006
Polish Zloty 3.62 60 (9) 2005/2006
Swedish Krona 7.35 71 (8) 2005/2006
Swiss Franc 1.21 130 (10) 2005/2006
All Others 195 (16) 2005/2006
Option Contracts
Japanese Yen 111.70 51 5 2005
Total Contracts $3,461 $(362)
At December 31, 2004, the Company held option and forward exchange contracts with maturity dates from 2005 to 2007. The notional amounts and fair values
of these maturity dates are expressed in the table below:
Notional
Amount Fair Value
Year of Maturity (in millions) (in millions)
2005 $ 1,958 $ (232)
2006 1,473 (128)
2007 30 (2)
At December 31, 2004, the Company held option contracts with an aggregate notional amount and fair value of $51 million and $5 million, respectively. These
options give the Company the right to buy Japanese Yen at specified rates. The Company also held forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $3,410
million. The fair value of the forward contracts was $367 million and was recorded as a current liability. These contracts primarily related to exposures in euro,
Canadian dollar and Australian dollar. The Company is obligated to settle forward contracts based on the specified contract rates. As of December 31, 2004, the
balance of deferred net after-tax losses of option and forward contracts included in accumulated other comprehensive income was $267 million, of which $168 million
is estimated to be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
For the year ended December 31, 2004 the impact of hedge ineffectiveness on earnings was a loss of $4 million. Additionally, the Company uses forward
contracts to offset its exposure to certain currency assets and liabilities. These forward contracts are not designated as hedges and, therefore, changes in the fair
value of these derivatives are recognized in earnings as they occur. As of December 31, 2004 the Company recorded a loss of $7 million related to forward exchange
contracts that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
At December 31, 2003, the Company held option and forward exchange contracts with an aggregate notional amount and fair value of $2,488 million and $(265)
million, respectively. These contracts primarily related to exposures in euro, Japanese Yen, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar.
71Table of Contents
In addition to the foreign exchange hedge contracts noted above, the Company also uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency
denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The primary objective of these foreign exchange forward contracts is to protect the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency
denominated monetary assets and liabilities from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange that might occur prior to their receipt or settlement in U.S. dollars. These
foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are primarily denominated in Japanese yen and euro. The forward contracts are not designated as
hedges and are marked to market through other income/expense. The notional and fair value amount of these foreign exchange forward contracts at December 31,
2004 is $325 million and $6 million, respectively.
The Company uses derivative instruments as part of its interest rate risk management policy. The derivative instruments used include interest rate swaps,
which are subject to fair-value hedge accounting treatment. During 2004, 2003, and 2002, the Company executed several fixed to floating interest rate swaps to convert
$6.2 billion of the Company’s fixed rate debt to be paid in 2006, 2008, 2011, 2013, 2023, and 2026 to variable rate debt. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the
Company recognized a net reduction in interest expense of $151 million that reflects the benefit of the lower floating rate obtained in the swap agreement. SFAS No.
133 requires the revaluation, at fair value, of the swap contracts as well as the underlying debt being hedged. As such, the swap contracts and the underlying debt
have been revalued resulting in an increase in non-current assets of $76 million, short-term liabilities of $1 million and long-term debt of $75 million, and an increase in
non-current assets and long-term debt of $40 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Swap contracts are generally held to maturity and are not used for
speculative purposes. The following table summarizes the interest rate swaps outstanding as of December 31, 2004:
Notional Amount
of Underlying Variable Rate
Interest Rate Contracts Debt Received Maturity Fair Value
(dollars in millions)
Swaps associated with $ 2,000 1 month U.S.$ 2006 $ 13
4.75% Notes due 2006 LIBOR +1.04%
Swaps associated with 400 1 month U.S.$ 2008 (1)
4.00% Notes due 2008 LIBOR +0.35%
Swaps associated with 2,500 1 month U.S.$ 2011 4
5.75% Notes due 2011 LIBOR +1.50%
Swaps associated with 600 1 month U.S.$ 2013 17
5.25% Notes due 2013 LIBOR +0.42%
Swaps associated with 350 1 month U.S.$ 2023 20
7.15% Notes due 2023 LIBOR +1.66%
Swaps associated with 350 1 month U.S.$ 2026 22
6.8% Notes due 2026 LIBOR +1.24%
$ 6,200 $ 75
At December 31, 2003, the Company held interest rate swap contracts with a notional value of $5,500 million and a fair value of $40 million.
It is estimated that a 10% change in interest rate structure would not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.
The Company had $8,463 million and $8,522 million of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. See “Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 15. Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt” and “—Note 17. Financial Instruments” for additional information.
The Company maintains cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities with various financial institutions, in order to limit exposure to any one financial
institution. These financial institutions are headquartered primarily in North America and Europe.
72Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
(in millions, except per share data)
Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
Year Ended December 31,
2004 2003 2002
EARNINGS
Net Sales $19,380 $18,653 $16,208
Cost of products sold 5,989 5,406 4,691
Marketing, selling and administrative 5,016 4,620 4,081
Advertising and product promotion 1,411 1,415 1,142
Research and development 2,500 2,279 2,206
Acquired in-process research and development 63 — 169
Provision for restructuring and other items, net 104 26 14
Litigation charges, net 420 199 659
Gain on sales of businesses/product lines (320) — (30)
Asset impairment charge for investment in ImClone — — 379
Equity in net income of affiliates (273) (151) (80)
Other expense, net 52 179 229
Total expenses 14,962 13,973 13,460
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Minority Interest and Income Taxes 4,418 4,680 2,748
Provision for income taxes 1,519 1,210 386
Minority interest, net of taxes 521 373 303
Earnings from Continuing Operations 2,378 3,097 2,059
Discontinued Operations
Net earnings 10 9 40
Net gain on disposal — — 38
10 9 78
Net Earnings $ 2,388 $ 3,106 $ 2,137
Earnings per Common Share
Basic
Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 1.23 $ 1.60 $ 1.07
Discontinued Operations
Net earnings — — .02
Net gain on disposal — — .02
— — .04
Net Earnings $ 1.23 $ 1.60 $ 1.11
Diluted
Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 1.21 $ 1.59 $ 1.06
Discontinued Operations
Net earnings — — .02
Net gain on disposal — — .02
— — .04
Net Earnings $ 1.21 $ 1.59 $ 1.10
Average Common Shares Outstanding
Basic 1,942 1,937 1,936
Diluted 1,976 1,950 1,942
Dividends declared per common share $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.12
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
73Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME AND RETAINED EARNINGS
(dollars in millions)
2004 2003 2002
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Net Earnings $ 2,388 $ 3,106 $ 2,137
Other Comprehensive Income:
Foreign currency translation, net of tax benefit of $48 in 2004, $25 in 2003 and $53 in 2002 208 233 161
Deferred losses on derivatives qualifying as hedges, net of tax liability of $1 in 2004, and tax benefit of $65 in 2003 and $19 in
2002 (51) (171) (25)
Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax benefit of $42 in 2004, $17 in 2003 and $43 in 2002 (93) (36) (89)
Available for sale securities, net of tax liability of $13 in 2003 (1) 23 1
Total Other Comprehensive Income 63 49 48
Comprehensive Income $ 2,451 $ 3,155 $ 2,185
RETAINED EARNINGS
Retained Earnings, January 1 $19,439 $18,503 $18,530
Net earnings 2,388 3,106 2,137
21,827 21,609 20,667
Cash dividends declared (2,176) (2,170) (2,168)
Zimmer common stock dividend — — 4
Retained Earnings, December 31 $19,651 $19,439 $18,503
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
74Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(dollars in millions)
December 31,
2004 2003
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,680 $ 2,549
Marketable securities 3,794 3,013
Receivables, net of allowances of $178 and $154 4,373 3,660
Inventories, including consignment inventory 1,830 1,601
Deferred income taxes, net of valuation allowances 805 864
Prepaid expenses 319 310
Total Current Assets 14,801 11,997
Property, plant and equipment, net 5,765 5,712
Goodwill 4,905 4,836
Other intangible assets, net 1,866 1,732
Deferred income taxes, net of valuation allowances 1,129 1,234
Other assets 1,969 1,937
Total Assets $30,435 $27,448
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Short-term borrowings $ 1,883 $ 232
Accounts payable 2,127 1,893
Accrued expenses 2,838 2,661
Accrued rebates and returns 1,209 1,082
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 1,023 707
Dividends payable 545 543
Accrued litigation liabilities 186 267
Deferred revenue on consigned inventory 32 76
Total Current Liabilities 9,843 7,461
Other liabilities 1,927 1,679
Long-term debt 8,463 8,522
Total Liabilities 20,233 17,662
Commitments and contingencies
STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Preferred stock, $2 convertible series: Authorized 10 million shares; issued and outstanding 7,476 in 2004 and 8,039 in 2003, liquidation value
of $50 per share — —
Common stock, par value of $.10 per share: Authorized 4.5 billion shares; 2,202 million issued in 2004 and 2,201 million issued in 2003 220 220
Capital in excess of par value of stock 2,491 2,477
Restricted stock (57) (55)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (792) (855)
Retained earnings 19,651 19,439
21,513 21,226
Less cost of treasury stock — 255 million common shares in 2004 and 261 million in 2003 (11,311) (11,440)
Total Stockholders’ Equity 10,202 9,786
Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity $30,435 $27,448
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
75Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(dollars in millions)
Year Ended December 31,
2004 2003 2002
Cash Flows From Operating Activities:
Net earnings $2,388 $3,106 $2,137
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation 593 491 427
Amortization 316 298 308
Deferred income tax (benefit)/expense 286 249 (471)
Litigation settlement expense 420 199 669
Provision for restructuring and other items 104 29 68
Gain on sales of businesses/product lines (including discontinued operations) (320) — (95)
Acquired in-process research and development 63 — 160
Loss (gain) on disposal of property, plant, and equipment and investment in other companies 18 (3) 20
Undistributed (earnings)/losses of affiliates, net 7 66 24
Unfunded pension expense (91) (195) (520)
Impairment charges and asset write-offs — 26 438
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Receivables (556) (549) 906
Inventories (133) 127 200
Prepaid expenses 2 50 13
Other assets 16 (70) 799
Deferred revenue on consigned inventory (44) (394) (1,556)
Litigation settlement payments (500) (526) (108)
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 248 394 (212)
Product liability 38 (3) 4
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 220 147 (2,386)
Other liabilities 101 70 120
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 3,176 3,512 945
Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
Purchases, net of sales and maturities, of marketable securities (779) (1,385) (520)
Additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized software (676) (937) (1,075)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and investment in other companies 35 59 27
Proceeds from sales of businesses/product lines 364 — 159
ImClone milestone payment (250) — —
Purchase of Acordis Specialty Fibres (150) — —
Purchases of trademarks, patents and licenses and other businesses (133) (53) (78)
Investments in other companies (4) (85) (133)
Divestiture and acquisition costs (29) (18) (410)
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (1,622) (2,419) (2,030)
Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
Short-term borrowings, net of repayments 1,558 (1,189) 1,164
Long-term debt borrowings 15 2,286 6
Long-term debt repayments (3) (3) (9)
Issuances of common stock under stock plans 141 44 138
Purchases of treasury stock — — (164)
Dividends paid (2,174) (2,169) (2,168)
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities (463) (1,031) (1,033)
Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash 40 36 17
Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 1,131 98 (2,101)
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 2,549 2,451 4,552
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year $3,680 $2,549 $2,451
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
76Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS, the Company or Bristol-Myers Squibb) and all of its
controlled majority owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to
conform to the current year presentation.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires the use of estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The most significant assumptions are employed in estimates used in
determining values of intangible assets, restructuring charges and accruals, sales rebate and return accruals, legal contingencies and tax assets and tax liabilities, as
well as in estimates used in applying the revenue recognition policy and accounting for retirement and postretirement benefits (including the actuarial assumptions).
Actual results could differ from estimated results.
Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes revenue when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer. In the case of certain sales made
by the Nutritionals and Other Healthcare segments and certain non-U.S. businesses within the Pharmaceuticals segment, revenue is recognized on the date of receipt
by the purchaser. Revenues are reduced at the time of sale to reflect expected returns that are estimated based on historical experience. Additionally, provisions are
made at the time of sale for all discounts, rebates and estimated sales allowances based on historical experience updated for changes in facts and circumstances, as
appropriate. Such provisions are recorded as a reduction of revenue.
In the case of sales made to wholesalers (1) as a result of incentives, (2) in excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary course of business inventory level, (3) at a time
when there was an understanding, agreement, course of dealing or consistent business practice that the Company would extend incentives based on levels of excess
inventory in connection with future purchases and (4) at a time when such incentives would cover substantially all, and vary directly with, the wholesaler’s cost of
carrying inventory in excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary course of business inventory level, substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership do not transfer
upon shipment and accordingly, such sales should be accounted for using the consignment model. The determination of when, if at all, sales to a wholesaler meet the
foregoing criteria involves evaluation of a variety of factors and a number of complex judgments. Under the consignment model, the Company does not recognize
revenue upon shipment of product. Rather, upon shipment of product the Company invoices the wholesaler, records deferred revenue at gross invoice sales price
and classifies the inventory held by the wholesalers as consignment inventory at the Company’s cost of such inventory. The Company recognizes revenue when the
consignment inventory is no longer subject to incentive arrangements but not later than when such inventory is sold through to the wholesalers’ customers, on a
first-in first-out (FIFO) basis.
Sales Rebate and Return Accruals
Medicaid rebate accruals were $372 million and $233 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively; Women, Infants and Children (WIC) rebate accruals
were $234 million and $208 million, respectively; and managed healthcare rebate and other contractual discount accruals were $198 million and $249 million at
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These and other rebate accruals were established in the same period the related revenue was recognized resulting in a
reduction to sales and the establishment of a liability, which is included in accrued liabilities. An accrual is recorded based on an estimate of the proportion of
recorded revenue that will result in a rebate or return. Prime vendor charge-back accruals, established in a similar manner, are recorded as a reduction to accounts
receivable and were $106 million and $101 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes has been determined using the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes. Under this approach, deferred taxes
represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. The provision for income taxes
represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from differences between the
financial and tax bases of the Company’s assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances
are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized.
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had approximately $16.9 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Company accrued a provision for
$575 million of estimated deferred taxes in the fourth quarter of 2004 in anticipation of repatriating approximately $9 billion of these earnings in 2005 pursuant to the
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA). Taxes were not
77Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
provided on the balance of undistributed earnings of approximately $7.9 billion, as the Company has invested or expects to invest these undistributed earnings
permanently offshore. If in the future these earnings are repatriated to the United States, or if the Company determines such earnings will be remitted in the
foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would have to be made, it is not
practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that would have to be provided.
The AJCA provides for a temporary 85 percent dividends received deduction for certain cash distributions of the earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The
deduction would result in a federal tax rate of approximately 5.25% on the repatriated earnings (assuming a marginal federal tax rate of 35% on those earnings). To
qualify for the deduction, the repatriated earnings must be reinvested in the United States pursuant to a domestic reinvestment plan approved by a company’s chief
executive officer and by its board of directors. In January 2005, the Department of Treasury issued guidelines for permitted investments under the plan. The Company
expects to meet the requirements and criteria to qualify for the deduction. However, several provisions in the AJCA require further clarification which may be
addressed in the coming months by the Treasury or Congress. The Company’s estimate of the tax cost related to the repatriation at December 31, 2004 was based on
tax laws then in effect. To the extent the tax laws and guidance changes, the estimate will be revised. The Company’s estimate may also be revised as a result of any
changes in the Company’s factual assumptions that may occur.
Under the guidance of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), Staff Position (FSP) No. 109-1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109,
“Accounting for Income Taxes,” to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, this deduction will
be treated as a “special deduction” as described in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109. As such, the special deduction will not affect
deferred tax assets and liabilities existing at the enactment date. Rather, the impact of this deduction will be reported in the period in which the deduction is claimed
on the Company’s tax return.
The Company establishes liabilities for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures. Such amounts represent a reasonable
provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid, and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash equivalents are primarily highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase, and are recorded at cost, which
approximates fair value.
Marketable Securities
The Company accounts for marketable securities in accordance with SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. The
Company determined the appropriate classification of all marketable securities was “available-for-sale” at the time of purchase. As such, at December 31, 2004 and
2003, all of the Company’s investments in marketable securities were reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are reported as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity. The amortized cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts
from the date of purchase to maturity. Such amortization is included in interest income as an addition to or deduction from the coupon interest earned on the
investments. The Company follows its investment managers’ method of determining the cost basis in computing realized gains and losses on the sale of its available-
for-sale securities, which is the average cost method. Realized gains and losses are included in other income (expense).
Inventory Valuation
Inventories are generally stated at average cost, not in excess of market.
Capital Assets and Depreciation
Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalized at cost. Depreciation is generally computed on a straight-line method based on the
estimated useful lives of the related assets. The estimated useful lives of the major classes of depreciable assets are 50 years for buildings and 3 to 40 years for
machinery, equipment and fixtures. The Company periodically evaluates whether current events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its depreciable
assets may not be recoverable.
78Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. The adoption of SFAS
No. 144 did not have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Company. SFAS No. 144 establishes the accounting for impairment of long-lived
tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill and for the disposal of a segment of a business. Pursuant to SFAS No. 144, the Company periodically evaluates
whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its depreciable assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances
are determined to exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows produced by the long-lived asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the
carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset’s
fair value and its carrying value. An estimate of the asset’s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. If quoted market prices are not
available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques, including a discounted value of estimated future cash flows. The Company reports an
asset to be disposed of at the lower of its carrying value or its estimated net realizable value.
Capitalized Software
Certain costs to obtain internal use software for significant systems projects are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software, which
ranges from three to ten years. Costs to obtain software for projects that are not significant are expensed as incurred. Capitalized software, net of accumulated
amortization, included in other assets, was $394 million and $407 million, at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Amortization expense was $90 million, $71
million and $39 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Investments
In January 2003, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46 or Interpretation), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of
ARB No. 51. FIN 46 clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, to certain entities in which equity
investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support from other parties. Such entities are known as variable interest entities (VIEs). The FASB issued a revision to FIN 46 (FIN
46-R) in December 2003. FIN 46-R is effective for the interim period ending March 31, 2004 for all new or existing VIEs. The adoption of FIN 46 had no effect on the
Company’s financial statements.
If an entity does not meet the definition of a VIE under FIN 46, the Company accounts for the entity under the provisions of Accounting Research Bulletin
(ARB) No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, as amended by SFAS No. 94, Consolidation of All Majority-Owned Subsidiaries, which requires that the
Company consolidates all majority (more than 50%) owned subsidiaries where it has the ability to exercise control. The Company accounts for 50% or less owned
companies over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence using the equity method of accounting. The Company’s share of net income or losses of
equity investments is included in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated statement of earnings. The Company periodically reviews these equity
investments for impairment and adjusts these investments to their fair value when a decline in market value is deemed to be other than temporary. During 2002, the
Company recorded an asset impairment charge of $379 million for an other-than-temporary decline in the market value of ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone).
Long-term investments in securities, which comprise marketable equity securities and securities and investments for which market values are not readily
available, are included in other assets. Marketable equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value. Fair value is based on quoted market
prices as of the end of the reporting period. Securities and investments for which market values are not readily available are carried at cost. Unrealized gains and
losses are reported, net of their related tax effects, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity until sold. At the time
of sale, any gains or losses are calculated by the specific identification method and recognized in other (income)/expense. Losses are also recognized in income when
a decline in market value is deemed to be other than temporary.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The Company adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, on January 1, 2002, with certain provisions adopted as of July 1, 2001 with
respect to amortization of goodwill arising from acquisitions made after June 30, 2001. SFAS No. 142 addresses the initial recognition and measurement of intangible
assets acquired outside a business combination and the recognition and measurement of goodwill and other intangible assets subsequent to their acquisition. Under
SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer amortized but is subject to annual impairment tests.
79Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill is tested for impairment upon adoption of the new standard and annually thereafter. SFAS No. 142 requires that
goodwill be tested for impairment using a two-step process. The first step is to identify a potential impairment and the second step measures the amount of the
impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is deemed to be impaired if the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. The Company has
completed its goodwill impairment assessment, which indicated no impairment of goodwill.
Other intangible assets, consisting of patents, trademarks, technology and licenses, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, ranging from 3
to 17 years. SFAS No. 142 requires that indefinite-lived intangible assets be tested for impairment using a one-step process, which consists of a comparison of the fair
value to the carrying value of the intangible asset. Such intangible assets are deemed to be impaired if their net book value exceeds their estimated fair value. All other
intangible assets are evaluated for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144 as described under “—Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” above.
Restructuring
To downsize and streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities, the Company has periodically recorded restructuring charges. As a result, the
Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs when approved and incurred,
Actual results could vary from these estimates, resulting in an adjustment to earnings.
Product Liability
Accruals for product liability are recorded on an undiscounted basis when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be
reasonably estimated, based on existing information. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessment efforts progress or as additional information becomes
available. Receivables for related insurance or other third-party recoveries for product liabilities are recorded, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a
recovery will be realized and classified as a reduction of litigation charges in the consolidated statement of earnings.
Contingencies
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of its business, that cover a wide
range of matters, including, among others, product liability, environmental liability and tax matters. In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies,
the Company records accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. For a
discussion of contingencies, reference is made to “—Note 8. Income Taxes” and “—Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivative financial instruments are used by the Company principally in the management of its interest rate and foreign currency exposures. The Company
does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Company records all derivative instruments on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in a derivative’s fair value are recognized in earnings unless
specific hedge criteria are met. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of the derivative and of the hedged item attributable
to the hedged risk are recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portions of changes in
the fair value of the derivative are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) and are subsequently recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings when
the hedged item affects earnings; cash flows are classified consistent with the underlying hedged item. For purchased foreign currency options the entire change in
fair value is included in the measurement of hedge effectiveness for cash flow hedges. Ineffective portions of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges, if any, are
recognized as a charge or credit to earnings.
The Company designates and assigns derivatives as hedges of forecasted transactions, specific assets or specific liabilities. When hedged assets or liabilities
are sold or extinguished or the forecasted transactions being hedged are no longer expected to occur, the Company immediately recognizes the gain or loss on the
designated hedging financial instruments in the consolidated statement of earnings.
Shipping and Handling Costs
The Company typically does not charge customers for shipping and handling costs. Shipping and handling costs, when charged, are included in marketing,
selling and administrative expenses and for 2004, 2003 and 2002 were $245 million, $243 million and $231 million, respectively.
80Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
Advertising Costs
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense was $479 million, $448 million and $393 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Milestone Payments
The Company from time to time will enter into strategic alliances with third parties, which give the Company rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell
pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are owned by such third parties. As a result of these alliances, the Company may be obligated to make payments to
alliance partners contingent upon the achievement of certain pre-determined criteria. For milestones achieved prior to marketing approval of the product, such
payments are expensed as research and development. After product approval, any additional milestones are capitalized and amortized to cost of products sold over
the remaining useful life of the asset. All capitalized milestone payments are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
Acquired In-Process Research and Development
The fair value of in-process research and development acquired in a business combination is determined by independent appraisal and based on the present
value of each research project’s projected cash flows. An income approach is utilized that is consistent with guidance in the practice aid Assets Acquired in Business
Combinations to Be Used in Research and Development Activities: A Focus on Software, Electronic Devices and Pharmaceutical Industries issued by the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Future cash flows are predominately based on the net income forecast of each project consistent with historical
pricing, margins and expense levels of similar products. Revenues are estimated based on relevant market size and growth factors, expected industry trends,
individual project life cycles and the life of each research project’s underlying patent. In determining the fair value of each research project, expected revenues are
first adjusted for technical risk of completion. The resulting cash flows are then discounted at a rate approximating the Company’s weighted average cost of capital.
Other acquired in-process research and development is expensed as incurred when the underlying product has not received regulatory approval and does not have
any future alternative use. In addition, costs that are nonrefundable, related to the acquisition or licensing of products that have not yet received regulatory approval
to be marketed and that have no alternative future use are charged to earnings as incurred.
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per common share are computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per common share
are computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the year plus the incremental shares outstanding assuming the exercise of dilutive
stock options, restricted stock and convertible instruments.
Foreign Currency Translation
The net assets of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from
translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recorded in the foreign currency translation adjustment account, which is included in other
comprehensive income.
Stock Compensation Plans
Currently, the Company applies Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations in
accounting for its stock-based compensation plans and discloses the pro forma net income and related pro forma income per share information in accordance with
SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, and SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Costs—Transition and Disclosure. The
Company does not recognize compensation expense for stock options granted under the plans as the exercise price of the option on the date of grant is equal to the
fair market value as of that date. For grants of restricted stock, the Company recognizes compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the period that the
restrictions expire.
81Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
The following table summarizes the Company’s results on a pro forma basis as if it had recorded compensation expense based upon the fair value at the grant
date for awards under these plans consistent with the methodology prescribed in SFAS No. 123 for 2004, 2003 and 2002:
2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions, except
Net Earnings: per share data)
As reported $2,388 $3,106 $2,137
Total stock-based employee compensation expense, included in reported net income, net of related tax effects 19 14 12
Total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under fair value based method for all awards, net of related tax
effects (138) (195) (261)
Pro forma $2,269 $2,925 $1,888
Basic earnings per share:
As reported $ 1.23 $ 1.60 $ 1.11
Pro forma 1.17 1.51 .98
Diluted earnings per share:
As reported $ 1.21 $ 1.59 $ 1.10
Pro forma 1.15 1.50 .97
Options related to discontinued operations have no impact on basic and diluted earnings per share. See “—Note 16. Stockholders’ Equity” for additional
information.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
In December 2004, the FASB issued revised SFAS No. 123 (SFAS No. 123R), Share-Based Payment. This standard eliminates the ability to account for share-
based compensation transactions using the intrinsic value-based method under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees, and requires instead that such transactions be accounted for using a fair-value-based method. SFAS No. 123R is effective for financial statements issued
for the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2005. Currently, the Company discloses the pro forma net income and related pro forma income per share
information in accordance with SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, and SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Costs—
Transition and Disclosure. The Company is evaluating the impact of this statement which could have a material impact on its results of operations.
In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. 109-1—Application of SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified
Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The effect of the adoption of FSP No. 109-1 is not material to the Company’s consolidated
financial statements. See “—Income Taxes” above.
In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets. The provisions of this Statement is effective for nonmonetary asset
exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The provisions of this Statement should be applied prospectively, and eliminates the exception
from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary
Transactions, and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. The adoption of this accounting pronouncement is not
expected to have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs – an Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. The standard requires abnormal amounts of
idle facility and related expenses to be recognized as current period charges and also requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion
be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005.
The Company is evaluating the impact that this statement will have on its financial position and results of operations.
82Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
In June 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. 106-2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003 (the Medicare Act). The Medicare Act introduces a prescription drug benefit under Medicare as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of
retiree health care benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. FSP No. 106-2 requires that the effects of the new law
be accounted for under SFAS No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. The Company adopted FSP No. 106-2 in the third
quarter of 2004, retroactive to January 1, 2004. There was a reduction in net periodic benefit cost for other benefits of $8 million for 2004, based on the re-measurement
of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of January 1, 2004. The effect of the adoption of FSP No. 106-2 was not material to the Company’s
consolidated financial statements. See “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 20. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans.”
In March 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on Issue No. 03-06, Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method Under
FAS 128, which requires the use of the two-class method of computing earnings per share for those enterprises with participating securities or multiple classes of
common stock. The consensus is effective for fiscal periods beginning after March 31, 2004. The adoption of EITF No. 03-06 did not affect the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.
In December 2003, the FASB revised FIN 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. FIN 46 requires a variable interest entity to be consolidated by a
company if that company is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the variable interest entity’s activities or entitled to receive a majority of the entity’s residual
returns or both. FIN 46 also requires disclosures about variable interest entities that a company is not required to consolidate but in which it has a significant variable
interest. The consolidation requirements of FIN 46 (as revised) apply immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003 and to existing entities in
the first fiscal year or interim period ending after March 15, 2004. Certain of the disclosure requirements apply to all financial statements issued after January 31, 2003,
regardless of when the variable interest entity was established. This accounting pronouncement did not have a material effect on the consolidated financial
statements.
Note 2 ALLIANCES AND INVESTMENTS
Sanofi-Aventis
The Company has agreements with Sanofi-Aventis (Sanofi) for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* (irbesartan), an
angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension, and PLAVIX* (clopidogrel), a platelet inhibitor. The worldwide alliance operates under
the framework of two geographic territories; one in the Americas (principally the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and Latin American countries) and Australia and
the other in Europe and Asia. Accordingly, two territory partnerships were formed to manage central expenses, such as marketing, research and development and
royalties, and to supply finished product to the individual countries. In general, at the country level, agreements either to copromote (whereby a partnership was
formed between the parties to sell each brand) or to comarket (whereby the parties operate and sell their brands independently of each other) are in place. The
agreements expire on the later of (i) with respect to PLAVIX*, 2013 and, with respect to AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, 2012 in the Americas and Australia and 2013 in
Europe and Asia and (ii) the expiration of all patents and other exclusivity rights in the applicable territory.
The Company acts as the operating partner for the territory covering the Americas and Australia and owns a 50.1% majority controlling interest in this
territory. Sanofi’s ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. As such, the Company consolidates all country partnership results for this territory and records
Sanofi’s share of the results as a minority interest, net of taxes, which was $502 million in 2004, $351 million in 2003 and $292 million in 2002. The Company recorded
sales in this territory and in comarketing countries (Germany, Italy, Spain and Greece) of $4,257 million in 2004, $3,224 million in 2003 and $2,476 million in 2002.
Sanofi acts as the operating partner of the territory covering Europe and Asia and owns a 50.1% majority financial controlling interest in this territory. The
Company’s ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. The Company accounts for the investment in partnership entities in this territory under the equity method
and records its share of the results in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated statement of earnings. The Company’s share of net income from these
partnership entities before taxes was $269 million in 2004, $187 million in 2003 and $120 million in 2002.
83Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 2 ALLIANCES AND INVESTMENTS (Continued)
In 2001, the Company and Sanofi formed an alliance for the copromotion of irbesartan, as part of which the Company contributed the irbesartan distribution
rights in the United States and Sanofi paid the Company a total of $350 million in 2002 and 2001. The Company accounted for this transaction as a sale of an interest
in a license and deferred and amortized the $350 million in other income over the expected useful life of the license, which is approximately eleven years. The Company
recognized other income of $32 million, $31 million and $31 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The unamortized portion of the deferred income is recorded in
the liabilities section of the consolidated balance sheet and was $248 million and $280 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Otsuka
The Company has a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), to codevelop and copromote ABILIFY*
(aripiprazole) for the treatment of schizophrenia and related psychotic disorders, except in Japan, China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines, Thailand,
Indonesia, Pakistan, and Egypt. The Company began copromoting the product with Otsuka in the U.S. and Puerto Rico in November 2002. In June 2004, the Company
received marketing approval from the European Commission. The product is currently copromoted with Otsuka in the United Kingdom and Germany, and will also be
copromoted in France and Spain. The Company records alliance revenue for its contractual share of the net sales in these copromotion countries, excluding the
United Kingdom, and records all expenses related to the product. Alliance revenue is recorded by the Company as net sales based upon 65% of Otsuka’s net sales in
the copromotion countries. The Company recognizes this alliance revenue when ABILIFY* is shipped and all risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to
Otsuka’s customers. In the UK, the Company records 100% of the net sales and related cost of products sold.
The Company also has an exclusive right to sell ABILIFY* in a number of other countries in Europe, the Americas and Asia. In these countries, as sales
commence, the Company will record 100% of the net sales and related cost of products sold. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company purchases the product
from Otsuka and performs finish manufacturing for sale by the Company to its customers. The agreement expires in November 2012 in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. For
the countries in the European Union where the Company has an exclusive right to sell ABILIFY*, the agreement expires on the tenth anniversary of the first
commercial sale. In each other country where the Company has the exclusive right to sell ABILIFY*, the agreement expires on the later of the tenth anniversary of the
first commercial sale in such country or expiration of the applicable patent in such country.
The Company recorded revenue for ABILIFY* of $593 million in 2004, $283 million in 2003 and $25 million in 2002. Total milestone payments made to Otsuka
under the agreement through December 2004 were $217 million, of which $157 million was expensed as acquired in-process research and development. The remaining
$60 million was capitalized in other intangible assets and is amortized in cost of products sold over the remaining life of the agreement in the U.S., ranging from eight
to eleven years. Included in the $60 million of capitalized payments is a $10 million payment made in July 2004 for attainment of marketing approval by the European
Union. The Company amortized in cost of products sold $5 million in 2004, $5 million in 2003 and $3 million in 2002. The unamortized capitalized payment balance was
$47 million and $52 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
ImClone
The Company has a commercialization agreement expiring in September 2018 with ImClone, a biopharmaceutical company focused on developing targeted
cancer treatments, for the codevelopment and copromotion of ERBITUX* in the United States. In February 2004, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
approved the Biologics License Application (BLA) for ERBITUX* for use in combination with irinotecan in the treatment of patients with Epidermal Growth Factor
Receptor (EGFR)-expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are refractory to irinotecan-based chemotherapy and for use as a single agent in the treatment of
patients with EGFR-expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are intolerant to irinotecan-based chemotherapy. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, the
Company paid ImClone $200 million, of which $140 million was paid in March 2002 and $60 million was paid in March 2003. The Company paid $250 million in March
2004 as a milestone payment for the initial approval of ERBITUX*. An additional $250 million is payable upon FDA approval for use in treating an additional tumor
type. Under the agreement, ImClone receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of product revenues in North America. In addition, the Company also has
codevelopment and copromotion rights in Canada and Japan to the extent the product is commercialized in such countries.
84Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 2 ALLIANCES AND INVESTMENTS (Continued)
With respect to the $200 million of milestone payments the Company paid ImClone in 2002 and 2003, $160 million was expensed in the first quarter of 2002 as
acquired in-process research and development, and $40 million was recorded as an additional equity investment to eliminate the income statement effect of the
portion of the milestone payment for which the Company has an economic claim through its ownership interest in ImClone. The Company accounts for the $250
million approval milestone paid in March 2004 as a license acquisition and amortizes the payment into cost of products sold over the expected useful life of the
license, which is approximately fourteen years. In 2004, the amortization expense was $14 million. The unamortized portion of the approval payment is recorded in
other intangibles, net and was $236 million at December 31, 2004.
The Company accounts for its investment in ImClone under the equity method and records its share of the results in equity in net income of affiliates in the
consolidated statement of earnings. In 2002, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $379 million for an other than temporary decline in the market value of ImClone
based on the decline in value of ImClone’s share during 2002. The Company’s recorded investment in ImClone common stock as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 was
$72 million and $63 million, respectively, representing approximately 17% and 19% of the ImClone shares outstanding, respectively. On a per share basis, the carrying
value of the ImClone investment and the closing market price of the ImClone shares as of December 31, 2004 were $5.03 and $46.08, respectively, compared to $4.41
and $39.66, respectively, as of December 31, 2003.
The Company determines its equity share in ImClone’s net income or loss by eliminating from ImClone’s results the milestone revenue ImClone recognizes for
the pre-approval milestone payments that were recorded by the Company as additional equity investment. For its share of ImClone’s results of operations, the
Company recorded net income of $9 million in 2004, and net losses of $36 million and $40 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company recorded net sales for
ERBITUX* of $261 million in 2004.
Merck
In April 2004, the Company entered into a collaboration agreement with Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck) for worldwide codevelopment and copromotion for
muraglitazar, the Company’s dual PPAR (peroxisome proliferator activated receptor) agonist, currently in Phase III clinical development for use in treating Type 2
diabetes. In December 2004 the Company submitted a New Drug Application (NDA) to the FDA for regulatory approval of murgalitazar. Under the terms of the
agreement, the Company received a $100 million upfront payment in May 2004, and was entitled to receive an additional $55 million milestone payment in December
2004, which was subsequently received in January 2005. The Company is entitled to receive $220 million in additional payments upon achievement of certain
regulatory milestones. The Company and Merck will jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy for muraglitazar, share equally in future development and
commercialization costs and copromote the product to physicians on a global basis, with Merck to receive payments based on net sales levels.
The upfront payment of $100 million received in May 2004 was deferred and amortized in other income over the expected remaining useful life of the agreement,
which is approximately sixteen years. In 2004 the Company recognized $4 million of these payments in other income. The $55 million milestone payment was deferred
and recorded as a receivable in December 2004, and will be amortized into other income, beginning in January 2005, over the remaining useful life of the agreement. In
addition, the Company records Merck’s share of codevelopment costs as a reduction to research and development expense and Merck’s share of copromotion costs
as a reduction to advertising and product promotion expense.
Summary Financial Information
Following is summarized financial information for the Company’s equity investments in ImClone and a joint venture with Sanofi in Europe and Asia:
2004 2003 2002
(unaudited, dollars in millions)
Revenues $ 2,427 $ 1,605 $ 1,051
Gross profit 1,965 794 535
Net income 673 288 107
Current assets 2,206 827 822
Non-current assets 371 259 200
Current liabilities 1,447 829 533
Non-current liabilities 949 527 626
85Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 3 RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER ITEMS
2004 Activities
During 2004, the Company recorded pretax restructuring and other charges of $116 million, relating to downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations
and rationalization of worldwide manufacturing operations. Of this charge, $102 million relates primarily to employee termination benefits for approximately 2,000
employees, including manufacturing, administrative and sales personnel in Europe, North America, Asia and Latin America. Other exit costs of $5 million relate
primarily to lease termination costs, while other items of $9 million relate primarily to relocation expenses as a result of the consolidation of research facilities. These
charges were partially offset by an adjustment due to changes in estimates to prior period reserves of $8 million, which principally is due to reduced separation costs,
and also a $4 million gain on the sale of a research facility previously written off as restructuring. The Company expects to complete these restructuring activities by
2006.
The following table presents a detail of provision for restructuring and other items by operating segment and type. The Company does not allocate
restructuring charges to its business segments.
Employee Other
Employee Termination Exit Other
Terminations Benefits Costs Items Total
(dollars in millions)
Pharmaceuticals 1,650 $ 84 $ 5 $ 9 $ 98
Other Healthcare 350 18 — — 18
2,000 $ 102 $ 5 $ 9 116
Reduction in reserves for changes in estimates (8)
Gain on sale of research property (4)
Provision for restructuring and other items $104
In addition, the Company recorded $107 million in asset impairments and accelerated depreciation relating to the rationalization of manufacturing operations
primarily in cost of products sold and $55 million in research and development related to the upfront payments for 4 licensing agreements, which were not allocated to
business segments.
2003 Activities
During 2003, the Company recorded pretax restructuring and other charges of $65 million, relating to downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations and
rationalization of worldwide manufacturing operations. Of this charge, $50 million relates primarily to termination benefits for approximately 950 employees, including
manufacturing, administrative and sales personnel in Europe, North America, Asia and Latin America. Other items of $15 million relate primarily to relocation expenses
as a result of the consolidation of research facilities. These charges were partially offset by an adjustment due to changes in estimates to prior period reserves of $39
million, which principally is due to higher than anticipated proceeds from disposal of assets and reduced separation costs. The Company expects to complete these
restructuring activities by 2006.
The following table presents a detail of provision for restructuring and other items by operating segment and type. The Company does not allocate
restructuring charges to its business segments.
Employee Other
Employee Termination Exit Other
Terminations Benefits Costs Items Total
(dollars in millions)
Pharmaceuticals 850 $ 39 $ 3 $ 15 $57
Other Healthcare 100 8 — — 8
Subtotal 950 $ 47 $ 3 $ 15 65
Reduction in reserves for changes in estimates (39)
Provision for restructuring and other items $26
In addition, the Company recorded $67 million in asset impairments and accelerated depreciation relating to the rationalization of manufacturing operations in
cost of products sold and $102 million in research and development related to the upfront payments for four licensing agreements, which were not allocated to
business segments.
86Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 3 RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER ITEMS (Continued)
2002 Activities
During 2002, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring and other charges of $160 million, relating to a reduction or elimination of non-strategic research
efforts as well as the consolidation of research facilities, workforce reductions and downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations. Of this charge, $71 million
relates to employee termination benefits for approximately 1,040 employees, including research, manufacturing, sales, and administrative personnel, $51 million
represents asset write-downs including a $24 million impairment charge for the Company’s investment in Deltagen and $38 million for other exit costs for the closure
of facilities and other related expenses. These charges were offset by an adjustment to prior period restructuring reserves of $146 million, $65 million of which is due
to lower than expected separation costs, $59 million due to higher than anticipated proceeds from disposal of assets previously written off as restructuring and $22
million for projects that have been cancelled. In addition, a $17 million adjustment to cost of products sold was made to reflect the reversal of inventory reserves
associated with cancelled projects. The Company has completed these restructuring activities.
The following table presents a detail of provision for restructuring and other items by operating segment and type. The Company does not allocate
restructuring charges to its business segments.
Employee Other
Employee Termination Exit Other
Terminations Benefits Costs Items Total
(dollars in millions)
Pharmaceuticals 901 $ 62 $ 38 $ 19 $119
Nutritionals 92 5 — — 5
Other Healthcare 22 2 — 5 7
Corporate/Other 25 2 — 27 29
Subtotal 1,040 $ 71 $ 38 $ 51 160
Reduction in reserves for changes in estimates (146)
Provisions for restructuring and other items $ 14
In addition, $69 million of accelerated depreciation relating to the planned shutdown of research facilities in the United States has been included in research
and development expense, and $2 million for inventory write-offs associated with these projects has been included in cost of products sold. In the third quarter of
2002, the Company recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $79 million for severance and other exit costs associated with the consolidation of research and
development efforts and the closure of two leased facilities. As a result of this action, an impairment assessment was performed on long lived assets used at these
sites in accordance with SFAS 144. The Company concluded that although the $69 million of assets were recoverable, the remaining useful life of these assets (mainly
laboratory equipment and leasehold improvements for which there was no alternate use or residual value) was accelerated from 4 years to 3 months to reflect the date
of abandonment of the facilities (the fourth quarter of 2002).
87Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 3 RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER ITEMS (Continued)
Rollforward
Restructuring charges and spending against liabilities associated with prior and current actions are as follows:
Employee
Termination Other Exit Cost
Liability Liability Total
(dollars in millions)
Balance at December 31, 2001 $ 243 $ 41 $284
Charges 71 38 109
Spending (155) (29) (184)
Changes in estimate (92) (8) (100)
Balance at December 31, 2002 67 42 109
Charges 47 3 50
Spending (56) (35) (91)
Changes in estimate (7) (3) (10)
Balance at December 31, 2003 $ 51 $ 7 $ 58
Charges 102 5 107
Spending (68) (9) (77)
Changes in estimate (8) — (8)
Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 77 $ 3 $ 80
These liabilities are included in accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheet.
Note 4 ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES
In February 2004, the Company completed the divestiture of its Adult Nutritional business to Novartis AG (Novartis) for $386 million, included $20 million
contingent on the achievement of contractual requirements, which were satisfied, and a $22 million upfront payment for a supply agreement. The Company recorded a
pre-tax gain of $320 million ($198 million net of tax), which included the $20 million contingent payment, and a $5 million reduction in Company goodwill associated
with the Mead Johnson product lines. In 2003, Adult Nutritional products recorded sales of over $200 million.
In April 2004, the Company completed the acquisition of Acordis Speciality Fibres (Acordis), which is headquartered in the United Kingdom and supplies
materials to ConvaTec for its Wound Therapeutics line. The acquisition is expected to strengthen the Company’s leadership position in wound therapies. The
Company purchased all the stock of Acordis for $150 million, and incurred $8 million of acquisition costs in connection with the transaction. An additional $10 million
payment is contingent on the achievement of future sales volumes. The purchase price for the acquisition was allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible
assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. Of the $158 million, $63 million was allocated to in-process research
and development, which represents the estimated fair value of acquired in-process projects, consisting primarily of Medicel, a wound therapeutics product, which
had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use, and was therefore expensed. The estimated fair value of these projects was determined
by employment of a discounted cash flow model; and $22 million was assigned to identifiable intangible assets, predominantly patents. The excess of the purchase
price over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired was approximately $73 million and was recorded as goodwill. This acquisition was accounted for by the
purchase method, and, accordingly, results of operations have been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.
In 2002, the Company completed the sale of two branded products, MOISTUREL* and DURICEF*, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $30 million.
Note 5 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
In December 2004, committed to a plan to sell OTN and entered into a definitive sale agreement with One Equity Partners LLC. OTN is a leading specialty
distributor of pharmaceutical products to office-based oncologists in the United States and was formerly reported as a distinct operating segment. The transaction is
expected to be completed in the first half of 2005. The sale price will be equal to $210 million, plus a sale price adjustment (the Sale Price Adjustment) based on the
excess of current assets over current
88Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 5 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (Continued)
liabilities (Working Capital) on the closing date. The sale price shall be increased or decreased by the amount by which Working Capital exceeds or is less than $50
million on the closing date. The sale will result in a pre-tax gain of approximately $40 to $50 million, subject to the Sale Price Adjustment and other post-closing
matters. The gain from the sale of OTN will be recognized on the closing date.
The following amounts related to the OTN business have been segregated from continuing operations and reported as discontinued operations, and do not
reflect the costs of certain services provided to OTN by the Company. Such costs, which are not allocated by the Company to OTN, are for services which include
legal counsel, insurance, external audit fees, payroll processing, and certain human resource services and information technology systems support.
Year ended December 31,
2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions)
Net sales $2,506 $2,241 $1,898
Cost of products sold 2,444 2,186 1,842
Gross profit 62 55 56
Total operating expenses 47 41 43
Earnings before income taxes 15 14 13
Provision for income taxes 5 5 5
Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 10 $ 9 $ 8
The net earnings from discontinued operations also includes $32 million in the 2002 statement of earnings primarily related to a reduction in the tax
contingency reserve related to the spin-off of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. in 2001.
The following is a summary of the assets and liabilities of discontinued operations that are expected to be sold. The amounts presented below were derived
from historical financial information of OTN and adjusted to exclude cash and inter-company receivables and payables between OTN and the Company, which were
excluded from the divestiture. In addition, goodwill related to OTN at December 31, 2004 of $80 million has been excluded from the following summary of net assets to
be disposed, which will be considered in determining the gain on the sale on the date the transaction is consummated.
(dollars in millions)
Assets
Receivables, net $319
Other current assets 2
Total Current Assets 321
Property, plant and equipment 3
Other non-current assets 8
Total Assets $332
Liabilities
Accounts payable $535
Accrued expenses 7
Total liabilities $542
Net assets to be sold $(210)
The accounts payable balance primarily includes payables to McKesson Corporation (McKesson) at December 31, 2004, which is usually paid within the first
five days of each month for goods shipped in the preceding month. As a result of the timing of these accounts payable balances, OTN has a net liability balance as of
December 31, 2004.
The consolidated statement of cash flows includes the OTN business for all periods presented. The Company uses a centralized approach to the cash
management and financing of its operations and accordingly, debt is not allocated to this business. Cash inflows from operating and investing activities of
discontinued operations were $132 million and $95 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively and cash outflows were $127 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002.
89Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 6 EARNINGS PER SHARE
The numerator for basic earnings per share is net earnings available to common stockholders. The numerator for diluted earnings per share is net earnings
available to common stockholders with interest expense added back for the assumed conversion of the convertible debt into common shares. The denominator for
basic earnings per share is the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The denominator for diluted earnings per share is
weighted average shares outstanding adjusted for the effect of dilutive stock options. The computations for basic earnings per common share and diluted earnings
per common share are as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
Earnings from Continuing Operations(1) $ 2,378 $ 3,097 $ 2,059
Discontinued Operations:
Net earnings 10 9 40
Net gain on disposal — — 38
10 9 78
Net Earnings $ 2,388 $ 3,106 $ 2,137
Basic:
Average Common Shares Outstanding 1,942 1,937 1,936
Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 1.23 $ 1.60 $ 1.07
Discontinued Operations:
Net earnings — — .02
Net gain on disposal — — .02
— — .04
Net Earnings $ 1.23 $ 1.60 $ 1.11
Diluted:
Average Common Shares Outstanding 1,942 1,937 1,936
Conversion of Convertible Debt Bonds 29 7 —
Incremental Shares Outstanding Assuming the Exercise of Dilutive Stock Options 5 6 6
1,976 1,950 1,942
Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 1.21(1) $ 1.59(1) $ 1.06
Discontinued Operations:
Net earnings — — .02
Net gain on disposal — — .02
— — .04
Net Earnings $ 1.21 $ 1.59 $ 1.10
Weighted-average shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options, which were not included in the diluted earnings per share calculation because they were
not dilutive, were 126 million in 2004, 114 million in 2003, and 121 million in 2002.
(1) Net earnings in 2004 and 2003 include interest expense of $7 million and $1 million, respectively, added back for the assumed conversion of the convertible debt
into common shares.
90Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 7 OTHER EXPENSE, NET
The components of other expense, net are:
Year Ended December 31,
2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions)
Interest expense $ 310 $ 277 $ 364
Interest income (105) (65) (81)
Foreign exchange transaction loss, net 5 23 29
Other, net (158) (56) (83)
Other expense, net $ 52 $ 179 $ 229
In 2004, 2003 and 2002 interest expense was reduced by net interest swap gains of $151 million, $116 million and $23 million, respectively. Interest income
relates primarily to cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities. Other income includes income from third-party contract manufacturing, royalty
income and gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Note 8 INCOME TAXES
The components of earnings (loss) from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes were:
Year Ended December 31,
2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions)
U.S. $ 478 $ 899 $ (549)
Non-U.S. 3,940 3,781 3,297
$4,418 $4,680 $2,748
The above amounts are categorized based on the location of the taxing authorities.
The provision/(benefit) for income taxes attributable to continuing operations consisted of:
Year Ended December 31,
2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions)
Current:
U.S. $ 513 $ 423 $218
Non-U.S. 728 538 639
1,241 961 857
Deferred:
U.S. 264 232 (431)
Non-U.S. 14 17 (40)
278 249 (471)
$1,519 $1,210 $386
91Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 8 INCOME TAXES (Continued)
The Company’s provision for income taxes in 2004, 2003 and 2002 was different from the amount computed by applying the statutory U.S. federal income tax
rate to earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes, as a result of the following:
% of Earnings Before Minority Interest and Income Taxes
2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions)
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Minority Interest and Income Taxes $4,418 $4,680 $2,748
U.S. statutory rate 1,546 35.0% 1,638 35.0% 962 35.0%
Effect of operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and Switzerland (660) (14.9)% (734) (15.7)% (494) (18.0)%
State and local taxes (net of valuation allowance) (14) (0.3)% 14 0.3% 156 5.7%
Changes in estimate for contingent tax matters 293 6.6% 197 4.2% (104) (3.8)%
Non-deductible reserves 12 0.3% 88 1.9% — —
Anticipated dividend repatriation under AJCA 575 13.0% — — — —
Federal and foreign valuation allowance 142 3.2% 133 2.8% — —
Foreign and other (375) (8.5)% (126) (2.7)% (134) (4.9)%
$1,519 34.4% $1,210 25.8% $ 386 14.0%
The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes was 34.4% in 2004 compared with 25.8% in 2003
and 14.0% in 2002. The higher effective tax rate in 2004 is attributable primarily to a $575 million charge for estimated deferred taxes taken in the fourth quarter in
anticipation of repatriating in 2005 approximately $9 billion in special dividends from the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries pursuant to the AJCA, an increase in
estimates for contingent tax matters in 2004 compared to 2003, and a charge related to the establishment of a valuation allowance against certain charitable
contribution carryforwards, partially offset by the favorable resolution of certain tax refund claims, increased foreign tax credits, and in 2003, the effect of certain
litigation reserves as non-deductible. The increase in the 2003 effective tax rate over the 2002 effective tax rate is primarily due to the decrease in effective tax rate
benefit from operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and Switzerland, the treatment of provisions for certain litigation reserves as non-deductible, and an increase in
estimates for contingent tax matters in 2003 compared to 2002.
The components of current and non-current deferred income tax assets (liabilities) were:
December 31,
2004 2003
(dollars in millions)
Acquired in-process research and development $1,156 $ 1,253
Intercompany profit and other inventory items 274 360
Foreign tax credit carryforward 801 425
Deferred income 194 88
Alternative minimum tax and research and development credit carryforward 89 76
Charitable contribution carryforward 135 35
State tax net operating loss carryforward 194 191
Foreign net operating loss and credit carryforward 277 193
Postretirement and pension benefits (213) (188)
Depreciation (332) (316)
Deferred foreign currency gain/loss 120 121
Anticipated dividend repatriation under AJCA (575) —
Other, net 100 56
2,220 2,294
Valuation allowance (507) (368)
Deferred tax assets, net $1,713 $ 1,926
Recognized as:
Deferred Income Taxes – Current $ 805 $ 864
Deferred Income Taxes – Non-Current 1,129 1,234
U.S. and Foreign Income Taxes Payable 18 17
Other Liabilities – Non-Current 203 155
Total $1,713 $ 1,926
92Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 8 INCOME TAXES (Continued)
The valuation allowance of $507 million at December 31, 2004 relates to $56 million of foreign and state net deferred tax assets, $334 million of foreign and state
net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and $117 million of charitable contribution carryforwards that the Company currently believes are not likely to be
realized.
Income taxes paid during the year were $822 million, $869 million and $2,491 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
The current tax benefit realized upon the exercise of stock options is charged to capital in excess of par value of stock and amounted to $26 million, $10 million
and $45 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had approximately $16.9 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Company accrued a provision for
$575 million of estimated deferred taxes in the fourth quarter of 2004 in anticipation of repatriating approximately $9 billion of these earnings in 2005 pursuant to the
AJCA. The Company’s estimate of the tax cost related to the repatriation may be revised as a result of additional guidance or clarifying language that may be issued
by Congress and/or the Department of the Treasury, or any changes in the Company’s factual assumptions that may occur. Taxes were not provided on the balance
of undistributed earnings of approximately $7.9 billion, as the Company has invested or expects to invest these undistributed earnings permanently offshore. If in the
future these earnings are repatriated to the United States, or if the Company determines such earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future, additional tax
provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of
income taxes that would have to be provided.
The Company has settled its U.S. federal income tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) through 1997.
The Company establishes liabilities for possible assessments by taxing authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer
pricing, certain tax credits, and various state and foreign tax matters. Such amounts represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid, and may
need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known. As of December 31, 2004, there are certain tax contingencies for which no liabilities have been
established. Although the Company cannot reasonably estimate the possible amount of any such contingency, it is possible that such contingencies could be
material. The effect of changes in estimates related to contingent tax matters is included in the rate reconciliation above. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the
Company recognized an income tax benefit of $261 million due to the settlement of certain prior year tax matters and the determination by the Company as to the
expected settlement of tax litigation.
In 2002, the Company reorganized the structure of its ownership of many of its non-U.S. subsidiaries. The principal purpose of the reorganization was to
facilitate the Company’s ability to efficiently deploy its financial resources outside the United States. The Company believes that the reorganization transactions were
generally tax-free both inside and outside the United States. It is possible, however, that taxing authorities in particular jurisdictions could assert tax liabilities arising
from the reorganization transactions or the operations of the reorganized subsidiaries. It is not reasonably possible to predict whether any taxing authority will assert
such a tax liability or to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to any such asserted tax liability. The Company would vigorously
challenge any such assertion and believes that it would prevail but there can be no assurance of such a result. If the Company were not to prevail in final, non-
appealable determinations, it is possible the impact could be material.
Note 9 RECEIVABLES
The major categories of receivables follow:
December 31,
2004 2003
(dollars in millions)
Trade receivables $3,350 $3,011
Miscellaneous receivables 1,201 803
4,551 3,814
Less allowances 178 154
Receivables, net $4,373 $3,660
93Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 10 INVENTORIES
The major categories of inventories follow:
December 31,
2004 2003
(dollars in millions)
Finished goods $1,097 $1,005
Work in process 458 416
Raw and packaging materials 275 180
Inventories, net $1,830 $1,601
Note 11 CONSIGNMENT
Through 2002, the Company experienced a substantial buildup of wholesaler inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals business resulting from sales incentives
offered by the Company to its wholesalers. In October 2002, the Company determined that it was required to restate its sales and earnings to correct errors in timing
of revenue recognition for certain sales made to two of the largest wholesalers of the U.S. pharmaceuticals business. The Company determined that these sales
should be accounted for under the consignment model as described under “-Note 1, Accounting Policies-Revenue Recognition,” based in part on the relationship
between the amount and nature of incentives offered to these wholesalers and the amount of inventory held by these wholesalers. Under the consignment model,
these transactions resulted in deferred revenue of $12 million as of December 31, 2003. There were no deferred revenue as of December 31, 2004 as inventory
accounted for using the consignment model was fully worked down. The Company recognized approximately $10 million, $321 million and $1,397 million of deferred
revenue as net sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, net of rebates, returns and adjustments.
Note 12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
The major categories of property, plant and equipment follow:
December 31,
2004 2003
(dollars in millions)
Land $ 266 $ 241
Buildings 4,497 3,917
Machinery, equipment and fixtures 4,686 4,197
Construction in progress 560 1,087
10,009 9,442
Less accumulated depreciation 4,244 3,730
Property, plant and equipment, net $ 5,765 $5,712
Capitalized interest is included in the categories of property, plant and equipment shown above. The Company capitalized interest of $10 million, $35 million
and $16 million in the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Note 13 GOODWILL
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows:
Other
Pharmaceuticals Nutritionals Healthcare Discontinued
Segment Segment Segment Operations Total
(dollars in millions)
Balance as of December 31, 2002 and 2003 $ 4,448 $ 118 $ 190 $ 80 $4,836
Purchase accounting adjustments:
Reduction due to Sale of Adult Nutritional Business — (5) — — (5)
Purchase price and allocation adjustments — — 74 — 74
Balance as of December 31, 2004 $ 4,448 $ 113 $ 264 $ 80 $4,905
94Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 14 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Intangible assets by major asset class were as follows:
December 31,
2004 2003
(dollars in millions)
Patents/Trademarks $ 278 $ 253
Licenses 523 248
Technology 1,787 1,783
2,588 2,284
Less accumulated amortization 722 552
Net carrying amount $1,866 $1,732
Amortization expense for other intangible assets (the majority of which is included in costs of products sold) for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002 was $226 million, $227 million and $269 million, respectively.
Expected amortization expense related to the current net carrying amount of other intangible assets follows:
Years Ending December 31, (dollars in millions)
2005 $ 236
2006 237
2007 234
2008 225
2009 220
Later Years 714
Note 15 SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND LONG-TERM DEBT
Included in short-term borrowings were amounts due to foreign banks of $92 million and $114 million, and current installments of long-term debt of $126 million
and $13 million, at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. U.S. short-term borrowings, which primarily consist of commercial paper, was $1,665 million at December
31, 2004, with an average interest rate of 2.3%. There was no U.S. commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2003. The proceeds from the commercial paper
issuance in 2004 was used for general corporate purposes. The average interest rates on international short-term borrowings and on current installments of long-term
debt outstanding at December 31, 2004 were 9.3% and 2.8%, respectively, compared with 8.0% and 1.3%, respectively, at December 31, 2003.
In December 2004, the Company replaced its prior $1 billion revolving credit facilities with a new $2 billion five year revolving credit facility from a syndicate of
lenders, which is extendable on the anniversary date with the consent of the lenders. This facility contains a financial covenant whereby the ratio of consolidated
debt to consolidated capital cannot exceed 50%. The Company has been in compliance with this covenant since the inception of the new facility. There were no
borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facilities at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The Company had unused short-term lines of credit with foreign banks of
$158 million and $363 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
95Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 15 SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND LONG-TERM DEBT (Continued)
The components of long-term debt were as follows:
December 31,
2004 2003
(dollars in millions)
4.75% Notes, due in 2006 $2,507 $2,544
5.75% Notes, due in 2011 2,488 2,459
Floating Rate Convertible Debentures, due 2023(1) 1,183 1,179
5.25% Notes, due 2013 610 600
4.00% Notes, due 2008 396 399
6.80% Debentures, due in 2026 367 345
7.15% Debentures, due in 2023 365 344
6.88% Debentures, due in 2097 296 296
1.10% Yen Notes, due 2008 120 114
2.14% Yen Notes, due in 2005 — 60
3.51% Euro Interest on Yen Principal Term Loan, due in 2005 — 55
5.75% Industrial Revenue Bonds, due in 2024 34 34
1.43% Yen Notes, due 2008 34 32
1.81% Yen Notes, due 2010 34 32
Variable Rate Industrial Revenue Bonds, due in 2030 15 15
Other 14 14
$8,463 $8,522
(1) The Company’s outstanding $1.2 billion of convertible debentures pay interest quarterly at an annual rate equal to 3-month LIBOR, reset quarterly, minus
0.50% (the yield never to be less than zero) and have a final maturity of September 15, 2023. The debentures are callable at par at any time on or after September
21, 2008 by the issuer. Holders can also redeem some or all of their debentures at par on September 15, 2008, 2013, and 2018, or if a fundamental change in
ownership of the Company occurs. The bond has an initial conversion price of $41.28, or a conversion rate of 24.2248 shares, which will be adjustable
depending on the average closing prices for the applicable period. The maximum conversion rate is 38.7597 shares.
The Company has entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps for $6.2 billion of its long-term debt. Cash payments for interest were $354 million, $290
million and $375 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Payments due by period
Later
Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Years
(dollars in millions)
Long-Term Debt(2) $8,463 $— $2,512 $ 2 $1,735 $ 1 $4,213
(2) 2005 obligations are included in short-term borrowings on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet and all balances represent the outstanding nominal long-
term debt values. The Company’s convertible debenture is included as due for payment in 2008, as it contains a 2008 put and call feature as described above.
At December 31, 2004, the Company had provided financial guarantees in the form of stand-by letters of credit and performance bonds. The majority of the
stand-by letters of credit are with insurance companies in support of third-party liability programs. The performance bonds relate to the sale of Company product to
various foreign ministries of health in the Middle East. The Company believes the significant majority of these guarantees will expire without being funded. The
amounts of these obligations are presented in the following table:
Expiration Period
Less than 1 to 2
Total 1 year years
(dollars in millions)
Stand-by letters of credit $61 $ 61 $—
Performance bonds and guarantees 3 3 —
Total other commercial commitments $64 $ 64 $—
96Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 16 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Changes in common shares, treasury stock, capital in excess of par value of stock, and restricted stock were:
Capital in Excess
Common Shares Treasury Cost of Treasury of Par Value of Restricted
Issued Shares Stock Stock Stock
(dollars and shares in millions)
Balance at December 31, 2001 2,200 264 $ (11,389) $ 2,403 $ (50)
Issued pursuant to stock plans and options 1 (5) 60 90 (30)
Amortization of restricted stock — — — — 16
Lapses and forfeitures of restricted stock — — (10) (2) 12
Purchases — 5 (163) — —
Balance at December 31, 2002 2,201 264 (11,502) 2,491 (52)
Issued pursuant to stock plans and options — (3) 64 (14) (23)
Amortization of restricted stock — — — — 18
Lapses and forfeitures of restricted stock — — (2) — 2
Balance at December 31, 2003 2,201 261 (11,440) 2,477 (55)
Issued pursuant to stock plans and options 1 (6) 137 12 (32)
Amortization of restricted stock — — — — 24
Lapses and forfeitures of restricted stock — — (8) 2 6
Balance at December 31, 2004 2,202 255 $ (11,311) $ 2,491 $ (57)
Each share of the Company’s preferred stock is convertible into 16.96 shares of common stock and is callable at the Company’s option. The reductions in the
number of issued shares of preferred stock in 2004, 2003, and 2002 were due to conversions into shares of common stock.
Dividends declared per common share were $1.12 in 2004, $1.12 in 2003 and $1.12 in 2002.
The accumulated balances related to each component of other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:
Deferred Minimum Accumulated
Foreign Loss on Pension Available Other
Currency Effective Liability for Sale Comprehensive
Translation Hedges Adjustment Securities Income/(Loss)
(dollars in millions)
Balance at December 31, 2001 $ (885) $ (62) $ (5) $ — $ (952)
Other comprehensive income (loss) 161 (25) (89) 1 48
Balance at December 31, 2002 (724) (87) (94) 1 (904)
Other comprehensive income (loss) 233 (171) (36) 23 49
Balance at December 31, 2003 (491) (258) (130) 24 (855)
Other comprehensive income (loss) 208 (51) (93) (1) 63
Balance at December 31, 2004 $ (283) $ (309) $ (223) $ 23 $ (792)
Stock Compensation Plans
Under the Company’s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, executive officers and key employees may be granted options to purchase the Company’s common stock at
no less than 100% of the market price on the date the option is granted. Options generally become exercisable in installments of 25% per year on each of the first
through the fourth anniversaries of the grant date and have a maximum term of 10 years. Additionally, the plan provides for the granting of stock appreciation rights
whereby the grantee may surrender exercisable rights and receive common stock and/or cash measured by the excess of the market price of the common stock over
the option exercise price.
Under the terms of the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, authorized shares include 0.9% of the outstanding shares per year through 2007, as well as the number of
shares tendered in a prior year to pay the purchase price of options and the number of shares previously utilized to satisfy withholding tax obligations upon exercise.
Shares which were available for grant in a prior year but were not granted in such year and shares which were cancelled, forfeited or expired are also available for
future grant.
The 2002 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the granting of common stock to key employees, subject to restrictions as to continuous employment. Restrictions
generally expire over a five-year period from date of grant. Compensation expense is
97Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 16 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (Continued)
recognized over the restricted period. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, there were 2.9 million and 2.3 million shares of restricted stock outstanding under the plan,
respectively. In 2004, 1.2 million shares of restricted stock were granted with a fair value of $27.64.
The 2002 Stock Incentive Plan also incorporates the Company’s long-term performance awards. These awards, which are delivered in the form of a target
number of performance shares, have a three-year cycle. For 2004 to 2006, the awards will be based 50% on EPS growth, 50% on sales growth, with the ultimate payout
modified by the Company’s total stockholder return versus the eleven companies in its proxy peer group. If threshold targets are not met for the performance period,
no payment will be made under the long-term performance award plan. Maximum performance for all three measures will result in a maximum payout of 253% of target.
At December 31, 2004 and 2003, there were 0.9 million and 0.6 million performance shares outstanding under the plan, respectively. In 2004, 0.5 million performance
shares were granted with a fair value of $28.11.
Under the TeamShare Stock Option Plan, full-time employees, excluding key executives, are granted options to purchase the Company’s common stock at the
market price on the date the options are granted. The Company has authorized 66 million shares for issuance under the plan. Individual grants generally become
exercisable evenly on the third, fourth, and fifth anniversary of the grant date and have a maximum term of 10 years. Options on 32.9 million shares have been
exercised under the plan as of December 31, 2004.
The fair value of the options granted during 2004, 2003 and 2002 was estimated as $5.91 per common share, $5.15 per common share and $11.12 per common
share, respectively, on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:
2004 2003 2002
Dividend yield 4.4% 4.0% 3.0%
Volatility 30.0% 29.7% 31.3%
Risk-free interest rate 3.5% 3.5% 5.0%
Expected life (years) 7 7 7
Stock option transactions were:
Shares of Common Stock
Weighted
Average
Available Issued Exercise
for Option Under Price of
Award Plan Shares
(Shares in millions)
Balance at December 31, 2001 31 129 $ 42.19
Authorized 22 — —
Granted (40) 40 37.55
Exercised — (7) 21.64
Lapsed 13 (13) 51.44
Balance at December 31, 2002 26 149 $ 41.20
Authorized 19 — —
Granted (22) 22 23.19
Exercised — (4) 13.76
Lapsed 6 (6) 43.62
Balance at December 31, 2003 29 161 $ 39.24
Authorized 18 — —
Granted (20) 20 27.88
Exercised — (7) 14.56
Lapsed 11 (11) 40.69
Balance at December 31, 2004 38 163 $ 38.87
98Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 16 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (Continued)
The following tables summarize information concerning the Company’s stock compensation plans and currently outstanding and exercisable options:
Number of
securities
remaining
available for
future
issuance
Number of under equity
securities Weighted compensation
to be issued average plans
upon exercise excluding
exercise of price of securities
outstanding outstanding reflected in
options and options and column (a)
Plan Category rights (a) rights (b) (c)
(Shares in (Shares in
millions) millions)
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 136 $ 38.82 30
Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 27 39.11 8
163 $ 38.87 38
Options Outstanding Options Exercisable
Weighted
Average Weighted Weighted
Remaining Average Average
Number Contractual Exercise Number Exercise
Range of Exercise Prices Outstanding Life Price Exercisable Price
(Shares in (Shares in
millions) (in years) millions)
$10 — $20 7 0.16 $ 14.75 7 $ 14.75
$20 — $30 68 7.07 25.78 20 23.23
$30 — $40 9 2.21 32.39 9 32.40
$40 — $50 45 4.86 47.01 38 46.86
$50 — $60 15 6.01 58.06 10 58.27
$60 and up 19 4.48 63.33 16 63.34
163 100
At December 31, 2004, 288 million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to stock plans, options and conversions of preferred stock.
Options related to discontinued operations included in the above amounts are not material.
Note 17 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company is exposed to market risk due to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Accordingly, the Company utilizes foreign exchange
option and forward contracts to offset the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany inventory
purchases expected to occur within the next two years.
The Company had exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, which approximated $2,264 million and $1,932 million at December 31,
2004 and 2003, respectively, primarily in Europe, Japan, Mexico and Canada.
Foreign exchange option contracts and forward contracts are used to hedge anticipated transactions. The Company’s primary foreign currency exposures in
relation to the U.S. dollar are the euro, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Japanese yen. The notional amounts of the Company’s foreign exchange derivative
contracts at December 31, 2004 and 2003, were $3,461 million and $2,488 million, respectively. For these derivatives, in which the majority qualify as hedges of future
anticipated cash flows, the effective portion of changes in fair value is temporarily deferred in other comprehensive income (OCI) and then recognized in earnings
when the hedged item affects earnings.
SFAS No. 133 requires that the Company perform periodic assessments of hedge effectiveness. These assessments determine whether derivatives designated
as qualifying hedges continue to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of hedged items. Any ineffective portion of fair value can no longer be
deferred in OCI and is included in current period earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recognized a loss due to ineffective contracts of $4
million. The fair value of option and forward contracts were liabilities of $362 million and $265 million, at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively and was recorded in
other assets and accrued liabilities at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The fair value of all foreign exchange contracts is based on year-end currency rates (and the Black-
Scholes model in the case of option contracts).
In addition to the foreign exchange hedge contracts noted above, the Company also uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency
denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The primary objective of these foreign exchange forward contracts is to protect the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency
denominated monetary assets and liabilities from the effects of
99Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 17 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
volatility in foreign exchange that might occur prior to their receipt or settlement in U.S. dollars. These foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities
are primarily denominated in Japanese yen and euro. The forward contracts are not designated as hedges and are marked to market through other income/expense.
The notional and fair value amount of these foreign exchange forward contracts at December 31, 2004 is $325 million and $6 million, respectively.
The Company uses derivative instruments as part of its interest rate risk management policy. The derivative instruments used comprised principally of fixed to
floating rate interest rate swaps, which are subject to fair-value hedge accounting treatment. During 2004 and 2003, the Company entered into several fixed to floating
interest rate swap contracts with several financial institutions. The notional amounts of these swaps were $6.2 billion and $5.5 billion as of December 31, 2004 and
2003, respectively. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the Company recognized a net reduction in
interest expense of $151 million, $116 million and $23 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, that reflects the benefit of the lower floating rate obtained in the
swap as compared to the fixed rate of the underlying debt. The swap contracts as well as the underlying debt being hedged are recorded at fair value, which resulted
in an increase in non-current assets of $76 million, short-term liabilities of $1 million and long-term debt of $75 million, and an increase in non-current assets and long-
term debt of $40 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Swap contracts are generally held to maturity and the Company does not use derivative financial
instruments for speculative purposes.
During 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company reclassified deferred losses of $234 million, $223 million and $71 million, respectively, from other comprehensive
income to earnings, the majority of which was classified as cost of products sold.
The carrying amount of the Company’s other financial instruments, which includes cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable and
accounts payable, approximates their fair value at December 31, 2004 and 2003. For long-term debt (other than noted above) the difference between the fair value and
carrying value is not material.
Note 18 SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company is organized as a pharmaceutical company with related healthcare businesses and has three reportable segments—Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals
and Other Healthcare. The Pharmaceuticals segment is comprised of the global pharmaceutical and international (excluding Japan) consumer medicines businesses.
The Nutritionals segment consists of Mead Johnson, primarily an infant formula business. The Other Healthcare segment consists of the ConvaTec, Medical
Imaging, and Consumer Medicines (United States and Japan) businesses.
The Company’s products are sold principally to the wholesale and retail trade, both nationally and internationally. Certain products are also sold to other drug
manufacturers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and the medical profession. Three wholesalers accounted for approximately 19%, 17% and 10%, respectively,
of the Company’s total net sales in 2004. In 2003 sales to these wholesalers accounted for 17%, 15% and 13%, respectively of the Company’s total net sales. In 2002,
the same three wholesalers each accounted for approximately 16%, 15% and 16%, respectively of the Company’s total net sales. These sales were concentrated in the
Pharmaceuticals segment.
Business Segments
Earnings Before Minority
Net Sales Interest and Income Taxes Year-end Assets
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003
(dollars in millions)
Pharmaceuticals $15,482 $14,925 $12,814 $4,257 $4,369 $ 3,187 $12,436 $11,531
Nutritionals 2,001 2,023 1,821 586 542 486 1,055 1,037
Other Healthcare 1,897 1,705 1,573 573 408 427 1,368 1,242
Total segments 19,380 18,653 16,208 5,416 5,319 4,100 14,859 13,810
Corporate/Other — — — (998) (639) (1,352) 15,576 13,638
Total $19,380 $18,653 $16,208 $4,418 $4,680 $ 2,748 $30,435 $27,448
100Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 18 SEGMENT INFORMATION (Continued)
Corporate/Other consists principally of interest income, interest expense, certain administrative expenses and allocations to the business segments of certain
corporate programs. Corporate/Other also includes the gain on sales of businesses/product lines of $320 million and $30 million in 2004 and 2002, respectively;
accelerated depreciation of $69 million in 2002; termination benefits and other exit costs of $97 million, $50 million and $109 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively;
asset write-down and impairment charges of $3 million and $53 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively; upfront and milestone payments for licensing agreements of $55
million and $66 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively; litigation charges, net, of $507 million, $220 million and $659 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively; and an
acquired in-process research and development charge of $63 million in 2004. 2002 also includes a $379 million asset impairment charge for ImClone.
The Pharmaceuticals segment in 2004 includes accelerated depreciation of $107 million for certain manufacturing facilities in North America expected to be
closed by 2006, relocation of $7 million and retention of $1 million. In 2003, Pharmaceuticals includes a litigation settlement income of $21 million, an upfront payment
for a licensing agreement of $36 million, $53 million of accelerated depreciation of assets in manufacturing facilities in North America expected to be closed by the end
of 2006, $11 million charge for asset impairment, $13 million charge for relocation expenses and $2 million charge for retention bonus benefits. Additionally, in 2002,
the Pharmaceuticals segment includes a charge for acquired in-process research and development of $169 million.
Corporate/Other assets include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, goodwill, assets of OTN held available for sale and certain other assets.
Capital Expenditures Depreciation
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions)
Pharmaceuticals $455 $678 $ 878 $474 $391 $312
Nutritionals 55 50 72 48 39 45
Other Healthcare 27 23 25 22 19 17
Total segments 537 751 975 544 449 374
Corporate/Other 49 74 61 49 42 53
Total $586 $825 $1,036 $593 $491 $427
Geographic Areas
Net Sales Year-end Assets
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003
(dollars in millions)
United States $10,613 $10,656 $ 9,450 $ 15,727 $ 15,593
Europe, Middle East and Africa 5,470 4,985 4,041 5,920 5,001
Other Western Hemisphere 1,425 1,333 1,215 7,228 5,711
Pacific 1,872 1,679 1,502 1,560 1,143
Total $19,380 $18,653 $16,208 $ 30,435 $ 27,448
101Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 19 LEASES
Minimum rental commitments under all non-cancelable operating leases, primarily real estate and motor vehicles, in effect at December 31, 2004, were:
Years Ending December 31, (dollars in millions)
2005 $ 123
2006 99
2007 78
2008 65
2009 62
Later years 58
Total minimum payments 485
Less total minimum sublease rentals 69
Net minimum rental commitments $ 416
Operating lease rental expense (net of sublease rental income of $13 million in 2004, $11 million in 2003 and $25 million in 2002) was $149 million in 2004, $137
million in 2003 and $95 million in 2002.
Note 20 PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for regular full-time employees. The principal
pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan. The funding policy is to contribute amounts to provide for current service and to fund past service
liability. Plan benefits are based primarily on years of credited service and on the participant’s compensation. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-
income securities.
The Company also provides comprehensive medical and group life benefits for substantially all U.S. retirees who elect to participate in its comprehensive
medical and group life plans. The medical plan is contributory. Contributions are adjusted periodically and vary by date of retirement and the original retiring
Company. The life insurance plan is noncontributory. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income securities. Similar plans exist for employees in certain
countries outside of the United States.
Cost of the Company’s deferred benefits and postretirement benefit plans included the following components:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions)
Service cost — benefits earned during the year $180 $144 $143 $ 8 $ 8 $ 10
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation 295 275 275 37 46 46
Expected return on plan assets (355) (353) (402) (18) (15) (19)
Net amortization and deferral 157 71 21 — 7 2
Net periodic benefit cost 277 137 37 27 46 39
Curtailments and settlements (1) (1) (3) — — —
Total net periodic benefit cost $276 $136 $ 34 $ 27 $ 46 $ 39
The Company has recognized the impact of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 in 2004, and in accordance with FSP
No. 106-2, recorded $8 million as a reduction in net periodic benefit cost.
Changes in benefit obligations and plan assets for December 31, 2004 and 2003, for the Company’s defined benefit and postretirement benefit plans, were:
102Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 20 PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS (Continued)
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2004 2003 2004 2003
(dollars in millions)
Benefit obligation at beginning of year $4,755 $4,172 $758 $717
Service cost—benefits earned during the year 180 144 8 8
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation 295 275 37 46
Plan participants’ contributions 3 3 6 4
Curtailments and settlements (3) (3) — —
Actuarial (gain)/loss 533 382 (78) 59
Plan amendments (4) 38 (17) (13)
Benefits paid (399) (344) (68) (65)
Exchange rate losses 121 88 — 2
Benefit obligation at end of year $5,481 $4,755 $646 $758
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year $4,085 $3,318 $205 $164
Actual return on plan assets 456 707 25 41
Employer contribution 367 332 62 61
Plan participants’ contributions 3 3 6 4
Settlements — (3) — —
Transfer in/(out) (3) 1 — —
Benefits paid (399) (344) (68) (65)
Exchange rate gains 93 71 — —
Fair value of plan assets at end of year $4,602 $4,085 $230 $205
Funded status $(879) $(670) $(416) $(553)
Unamortized net obligation at adoption 3 10 — —
Unrecognized prior service cost 74 94 (31) (16)
Unrecognized net actuarial loss 2,017 1,676 103 188
Net amount recognized $1,215 $1,110 $(344) $(381)
Amounts recognized in the balance sheet consist of:
Prepaid benefit cost $1,272 $1,279 $— $—
Accrued benefit cost (406) (372) (344) (381)
Intangible assets 3 10 — —
Accumulated other comprehensive income 346 193 — —
Net amount recognized $1,215 $1,110 $(344) $(381)
Several plans had underfunded accrued benefit obligations that exceeded their accrued benefit liabilities at December 31, 2004 and 2003. Additional minimum
liabilities were established to increase the accrued benefit liabilities to the values of the underfunded accrued benefit obligations. These liabilities totaled $349 million
and $203 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, for a U.S. unfunded benefit equalization plan and several international plans. The additional minimum
liability was offset by intangible assets of $3 million and $10 million and charges to other comprehensive income included in stockholder’s equity of $346 million and
$193 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $4,828 million and $4,154 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Information for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets was:
December 31,
2004 2003
(dollars in millions)
Projected benefit obligation $ 1,313 $ 918
Accumulated benefit obligation 1,139 791
Fair value of plan assets 742 427
103Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 20 PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS (Continued)
This is attributable primarily to an unfunded U.S. benefit equalization plan and several plans in the international markets. The unfunded U.S. benefit
equalization plan provides pension benefits for employees with compensation above IRS limits and cannot be funded in a tax-advantaged manner.
Additional information pertaining to the Company’s pension and postretirement plans:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
(dollars in millions)
Increase in minimum liability, including the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, included in other comprehensive
income $153 $53 $132 $— $— $—
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31, were:
Pension Other
Benefits Benefits
2004 2003 2004 2003
Discount rate 5.57% 6.08% 5.52% 6.01%
Rate of compensation increase 3.59% 3.57% 3.59% 3.58%
Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December 31, were:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
Discount rate 6.08% 6.56% 7.02% 6.01% 6.75% 7.23%
Expected long-term return on plan assets 8.73% 8.81% 9.74% 9.00% 9.00% 10.00%
Rate of compensation increase 3.57% 3.33% 3.59% 3.58% 3.29% 3.57%
At December 31, 2004, the Company’s expected long-term rate of return on U.S. pension plan assets is 9%. The target asset allocation is 70% public equity
(58% U.S., 12% international), 8% private equity and 22% fixed income. The 9% is approximated by applying expected returns of 9% on public equity, 15% on private
equity and 6% on fixed income to the target allocation. The actual historical returns are also relevant. Annualized returns for periods ended December 31, 2004 were
10.8% for 10 years, 10.0% for 15 years and 11.2% for 20 years.
U.S. pension plan assets represented approximately 83% of total Company pension plan assets at December 31, 2003. The 8.73% disclosed above for total
Company expected return on assets for 2004 is below the 9.0% for U.S. pension plans due to the impact of international pension plans, which typically employ a less
aggressive asset allocation.
A 9% expected return is disclosed for Other Benefits in 2004 because the relevant assets are invested in the same manner as U.S. pension plan assets and there
are no international plan assets.
Assumed health care cost trend rates at December 31 were:
2004 2003 2002
Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year 8.93% 9.96% 10.88%
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate) 4.51% 4.50% 4.48%
Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2012 2010 2010
104Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 20 PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS (Continued)
Assumed health care cost trend rates do have an effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health
care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
1-Percentage- 1-Percentage-
Point Increase Point Decrease
Effect on total of service and interest cost $ 2 $ (2)
Effect on postretirement benefit obligation 31 (27)
The Company’s asset allocation for pension and postretirement benefits at December 31, 2004 and 2003, were:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2004 2003 2004 2003
Public equity securities 68.9% 69.7% 69.9% 70.7%
Debt securities (including cash) 25.5 25.1 23.4 23.1
Private equity 5.2 5.0 6.5 6.0
Other 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.2
Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
The Company’s investment strategy emphasizes equities in order to achieve high expected returns and, in the long run, low expense and low required cash
contributions. For the U.S. pension plans, a target asset allocation of 70% public equity (58% U.S., 12% international), 8% private equity and 22% fixed income is
maintained and cash flow (i.e., cash contributions, benefit payments) are used to rebalance back to the targets as necessary. Investments are very well diversified
within each of the three major asset categories. About 40% of the U.S. equity is passively managed. Otherwise, all investments are actively managed.
Investment strategies for international pension plans are typically similar, although the asset allocations are usually more conservative.
Bristol–Myers Squibb Company common stock represents less than 1% of the plan assets at December 31, 2004 and 2003.
Assets for postretirement benefits are commingled with U.S. pension plan assets and, therefore, the investment strategy is identical to that described above for
U.S. pension plans.
Contributions
Although no minimum contributions will be required, the Company plans to make cash contributions to the U.S. pension plans in 2005.
When contributions are made to the U.S. pension plans, the Company may make tax-deductible contributions to the 401(h) account for retiree medical benefits
equal to a portion of the pension normal cost.
Contributions to the international pension plans are now expected to be in the $70 to $90 million range.
Estimated Future Benefit Payments
The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid:
Other Benefits
Pension Medicare
Benefits Gross Subsidy Net
(dollars in millions)
2005 $ 252 $ 61 $ — $ 61
2006 267 61 5 56
2007 289 60 5 55
2008 308 59 5 54
2009 327 58 5 53
Years 2010 – 2014 1,997 280 23 257
105Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 20 PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS (Continued)
Savings Plan
The principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings and Investment Program. The Company’s contribution is based on employee
contributions and the level of Company match. The Company’s contributions to the plan were $53 million in 2004, $51 million in 2003 and $50 million in 2002.
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES
Legal Proceedings and Contingencies
Various lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations are pending against the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In accordance with SFAS No. 5,
Accounting for Contingencies, the Company records accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can
be reasonably estimated. These matters involve antitrust, securities, patent infringement, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA),
pricing, sales and marketing practices, environmental, health and safety matters, product liability and insurance coverage. The most significant of these matters are
described below. There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in the scope of these matters or that any future lawsuits, claims, proceedings or
investigations will not be material. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current
reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the Company’s results of operations and cash flows, and may
be material to its financial condition and liquidity.
The Company’s decision to obtain insurance coverage is dependent on market conditions, including cost and availability, existing at the time such decisions
are made. As a result of external factors, the availability of insurance has become more restrictive while the cost has increased significantly. The Company has
evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining insurance outweighs the benefits of coverage protection against losses and as such, is self-insured
for product liabilities effective July 1, 2004. The Company will continue to evaluate these risks and benefits to determine its insurance needs in the future.
PLAVIX* Litigation
United States
The Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is a plaintiff in three pending patent infringement lawsuits instituted in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York entitled Sanofi-Synthelabo, Sanofi-Synthelabo Inc., and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding
Partnership v. Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp., 02-CV-2255 (SHS); Sanofi-Synthelabo, Sanofi-Synthelabo Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals
Holding Partnership v. Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, LTD, and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc., 02-CV-3672 (SHS); and Sanofi-Synthelabo, Sanofi-Synthelabo Inc., and
Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership vs. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries, Ltd., 04-CV-7458. Teva
Pharmaceuticals Industries, Ltd. has since been dismissed from the case. Proceedings involving PLAVIX* also have been instituted outside the United States. The
most significant of these proceedings is pending in Canada and is described below.
The U.S. suits were filed on March 21, 2002, May 14, 2002, and September 23, 2004 respectively, and were based on U.S. Patent No. 4,847,265, a composition of
matter patent, which discloses and claims, among other things, the hydrogen sulfate salt of clopidogrel, which is marketed as PLAVIX*. The first two suits were also
based on U.S. Patent No. 5,576,328, which discloses and claims, among other things, the use of clopidogrel to prevent a secondary ischemic event. The plaintiffs later
withdrew Patent No. 5,576,328 from the two lawsuits. Plaintiffs’ infringement position is based on defendants’ filing of their Abbreviated New Drug Applications
(ANDA) with the FDA, seeking approval to sell generic clopidogrel bisulfate prior to the expiration of the composition of matter patent in 2011. The defendants
responded by alleging that the patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. Apotex has added antitrust counterclaims. The first two cases were consolidated for discovery.
Fact discovery closed on October 15, 2003 and expert discovery was completed in November 2004; the trial could occur as early as the second quarter of 2005,
although it may occur later. Discovery has not yet commenced in the third action.
The Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is a plaintiff in another pending patent infringement lawsuit instituted in the U.S.
District Court for the District of New Jersey entitled Sanofi-Synthelabo, Sanofi-Synthelabo Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership
v. Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Watson Laboratories, Inc. 2:04-CV-4926. The suit was filed October 7, 2004 and was based on U.S. patent 6,429,210, which
discloses and claims a particular crystalline or polymorph form of the hydrogen sulfate salt of clopidogrel, which is marketed as PLAVIX*. The case is in early stages
and discovery has not yet begun.
106Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
PLAVIX* is currently the Company’s largest product ranked by net sales. Net sales of PLAVIX* were approximately $3.3 billion and $2.5 billion for the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Currently, the Company expects PLAVIX* to have market exclusivity in the United States until 2011. If the composition of matter patent for PLAVIX* is found
not infringed, invalid and/or unenforceable at the district court level, the FDA could then approve the defendants’ ANDAs to sell generic clopidogrel, and generic
competition for PLAVIX* could begin before the Company has exhausted its appeals. Such generic competition would likely result in substantial decreases in the
sales of PLAVIX* in the United States.
Although the plaintiffs intend to vigorously pursue enforcement of their patent rights in PLAVIX*, it is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the
outcome of these lawsuits, or, if the Company were not to prevail in these lawsuits, the timing of potential generic competition for PLAVIX*. However, if generic
competition in the U.S. were to occur, the Company believes it is very unlikely to occur before the second half of 2005. It also is not possible reasonably to estimate
the impact of these lawsuits on the Company.
However, loss of market exclusivity of PLAVIX* and the subsequent development of generic competition would be material to the Company’s sales of
PLAVIX* and results of operations and cash flows and could be material to its financial condition and liquidity.
Canada
Sanofi-Synthelabo and Sanofi-Synthelabo Canada Inc. have instituted a prohibition action in the Federal Court of Canada against Apotex Inc. (Apotex) and the
Minister of Health in response to a Notice of Allegation from Apotex directed against Canadian Patent 1,336,777 covering clopidogrel bisulfate. Apotex’s Notice of
Allegation (NOA) indicated that it had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Submission (ANDS) for clopidogrel bisulfate tablets and that it sought approval (a Notice of
Compliance) of that ANDS before the expiration of Canadian Patent 1,336,777, which expires August 12, 2012. Apotex’s NOA further alleged that the ‘777 patent was
invalid or not infringed. A hearing was held from February 21 to February 25, 2005 and a decision is expected before April 28, 2005, the date the statutory 24 month
stay imposed on the approval of Apotex’s ANDS expires.
If the decision is favorable to Apotex, it could result in a generic product on the market in Canada in the second quarter of 2005. The Company believes that
any outcome in Canada should not be predictive of the outcome in the U.S. in light of the different procedural and substantive rules in the two jurisdictions.
Sanofi-Aventis and Sanofi-Synthelabo Canada Inc. have also instituted a prohibition action in the Federal Court of Canada against Novopharm Limited
(Novopharm) and the Minister of Health in response to a Notice of Allegation from Novopharm directed against Canadian Patent 1,336,777 covering clopidogrel
bisulfate. Novopharm’s Notice of Allegation (NOA) indicated that it had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Submission (ANDS) for clopidogrel bisulfate tablets and that
it sought approval (a Notice of Compliance) of that ANDS before the expiration of Canadian Patent 1,336,777, which expires August 12, 2012. Novopharm’s NOA
further alleged that the ‘777 patent was invalid. The action is in its early stages and no hearing date has been set.
United Kingdom
In December 2004, Aircoat Limited (Aircoat) filed a nullity petition in the Court of Session in Glasgow, Scotland. By its nullity petition, Aircoat seeks
revocation of European Patent 0 281 459 , which has been registered in the United Kingdom. European Patent 0 281 459 covers, inter alia, clopidogrel bisulfate, the
active ingredient in PLAVIX*. Aircoat specifically alleges that the claims of European Patent 0 281 459 are invalid and should be revoked on the grounds of lack of
novelty and/or lack of inventive step.
OTHER PATENT LITIGATION
TEQUIN. The Company and Kyorin Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. (Kyorin) commenced a patent infringement action on March 23, 2004, against Teva USA and
Teva Industries in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, relating to the antibiotic gatifloxacin, for which Kyorin holds the
composition of matter patent and which the Company sells as TEQUIN. Teva Industries has since been dismissed from the case. This action relates to Teva’s filing of
an ANDA for a generic version of gatifloxacin tablets with a certification that the composition of matter patent, which expires in December 2007, is invalid or not
107Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
infringed. The filing of the suit places a stay on the approval of Teva’s generic product until June 2007, unless there is a court decision adverse to the Company and
Kyorin before that date.
ERBITUX*. On October 28, 2003, a complaint was filed by Yeda Research and Development Company Ltd. (Yeda) against ImClone and Aventis
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. This action alleges and seeks that three individuals associated with Yeda should
also be named as co-inventors on U.S. Patent No. 6,217,866, which covers the therapeutic combination of any EGFR-specific monoclonal antibody and anti-neoplastic
agents, such as chemotherapeutic agents, for use in the treatment of cancer. If Yeda’s action were successful, Yeda could be in a position to practice, or to license
others to practice, the invention. This could result in product competition for ERBITUX* that might not otherwise occur. The Company, which is not a party to this
action, is unable to predict the outcome at this stage in the proceedings.
On May 5, 2004, RepliGen Corporation (Repligen) and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the
District of Massachusetts against ImClone claiming that ImClone’s manufacture and sale of ERBITUX* infringes a patent which generally covers a process for
protein production in mammalian cells. Repligen and MIT seek damages based on sales of ERBITUX* which commenced in February 2004. The patent expired on
May 5, 2004, although Repligen and MIT are seeking extension of the patent. The Company, which is not a party to this action, is unable to predict the outcome at
this stage in the proceedings.
ABILIFY*. On August 11, 2004, Otsuka filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) a Request for Reexamination of U.S. composition of
matter patent covering ABILIFY*, an antipsychotic agent used for the treatment of schizophrenia (U.S. Patent Number No. 5,006,528, the “528 Patent”) that expires in
2009, and may be extended until 2014 if pending supplemental protection extensions are granted. Otsuka has determined that the original ‘528 Patent application
contained an error in that the description of a prior art reference was identified by the wrong patent number. In addition, Otsuka has taken the opportunity to bring
other citations to the attention of the USPTO. The USPTO has granted the Request for Reexamination, and the reexamination proceeding is ongoing. The
reexamination proceeding will allow the USPTO to consider the patentability of the patent claims in light of the corrected patent number and newly cited documents.
The USPTO is expected to make a final decision on the reexamination within the next ten to fifteen months.
The Company and Otsuka believe that the invention claimed in the ‘528 Patent is patentable over the prior art and expect that the USPTO will reconfirm that in
the reexamination. However, there can be no guarantee as to the outcome. If the patentability of the ‘528 Patent were not reconfirmed following a reexamination, there
may be sooner than expected loss of market exclusivity of ABILIFY* and the subsequent development of generic competition which would be material to the
Company.
AVALIDE* Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited (Ranbaxy) has served notice that it filed an ANDA with a P(IV) certification directed against U.S. Patent 5,994,348,
which is a formulation patent that expires in June 2015. Ranbaxy’s P(IV) notice asserts that its proposed generic formulation does not infringe Patent 5,993,348.
Ranbaxy’s P(IV) notice did not include a challenge to the composition of matter patent that currently expires in September 2011. The Company and its partner, Sanofi,
are currently evaluating Ranbaxy’s P(IV) notice.
AVAPRO* Ranbaxy has served notice that it filed an ANDA with a P(IV) certification directed against U.S. Patent 6,342,247, which is a formulation patent that
expires in June 2015. Ranbaxy’s P(IV) notice asserts that its proposed generic formulation does not infringe the Patent 6,342,247. Ranbaxy’s P(IV) notice did not
include a challenge to the composition of matter patent that currently expires in September 2011. The Company and its partner, Sanofi, are currently evaluating
Ranbaxy’s P(IV) notice.
TEQUIN (injectable form) Apotex Corp. (Apotex), SICOR Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (SICOR) and American Pharmaceutical Partners, Inc. (APP) have all served
notice that they filed abbreviated NDAs with P(IV) certifications directed against U.S. Patent 5,880,283. Apotex and SICOR also submitted P(IV) certifications against
U.S. Patent 4,980,470. Patent 4,980,470 is a composition of matter patent that expires in December 2007 (and for which a patent term extension has been applied for to
December 2009). U.S. Patent 5,880,283 covers the specific form of gatifloxacin used in TEQUIN. Apotex and SICOR allege in their P(IV) notices that U.S. Patent
4,980,470 is invalid. Apotex, SICOR and APP allege that their proposed generic formulations would not infringe U.S. Patent 5,880,283. The Company is currently
evaluating these P(IV) notices.
VANLEV Litigation
In April, May and June 2000, the Company, its former chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Charles A. Heimbold, Jr., and its former chief scientific
officer, Peter S. Ringrose, Ph.D., were named as defendants in a number of class action lawsuits alleging violations of federal securities laws and regulations. These
actions have been consolidated into one action in the U.S. District
108Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
Court for the District of New Jersey. The plaintiff claims that the defendants disseminated materially false and misleading statements and/or failed to disclose material
information concerning the safety, efficacy and commercial viability of its product VANLEV during the period November 8, 1999 through April 19, 2000.
In May 2002, the plaintiff submitted an amended complaint adding allegations that the Company, its present chairman of the board and chief executive officer,
Peter R. Dolan, its former chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Charles A. Heimbold, Jr., and its former chief scientific officer, Peter S. Ringrose, Ph.D.,
disseminated materially false and misleading statements and/or failed to disclose material information concerning the safety, efficacy, and commercial viability of
VANLEV during the period April 19, 2000 through March 20, 2002. A number of related class actions, making essentially the same allegations, were also filed in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. These actions have been transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey.
The Company filed a motion for partial judgment in its favor based upon the pleadings. The plaintiff opposed the motion, in part by seeking again to amend its
complaint. The court granted in part and denied in part the Company’s motion and ruled that the plaintiff may amend its complaint to challenge certain alleged
misstatements.
The court has certified two separate classes: a class relating to the period from November 8, 1999 to April 19, 2000 and a class relating to the period from March
22, 2001 to March 20, 2002. The class certification and proposed class certification are without prejudice to defendants’ rights to fully contest the merits of plaintiff’s
claims. The plaintiff purports to seek compensatory damages, costs and expense on behalf of shareholders with respect to the class period and proposed class
period.
On December 17, 2004, the Company and the other defendants made a motion for summary judgment as to all of plaintiff’s claims. The final pre-trial conference
in this matter commenced on December 15, 2004 and is scheduled to be completed on May 4, 2005. No trial date has been set.
In January 2005, the plaintiff moved for leave to file a third amended complaint, seeking to combine the two class periods into one expanded class period from
October 19, 1999 through March 19, 2002 and to add further allegations that the Company, Peter R. Dolan, Charles A. Heimbold, Jr., and Peter S. Ringrose, Ph.D.
disseminated materially false and misleading statements and or failed to disclose material information concerning the safety, efficacy and commercial viability of
VANLEV. Defendants have opposed the plaintiff’s motion, and the Court is scheduled to hear oral argument on the motion on April 4, 2005.
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of this litigation or reasonably to estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to
this litigation. If the Company were not to prevail in final, non-appealable determinations of this litigation, the impact could be material.
Other Securities Matters
During the period March through May 2002, the Company and a number of its current and former officers were named as defendants in a number of securities
class action suits. The suits variously alleged violations of federal securities laws and regulations in connection with three different matters: (1) VANLEV (as
discussed above), (2) sales incentives and wholesaler inventory levels, and (3) ImClone, and ImClone’s product, ERBITUX*. As discussed above, the allegations
concerning VANLEV have been transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey and consolidated with the action pending there. The remaining
actions have been consolidated and are pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Plaintiffs filed a consolidated class action complaint
on April 11, 2003 against the Company and certain current and former officers alleging a class period of October 19, 1999 through March 10, 2003. The consolidated
class action complaint alleges violations of federal securities laws in connection with, among other things, the Company’s investment in and relationship with
ImClone and ImClone’s product, ERBITUX*, and certain accounting issues, including issues related to wholesaler inventory and sales incentives, the establishment
of reserves, and accounting for certain asset and other sales. The plaintiffs seek compensatory damages, costs and expenses. On March 29, 2004, the U.S. District
Court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss the consolidated class action complaint and dismissed the case with prejudice. Plaintiffs appealed that dismissal to
the Second Circuit Court of Appeals (Court of Appeals). While that appeal was pending, the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the action. On July 26,
2004, the Court of Appeals stayed the appeal and remanded the action to the District Court so that the District Court could consider the settlement. On July 30, 2004,
the District Court vacated the Clerk’s Judgment in order to consider the settlement. Also on that day, the District Court entered an order preliminarily approving the
settlement and certifying a class for settlement purposes only. Pursuant to the terms of the proposed settlement, all claims in the action will be dismissed, the
litigation will be terminated, the defendants will receive releases, and the Company will pay $300 million to a fund for class members. On November 9, 2004, after a
fairness hearing, the District Court approved the settlement and a judgment dismissing the case with prejudice. The settlement has become final. The Company is
discussing recovery under its insurance policies, not reflected in the financial statements, of a portion of the $300 million settlement. Approximately 58 million shares
have been excluded from the settlement pursuant to requests for exclusion. Of those, approximately 51 million shares are held by plaintiffs in the four pending actions
discussed below, which the Company has established reserves for liabilities. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the final outcome of these lawsuits. In
accordance with GAAP, the Company has determined that the above amounts represent minimum expected probable losses with respect to these lawsuits. Eventual
losses related to these
109Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
lawsuits may exceed these reserves, and the further impact could be material. The Company does not believe that the top-end of the range for these losses can be
estimated.
In addition, an action was filed in early October 2003, in New York State Supreme Court, making similar factual allegations and asserting a variety of claims
including, among others, common law fraud and negligent misrepresentation. No discovery has been taken in this matter. On January 9, 2004, the Company moved to
dismiss the complaint. The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on December 16, 2004, making similar allegations but also adding allegations from the SEC Complaint
issued in August 2004. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on February 11, 2005. Plaintiffs’ opposition to the motion to dismiss is due
March 15, 2005. The Company’s reply is due April 8, 2005. Three related actions were filed, one in September 2004, one in November 2004 and one in December 2004,
all, making similar factual allegations and asserting claims similar to those made in the amended complaint for the New York State Supreme Court action filed in
October 2003. The Company intends to file a motion to dismiss each of the related actions, which have a briefing schedule identical to the action filed in October 2003.
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of this litigation or reasonably to estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to this
litigation. If the Company were not to prevail in final, non-applicable determinations of this litigation, the impact could be material.
The Company and a number of the Company’s current and former officers were named as defendants in a purported class action filed on October 6, 2004 in the
State Court in Cook County, Illinois. The complaint makes factual allegations similar to those made in the settled federal class action in the Southern District of New
York and asserts common law fraud and breach of fiduciary duty claims. The complaint purports to assert those claims on behalf of stockholders who purchased the
Company’s stock before October 19, 1999 and held onto their stock through March 10, 2003. The Company removed the action to the Northern District of Illinois on
February 10, 2005. Plaintiffs’ motion to remand is due March 17, 2005. The Company’s opposition is due April 18, 2005 and plaintiffs’ reply is due May 18, 2005. It is
not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of this litigation or reasonably to estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to this
litigation. If the Company were not to prevail in final, non-applicable determinations of this litigation, the impact could be material.
On November 18, 2004, a class action complaint was filed in United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri against the Company, D & K
Healthcare Resources, Inc. (D & K) and several current and former D & K directors and officers on behalf of purchasers of D & K stock between August 10, 2000 and
September 16, 2002. The class action complaint alleges that the Company participated in fraudulently inflating the value of D & K stock by allegedly engaging in
improper “channel-stuffing” agreements with D & K. BMS filed a motion to dismiss this case on January 28, 2005. The plaintiff’s opposition to the motion to dismiss
is due March 21, 2005, and the Company’s reply is due April 11, 2005. Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, discovery is automatically stayed pending
the outcome of the motion to dismiss. The plaintiff filed a motion to partially lift the automatic discovery stay on February 22, 2005. The Company’s opposition to the
motion is due March 4, 2005 and plaintiff’s reply is due March 16, 2005. The impact is not expected to be material.
Beginning in October 2002, a number of the Company’s current and former officers and directors were named as defendants in three shareholder derivative suits
pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. A number of the Company’s current and former officers and directors were named as
defendants in three shareholder derivative suits filed during the period March 2003 through May 2003 in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. In July
2003 the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey ordered the three shareholder derivative lawsuits that were filed in that court transferred to the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York. Subsequently, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York ordered all six federal shareholder derivative
suits consolidated. Plaintiffs have filed a consolidated, amended, verified shareholder complaint against certain members of the board of directors, current and former
officers and PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), an independent registered public accounting firm. As is customary in derivative suits, the Company has been named as
a defendant in this action. As a nominal defendant, the Company is not liable for any damages in the suit nor is any specific relief sought against the Company. The
consolidated amended complaint alleges, among other things, violations of federal securities laws and breaches of fiduciary duty by certain individual defendants in
connection with the Company’s conduct concerning, among other things: safety, efficacy and commercial viability of VANLEV (as discussed above); the Company’s
sales incentives to certain wholesalers and the inventory levels of those wholesalers; the Company’s investment in and relations with ImClone and ImClone’s
product ERBITUX*; and alleged anticompetitive behavior in connection with BUSPAR and TAXOL. The lawsuit also alleges malpractice (negligent
misrepresentation and negligence) by PwC. The plaintiffs seek restitution and rescission of certain officers’ and directors’ compensation and alleged improper insider
trading proceeds; injunctive relief; fees, costs and expenses; contribution from certain officers for alleged liability in the consolidated securities class action pending
in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (as discussed above); and contribution and indemnification from PwC. No discovery has been taken in
this matter. On December 19, 2003, the Company moved to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint. The motion to dismiss has been administratively withdrawn
without prejudice. Any party has the right to have it reinstated upon request. Two similar actions are pending in New York State Court. Plaintiffs seek equitable relief,
damages, costs and attorneys’ fees. The parties are currently engaged in discussions regarding potential settlement of the action.
As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, the Company entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning certain
wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which was attached as Exhibit 10s to the Company’s
quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004. In the Consent, the Company agreed, without admitting or denying any liability, not to violate
certain provisions of the securities laws. The Company also agreed to establish a $150 million fund for a class of shareholders to be distributed under the court’s
supervision. The $150 million fund, which included a $100 million civil penalty, will be distributed to certain Company shareholders under a plan of distribution
established by the SEC.
110Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
The settlement does not resolve the ongoing investigation by the SEC of the activities of certain current and former members of the Company’s management in
connection with the wholesaler inventory issues and other accounting matters, which investigation is ongoing. In addition, an investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s
Office for the District of New Jersey concerning the inventory and accounting matters covered by the Company’s settlement with the SEC is continuing. The
Company is continuing to cooperate with those investigations.
ERISA Litigation
In December 2002 and the first quarter of 2003, the Company and others were named as defendants in five class actions brought under the ERISA in the U.S.
District Courts for the Southern District of New York and the District of New Jersey. These actions have been consolidated in the Southern District of New York
under the caption In re Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. ERISA Litigation, 02 CV 10129 (LAP). An Amended Consolidated Complaint alleging a class period of January 1,
1999 through March 10, 2003 was served on August 18, 2003. The Amended Consolidated Complaint was brought on behalf of four named plaintiffs and a putative
class consisting of all participants in the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Savings and Investment Program (Savings Plan) and their beneficiaries for whose benefit
the Savings Plan held and/or acquired Company stock at any time during the class period (excluding the defendants, their heirs, predecessors, successors and
assigns). The named defendants are the Company, the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Savings Plan Committee (Committee), thirteen individuals who presently serve
on the Committee or who served on the Committee in the recent past, Charles A. Heimbold, Jr. and Peter R. Dolan (the past and present Chief Executive Officers,
respectively, and the Company). The Amended Consolidated Complaint generally alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties under ERISA during the
class period by, among other things, continuing to offer the Company Stock Fund and Company stock as investment alternatives under the Savings Plan; continuing
to invest Company matching contributions in the Company Stock Fund and Company stock; and failing to disclose that investments in Company stock were
(allegedly) imprudent. The Savings Plan’s purchases of Company stock after January 1, 1999 are alleged to have been transactions prohibited by ERISA. Finally,
Defendants Heimbold and Dolan are alleged to have breached their fiduciary duties under ERISA by failing to monitor the actions of the Committee. These ERISA
claims are predicated upon factual allegations similar to those raised in “Other Securities Matters” above, concerning, among other things: the safety, efficacy and
commercial viability of VANLEV; the Company’s sales incentives to certain wholesalers and the inventory levels of those wholesalers; the Company’s investment in
and relations with ImClone and ImClone’s product ERBITUX*; and alleged anticompetitive behavior in connection with BUSPAR and TAXOL.
There has not been significant discovery to date and discovery is currently stayed. On October 2, 2003, the Company and all other defendants moved to
dismiss the Amended Consolidated Complaint. The plaintiffs have opposed the motion to dismiss, and the defendants have replied. The motions to dismiss were
administratively withdrawn without prejudice. Plaintiffs have now requested a pre-motion conference and intend to ask the Court for leave to file a Second
Amendment Complaint. In the second quarter of 2004, the Company established reserves for liabilities for this litigation of $20 million. It is not possible at this time
reasonably to assess the final outcome of this litigation. In accordance with GAAP, the Company has determined that the reserves established represent the minimum
expected probable losses with respect to this litigation. Eventual losses related to this litigation may exceed reserves, and the further impact could be material. The
Company does not believe that the top-end of the range for these losses can be estimated. If the Company were not to prevail in final, non-appealable determination
of this matter, the impact could be material to its results of operations.
Pricing, Sales and Promotional Practices Litigation and Investigations
The Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, is a defendant in several private class actions and in actions brought by the
Nevada, Montana, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Kentucky, Illinois and Alabama Attorneys General, the City of New York and four New York counties that are pending
in federal and state courts relating to the pricing of certain Company products. The federal cases, and some related state court cases that were removed to federal
courts, have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes under the caption In re Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation, MDL No. 1456, Civ. Action
No. 01-CV-12257-PBS, before United States District Court Judge Patti B. Saris in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts (AWP Multidistrict
Litigation). On June 18, 2003 , the private plaintiffs in the AWP Multidistrict Litigation filed an Amended Master Consolidated Complaint (Amended Master
Complaint). The Amended Master Complaint contains two sets of allegations against the Company. First, it alleges that the Company’s and many other
pharmaceutical manufacturers’ reporting of prices for certain drug products (20 listed drugs in the Company’s case) had the effect of falsely overstating the Average
Wholesale Price (AWP) published in industry compendia, which in turn improperly inflated the reimbursement paid to medical providers, pharmacists, and others
who prescribed, administered or sold those products to consumers. Second, it alleges that the Company and certain other defendant pharmaceutical manufacturers
conspired with one another in a program called the “Together Rx Card Program” to fix AWPs for certain drugs made available to consumers through the Program. The
Amended Master Complaint asserts claims under the federal RICO and antitrust statutes and state consumer protection and fair trade statutes.
111Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
The Amended Master Complaint is brought on behalf of two main proposed classes, whose definitions have been subject to further amendment as the case
has progressed. As of December 17, 2004, those proposed classes may be summarized as: (1) all persons or entities who, from 1991 forward, paid or reimbursed all or
part of a listed drug under Medicare Part B or under a private contract that expressly used AWP as a pricing standard and (2) all persons or entities who, from 2002
forward, paid or reimbursed any portion of the purchase price of a drug covered by the Together Rx Card Program based in whole or in part on AWP. The first class is
further divided into several proposed subclasses depending on whether the listed drug in question is physician-administered, self-administered, sold through a
pharmacy benefits manager or specialty pharmacy, or is a brand-name or generic drug. On September 3, 2004, plaintiffs in the AWP Multidistrict Litigation moved for
certification of a proposed plaintiff class. The parties briefed that motion, as it related to the amended proposed definition of the first main class and sub-classes
discussed above, and motion was heard by the Court on February 10, 2005.
The Company and other defendants moved to dismiss the Amended Master Complaint on the grounds that it fails to state claims under the applicable statutes.
On February 24, 2004, the Court denied this motion in large part, although the Court dismissed one of the plaintiffs’ claims for failure to plead a cognizable RICO
“enterprise”. Accordingly, the Court required that the Company and the other defendants answer the Amended Master Complaint. The court subsequently ordered
that five defendants, including the Company engage in accelerated discovery with respect to the remaining allegations of the Amended Master Complaint, other than
the allegations related to Together Rx, which are on a more extended discovery schedule. This accelerated discovery closed as to these five defendants on January
30, 2005. In addition, the Company and the other defendants have obtained discovery of the named plaintiffs and of several non-parties, such as benefits
consultants, the federal government, and health insurers. The current schedule calls for expert reports, expert depositions and summary judgment briefing on liability
issues during the first half of 2005.
The cases commenced by the Nevada, Montana, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Illinois, Alabama and Kentucky Attorneys General (the Attorneys General AWP
Cases) and the cases commenced by New York City and four New York counties (the New York City & County AWP Cases) include fraud and consumer protection
claims similar to those in the Amended Master Complaint. Certain of the states, city and counties also have made additional allegations that defendants, including the
Company, have violated state Medicaid statutes by, among other things, failing to provide the states with adequate rebates required under federal law. The
Attorneys’ General AWP Cases, other than the Montana action, are proceeding in their respective state courts.
In a series of decisions in June, September, and October 2004, affecting the Montana Attorney General’s case and the New York City & County AWP Cases,
which are proceeding in the AWP Multidistrict Litigation in coordination with the private class actions, the Court declined to find that the Medicaid rebate claims
were preempted by federal law, but nevertheless dismissed many of the claims relating to “rebate” payments made by several drug manufacturers, including those
claims relating to the Company as insufficiently pled. The Court allowed to proceed the state law claims that allege that the Company misreported AWPs. The
Company has filed its answer to the claims remaining in the Montana Attorney General’s complaint.
The Company also has joined with other defendants in a motion to dismiss the Pennsylvania Attorney General’s action. In a decision filed February 1, 2005,
the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court granted the motion to dismiss on the ground that the plaintiff had failed to plead the complaint with the requisite particularity.
The Court gave the Attorney General 30 days to replead. On July 16, 2004, the Nevada court denied the Company’s and other defendants’ motions to dismiss the
complaint except as to the state RICO claim and granted the Attorney General leave to replead, in an opinion that was based on the prior rulings of the AWP
Multidistrict Litigation Court. The Company and other defendants also have made, or may soon make, motions to dismiss in the other Attorneys General AWP Cases.
The Company is also one of a number of defendants in a private class action making AWP-based claims that was remanded from the AWP Multidistrict
Litigation to Arizona state court. An individual, Robert J. Swanston, asserts claims under Arizona state law on behalf of himself and an alleged class of persons and
entities in Arizona who paid for prescription drugs based on AWP (the Swanston Action), which claims generally allege that the defendant drug manufacturers have
conspired to inflate AWPs. By order dated August 5, 2004, the Arizona Court denied defendants’ motions to dismiss or stay the proceedings. The parties are
currently briefing plaintiff’s motion for class certification and defendants’ papers are due February 11, 2005. The Court in the Swanston Action has ordered that
discovery in that matter should be coordinated with discovery in the AWP Multidistrict Litigation.
On or about October 8, 2004, the Company was added as a defendant in a putative class action previously commenced against other drug manufacturers in
federal court in Alabama . The case was brought by two health care providers that are allegedly entitled under a federal statute, Section 340B of the Public Health
Service Act, to discounted prices on prescription drugs dispensed to the poor in the providers’ local areas. The plaintiff health care providers contend that they and
an alleged class of other providers authorized to obtain discounted prices under the statute may in fact not have received the level of discounts to which they are
entitled. The Amended Complaint against the Company and the other manufacturers asserts claims directly under the federal statute, as well as
112Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
under state law for unjust enrichment and for an accounting. The Company has joined in a motion to dismiss the Complaint that was filed by the original manufacturer
defendants and that has, with the court’s approval been made applicable to the Amended Complaint.
Finally, the Company is a defendant in related state court proceedings commenced in New York, New Jersey, California, and Tennessee. Those proceedings
were transferred to the AWP Multidistrict Litigation for pre-trial purposes. The plaintiffs in the California and New Jersey actions sought to remand their cases to the
state courts. The California remand motions were denied, and the New Jersey remand motion remains pending.
These cases are at a very preliminary stage, and the Company is unable to assess the outcome and any possible effects on its business and profitability, or
reasonably estimate possible loss or range of loss with respect to these cases. If the Company were not to prevail in final, non-appealable determinations of these
litigations and investigations, the impact could be material.
The Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, also has received subpoenas and other document requests from various
government agencies seeking records relating to its pricing, sales and marketing practices, and “Best Price” reporting for drugs covered by Medicare and/or
Medicaid. The requests for records have come from the U.S. Attorneys’ Offices for the District of Massachusetts, the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and the
Northern District of Texas, the Civil Division of the Department of Justice, the Offices of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and
the Office of Personnel Management (each in conjunction with the Civil Division of the Department of Justice), and several states. In addition, requests for
information have come from the House Committee on Energy & Commerce and the Senate Finance Committee in connection with investigations that the committees
are currently conducting into Medicaid Best Price issues.
As previously disclosed, in mid-2003, the Company initiated an internal review of certain of its sales and marketing practices, focusing on whether these
practices comply with applicable anti-kickback laws and analyzing these practices with respect to compliance with (1) Best Price reporting and rebate requirements
under the Medicaid program and certain other U.S. governmental programs, which reference the Medicaid rebate program and (2) applicable FDA requirements. The
Company has met with representatives of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts to discuss the review and has received related subpoenas from
that U.S. Attorney’s Office. The Company’s internal review is expected to continue until resolution of pending governmental investigations of related matters.
The Company is producing documents and actively cooperating in the investigations, which could result in the assertion of civil and/or criminal claims. In the
second quarter of 2004, the Company increased reserves for liabilities in relation to pharmaceutical pricing and sales and marketing practices described in this section
by $34 million, bringing the total reserves for liabilities for these matters to $134 million. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the final outcome of these
matters. In accordance with GAAP, the Company has determined that the above amount represents minimum expected probable losses with respect to these matters,
which losses could include the imposition of fines, penalties, administrative remedies and/or liability for additional rebate amounts. Eventual losses related to these
matters may exceed these reserves, and the further impact could be material. The Company does not believe that the top-end of the range for these losses can be
estimated. If the Company were not to prevail in final, non-appealable determinations of these litigations and investigations, the impact could be material.
As previously disclosed, in 2004 the Company undertook an analysis of its methods and processes for calculating prices for reporting under governmental
rebate and pricing programs related to its U.S. Pharmaceuticals business. The analysis was completed in early 2005. Based on the analysis, the Company identified
the need for revisions to the methodology and processes used for calculating reported pricing and related rebate amounts and expects to implement these revised
methodologies and processes beginning with its reporting to the Federal government agency with primary responsibility for these rebate and price reporting
obligations, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in the first quarter of 2005. In addition, using the revised methodologies and processes, the
Company also has recalculated the “Best Price and “Average Manufacturer’s Price” required to be reported under the Company’s federal Medicaid rebate agreement
and certain state agreements, and the corresponding revised rebate liability amounts under those programs for the three-year period 2002 to 2004. In the third quarter
of 2004, based on the results of the Company’s analysis at that time, the Company recorded an additional liability equal to the then estimated additional rebate
liability resulting from the proposed revisions, which was not material. Upon completion of the analysis in early 2005, the Company has finally determined that the
estimated rebate liability for those programs for the three-year period 2002 to 2004 was actually less than the rebates that had been paid by the Company for such
period. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company reversed the additional rebate liability that was recorded in the third quarter of 2003 and recorded an
additional reduction to the rebate liability in the amount of the estimated overpayment. The Company’s proposed revisions and its updated estimate will be submitted
for review to CMS. The Company anticipates that the submission to CMS also will likely be reviewed by the Department of Justice (DOJ) in conjunction with the
previously disclosed subpoena received by the Company from the DOJ relating to, among other things, “Best Price” reporting for drugs covered by Medicaid as
discussed in more detail above. These agencies may take the position that
113Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
further revisions to the company’s methodologies and calculations are required. Upon completion of governmental review, the Company will determine whether any
further recalculation of the liability from the Company under the identified programs for any period or under any other similar programs is necessary or appropriate.
The company believes, based on current information, that any such recalculation is not likely to result in material rebate liability. However, due to the uncertainty
surrounding the recoverability of the Company’s estimated overpayment arising from the review process described above, the Company has also recorded a reserve
in an amount equal to the estimated overpayment. The Company has remediated its internal controls over the processes and procedures the Company believes
resulted in these proposed revisions and will continue to strengthen its internal controls.
The Company received a civil investigative demand from the Attorney General of the State of Missouri relating to direct-to-consumer advertising for
PRAVACHOL for the period of 2001-2003. The Company received written confirmation from the Attorney General in July 2004 concluding its investigation with no
action taken against the Company. The Company also received notice of a putative class action lawsuit involving issues related to the direct-to-consumer
advertising, filed on February 23, 2004, in circuit court of Jackson County Missouri at Kansas City, caption Richard Summers v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. The
Company was served with this complaint on March 23, 2004 and removed the action to federal court. The action has been remanded to state court. The impact is not
expected to be material.
The Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, has been named as a defendant in an action filed in California State Superior
Court in Oakland, James Clayworth et al. v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, et al., alleging that the defendants have conspired to fix the prices of pharmaceuticals
by preventing the importation of foreign drugs into the United States and asserting claims under California’s Cartwright Act and unfair competition law. The plaintiffs
seek treble damages for any damages they have sustained; restitution of any profit obtained by defendants through charging artificially higher prices to plaintiffs; an
injunction barring the defendants from charging the plaintiffs higher prices offered to other customers; an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs; and any
other relief the Court deems proper. The plaintiffs have propounded interrogatories and the defendants served objections and responses on January 10, 2005. The
parties are in the process of meeting and conferring to resolve disputes over the defendants’ responses and objections. The plaintiffs also have propounded form
interrogatories, requests for admission and a request for the production of documents. The Company is preparing responses and objections to each of those
discovery requests. On November 22, 2004, the Company filed a demurrer to this action. The plaintiffs filed an opposition brief on December 20, 2004, and the
Company filed a reply brief on January 20, 2005. Oral argument on the demurrer was held on February 1, 2005. In an order dated February 4, 2005, the Court sustained
the demurrer. The Court also granted plaintiffs leave to file a Second Amended Complaint, which they have already done. Defendants’ response to the Second
Amended Complaint is to be filed by March 15, 2005.
This case is at a very preliminary stage, and the Company is unable to assess the outcome and any possible effect on its business and profitability, or
reasonably estimate possible loss or range of loss with respect to this case. If the Company were not to prevail in a final, non-appealable determination of this
litigation, the impact could be material.
Product Liability Litigation
The Company is a party to product liability lawsuits involving allegations of injury caused by the Company’s pharmaceutical and over-the-counter
medications. The majority of these lawsuits involve certain over-the-counter medications containing phenylpropanolamine (PPA), or the Company’s SERZONE and
STADOL NS prescription drugs. In addition to lawsuits, the Company also faces unfiled claims involving the same products.
PPA. In May 2000, Yale University published the results of its Hemorrhagic Stroke Project, which concluded that there was evidence of a suggestion that PPA
may increase the risk of hemorrhagic stroke in a limited population. In November 2000, the FDA issued a Public Health Advisory and requested that manufacturers of
PPA-containing products voluntarily cease manufacturing and marketing them. At that time, the only PPA-containing products manufactured or sold by the
Company were COMTREX (liqui-gel formulations only) and NALDECON. On or about November 6, 2000, the Company, as well as other manufacturers of PPA-
containing products, discontinued the manufacture and marketing of PPA-containing products and allowed customers to return any unused product that they had in
their possession.
In January 2001, the Company was served with its first PPA lawsuit. The Company currently is a defendant in approximately 50 personal injury lawsuits, filed
on behalf of approximately 50 plaintiffs, in federal and state courts throughout the United States. Many of these lawsuits involve multiple defendants. Among other
claims, plaintiffs allege that PPA causes hemorrhagic and ischemic strokes, that the defendants were aware of the risk, failed to warn consumers and failed to remove
PPA from their products. Plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages. All of the federal cases have been transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Western
District of Washington, In re Phenylpropanolamine (PPA) Products Liability Litigation, MDL No. 1407. The District Court has denied all motions for class
certification and there are no class action lawsuits pending against the Company in this litigation.
114Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
On June 18, 2003, the District Court issued a ruling effectively limiting the plaintiffs’ claims to hemorrhagic and ischemic strokes. Rulings favorable for the
defendants included the inadmissibility of expert testimony in cases alleging injuries occurring more than three days after ingestion of a PPA-containing product and
cases involving psychoses, seizures and cardiac injuries. The Company expects to be dismissed from additional cases in which its products were never used by the
plaintiffs and where plaintiffs’ alleged injury occurred more than three days after ingestion of a PPA-containing product or where a plaintiff suffered from cardiac
injuries or psychoses.
SERZONE. SERZONE (nefazodone hydrochloride) is an antidepressant that was launched by the Company in May 1994 in Canada and in March 1995 in the
United States. In December 2001, the Company added a black box warning to its SERZONE label warning of the potential risk of severe hepatic events including
possible liver failure and the need for transplantation and risk of death. Within several months of the black box warning being added to the package insert for
SERZONE, a number of lawsuits, including several class actions, were filed against the Company. Plaintiffs allege that the Company knew or should have known
about the hepatic risks posed by SERZONE and failed to adequately warn physicians and users of the risks. They seek compensatory and punitive damages, medical
monitoring, and refunds for the costs of purchasing SERZONE. In May 2004, the Company announced that, following an evaluation of the commercial potential of the
product after generic entry into the marketplace and rapidly declining brand sales, it had decided to discontinue the manufacture and sale of the product effective
June 14, 2004.
At present, the Company has approximately 213 lawsuits, on behalf of approximately 2,114 plaintiffs, pending against it in federal and state courts throughout
the United States. Twenty-seven of these cases are pending in New York State Court and have been consolidated for pretrial discovery. In addition, there are
approximately 761 alleged, but unfiled, claims of injury associated with SERZONE. In August 2002, the federal cases were transferred to the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of West Virginia, In Re Serzone Products Liability Litigation, MDL 1477. Although discovery is still at a very early stage it appears that very few
of these cases involve liver failure. In June 2003, the District Court dismissed the class claims in all but two of the class action complaints. A purported class action
has also been filed in Illinois. Although a number of the class action complaints filed against the Company had sought the certification of one or more personal injury
classes, the remaining class action complaints do not seek the certification of personal injury classes. In addition to the cases filed in the United States, there are four
national class actions filed in Canada.
Without admitting any wrongdoing or liability, on or around October 15, 2004, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with respect to all claims in
the United States and its territories regarding SERZONE. The settlement agreement embodies a schedule of payments dependent upon whether the class member has
developed a qualifying medical condition, whether he or she can demonstrate that they purchased or took SERZONE, and whether certain other criteria apply. The
settlement is subject to final approval by the District Court and any appeals therefrom. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, plaintiffs’ class counsel filed a class
action complaint seeing relief for the settlement class. On November 18, 2004, the District Court conditionally certified the temporary settlement class and preliminarily
approved the settlement. The opt-out period ends on April 8, 2005. The fairness hearing is scheduled for June 30, 2005. Pursuant to the terms of the proposed
settlement, all claims will be dismissed, the litigation will be terminated, the defendants will receive releases, and the Company commits to paying at least $70 million to
funds for class members. Class Counsel will have the right to petition the court for an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses; the fees will be paid by the
Company and will not reduce the amount of money paid to class members as part of the settlement. The Company may terminate the settlement based upon the
number of claims submitted or the number of purported class members who opt not to participate in the settlement and instead pursue individual claims.
In the second quarter of 2004, the Company established reserves for liabilities for these lawsuits of $75 million. It is not possible at this time to reasonably
assess the final outcome of these lawsuits. In accordance with GAAP, the Company has determined that the above amounts represent minimum expected probable
losses with respect to these lawsuits. Eventual losses related to these lawsuits may exceed these reserves, and the further impact could be material. The Company
does not believe that the top-end of the range for these losses can be estimated.
STADOL NS. STADOL NS was approved in 1992 by the FDA as an unscheduled opioid analgesic nasal spray. In February 1995 the Company asked the FDA
to schedule STADOL NS as a Schedule IV, low potential for abuse, drug due to post-marketing reports suggestive of inappropriate use of the product. On October
31, 1997, it became a Schedule IV drug. Since 1997, the Company has received a number of lawsuits involving STADOL. In late 2002, the number of filed suits
increased due to newly passed tort reform legislation, which became effective on January 1, 2003. Most, if not all, of the plaintiffs in these new suits had previously
asserted claims against the Company for their alleged injuries. In May 2004, the Company announced that, following an evaluation of the commercial potential of the
product after generic entry in the marketplace and rapidly declining brand sales, it had decided to discontinue the manufacture and sale of the product effective June
14, 2004.
The Company is a party in approximately 32 cases pending, on behalf of a total of approximately 565 plaintiffs, in federal and state courts throughout the
United States. Plaintiffs claim that the Company committed fraud on the FDA and wrongfully promoted
115Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
STADOL NS as non-addictive. Further, plaintiffs allege that the Company failed to adequately warn of the addiction and dependency risk associated with the use of
STADOL NS. The Company has reached an agreement in principle to settle 31 of the lawsuits involving approximately 564 plaintiffs. In addition to these lawsuits,
there are approximately 25 active, alleged and unfiled claims. The majority of the cases and claims are pending in Mississippi.
In the second quarter of 2004, the Company recovered insurance proceeds of $25 million with respect to the STADOL NS case.
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION. The Company, together with its subsidiary Medical Engineering Corporation (MEC) and certain other companies, remains a
defendant in a number of claims and lawsuits alleging damages for personal injuries of various types resulting from polyurethane-covered breast implants and
smooth-walled breast implants formerly manufactured by MEC or a related company. The vast majority of claims against the Company in direct lawsuits have been
resolved through settlements or trial.
Likewise, claims or potential claims against the Company registered in the nationwide class action settlement approved by the Federal District Court in
Birmingham, Alabama (Revised Settlement), have been or will be resolved through the Revised Settlement. The Company has established accruals in respect of breast
implant product liability litigation. The Company believes that any possible loss in addition to the amounts accrued will not be material.
HORMONE REPLACEMENT THERAPY (HRT) LITIGATION. In 1991, The National Institute of Health began some clinical trials involving Prempro (estrogen
and progestin) and Premarin (estrogen), both of which are manufactured by Wyeth. A July 2002 JAMA article reported that among the Prempro subjects, there were
increased risks of breast cancer, heart attacks, blood clots and strokes. The Prempro phase of the study was stopped on July 9, 2002. In July 2003, the Company was
served with its first HRT lawsuit. The Company products involved in this litigation are: ESTRACE® (an estrogen-only tablet); ESTRADIOL (generic estrogen-only
tablet); DELESTROGEN® (an injectable estrogen); and OVCON® (an oral contraceptive containing both estrogen and progestin). All of these products were sold to
other companies between January 2000 and August 2001, but the company maintains the ESTRACE® ANDA.
The Company currently is a defendant in approximately 846 lawsuits including the above-mentioned products, filed on behalf of approximately 1,182 plaintiffs,
in federal and state courts throughout the United States. A majority of these lawsuits involve multiple defendants. The Company expects to be dismissed from many
cases in which its products were never used. Plaintiffs allege, among other things that these products cause breast cancer, stroke, blood clots, cardiac and other
injuries in women, that the defendants were aware of these risks and failed to warn consumers. The federal cases are being transferred to the U.S. District Court for
the Eastern District of Arkansas, In re Prempro (Wyeth) Products Liability Litigation, MDL No., 1507.
The Company is vigorously defending its product liability lawsuits and believes that the majority of these cases and claims are without merit. While it is not
possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of the Company’s pending product liability lawsuits and unfiled claims with certainty, management is of
the opinion that the ultimate disposition of these matters should not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, except as otherwise indicated
above. The Company believes that it has adequate self-insurance reserves and commercially available excess insurance to cover potential material losses related to its
product liability cases and claims.
Environmental Proceedings
The following discussion describes (1) environmental proceedings with a governmental authority which may involve potential monetary sanctions of $100,000
or more (the threshold prescribed by specific SEC rule), (2) a civil action or an environmental claim that could result in significant liabilities, (3) updates of ongoing
matters, or the resolution of other matters, disclosed in recent public filings and (4) a summary of environmental remediation costs.
The results of an internal audit performed at the Company’s facility in Hopewell, N.J. indicate that operations at the site’s wastewater treatment plant and
related discharges were not always in compliance with the New Jersey Water Pollution Control Act and its implementing regulations or the terms of the Company’s
discharge permits. The Company reported its findings to the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) in February 2004, entered a settlement
agreement with NJDEP on November 16, 2004, and paid a penalty of $44,500. None of the results of the audit suggest that there has been any adverse impact to public
health. The Company has taken, and will continue to take, corrective actions to address identified deficiencies and to prevent future occurrences.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is investigating industrial and commercial facilities throughout the U.S. that use refrigeration equipment
containing ozone-depleting substances (ODS) and enforcing compliance with regulations governing the prevention, service and repair of leaks (ODS requirements).
Recently, the Company performed a voluntary corporate-wide audit at its
116Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
facilities in the U.S. and Puerto Rico that use ODS-containing refrigeration equipment. The Company submitted an audit report to the EPA in November, 2004,
identifying potential violations of the ODS requirements at several of its facilities, and is currently in discussions with EPA to resolve such matters. In addition to the
matters covered in the Company’s audit report letter to the EPA, the EPA previously sent the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Mead Johnson, a request for
information regarding compliance with ODS requirements at its facility in Evansville, Indiana. The Company responded to the request in June 2004, and the EPA
currently is in the process of reviewing the information that the Company provided. If the EPA determines that the Evansville facility, or any other facilities, was, or is,
in violation of applicable ODS requirements, the Company could be subject to penalties and/or be required to convert or replace refrigeration equipment to use non-
ODS approved substitutes.
In January 2004, the NJDEP sent the Company and approximately five other companies an information request letter relating to a site in North Brunswick
Township, N.J. where waste materials from E.R. Squibb & Sons (Squibb), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, may have been disposed from the 1940s
through the 1960s. Fill material containing industrial waste and heavy metals in excess of residential standards was discovered in Fall 2003 during an expansion
project at the North Brunswick Township High School, as well as at a number of neighboring residential properties, and adjacent public park areas. The school board
and the Township, who are the current owners of the site, are conducting and jointly financing soil remediation work under a work plan approved by the NJDEP, and
have asked the Company to contribute to the cost of remediation. The Company is in discussions with the NJDEP, the site owners and other potentially responsible
parties regarding the scope and costs of work required to address the known conditions of concern, and recently has offered to negotiate with the school board and
Township on the terms of a cooperative funding agreement and allocation process. The Company also is actively investigating the historic use of the site, including
the Company’s possible connection. To date, no claims have been asserted against the Company.
In September 2003, the NJDEP issued an administrative enforcement Directive and Notice under the New Jersey Spill Compensation and Control Act requiring
the Company and approximately 65 other companies to perform an assessment of natural resource damages and to implement unspecified interim remedial measures
to restore conditions in the Lower Passaic River. The Directive alleges that the Company is liable because it historically sent bulk waste to the former Inland Chemical
Company facility in Newark, N.J. for reprocessing, and that releases of hazardous substances from this facility have migrated into Newark Bay and continue to have
an adverse impact on the Lower Passaic River watershed. Subsequently, the EPA also issued a notice letter under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) to numerous parties—but not including the Company—seeking their cooperation in a study of conditions in
substantially the same stretch of the Passaic River that is the subject of the NJDEP’s Directive. A group of these other parties entered into a consent agreement with
EPA in 2004 to finance a portion of that study. The EPA estimates this study will cost $20 million, of which roughly half will be financed by this private party group.
This study may also lead to clean-up actions, directed by the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers. The Company is working cooperatively with a group of the
parties that received the NJDEP Directive and/or the EPA notice to explore potential resolutions of the Directive and to address the risk of collateral claims. Although
the Company does not believe it has caused or contributed to any contamination in the Lower Passaic River watershed, the Company has informed the NJDEP that it
is willing to discuss their allegations against the Company. In the Directive and in more recent communications to the cooperating group, NJDEP has stated that if the
responsible parties do not cooperate, the NJDEP may perform the damage assessment and restoration and take civil action to recover its remedial costs, and treble
damages for administrative costs and penalties. In late 2004, a group of federal agencies designated as trustees of natural resources affected by contamination in the
Passaic River watershed approached the cooperating group to solicit interest in funding a cooperative study of possible natural resources damages (“NRD”) in the
area. This study presumably would dovetail with the ongoing EPA study, and ideally would be joined by the NJDEP, to coordinate actions NJDEP may seek under
the Directive. Discussions with the federal trustees are ongoing. The extent of any liability the Company may face, under either the Directive, the EPA’s notice letter,
or with respect to future NRD actions or claims by the federal trustees, or in contribution to other responsible parties, cannot yet be determined.
On October 16, 2003 the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) sent the Company a Letter of Violation (LOV) alleging that, over an
unspecified period of time, emissions from certain digestion tanks at Mead Johnson’s Zeeland, Michigan facility exceeded an applicable limit in the facility’s
renewable operating air permit. The LOV requires the Company to take corrective action and to submit a compliance program report. Although the MDEQ has not
demanded fines or penalties, further enforcement action could result in penalties or injunctive relief. The Company is contesting the allegations in the LOV and the
Company and the MDEQ are also working on revisions to the Company’s air use permit. Although we can not predict the ultimate outcome with certainty, these
permit revisions may resolve the matter without additional enforcement action or the need to continue contesting the LOV.
On December 1, 2003, the Company and the NJDEP entered an Administrative Consent Order (ACO) concerning alleged violations of the New Jersey Air
Pollution Control Act and its implementing regulations at the Company’s New Brunswick facility. Pursuant to the ACO, the Company agreed to submit a permit
application creating a facility-wide emissions cap and to pay an administrative fine of approximately $28,000. Both of these obligations were satisfied in early 2004.
Subsequently, on February 15, 2005, the ACO was amended to provide that the Company would install a new cogeneration turbine at its New Brunswick facility by
December 31, 2006, and would obtain air permits, including those required for the cogeneration turbine, by December 31, 2005. The estimated cost of the new
cogeneration turbine is approximately $3.5 million.
The Company is one of several defendants in a class action suit filed in superior court in Puerto Rico in February 2000 by residents of three wards from the
Municipality of Barceloneta, alleging that air emissions from a government owned and operated
117Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
wastewater treatment facility in said Municipality have caused respiratory and other ailments and violated local air rules. The Company believes its wastewater
discharges to the treatment facility are in material compliance with the terms of the Company’s permit. The Company believes that this litigation will be resolved for an
immaterial amount; however, although this suit is now five years old, it is still at an initial stage with even the issue of class certification still pending. In the event of
an adverse judgment, the Company’s ultimate financial liability could be greater than anticipated.
The Company is also responsible under various state, federal and foreign laws, including CERCLA, for certain costs of investigating or remediating
contamination resulting from past industrial activity at the Company’s current or former sites or at waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties.
The Company typically estimates these costs based on information obtained from the EPA, or counterpart state agency, and/or studies prepared by independent
consultants, including the total estimated costs for the site and the expected cost-sharing, if any, other potentially responsible parties (PRP). The Company accrues
liabilities when they are probable and reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company estimated its share of the total future costs for these
sites to be approximately $60 million and $58 million, respectively, recorded as other liabilities, which represents the sum of best estimates or, where no simple
estimate can reasonably be made, estimates of the minimal probable amount among a range of such costs (without taking into account any potential recoveries from
other parties, which are not currently expected). The Company has paid less than $4 million (excluding legal fees) in each of the last five years for investigation and
remediation of such matters, including liabilities under CERCLA and for other on-site remedial obligations.
Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these environmental proceedings or the ultimate costs of remediation, the Company does
not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that the Company may incur in excess of existing reserves will have a material adverse effect on its business,
financial position, or results of operations.
Other Matters
On October 25, 2004, the SEC notified the Company that it is conducting an informal inquiry into the activities of certain of the Company’s German
pharmaceutical subsidiaries and its employees and/or agents. The Company believes the SEC’s informal inquiry may encompass matters currently under
investigation by the Staatsanwaltin prosecutor in Munich, German. Although, uncertain at this time, the Company believes the inquiry and investigation may concern
potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and/or German law. The Company is cooperating with both the SEC and the German authorities. It is not
possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these matters or to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss.
The Company is conducting an internal review of its pharmaceutical operations in Mexico, which had total sales of $422 million for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2004. This broad review includes areas of compliance with legal, financial and regulatory requirements and the Company’s Standards of Business
Conduct and Ethics. The reviews are ongoing. At this time, the Company is unable to assess the impact, if any, of the results these investigations may have on the
Company.
Indemnification of Officers and Directors
The Company’s corporate by-laws require that, to the extent permitted by law, the Company shall indemnify its officers and directors against judgments, fines,
penalties and amounts paid in settlement, including legal fees and all appeals, incurred in connection with civil or criminal actions or proceedings, as it relates to their
services to the Company and its subsidiaries. The by-laws provide no limit on the amount of indemnification. Indemnification is not permitted in the case of willful
misconduct, knowing violation of criminal law, or improper personal benefit. As permitted under the laws of the state of Delaware, the Company has for many years
purchased directors and officers insurance coverage to cover claims made against the directors and officers. The amounts and types of coverage have varied from
period to period as dictated by market conditions. There are various excess policies that provide additional coverage. The litigation matters and regulatory actions
described above involve certain of the Company’s current and former directors and officers, all of whom are covered by the aforementioned indemnity and if
applicable, certain prior period insurance policies. However, certain indemnification payments may not be covered under the Company’s directors and officers
insurance coverage. The Company cannot predict with certainty the extent to which the Company will recover from its insurers the indemnification payments made in
connection with the litigation matters and regulatory actions described above.
On July 31, 2003, one of the Company’s insurers, Federal Insurance Company (Federal), filed a lawsuit in New York Supreme Court against the Company and
several current and former officers and members of the board of directors, seeking rescission, or in the alternative, declarations allowing Federal to avoid payment
under certain Directors and Officers insurance policies and certain Fiduciary Liability insurance policies with respect to potential liability arising in connection with
the matters described under the “—VANLEV Litigation,” “—Other Securities Matters” and “—ERISA Litigation” sections above. No discovery has been taken in
this matter. The parties are currently engaged in discussions regarding potential settlement of the action.
On October 3, 2003, another of the Company’s insurers, SR International Business Insurance Co. Ltd. (SRI), informed the
118Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
Company that it intended to try to avoid certain insurance policies issued to the Company on grounds of alleged material misrepresentation or non-disclosure, and
that it had initiated arbitration proceedings in London, England. SRI has indicated that it intends to rely upon allegations similar to those described in the “—Other
Securities Matters” section above in support of its avoidance action.
Note 22 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
In January 2005, the Company announced plans to divest the U.S. and Canadian Consumer Medicines business. For the year ended December 31, 2004, sales
of consumer medicines brands in the U.S. and Canada totaled approximately $270 million. The Company’s consumer medicines businesses in Japan, Asia Pacific,
Latin America, Europe, Middle East and Africa are not included in this planned divestiture.
In November 2004, the Company and Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) entered into a worldwide collaboration to develop and commercialize MDX-010, a fully human
antibody investigational product targeting the CTLA-4 receptor. MDX-010 was developed by Medarex and is currently in Phase III clinical development for the
treatment of metastatic melanoma. The collaboration agreement became effective in January 2005, at which time the Company made a cash payment of $25 million to
Medarex which was expensed as research and development, and an additional $25 million equity investment in Medarex.
Note 23 SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
First Second Third Fourth
Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year
(dollars in million, except per share data)
2004:
Net Sales $4,626 $4,819 $4,778 $5,157 $19,380
Gross Margin 3,269 3,320 3,310 3,492 13,391
Earnings from Continuing Operations(1) 961 523 755 139 2,378
Discontinued Operations, net 3 4 3 — 10
Net Earnings 964 527 758 139 2,388
Earnings per common share:
Basic
Earnings from Continuing Operations(1) $ 0.50 $ 0.27 $ 0.39 $ 0.07 $ 1.23
Discontinued Operations, net — — — — —
Net Earnings $ 0.50 $ 0.27 $ 0.39 $ 0.07 $ 1.23
Diluted(3)
Earnings from Continuing Operations(1) $ 0.49 $ 0.27 $ 0.38 $ 0.07 $ 1.21
Discontinued Operations, net — — — — —
Net Earnings $ 0.49 $ 0.27 $ 0.38 $ 0.07 $ 1.21
Dividends declared per Common Share $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 1.12
Cash and cash equivalents $3,173 $3,227 $3,446 $3,680 $ 3,680
Marketable securities 3,552 3,686 3,872 3,794 3,794
2003:
Net Sales $4,208 $4,571 $4,798 $5,076 $18,653
Gross Margin 3,007 3,261 3,428 3,551 13,247
Earnings from Continuing Operations(2) 790 899 902 506 3,097
Discontinued Operations, net 2 3 4 — 9
Net Earnings 792 902 906 506 3,106
119Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Earnings per common share:
Basic
Earnings from Continuing Operations(2) $ 0.41 $ 0.47 $ 0.47 $ 0.26 $ 1.60
Discontinued Operations, net — — — — —
Net Earnings $ 0.41 $ 0.47 $ 0.47 $ 0.26 $ 1.60
Diluted(3)
Earnings from Continuing Operations(2) $ 0.41 $ 0.46 $ 0.47 $ 0.26 $ 1.59
Discontinued Operations, net — — — — —
Net Earnings $ 0.41 $ 0.46 $ 0.47 $ 0.26 $ 1.59
Dividends declared per Common Share $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 1.12
Cash and cash equivalents $2,443 $2,449 $2,763 $2,549 $2,549
Marketable securities 1,991 2,079 2,361 3,013 3,013
Note: Earnings per share for the quarters may not add to the amounts for the year, as each period is computed on a discrete basis.
(1) 2004 includes litigation charges of $480 million, $36 million and $16 million in the second, third, and fourth quarters, respectively. The second quarter includes
litigation settlement income of $25 million. The first, second, third, and fourth quarters include the gain on the sale of the Mead Johnson Adult Nutritional
business of $295 million, $18 million, $3 million, and $4 million, respectively. The first, second, third, and fourth quarters include provisions for restructuring
and other items of $29 million, $17 million, $105 million, and $61 million, respectively. The first, second, third, and fourth quarters include upfront payments for
licensing agreements of $5 million, $25 million, $10 million, and $15 million, respectively. The second and third quarters include write-offs for acquired in-
process research and development of $62 million and $1 million, respectively.
(2) 2003 includes litigation settlement charges of $16 million and $265 million in the second and fourth quarters, respectively. The first, second and third quarters
include litigation settlement income of $21 million, $57 million and $4 million, respectively. The first, second, third and fourth quarters include provisions for
restructuring and other items of $26 million, $29 million, $37 million and $39 million, respectively. The second, third and fourth quarters include reversals of prior
period restructuring and other items of $25 million, $3 million and $10 million, respectively. The third and fourth quarters include upfront payments for licensing
agreements of $21 million and $81 million, respectively.
(3) Common equivalent shares excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share, because the effect would be antidilutive, were as follows (in millions):
First Second Third Fourth
Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year
2004 133 130 129 126 126
2003 120 117 116 114 114
120Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors
and Stockholders of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company:
We have completed an integrated audit of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company’s (the Company) 2004 consolidated financial statements and of its internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, and audits of its 2003 and 2002 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.
Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2004 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement
schedule listed in the accompanying index presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Internal control over financial reporting
Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that
the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those
criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based
on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the COSO. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express
opinions on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our
audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained
in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Philadelphia, PA
March 3, 2005
121Table of Contents
Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
None.
Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
As of December 31, 2004, management carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its chief executive officer and chief
financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-
15(e). Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that as of December 31, 2004, such disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide
reasonable assurance that the Company records, processes, summarizes and reports the information the Company must disclose in reports that the Company files or
submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the supervision and with the
participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2004 based on the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. Based on that assessment, management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective at
December 31, 2004 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s financial statements included in this report
on Form 10-K and issued its report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2004, which is included herein.
Status of Previously Disclosed Internal Control Items
In making its evaluation over the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures, management has considered the
significant resources devoted and substantial actions taken by the Company over the past two years to remediate the “reportable condition” (as defined under
standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants) relating to its internal control over its financial reporting for income taxes that was
initially identified and communicated to the Company and its Audit Committee by PwC in connection with their audit of the Company’s consolidated financial
statements for the year ended December 31, 2002 and repeated for the year ended December 31, 2003. The reportable condition identified by PwC was the need to
enhance the income tax accounting function to provide for timely analysis and reconciliation of the income tax provision and related income tax assets and liabilities.
In 2003, the actions taken by the Company included engaging an outside consultant to assist the Company’s personnel to conduct a comprehensive and detailed
review of certain of the Company’s income tax reporting and accounting. Throughout 2004, the Company continued to strengthen its internal control over financial
reporting for income taxes. These efforts included continuing to work with outside consultants, making significant personnel changes including, hiring a new vice
president of taxes and increasing the number of tax department key personnel, as well as implementing policies and procedures to enhance communication between
business unit, tax department and financial reporting personnel to ensure comprehensive, appropriate and timely review of matters and implementing new, and
updating existing tax accounting policies and providing training on these policies. Based on their evaluation, the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer
have concluded that as of December 31, 2004, internal control over financial reporting for income taxes issues have been sufficiently remediated.
As discussed under “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,” during 2004, management identified the need to remediate
deficiencies in internal control over its methodology and processes to calculate prices for reporting under governmental rebate and pricing programs related to its
U.S. Pharmaceuticals business. In conducting their evaluation, the chief executive officer and chief financial officer also considered the substantial efforts undertaken
by the Company to remediate such internal control deficiencies, which included, retaining several outside consultants with subject matter expertise, conducting an
exhaustive review of existing methodologies and processes and training employees on the implementation of the revised methodologies and processes. Based on
their review, the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer have concluded that the Company’s internal control over its methodology and processes to
calculate prices as described above have been sufficiently remediated.
122Table of Contents
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2004 that have materially affected, or
is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
123Table of Contents
PART III
Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
(a) Reference is made to the 2005 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2005 with respect to the Directors of the Registrant, which is
incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 10.
(b) The information required by Item 10 with respect to the Executive Officers of the Registrant has been included in Part IA of this Form 10-K in reliance on
General Instruction G of Form 10-K and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K.
Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
Reference is made to the 2005 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2005 with respect to Executive Compensation, which is incorporated herein by
reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 11.
Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
Reference is made to the 2005 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2005 with respect to the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 12.
Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
Reference is made to the 2005 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2005 with respect to certain relationships and related transactions, which is
incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 13.
Item 14. AUDITOR FEES
Reference is made to the 2005 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2005 with respect to auditor fees, which is incorporated herein by reference
and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 14.
124Table of Contents
PART IV
Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.
(a)
Page
Number
1. Consolidated Financial Statements 73-76
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 77-120
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 121
2. Financial Statement Schedule
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 132
All other schedules not included with this additional financial data are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is included in the
financial statements or notes thereto.
3. Exhibit List
The Exhibits listed below are identified by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. The Exhibits designated by two asterisks
(**) are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed pursuant to this Item 15. Unless otherwise indicated, all Exhibits are part of
Commission File Number 1-1136.
3a. Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3c to the Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).
3b. Bylaws of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, as amended as of January 3, 2005 (filed herewith).
4a. Letter of Agreement dated March 28, 1984 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
1983).
4b. Indenture, dated as of June 1, 1993, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank (as successor trustee to The Chase
Manhattan Bank (National Association)) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K dated May 27, 1993, and filed on June
3, 1993).
4c. Form of 7.15% Debenture due 2023 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Form 8-K dated
May 27, 1993, and filed on June 3, 1993).
4d. Form of 6.80% Debenture due 2026 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4e to the Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1996).
4e. Form of 6.875% Debenture due 2097 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4f to the Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended September 30, 1997).
4f. $2,000,000,000 Five Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of December 22, 2004 among Bristol-Myers
Squibb Company, the borrowing subsidiaries, the lenders named in the agreement, Bank of America, N.A. as syndication agent, and JPMorgan
Chase Bank and Citicorp North America, Inc., as administrative agents (filed herewith).
4g. Second Supplemental Indenture, dated September 28, 2001, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank (as successor
trustee to The Chase Manhattan Bank) to the indenture dated June 1, 1993 (previously filed as an exhibit to the Annual Report on Form 10-K).
4h. Form of 4.75% Note due 2006 and Form of 5.75% Note Due 2011 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
4g to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003).
4i. Third Supplemental Indenture, dated August 18, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Trustee, to the
indenture dated June 1, 1993 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4k to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30,
2003).
4j. Purchase Agreement dated August 12, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
as representatives to the several purchasers, named in Schedule I of the Agreement, of 4.00% Senior Notes due 2008 and 5.25% Senior Notes
due 2013 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4l to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).
125Table of Contents
4k. Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, dated August 18, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc., as representatives of the several purchasers named in Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement, of 4.00% Senior Notes due 2008 and 5.25%
Senior Notes due 2013 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4m to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).
4l. Form of 4.00% Senior Note due 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4j to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003)
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4n to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).
4m. Form of 5.25% Senior Note due 2013 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4o to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).
4n. Indenture, dated October 1, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, as Issuer, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Trustee (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4q to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).
4o. Registration Rights Agreement, dated October 1, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
as representatives of the several purchasers named in Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement, of Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2023
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4r to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).
4p. Form of Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debenture due 2023 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4s to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period
ended September 30, 2003).
4q. Purchase Agreement dated September 25, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as
representatives of the several purchasers named in Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement, of Floating Rate Convertible Debentures due 2023
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4t to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).
4r. Specimen Certificate of Common Stock (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4s to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003).
4s. Specimen Certificate of Convertible Preferred Stock (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4t to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
31, 2003).
**10a. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 1997 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of May 6, 1997 and as amended effective July 17, 2002 (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10a to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002).
**10b. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of May 7, 2002 and as amended effective July 17, 2002 (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10b to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002).
**10c. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company TeamShare Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated effective September 10, 2002 (incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10c to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002).
**10d. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Executive Performance Incentive Plan (effective January 1, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10b to
the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996).
**10e. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Executive Performance Incentive Plan (effective January 1, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit D to the
2003 Proxy Statement dated April 4, 2003).
**10f. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 1983 Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated as of October 1, 2001 (filed herewith).
**10g. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Performance Incentive Plan, as amended (as adopted, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2 to the Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1978; as amended as of January 8, 1990, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 19b to the Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1990; as amended on April 2, 1991, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 19b to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1991; as amended effective January 1, 1994, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10d to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1993; and as amended effective January 1, 1994, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10d to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1994).
126Table of Contents
**10h. Benefit Equalization Plan of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its Subsidiary or Affiliated Corporations Participating in the Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company Retirement Income Plan or the Bristol-Myers Squibb Puerto Rico, Inc. Retirement Income Plan, as amended (as amended and restated as of
January 1, 1993, as amended effective October 1, 1993, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1993; and as amended effective February 1, 1995, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1996).
**10i. Benefit Equalization Plan of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its Subsidiary or Affiliated Corporations Participating in the Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company Savings and Investment Program, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 1996 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10h to
the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001).
**10j. Squibb Corporation Supplementary Pension Plan, as amended (as previously amended and restated, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 19g to
the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991; as amended as of September 14, 1993, and incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10g
to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993).
**10k. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Retirement Income Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended to March 5, 1996 (incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10k to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996).
**10l. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 1987 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended to January 13, 2004 (filed herewith).
**10m. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan, as amended (as approved by the Stockholders on May 1, 1990,
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 28 to Registration Statement No. 33-38587 on Form S-8; as amended May 7, 1991, incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 19c to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991), as amended January 12, 1999 (incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10m to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998).
**10n. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan, as amended (as approved by the Stockholders on May 2, 2000,
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit A to the 2000 Proxy Statement dated March 20, 2000.)
**10o. Squibb Corporation Deferral Plan for Fees of Outside Directors, as amended (as adopted, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e Squibb
Corporation 1991 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987, File No. 1-5514; as amended effective December 31, 1991 incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit 10m to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992).
**10p. Amendment to all of the Company’s plans, agreements, legal documents and other writings, pursuant to action of the Board of Directors on October 3,
1989, to reflect the change of the Company’s name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10v to the Form 10-
K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989).
**10q. Form of Agreement entered into between the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and each of the named executive officers and certain other executives
effective January 1, 2005 (filed herewith).
12. Statement re computation of ratios (filed herewith).
21. Subsidiaries of the Registrant (filed herewith).
23. Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (filed herewith).
31a. Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith).
31b. Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith).
32a. Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith).
32b. Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith).
* Indicates, in this Form 10-K, brand names of products, which are registered trademarks not owned by the Company or its subsidiaries. ERBITUX is a trademark of
ImClone; AVAPRO, APROVEL, AVALIDE and PLAVIX are trademarks of Sanofi-Synthelabo S.A.; GLUCOPHAGE and GLUCOVANCE are trademarks of Merck
Sante S.A.S., an associate of Merck KGaA of Darmstadt, Germany; ABILIFY is a trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceuticals, Ltd.; MOISTUREL and DURICEF are
trademarks of Galen (Chemicals) Limited; JAVLOR is a trademark of Pierre Fabre Medicament, S.A.; TRUVADA is a trademark of Gilead Sciences, Inc.; and
EMSAM is a trademark of Somerset Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
127Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
(Registrant)
By /s/ PETER R. DOLAN
Peter R. Dolan
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer
Date: March 3, 2005
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature Title Date
/s/ PETER R. DOLAN Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive March 3, 2005
Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
(Peter R. Dolan)
/s/ ANDREW R.J. BONFIELD Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal March 3, 2005
Financial Officer)
(Andrew R.J. Bonfield)
/s/ DAVID L. ZABOR Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) March 3, 2005
(David L. Zabor)
/s/ ROBERT E. ALLEN Director March 3, 2005
(Robert E. Allen)
/s/ LEWIS B. CAMPBELL Director March 3, 2005
(Lewis B. Campbell)
/s/ VANCE D. COFFMAN Director March 3, 2005
(Vance D. Coffman)
/s/ JAMES M. CORNELIUS Director March 3, 2005
(James M. Cornelius)
/s/ ELLEN V. FUTTER Director March 3, 2005
(Ellen V. Futter)
/s/ LOUIS V. GERSTNER, JR. Director March 3, 2005
(Louis V. Gerstner, Jr.)
/s/ LAURIE H. GLIMCHER, M.D. Director March 3, 2005
(Laurie H. Glimcher, M.D.)
/s/ LEIF JOHANSSON Director March 3, 2005
(Leif Johansson)
/s/ JAMES D. ROBINSON III Director March 3, 2005
(James D. Robinson III)
/s/ LOUIS W. SULLIVAN, M.D. Director March 3, 2005
(Louis W. Sullivan, M.D.)
128Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
The Exhibits listed below are identified by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. The Exhibits designated by two asterisks
(**) are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed pursuant to Item 15. An asterisk (*) in the Page column indicates that the
Exhibit has been previously filed with the Commission and is incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise indicated, all Exhibits are part of Commission File
Number 1-1136.
Exhibit No. Description Page No.
3a. Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3c to the *
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).
3b. Bylaws of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, as amended as of January 3, 2005 (filed herewith). E-3-1
4a. Letter of Agreement dated March 28, 1984 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended *
December 31, 1983).
4b. Indenture, dated as of June 1, 1993, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank (as successor trustee *
to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association)) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K dated
May 27, 1993, and filed on June 3, 1993).
4c. Form of 7.15% Debenture due 2023 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the *
Form 8-K dated May 27, 1993, and filed on June 3, 1993).
4d. Form of 6.80% Debenture due 2026 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4e to the *
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996).
4e. Form of 6.875% Debenture due 2097 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4f to the *
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 1997).
4f. $2,000,000,000 Five Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of December 22, 2004 among E-4-1
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, the borrowing subsidiaries, the lenders named in the agreement, Bank of America, N.A. as
syndication agent, and JPMorgan Chase Bank and Citicorp North America, Inc., as administrative agents (filed herewith).
4g. Second Supplemental Indenture, dated September 28, 2001, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and JPMorgan Chase *
Bank (as successor trustee to The Chase Manhattan Bank) to the indenture dated June 1, 1993 (previously filed as an exhibit to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K).
4h. Form of 4.75% Note due 2006 and Form of 5.75% Note Due 2011 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by *
reference to Exhibit 4g to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003).
4i. Third Supplemental Indenture, dated August 18, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as *
Trustee, to the indenture dated June 1, 1993 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4k to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly
period ended September 30, 2003).
4j. Purchase Agreement dated August 12, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan *
Securities Inc., as representatives to the several purchasers, named in Schedule I of the Agreement, of 4.00% Senior Notes due
2008 and 5.25% Senior Notes due 2013 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4l to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period
ended September 30, 2003).
4k. Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, dated August 18, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Goldman, *
Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as representatives of the several purchasers named in Schedule I to the Purchase
Agreement, of 4.00% Senior Notes due 2008 and 5.25% Senior Notes due 2013 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4m
to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).
4l. Form of 4.00% Senior Note due 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4j to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period *
ended September 30, 2003) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4n to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
September 30, 2003).
4m. Form of 5.25% Senior Note due 2013 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4o to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period *
ended September 30, 2003).
129Table of Contents
4n. Indenture, dated October 1, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, as Issuer, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Trustee (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4q to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003). *
4o. Registration Rights Agreement, dated October 1, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc., as representatives of the several purchasers named in Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement, of Floating Rate Convertible
Senior Debentures due 2023 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4r to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003). *
4p. Form of Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debenture due 2023 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4s to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly
period ended September 30, 2003). *
4q. Purchase Agreement dated September 25, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan Securities
Inc., as representatives of the several purchasers named in Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement, of Floating Rate Convertible Debentures due
2023 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4t to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).
*
4r. Specimen Certificate of Common Stock (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4s to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2003). *
4s. Specimen Certificate of Convertible Preferred Stock (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4t to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2003). *
**10a. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 1997 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of May 6, 1997 and as amended effective July 17, 2002 (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10a to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002). *
**10b. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of May 7, 2002 and as amended effective July 17, 2002 (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10b to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002). *
**10c. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company TeamShare Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated effective September 10, 2002 (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10c to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002). *
**10d. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Executive Performance Incentive Plan (effective January 1, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10b to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996). *
**10e. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Executive Performance Incentive Plan (effective January 1, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
D to the 2003 Proxy Statement dated April 4, 2003). *
**10f. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 1983 Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated as of October 1, 2001 (filed herewith). E-10-1
**10g. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Performance Incentive Plan, as amended (as adopted, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2 to the Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1978; as amended as of January 8, 1990, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 19b to the Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990; as amended on April 2, 1991, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 19b to the Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991; as amended effective January 1, 1994, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10d to the Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993; and as amended effective January 1, 1994, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10d to
the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994). *
**10h. Benefit Equalization Plan of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its Subsidiary or Affiliated Corporations Participating in the Bristol-Myers
Squibb Company Retirement Income Plan or the Bristol-Myers Squibb Puerto Rico, Inc. Retirement Income Plan, as amended (as amended and
restated as of January 1, 1993, as amended effective October 1, 1993, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e to the Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1993; and as amended effective February 1, 1995, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e to the Form 10-
K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996). *
**10i. Benefit Equalization Plan of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its Subsidiary or Affiliated Corporations Participating in the Bristol-Myers
Squibb Company Savings and Investment Program, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 1996 (incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10h to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001). *
130Table of Contents
**10j. Squibb Corporation Supplementary Pension Plan, as amended (as previously amended and restated, incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 19g to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991; as amended as of September 14, 1993, and incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10g to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993). *
**10k. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Retirement Income Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended to March 5, 1996 (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10k to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996). *
**10l. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 1987 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended to January 13, 2004 (filed
herewith). E-10-2
**10m. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan, as amended (as approved by the Stockholders on May 1, 1990,
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 28 to Registration Statement No. 33-38587 on Form S-8; as amended May 7, 1991, incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 19c to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991), as amended January 12, 1999 (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10m to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998). *
**10n. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan, as amended (as approved by the Stockholders on May 2, 2000,
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit A to the 2000 Proxy Statement dated March 20, 2000.) *
**10o. Squibb Corporation Deferral Plan for Fees of Outside Directors, as amended (as adopted, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e
Squibb Corporation 1991 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987, File No. 1-5514; as amended effective December 31, 1991
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10m to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992). *
**10p. Amendment to all of the Company’s plans, agreements, legal documents and other writings, pursuant to action of the Board of Directors on
October 3, 1989, to reflect the change of the Company’s name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10v to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989). *
**10q. Form of Agreement entered into between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and each of the named executive officers and certain other
executives effective January 1, 2005 (filed herewith). E-10-3
12. Statement re computation of ratios (filed herewith). E-12-1
21. Subsidiaries of the Registrant (filed herewith). E-21-1
23. Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (filed herewith). E-23-1
31a. Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith). E-31-1
31b. Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith). E-31-2
32a. Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith). E-32-1
32b. Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith). E-32-2
131Table of Contents
SCHEDULE II
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
Additions
Balance at charged to Deductions- Balance at
beginning costs and bad debts End
Description of period expenses written off of period
(dollars in millions)
Allowances for Discounts and Doubtful accounts:
For the year ended December 31, 2004 $ 154 $ 161 $ 137 $ 178
For the year ended December 31, 2003 129 83 58 154
For the year ended December 31, 2002 122 91 84 129
132