“
I WAS ALWAYS ACTIVE AND
HEALTHY, AND NOW I FEEL
GREAT, FINALLY LIKE MYSELF.”
– Carol Willis
| 2018 ANNUAL REPORT |Our mission is clear — we discover, develop
and deliver innovative medicines that help patients
prevail over serious diseases.
Our sense of urgency is real — we work every day to push
the boundaries of scientific discovery and to make a meaningful
difference in the lives of patients. We are committed to developing
a 21st century workforce that is powerfully diverse and broadly
inclusive, capable of discovering and developing important
new medicines for patients around the world.
It’s what we do. It’s why we do it.
The patient stories shared in this Annual Report depict individual patient responses to our medicines or investigational compounds and are not representative
of all patient responses. In addition, there is no guarantee that potential drugs or indications still in development will receive regulatory approval.At Bristol-Myers Squibb, employees like Mina Chaudhry
and Austin Thekkumthala are passionate about turning
scientific insights into new therapeutic options for many
patients in need.
1
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
2018
Annual
Report“
At Bristol-Myers Squibb, we are
looking forward to an exciting future.
We will build on the strong foundation
of 2018 to grow our business and
to help more patients. We have great
medicines. We have great people.”
- Giovanni Caforio, M.D.,
Chairman of the Board a nd Chief Executive Officer
At Bristol-Myers Squibb we come to work every day with one highly competitive markets, with Opdivo now approved in nine
mission in mind: to discover, develop, and deliver transformational tumor types in 17 indications. In 2018, Opdivo revenue grew
medicines to help patients facing serious diseases. This is what we by 36 percent, ending the year with $6.7 billion in global sales.
do. This is who we are. Opdivo continues to maintain and grow its market share in its
approved indications while expanding into new tumors and earlier
In 2018, performance was strong across the company and created
lines of therapy. We saw significant growth from the launch of
great momentum for our business. We expanded the indications
Opdivo in adjuvant treatment in melanoma and the approval of
of our oncology portfolio with the important approval of Opdivo
Opdivo plus low-dose Yervoy for the treatment of first line RCC in
plus low-dose Yervoy for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma
the U.S. Additionally, Opdivo plus low-dose Yervoy were approved
(RCC) in the U.S. and Europe. We reached an important milestone
by the European Medicines Agency for first line RCC in January
with Eliquis in the U.S., taking a leadership position in the prevention
2019, further expanding our Immuno-Oncology (I-O) combination
of stroke for patients with atrial fibrillation. We advanced a broad
therapy as a treatment option for patients with RCC in markets
and deep pipeline in oncology, cardiovascular disease, fibrosis,
across Europe.
and immunoscience. And we continued our efforts to be a good
global citizen through our green initiatives, by investing in our Opdivo distinguished itself as the first Immuno-Oncology therapy
local communities, and by supporting those in need. approved in China in 2018. This milestone is a tribute to the focused
efforts of our teams in both the U.S. and in China to ensure speed
2018 Results in delivering this important medicine to cancer patients in China.
2018 was marked by outstanding commercial execution. We
ended the year with $22.6 billion in revenues – a nine percent Global Sales
increase over 2017. This was due to growth in nearly all of our
25
priority medicines. Our results translate directly into more medicines 56 %
%
delivered to more patients. Our strong operating performance EUROPE
resulted in 2018 GAAP earnings per share of $3.01 and UNITED
Non-GAAP earnings per share of $3.98, which represents STATES
year-over-year growth of 32 percent. 19
%
Transforming cancer care remains a priority for our company as we
focus on increasing survival rates for more patients across a greater REST
range of tumor types. Our oncology franchise performed well in OF THE
WORLD
2
tropeR
launnA
8102
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB22.6 9 Opdivo GROWTH IN
2018 $ % $6.7 B PRIORITY DELIVERING
BRANDS MORE MEDICINES
BILLION REVENUE Eliquis Orencia TO PATIENTS
in revenue GROWTH $6.4 B Yervoy
VS. 2017 Empliciti
PAGE 4 s
Eliquis continued to grow in the U.S. and internationally, with In 2018, we made significant progress in advancing our
revenues totaling $6.4 billion, representing a 32 percent Innovative Medicines pipeline, which includes clinical programs in
increase over 2017. In 2018, we achieved a major milestone immunoscience, fibrosis, and cardiovascular disease. Results from
when new prescriptions for Eliquis surpassed warfarin, the the Phase 2 study of our selective TYK2 inhibitor for the treatment
previous standard of care for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation, of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis were published in the New
to become the number one prescribed oral anti-coagulant England Journal of Medicine in September, and registrational
in the U.S. Eliquis continues to be the leading novel oral trials in this indication are well underway. We continue to advance
anti-coagulant globally for stroke prevention in patients with our fibrosis portfolio with our lead compound in the area, FGF21,
atrial fibrillation. for the treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which
is currently enrolling a Phase 2b trial. In heart failure research,
The Eliquis clinical profile is supported through our continued
our nitroxyl donor asset is currently in Phase 2 trials and we look
investment in real-world data analysis. In 2018, we published
forward to data readouts in the coming year. Additionally, we
the ACROPOLIS (Apixaban ExperienCe Through Real-WOrld
signed a collaboration agreement with Janssen Pharmaceuticals
POpuLatIon Studies) study, which now includes more than one
for the development of our Factor XIa inhibitor for secondary
million patient records, and is the largest body of real-world
stroke prevention and initiated a Phase 2 trial.
evidence in existence for analyzing the effectiveness and safety of
anticoagulants, including Eliquis, among patients with non-valvular Our broad development program in oncology includes the
atrial fibrillation and venous thromboembolism. important and growing body of work in translational medicine,
giving us greater insights into which patients can benefit the most
I am very proud that this medicine was discovered and developed
from our medicines. In 2018, we opened a new research center in
by Bristol-Myers Squibb scientists, three of whom received
Cambridge, Massachusetts to focus on resistance to treatment
the prestigious 2018 Sir James Black award from the British
with current Immuno-Oncology agents, and we look forward to
Pharmacological Society for their contributions in the discovery
leveraging the rich scientific ecosystem of the location to drive of Eliquis.
innovation in this field.
Delivering for Tomorrow Our clinical programs are focused on expanding the benefits of
our Immuno-Oncology portfolio and moving into earlier lines of
The scientists of Bristol-Myers Squibb understand the urgent
therapy, including the adjuvant setting which follows surgery to
needs of patients for new treatment options. They are hard at work
prevent recurrence.
on the next generation of transformational medicines for patients
as we continue to invest in the research and development of new In 2019, we expect to see a number of data readouts from our lung
treatment options to address significant unmet medical needs. cancer program as well as from studies of Opdivo for the treatment
3
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
2018
Annual
ReportPAGE 6 s
| GLOBAL DIVERSITY & INCLUSION |
People & Business
Resource Groups
Our People and Business
Resource Groups (PBRG)
leverage the diverse
experiences and perspectives
of our employees and drive
transformative business results.
TOTAL PBRGs
8
MEMBERSHIP
16k
OVER 9,500 UNIQUE MEMBERS
of glioblastoma, head & neck, liver and renal Delivering for Underserved
cancers. Starting in 2020, we will begin to see CHAPTERS
Communities
results from studies of adjuvant treatment that 127
will bring greater understanding of the role of Throughout the year, the Bristol-Myers Squibb
Opdivo in earlier stages of disease. These will Foundation continued to build capacity and
include results in adjuvant melanoma, bladder, expand access to care for underserved
and esophageal cancers next year with results populations by supporting innovative programs PRESENT IN
in other tumors such as renal, liver, and lung to train health care providers and mobilize 44
cancers coming in subsequent years. communities in the fight against disease.
With innovation as our focus, we believe This effort included extensive programs in COUNTRIES
that tomorrow’s medicines will come from the U.S. to remove barriers and increase
our own internal efforts as well as the rich access to specialized care for vulnerable
ecosystem of scientific innovation that exists populations, improve lung cancer awareness
outside our company. In 2018, our business and care, and support the reintegration of our
development teams were hard at work to find returning veterans and their families. It also
those medicines. This year, we entered into a included significant innovations in access to
global strategic collaboration to jointly develop cardiovascular care.
and commercialize Nektar Therapeutics’
The Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation is also
lead Immuno-Oncology program, NKTR-
214, in combination with Opdivo and Opdivo working to bring quality cancer treatment to
plus Yervoy. The Nektar program provides African communities, focusing on cervical and
Bristol-Myers Squibb with a third validated lung cancer in southern and east Africa, and
mechanism in Immuno-Oncology, providing us pediatric cancers in southern and east Africa
Cultivating Leadership and Innovation
the opportunity to build on our experience with and west Africa. Leveraging the extensive for Millennials and Beyond
Opdivo and Yervoy. learnings from 20 years of its “SECURE THE
FUTURE” program, the first and largest private
In January 2019, we announced a definitive
initiative to address HIV and AIDS in southern
merger agreement for the planned acquisition
and east Africa, the Foundation is working
of Celgene Corporation.1 The transaction will
with community partners to promote cancer
create a leading focused specialty biopharma screening, train healthcare providers, and
company well positioned to address the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender & Allies
change the outcomes for cancer patients.
needs of patients with cancer, inflammatory
Following the launch of Project ECHO for
and immunologic disease and cardiovascular
cancer in the U.S., the Foundation is funding
disease through high-value innovative
an expansion of the tele-mentoring program to
medicines and leading scientific capabilities.
rural hospitals in South Africa.
With complementary areas of focus, the
combined company will operate with global We recognize that helping to improve access
reach and scale, maintaining the speed and to our medicines is of critical importance to
agility that is core to each company’s strategic ensure all patients benefit from our innovations.
approach. Through the Bristol-Myers Squibb Patient
4
1 The transaction is subject to approval by Bristol-Myers Squibb and Celgene shareholders and the satisfaction of customary closing
conditions and regulatory approvals. Bristol-Myers Squibb and Celgene expect to complete the transaction in the third quarter of 2019.
tropeR
launnA
8102
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirBAs she has been regaining strength, Carol has
resumed favorite activities such as woodworking,
a passion she shares with her uncle Jerry.
| PATIENT STORY |
Built to Fight
Carol Willis
“
I WAS ALWAYS ACTIVE AND HEALTHY, AND NOW I FEEL GREAT, FINALLY LIKE MYSELF.”
In April of 2015, Carol Willis, for certain patients with advanced
a retired school teacher from renal cell carcinoma (RCC) whose
Oakdale, La., and the mother kidney cancer has spread.
of three grown children,
“After experiencing a few initial
developed a nagging cough
side effects, I had an excellent
and discovered a mass on
response to the Opdivo and
her right side.
Yervoy combination,” she recalls.
Carol noticed that she been
Now in remission, Carol has
losing weight, having difficulty
had clean scans since January
focusing her thoughts, and
2016.
becoming easily fatigued.
After showing the mass to her “I was always active and healthy,
daughter, a nurse practitioner, and now I feel great, finally like
she immediately saw a urologist. myself,” she says.
“I had a CT scan, and the “Getting sick changes your priorities,” Carol says. “Our fam- A self-described “private person,”
ily is closer than ever.” Four generations, from left: grand-
doctor confirmed that it was daughter Madelyn, mother Vivian, Carol, daughter Mindy. Carol enjoys a quiet life style
kidney cancer,” she says. now and has resumed her
“The specialists told me I had Stage IV renal cell carcinoma.” hobby of woodworking. She also travels often to spend
She soon had surgery to remove the large tumor. time with her children and six grandchildren in Texas
At her follow-up appointment, her doctor explained that, and Colorado.
despite the surgery, Carol’s cancer had spread to her lungs
“Over the past few years I had the opportunity to meet and
and liver. At that point she was referred to an oncologist who speak with a number of Bristol-Myers Squibb employees,”
was a principal investigator on a clinical trial. “That’s when
Carol says. “I’ve heard so many of their personal stories.
I knew this was really serious,” she says.
They are so passionate about what they do to help patients.
She entered into a clinical trial investigating Opdivo If it weren’t for their skill and dedication, I wouldn’t be
in combination with another I-O treatment, Yervoy, here to enjoy my life.”
5
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
2018
Annual
Report| BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB ACHIEVEMENTS |
Assistance Foundation, under- or uninsured patients, or those facing
financial hardships, are able to obtain the medicines they need to Respect, Integrity & Quality –
fight serious disease. It’s How We Work
Our commitment to good citizenship extends beyond medicines to
communities impacted by natural disasters. This year again brought We take great pride in what we do and
devastation through wildfires in California, hurricanes in North Carolina how we do it, and we are grateful for the
and Florida, floods and landslides in Japan, and an earthquake and recognition we have received, including:
tsunami in Indonesia. The Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation responded
quickly with cash donations to its disaster relief partners to provide
essential supplies, and the company donated much-needed products For the 11th year, a perfect
to help impacted communities. score of 100% on the 2018
Corporate Equality Index (CEI)
We continued our work with the United Nations Global Compact,
as well as our “Go Green” activities at Bristol-Myers Squibb sites to
promote sustainability. Our environmental programs were recognized Ranked 2018 Top-Scoring
with an “Energy Star Partner of the Year” Sustained Excellence Award Company of the Disability
for our four consecutive years of efforts to improve the energy efficiency Equality Index
of facilities worldwide.
Dow Jones’ 2018 North
Strengthening Our Company Culture American Index of Leading
Sustainable Companies
At Bristol-Myers Squibb, we have the best and the brightest people and
they fuel our success. It is through their hard work and commitment that For the second year in a row,
we are able to realize our mission to help patients fighting serious disease. CareerBliss Top 10 Happiest
Companies in America
We are committed to creating and sustaining a strong culture of
for 2018
inclusion to foster a highly innovative work environment. Our People and
Business Resource Groups (PBRGs) leverage the diverse experiences
and perspectives of our employees and drive transformative business 2018 Working Mother
results. In 2018, members of our PAN Asian Network partnered with our 100 Best Companies –
R&D organization in China to launch a global buddy system designed to 20th consecutive year
mentor colleagues new to clinical development in China, resulting in the
accelerated launch of Opdivo. Additionally, our LGBTA PBRG introduced 2018 Best-of-the-Best
a set of transgender guidelines in the U.S. to ensure a respectful and Corporations for Inclusion
inclusive workplace environment for employees in the process of by National Business Inclusion
gender transition. Consortium
Embedded throughout our culture is a deep commitment to integrity
and uncompromising ethics. We work to ensure that the highest ethics Military Friendly Company –
and integrity are at the foundation of all we do and how we do it. showcasing the most powerful
and effective military programs
Looking Forward in the workplace
At Bristol-Myers Squibb, we are looking forward to an exciting future.
We will build on the strong foundation of 2018 to grow our business and CR’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens –
100 BestCorporate
to help more patients. We have great medicines. We have great people. Citizens 9th consecutive year
2018
By focusing on patients and their families, and by demanding the very
best from our people, the possibilities are endless. We will continue to
create value for our patients, our shareholders, and our employees.
Forbes and JUST Capital’s
This is why I am very excited for our future.
100 Most JUST Companies
in America
MA
Thank you.
2018 Energy Star Partner
of the Year – Sustained
Excellence Award
Giovanni Caforio, M.D., Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer Ranked among the top
pharmaceutical companies
for innovation and quality
April 1, 2019
of management
2018 NAFE Top Companies
for Executive Women
6
tropeR
launnA
8102
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB| PATIENT STORY |
Experiencing
the Benefits
Ken Simpson
“
THE BENEFITS I’VE RECEIVED FROM ELIQUIS ARE GREATER PEACE OF MIND,
”
AND THE ABILITY TO CONTINUE TO LIVE A FULL LIFE WITH MY LOVED ONES.
Ken Simpson was a nationally ranked cardiologist and continued to be
high school All American swimmer, checked periodically.
which earned him an athletic
As the years passed, Ken’s condition
scholarship to the University of Illinois.
gradually worsened. “In my mid-40s,
But it wasn’t until many years after
my cardiologist removed a blood
his college graduation that he first
clot at the top of my left anterior
experienced heart problems which
descending artery. I was fortunate
would come and go over the next
I survived the procedure.”
50 or so years.
“Several years later, after a day-long
“I spent almost my entire business career
business meeting in Chicago,
with the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company in
Ken is grateful for his second chances. He considers I found I couldn’t walk to the train
Chicago,” Ken says. “One day while at
himself lucky to have reconnected with his childhood
station without stopping several
work, I felt a strange feeling in my chest sweetheart Beverly after 40 years apart.
times. I knew I wasn’t going to make
I had never had before. I didn’t know
wha t it was, but I knew something wasn’t quite right.” it to the station. It was obvious something was very wrong.”
The Wrigley family separately owned the Chicago Cubs baseball An emergency room EKG first identified Ken’s condition.
team at that time. Ken was sent to see a team doctor familiar with He was diagnosed with atrial fibrillation, a type of irregular
working with accomplished athletes. He was prescribed a heart heartbeat, not caused by a heart valve problem. His cardiologist
monitor to wear for a month, but no irregularities were found. immediately prescribed Eliquis to reduce the increased risk
of stroke that patients with Ken’s condition face.
In his late 20s, Ken began swimming in the national Masters
Swimming Program for adults. During one competition, the strange “Now I take my Eliquis religiously. Every morning and every night.
feeling in his chest returned. I make sure I don’t miss a dose,” Ken says.
“It wasn’t a flutter or skipped heartbeat, but more like a thunderous For this now-retired businessperson, the saying “Sell the
steady heartbeat,’’ he explains. I decided I wasn’t going to live my benefits, not the product” is more than just advice on how
life being afraid of a heart condition which apparently couldn’t be to sell successfully.
diagnosed, so I swam my race, winning it. By the time I got out of
“No matter what the product, what’s most important are the
the pool, the strange heartbeat was gone.”
benefits it provides to the user,” Ken says. “The benefits
Another heart monitor again showed no irregularity, but Ken I’ve received from Eliquis are greater peace of mind, and the
was convinced something was wrong. He began seeing a ability to continue to live a full life with my loved ones.”
7
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
2018
Annual
ReportBRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB DEVELOPMENT PORTFOLIO BY THERAPEUTIC AREA
ONCOLOGY
PHASE I PHASE II PHASE III APPROVED INDICATIONS
OPDIVO✦ OPDIVO✦ OPDIVO✦ OPDIVO✦
– Solid Tumors & – 1L CRC – 1L Glioblastoma – 1L BRAF wild-type Metastatic
Hematologic Malignancies Melanoma
– Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma – 1L HCC
OPDIVO✦ + YERVOY✦ (Diffuse Large B-cell – Adjuvant Melanoma
– 1L Head & Neck
Lymphoma)
– Solid Tumors – Advanced Hodgkin Lymphoma
– 1L Head & Neck Locally
– Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
Relatlimab✦^ Advanced – Melanoma across BRAF status
(Follicular Lymphoma)
– Solid Tumors & – 2L Esophageal – Mesothelioma
– Ovarian#
Hematologic Malignancies
– Adjuvant Bladder – Previously treated advanced
– Pan Tumor TMB High
NLRP3 Agonist^ RCC
– Adjuvant Esophageal/
– Pediatric
– Solid Tumors Gastroesophageal – Previously treated Gastric
– Primary Testicular cancer (JPN)
Anti-TIM-3^ – Adjuvant Gastric
Lymphoma
– Previously treated HCC
– Solid Tumors – Adjuvant HCC
OPDIVO✦^
– Previously treated Metastatic
HuMax-IL8^ – Adjuvant RCC
– Solid Tumors Head & Neck
– Solid Tumors – NSCLC Neoadjuvant
OPDIVO✦ + YERVOY✦ – Previously treated Metastatic
EP4✦ Antagonist^ – Refractory Hodgkin Melanoma
– Prostate
Lymphoma
– Solid Tumors – Previously treated Metastatic
OPDIVO✦ + YERVOY✦^
– Unresectable NSCLC MSI-High CRC
CD80/αCD3 Oncolytic
– Solid Tumors
Virus^ OPDIVO✦ + YERVOY✦ – Previously treated Metastatic
Relatlimab✦ + OPDIVO✦^ Non-squamous NSCLC
– Solid Tumors – 1L Bladder
– Solid Tumors – Previously treated Metastatic
Anti-CTLA-4 Probody^ – 1L Esophageal
Squamous NSCLC
IDO + OPDIVO✦^
– Solid Tumors – 1L Gastric
– Previously treated Metastatic
– Solid Tumors
Anti-ICOS^ – 1L Head & Neck SCLC
NKTR-214✦ + OPDIVO✦^
– Solid Tumors – 1L Mesothelioma – Previously treated Metastatic
– Solid Tumors Urothelial
Anti-CTLA-4 NF^ – 1L NSCLC
CCR2/5 Dual Antagonist^ OPDIVO✦ + YERVOY✦
– Solid Tumors – 1L SCLC
– Solid Tumors – 1L RCC
Anti-TIGIT^ – Adjuvant Melanoma
Cabiralizumab✦^ – BRAF wild-type Metastatic
– Solid Tumors – Adjuvant RCC
Melanoma
– Solid Tumors
Anti-CD73^ – NSCLC EGFR mutant
– Melanoma across BRAF status
– Solid Tumors OPDIVO✦ + YERVOY✦ +
– Previously treated Metastatic
Cabozantinib✦
BET Inhibitor MSI-High CRC
– Metastatic RCC
– Solid Tumors YERVOY✦
OPDIVO✦ + EMPLICITI✦
Ulocuplumab – Adjuvant Melanoma
– Multiple Myeloma
– Hematologic Malignancies – Adolescent Metastatic
OPDIVO✦ + IDO Melanoma
– 1L Metastatic Melanoma – Metastatic Melanoma
– Neoadjuvant Muscle- EMPLICITI✦
Invasive Bladder Cancer
– Relapsed/Refractory Multiple
OPDIVO✦ + NKTR-214✦ Myeloma Pomalyst* Combo
– 1L Melanoma – Relapsed/Refractory Multiple
Myeloma Revlimid* Combo
1L = 1st line – 1L RCC#
2L = 2nd line Relatlimab✦ + OPDIVO✦ SPRYCEL✦
CML = Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia – 1L CML
CRC = Colorectal Cancer – 1L Melanoma
HCC = Hepatocellular Carcinoma EMPLICITI✦ – Pediatric
NSCLC = Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer – Refractory CML RCC = Renal Cell Carcinoma – 1L Multiple Myeloma
SCLC = Small Cell Lung Cancer Revlimid* Combo
8
tropeR
launnA
8102
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirBBRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB DEVELOPMENT PORTFOLIO BY THERAPEUTIC AREA
IMMUNOSCIENCE
PHASE I PHASE II PHASE III APPROVED INDICATIONS
RORγT TYK2 Inhibitor (1) ORENCIA ORENCIA
– Autoimmune Disease – Autoimmune Diseases –Idiopathic Inflammatory –Early Rheumatoid Arthritis
Myopathy
S1P1 Agonist BTK Inhibitor –Juvenile Idiopathic
–Sjögren’s Disease Arthritis Intravenous
– Autoimmune Disease – Rheumatoid Arthritis
TYK2 Inhibitor (1) –Juvenile Idiopathic
BTK Max
Arthritis Subcutaneous
–Psoriasis
– Rheumatoid Arthritis
–Psoriatic Arthritis
NULOJIX
TYK2 Inhibitor (2)
–Rheumatoid Arthritis
–Switch from
– Autoimmune Disease Auto injector
Calcineurin Inhibitor
TLR 7/8 Antagonist Renal Transplant –Rheumatoid Arthritis
Intravenous
– Autoimmune Disease
–Rheumatoid Arthritis
Subcutaneous
NULOJIX
– De Novo Renal Transplant
CARDIOVASCULAR
PHASE I PHASE II PHASE III APPROVED INDICATIONS
FPR-2 Agonist Nitroxyl Donor ELIQUIS✦ ELIQUIS✦
–Heart Failure –Heart Failure – Pediatric Venous – Stroke Prevention
Thromboembolism in Atrial Fibrillation
APJ Agonist Factor XIa Inhibitor✦
Prevention
– Venous Thromboembolism
–Heart Failure –Thrombosis
Prevention Orthopedic
ELIQUIS✦ Surgery
–Pediatric Heart Disease – Venous Thromboembolism
Treatment
FIBROTIC DISEASES
PHASE I PHASE II
LPA1 Antagonist HSP47✦
–Fibrosis –Fibrosis
Pegbelfermin (PEG-FGF21)
–Non-alcoholic Steatohepatitis
Note: Above pipeline excludes clinical collaborations
^ Trial(s) exploring various combinations
# Partner-run study
✦ Development Partnership: OPDIVO, YERVOY, Relatlimab, EP4: Ono (our collaboration with Ono also includes other early stage compounds); EMPLICITI: AbbVie;
NKTR-214: Nektar; Cabiralizumab: Five Prime; Cabozantinib: Exelixis; ELIQUIS: Pfizer; Factor Xla Inhibitor: Janssen; HSP47: Nitto Denko
* Pomalyst and Revlimid are trademarks of Celgene Corporation.
Listed in the tables above are our investigational compounds that we have in clinical studies as well as the approved and potential
indications for our marketed products in the related therapeutic area as of January 1, 2019. Whether any of the listed compounds
ultimately becomes a marketed product depends on the results of clinical studies, the competitive landscape of the potential product’s
market, reimbursement decisions by payers, and the manufacturing processes necessary to produce the potential product on a
commercial scale, among other factors. There can be no assurance that we will seek regulatory approval of any of these compounds or
that, if such approval is sought, it will be obtained. There is also no assurance that a compound which gets approved will be commercially
successful. At this stage of development, we cannot determine all intellectual property issues or all the patent protection that may, or
may not, be available for these investigational compounds.
9
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
2018
Annual
Report| SECURE THE FUTURE - 20TH ANNIVERSARY |
Since its inception, SECURE THE FUTURE oversaw the investment
of more than $240 million for more than 250 programs that trained
Twenty years ago, as the world prepared to tens of thousands of health care providers, increased capacity for care
welcome the new millennium, more than at hospitals and clinics, raised awareness about HIV and its prevention,
34.3 million people were living with the HIV/AIDS and increased community-based support for children and families
virus. Two thirds of them, about 24.5 million affected by the disease.
people, were in countries in sub-Saharan Africa,
SECURE THE FUTURE’s impact on pediatric care was landmark.
and most of them were women and children.
The initiative brought together the Foundation, BIPAI, and the
Transmission rates in sub-Saharan countries were on the rise, governments of five sub-Saharan countries: Botswana, Lesotho,
access to adequate care was lowest in the world, and resources eSwatini, Uganda and Tanzania to create the largest pediatric HIV
were extremely limited. HIV/AIDS had become the leading treatment network in the world. To date, BIPAI has treated more than
cause of death and was threatening the region’s very future. 1 million children and currently has more than 300,000 directly in care,
As a global pharmaceutical company with a strong portfolio 40 percent of whom are now teenagers and adolescents.
of HIV therapies, Bristol-Myers Squibb took on a major role Today, SECURE THE FUTURE’s focus has evolved to help address the
in the fight against the disease. In 1999, together with the African continent’s next major health challenge: cancer. Many people
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, the company launched with HIV are now living longer; they are not dying of the virus but rather
SECURE THE FUTURE, a groundbreaking commitment that of non-communicable diseases, such as hypertension and cancer.
helped transform how healthcare was delivered in the region. SECURE THE FUTURE has created partnerships based on years of
Through collaborations and partnerships with governments, experience in HIV that can also address lung, cervical, breast, and
international agencies – including the World Health pediatric cancers and blood disorders.
Organization, UNAIDS and Baylor International Pediatric AIDS In 2017, BIPAI, the Texas Children’s Hospital Cancer and Hematology
Initiative (BIPAI) – as well as non-governmental, community- Centers and the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation launched Global
and faith based organizations, SECURE THE FUTURE created HOPE (Hematology-Oncology Pediatric Excellence), the first
a model of care for HIV that was not only sustainable, but that comprehensive program to treat children with cancer and blood
could be replicated and applied to other disease areas. disorders. As with HIV, disparities in cancer care between Africa and
“When we started SECURE THE FUTURE, we not only looked other parts of the world are significant. In the U.S., pediatric cancer
to build local and national capacity and help inform countries’ has a survival rate of 80 percent, compared to a mortality rate as high
HIV/AIDS plans, but to develop lessons and experiences for as 90 percent in Africa.
addressing health disparities among women and children “Through SECURE THE FUTURE, we innovated models of care
across various therapeutic areas,” says John Damonti, delivery, building capacity of our local African health professionals
President, Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation. “Through our to care and treat children and women with life-threatening disease,”
partnerships and programs, we helped restore hope for says Phangisile Mtshali, Director, Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation.
children and families living with HIV/AIDS and gave “Through our lessons learned, we extended our reach in sub-Saharan
communities in sub-Saharan Africa the confidence and Africa by creating community-based treatment support programs
resources they needed to properly care for patients.” that helped deliver antiretroviral therapy in rural and hard-to-reach
areas. Our partnership with WHO Global TB Programme was influential
in shaping the policy and practice around monitoring and reporting
community efforts to finding missing tuberculosis cases. We are
now taking all of those lessons learned and applying them to address
pediatric, lung, and cervical cancers, which are robbing Africa
of a brighter future and of gains made from the HIV successes.”
10
tropeR
launnA
8102
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB| SECURE THE FUTURE - 20TH ANNIVERSARY |
A Leg acy of Hope
11
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
2018
Annual
Report| PATIENT STORY |
Every Day
to Live
Jessie Stern
“
FAITH, PRAYER, AND STRENGTH. YOU HAVE EVERY DAY TO LIVE.”
Jessie Stern was driving home when that she was a candidate for Immuno-
her car was rear-ended at a stop sign. Oncology therapy. Jessie’s doctor
The following weekend, Jessie, 69, prescribed Opdivo.
a retired mother and grandmother
After a few months of receiving
from Harrisburg, Pa., began feeling
treatment, Jessie began to see
pains in her abdomen. She visited her
improvement. Her tumors were
local emergency room and received
shrinking.
an examination, which included an
M.R.I. and an X-ray. And the latest set of Jessie’s scans
have come back clear – no detectable
“It turned out there was nothing
sign of cancer.
physically wrong with me from the
car accident,” Jessie, a smoker for A self-described people person,
the past 52 years, says. But doctors Jessie admits to struggling with
noticed an abnormality in one of her depression after learning of her
Jessie’s friend Deborah was by her side throughout the fight,
lungs while looking at her scans and providing strength, hope, and even laughter along the way. cancer. “I stayed strong and tried to
scheduled a biopsy. “The specialist be positive,” she says. “That, along
said that I had Stage III lung cancer,” she says. with prayer, got me through it.”
Jessie was suffering from non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), Today, she exercises at the gym and watches her diet more than
the most common type of lung cancer, which makes up 80 to in the past. And she shares her story with other cancer patients
85 percent of cases, according to the National Cancer Institute. through a support group at her oncologist’s office, believing that
“It’s better to hear how to deal with cancer from someone who has
At first, Jessie was treated with chemotherapy and radiation, but
experienced it.”
the treatments weren’t working. So a second chemotherapy was
tried, but Jessie didn’t like the way the treatments made her feel and Now, Jessie is feeling good and looking forward to a future without
asked to stop the treatment. Her oncologist suggested they look for cancer. “Faith, prayer, and strength,” she says. ”You have every
a different option. After more biopsies, her doctor determined day to live.”
12
tropeR
launnA
8102
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirBBRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB
2018 Financial Report
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations | 2 |
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk | 27 |
Consolidated Financial Statements | 28 |
Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements | 31 |
Reports of Management | 75 |
Controls and Procedures | 76 |
Reports of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm | 77 |
Performance Graph | 79 |
Five Year Financial Summary | 80 |
Summary of Abbreviated Terms | 81 |
Board of Directors | 82 |
Leadership Team | 83 |
Stockholder Information | 84 |
1Bristol-Myers Squibb
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company is a global specialty biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver
innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. Refer to the Summary of Abbreviated Terms at the end of this 2018
Form 10-K for terms used throughout the document.
In 2018, we received 14 approvals for new medicines and additional indications and formulations of currently marketed medicines in
major markets (the U.S., EU, Japan and China) including multiple regulatory milestone achievements for Opdivo and Opdivo+Yervoy
combinations. We are committed to investigating Opdivo alone and in combination with Yervoy and other anti-cancer agents for a wide
array of tumor types, including broad programs in lung, head & neck, liver, kidney, bladder and stomach. We continue to believe that the
breadth and depth of our IO portfolio positions us well for the future. We have 17 new IO compounds in clinical development and studies
across more than 35 different tumor types. In addition, we advanced certain other non-IO R&D programs in our pipeline, including TYK2
inhibitor for the treatment of psoriasis and other autoimmune diseases, Factor XIa inhibitor for the treatment of thrombosis (in collaboration
with Janssen), and Pegbelfermin (PEG-FGF21) for the treatment of NASH.
In 2018, our revenues increased 9% as a result of higher demand for our prioritized brands including Opdivo and Eliquis partially offset
by increased competition for established brands, primarily HIV brands and Daklinza. The $2.40 increase in GAAP EPS was primarily
due to 2017 tax charges attributed to tax reform and higher revenues. These items were partially offset by higher losses on equity
investments. After adjusting for the impact of tax reform, equity investment losses and other specified items, non-GAAP EPS increased
$0.97 primarily as a result of higher revenues, higher royalties and licensing income and a lower effective tax rate. Cost savings resulting
from our transformation initiatives continue to be redeployed in R&D and other areas of higher priorities.
On January 3, 2019, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger agreement with Celgene under which we will acquire
Celgene. For further discussion on our pending acquisition with Celgene and on our other acquisitions, divestitures and licensing
arrangements, refer to “Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Other Arrangements” and
“—Note 19. Subsequent Event.”
In 2017, our revenues increased 7% as a result of higher demand for our prioritized brands including Opdivo and Eliquis partially offset
by increased competition for established brands, primarily Daklinza. The $2.04 decrease in GAAP EPS was due to tax charges attributed
to tax reform ($1.76 per share) and to a lesser extent higher license, asset acquisition and restructuring related charges and lower divestiture-
related income. These items were partially offset by higher revenues, royalties and licensing income and a patent-infringement settlement.
After adjusting for the impact of tax reform and other specified items, non-GAAP EPS increased $0.18 primarily as a result of higher
revenues partially offset by product mix and higher R&D expenses supporting Opdivo and other IO programs.
Highlights
The following table summarizes our financial information:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2018 2017 2016
Total Revenues $ 22,561 $ 20,776 $ 19,427
Diluted Earnings Per Share
GAAP $ 3.01 $ 0.61 $ 2.65
Non-GAAP 3.98 3.01 2.83
Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude specified items
that represent certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other items impacting the comparability of financial results. For a detailed
listing of all specified items and further information and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures refer to “—Non-GAAP Financial
Measures.”
22018 Annual Report
Significant Product and Pipeline Approvals
The following is a summary of the 14 significant approvals received in 2018.
Product Date Approval
August 2018 Approval in Japan for patients with MPM which has progressed after chemotherapy.
August 2018 Approval in Japan for adjuvant treatment of melanoma.
FDA approval as the first and only IO treatment option for patients with metastatic SCLC
August 2018 whose cancer has progressed after platinum-based chemotherapy and at least one other line
of therapy.
Opdivo
EC approval for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with melanoma with involvement
July 2018
of lymph nodes or metastatic disease who have undergone complete resection.
Approval in China for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC after prior
June 2018 platinum-based chemotherapy in adult patients without EGFR or ALK genomic tumor
aberrations.
Approval in Japan of Opdivo plus low-dose Yervoy for the treatment of unresectable or
August 2018
metastatic RCC.
FDA approval of Opdivo plus low-dose Yervoy for the treatment of adult and pediatric
July 2018 patients 12 years and older with MSI-H or dMMR mCRC that has progressed following
Opdivo+Yervoy treatment with fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin and irinotecan.
Approval in Japan of Opdivo+Yervoy combination for previously untreated patients with
May 2018
unresectable melanoma.
FDA approval of Opdivo+Yervoy combination for previously untreated patients with
April 2018
intermediate and poor-risk advanced RCC.
Approval in Japan for an intravenously administered treatment of moderate to severe
Orencia February 2018
polyarticular JIA in patients two years of age and older.
FDA approval of Empliciti injection for intravenous use in combination with pomalidomide
Empliciti November 2018 and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have
received at least two prior therapies, including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor.
FDA expanded the indication for Sprycel to include the treatment of pediatric patients one
December 2018 year of age and older with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive ALL in
combination with chemotherapy.
Sprycel
EC expanded the indication for Sprycel to include the treatment of children and adolescents
July 2018 aged 1 year to 18 years with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive CML and to
include a powder for oral suspension.
EC approval of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in pediatric patients 12
Yervoy January 2018
years of age and older.
Refer to “—Product and Pipeline Developments” for all of the developments in our marketed products and late-stage pipeline in 2018
and in early 2019.
3Bristol-Myers Squibb
Strategy
Our focus as a specialty biopharmaceutical company is on discovering, developing and delivering transformational medicines that address
serious unmet medical needs. Our strategy is to combine the resources, scale and capability of a pharmaceutical company with the speed
and focus on innovation of the biotech industry. Our four strategic priorities are to drive business performance, continue to build a leading
franchise in IO, maintain a diversified portfolio both within and outside of IO, and continue our disciplined approach to capital allocation,
including establishing partnerships, collaborations and in-licensing or acquiring investigational compounds as an essential component
of successfully delivering transformational medicines to patients.
We are developing new medicines in the following core therapeutic areas: (1) oncology with a priority in certain tumor types; (2)
immunoscience with priorities in psoriasis, lupus, RA and inflammatory bowel disease; (3) cardiovascular with a priority in heart disease
and; (4) fibrotic disease with priorities in lung and liver. We continue to advance the next wave of innovative medicines by investing
significantly in our pipeline both internally and through business development activities. We expect that our planned acquisition of Celgene
will further position us as a leading biopharmaceutical company, expanding our oncology and immunoscience portfolios with several
near-term assets and additional external partnerships. We continue to invest in our IO portfolio by pursuing both monotherapy and
combination approaches, and advancing our next wave of early assets. We entered into several new collaboration agreements across our
therapeutic areas of focus and expanded others to research and develop Opdivo and other approved or investigational oncology agents
in combination regimens. We remain focused and well-resourced in our cancer development programs and seek to broaden the use of
Opdivo in earlier lines of therapy, expand into new tumors, accelerate next wave IO mechanisms and develop treatment options for
refractory IO patients. Beyond cancer, we continue to advance our early stage portfolio in immunoscience, cardiovascular and fibrotic
diseases and strengthen our partnerships with a diverse group of companies and academic institutions in new and expanded research
activities. We believe our differentiated internal and external focus contributes to the advancing of our pipeline of potentially
transformational medicines.
Our commercial model has been evolving and revenues from our prioritized brands continue to grow which demonstrates strong execution
of our strategy. We continue to drive growth of Opdivo by expanding into additional indications and tumor types both as a monotherapy
and in combination with Yervoy and other anti-cancer agents. Eliquis continues to grow, leveraging its best in class clinical profile and
extensive real world data and is now the number one novel oral anticoagulant in total prescriptions in the U.S. We are building on the
continued success of our other prioritized brands and remain strongly committed to Orencia and Sprycel. Through our operating model
transformation, our commercial infrastructure is uniquely leveraged for potential growth.
Our operating model continues to evolve and we have been successful in focusing commercial, R&D and manufacturing resources on
prioritized brands and markets, strengthening our R&D capabilities in tumor biology, patient selection and new biomarkers, delivering
leaner administrative functions and streamlining our manufacturing network to reflect the importance of biologics in our current and
future portfolio. The evolution in our operating model, which focuses on maintaining a disciplined approach in marketing, selling and
administrative expenses, will enable us to deliver the necessary strategic, financial and operational flexibility to invest in the highest
priority opportunities within our portfolio.
Looking ahead, we will continue to implement our biopharma strategy by driving the growth of prioritized brands, executing product
launches, investing in our diverse and innovative pipeline, aided by strategic business development, focusing on prioritized markets,
increasing investments in our biologics manufacturing capabilities and maintaining a culture of continuous improvement.
Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Collaboration Arrangements
Acquisitions, divestitures, licensing and collaboration arrangements allow us to focus our resources behind our growth opportunities that
drive the greatest long-term value. We are focused on the following core therapeutic areas: oncology, including IO, immunoscience,
cardiovascular and fibrosis. Significant acquisitions, divestitures and licensing and collaboration arrangements during the past three years
are summarized below. Refer to “Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances” and “—Note 4. Acquisitions, Divestitures,
Licensing and Other Arrangements” for further information.
2018 Arrangements
Nektar: BMS and Nektar commenced a worldwide license and collaboration for the development and commercialization of NKTR-214,
Nektar’s investigational immuno-stimulatory therapy.
Janssen: BMS and Janssen commenced a worldwide collaboration for the development and commercialization of a Factor XIa program
including BMS’s Factor XIa inhibitor, BMS-986177, an investigational anticoagulant compound being studied for the prevention and
treatment of major thrombotic conditions.
42018 Annual Report
Promedior: BMS notified Promedior that the Company would not be exercising a warrant obtained in 2015 to purchase all outstanding
shares of Promedior.
Rigel: BMS notified Rigel Pharmaceuticals, Inc., that the Company would discontinue its participation in the preclinical collaboration
of cancer immunotherapies based on Rigel's small molecule TGF beta receptor kinase inhibitors originally commenced in 2015.
Bavarian Nordic: BMS notified Bavarian Nordic A/S that the Company will not be exercising its option to globally license and
commercialize Prostvac*, Bavarian Nordic’s investigational PSA-targeting cancer immunotherapy.
2017 Arrangements
Ono: BMS acquired an exclusive license to develop and commercialize ONO-4578, Ono’s Prostaglandin E2 receptor 4 antagonist for
the treatment of cancer. BMS acquired worldwide rights except in Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan where it was added to the existing
collaboration and in China and ASEAN countries where Ono retained exclusive rights.
Halozyme: BMS and Halozyme entered into a global collaboration and license agreement to develop subcutaneously administered BMS
IO medicines using Halozyme's ENHANZE* drug-delivery technology which may allow for more rapid delivery of large volume injectable
medications.
IFM: BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of IFM providing BMS with full rights to IFM's preclinical STING and NLRP3 agonist
programs focused on enhancing the innate immune response for treating cancer.
Biogen: BMS out-licensed to Biogen exclusive rights to develop and commercialize BMS-986168, an anti-eTau compound in development
for Progressive Supranuclear Palsy.
Roche: BMS out-licensed to Roche exclusive rights to develop and commercialize BMS-986089, an anti-myostatin adnectin in
development for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy.
CytomX: BMS and CytomX expanded their initial 2014 strategic collaboration to discover novel cancer treatment therapies that will
include up to eight additional targets using CytomX’s proprietary Probody platform for the treatment of cancer.
2016 Arrangements
PsiOxus: BMS acquired exclusive worldwide rights to PsiOxus's NG-348, a pre-clinical stage, “armed” oncolytic virus with the goal of
addressing solid tumors.
Padlock: BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Padlock providing BMS with full rights to Padlock’s PAD inhibitor discovery
program focused on the development of treatment approaches for patients with RA.
Cormorant: BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Cormorant providing BMS with full rights to Cormorant's lead candidate
HuMax-IL8, a monoclonal antibody that represents a potentially complementary IO mechanism of action to T-cell directed antibodies
and co-stimulatory molecules.
Nitto Denko: BMS acquired an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize Nitto Denko's investigational siRNA molecules
targeting heat shock protein 47 (HSP47) in vitamin A containing formulations including Nitto Denko's lead asset ND-L02-s0201, currently
in development for the treatment of advanced liver fibrosis, and the option to receive exclusive licenses for HSP47 siRNAs in vitamin
A containing formulations for the treatment of lung and other organ fibrosis.
5Bristol-Myers Squibb
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Regional Revenues
The composition of the changes in revenues was as follows:
Year Ended December 31, 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016
Total Revenues Analysis of % Change Analysis of % Change
Total Foreign Total Foreign
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016 Change Exchange(b) Change Exchange(b)
United States $ 12,586 $ 11,358 $ 10,720 11 % — 6 % —
Europe 5,658 4,988 4,215 13 % 3 % 18 % 1%
Rest of the World 3,733 3,877 3,964 (4)% (2)% (2)% —
Other(a) 584 553 528 6 % N/A 5 % N/A
Total $ 22,561 $ 20,776 $ 19,427 9 % 1 % 7 % —
(a) Other revenues include royalties and alliance-related revenues for products not sold by our regional commercial organizations.
(b) Foreign exchange impacts were derived by applying the prior period average currency rates to the current period sales.
U.S. revenues in 2018 were impacted by higher demand for Opdivo and Eliquis partially offset by lower demand for established brands
due to increased competition, primarily HIV brands and Daklinza. The higher growth rate in the U.S. was due to additional indication
approvals for Opdivo. Average U.S. net selling prices in 2018 were unchanged after charge-backs, rebates and discounts. Refer to “—
Product Revenues Commentary” for additional information.
Europe revenues in 2018 were impacted by higher demand for Eliquis and Opdivo and foreign exchange, partially offset by lower demand
for established brands due to increased competition and lower average net selling prices.
Rest of the World revenues in 2018 were impacted by lower demand for established brands due to increased competition, lower average
net selling prices and foreign exchange, partially offset by higher demand for Opdivo and Eliquis.
U.S. revenues in 2017 were impacted by higher demand for Eliquis and Opdivo partially offset by lower demand for established brands
due to increased competition, primarily Daklinza and HIV brands. Average U.S. net selling prices were approximately 2% higher after
charge-backs, rebates and discounts. Refer to “—Product Revenues Commentary” for additional information.
Europe revenues in 2017 were impacted by higher demand for Opdivo and Eliquis partially offset by lower demand for Daklinza due to
increased competition and lower average net selling prices.
Rest of the World revenues in 2017 were impacted by lower demand for established brands, including Daklinza, due to increased
competition and out-licensing of a mature brand product, partially offset by higher demand for Opdivo and Eliquis and lower average
net selling prices.
No single country outside the U.S. contributed more than 10% of total revenues in 2018, 2017 and 2016.
62018 Annual Report
GTN Adjustments
We recognize revenue net of GTN adjustments that are further described in “—Critical Accounting Policies.”
The activities and ending reserve balances for each significant category of GTN adjustments were as follows:
Other Rebates,
Charge-Backs and Medicaid and Returns, Discounts
Dollars in Millions Cash Discounts Medicare Rebates and Adjustments Total
Balance at January 1, 2017 $ 126 $ 520 $ 1,160 $ 1,806
Provision related to sale made in:
Current period 2,087 2,090 2,135 6,312
Prior period (3) (4) (64) (71)
Payments and returns (2,004) (1,810) (2,107) (5,921)
Foreign currency translation and other 3 — 104 107
Balance at December 31, 2017 $ 209 $ 796 $ 1,228 $ 2,233
Provision related to sale made in:
Current period 2,738 3,258 2,693 8,689
Prior period (3) (33) (60) (96)
Payments and returns (2,695) (2,960) (2,424) (8,079)
Assets/related liabilities held-for-sale — — (28) (28)
Foreign currency translation and other (4) — (53) (57)
Balance at December 31, 2018 $ 245 $ 1,061 $ 1,356 $ 2,662
The reconciliation of gross product sales to net product sales by each significant category of GTN adjustments was as follows:
Year Ended December 31, % Change
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016
Gross product sales $ 30,174 $ 25,499 $ 22,364 18% 14%
GTN Adjustments
Charge-backs and cash discounts (2,735) (2,084) (1,582) 31% 32%
Medicaid and Medicare rebates (3,225) (2,086) (1,382) 55% 51%
Other rebates, returns, discounts and adjustments (2,633) (2,071) (1,698) 27% 22%
Total GTN Adjustments (8,593) (6,241) (4,662) 38% 34%
Net product sales $ 21,581 $ 19,258 $ 17,702 12% 9%
GTN adjustments percentage 28% 24% 21% 4% 3%
U.S. 36% 31% 26% 5% 5%
Non-U.S. 13% 13% 13% — —
GTN adjustments are primarily a function of product sales volume, regional and payer channel mix, contractual or legislative discounts
and rebates. GTN adjustments are increasing at a higher rate than gross product sales due to higher U.S. Eliquis gross product sales,
which has a relatively high GTN adjustment percentage as a result of competitive pressures to maintain its position on healthcare payer
formularies allowing patients continued access through their medical plans.
7Bristol-Myers Squibb
Product Revenues
Year Ended December 31, % Change
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016
Prioritized Brands
Opdivo $ 6,735 $ 4,948 $ 3,774 36% 31%
U.S. 4,239 3,102 2,664 37% 16%
Non-U.S. 2,496 1,846 1,110 35% 66%
Eliquis 6,438 4,872 3,343 32% 46%
U.S. 3,760 2,887 1,963 30% 47%
Non-U.S. 2,678 1,985 1,380 35% 44%
Orencia 2,710 2,479 2,265 9% 9%
U.S. 1,875 1,704 1,532 10% 11%
Non-U.S. 835 775 733 8% 6%
Sprycel 2,000 2,005 1,824 — 10%
U.S. 1,091 1,105 969 (1)% 14%
Non-U.S. 909 900 855 1% 5%
Yervoy 1,330 1,244 1,053 7% 18%
U.S. 941 908 802 4% 13%
Non-U.S. 389 336 251 16% 34%
Empliciti 247 231 150 7% 54%
U.S. 164 151 133 9% 14%
Non-U.S. 83 80 17 4% **
Established Brands
Baraclude 744 1,052 1,192 (29)% (12)%
U.S. 32 53 66 (40)% (20)%
Non-U.S. 712 999 1,126 (29)% (11)%
Reyataz Franchise 427 698 912 (39)% (23)%
U.S. 157 327 484 (52)% (32)%
Non-U.S. 270 371 428 (27)% (13)%
Sustiva Franchise 283 729 1,065 (61)% (32)%
U.S. 27 622 901 (96)% (31)%
Non-U.S. 256 107 164 ** (35)%
Hepatitis C Franchise 17 406 1,578 (96)% (74)%
U.S. (16) 109 827 ** (87)%
Non-U.S. 33 297 751 (89)% (60)%
Other Brands 1,630 2,112 2,271 (23)% (7)%
U.S. 316 390 379 (19)% 3%
Non-U.S. 1,314 1,722 1,892 (24)% (9)%
Total Revenues 22,561 20,776 19,427 9% 7%
U.S. 12,586 11,358 10,720 11% 6%
Non-U.S. 9,975 9,418 8,707 6% 8%
** Change in excess of 100%
82018 Annual Report
Opdivo (nivolumab) — a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to the PD-1 on T and NKT cells that has been approved for several
anti-cancer indications including bladder, blood, colon, head and neck, kidney, liver, lung, melanoma and stomach and continues to be
investigated across other tumor types and disease areas.
• U.S. revenues increased in both periods due to higher demand. The higher growth rate in 2018 was primarily due to the approvals
for the treatment of adjuvant melanoma, liver cancer and the Opdivo+Yervoy combination for kidney cancer, which is partially offset
by the decline in lung cancer indication.
• International revenues increased in both periods due to higher demand as a result of approvals for additional indications and launches
in new countries. The lower growth rate in 2018 was primarily due to additional competition for Opdivo in the NSCLC indication.
Eliquis (apixaban) — an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, targeted at stroke prevention in adult patients with NVAF and the prevention and
treatment of VTE disorders.
• U.S. revenues increased in both periods due to market share gains partially offset by lower average net selling prices.
• International revenues increased in both periods due to higher demand attributed to market share gains and growth of the novel oral
anticoagulants market.
Orencia (abatacept) — a fusion protein indicated for adult patients with moderate to severe active RA and PsA and is also indicated for
reducing signs and symptoms in certain pediatric patients with moderately to severely active polyarticular JIA.
• U.S. revenues increased in both periods due to higher demand and higher average net selling prices.
• International revenues increased in both periods due to higher demand. We may experience additional competition in Europe from
biosimilars of competitor products in future periods.
Sprycel (dasatinib) — an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinase indicated for the first-line treatment of adults with Philadelphia
chromosome-positive CML in chronic phase and the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase
CML with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including Gleevec* (imatinib mesylate).
• U.S. revenues decreased in 2018 due to inventory workdown offset by higher average net selling prices. U.S. revenues increased in
2017 due to higher demand and higher average net selling prices.
• International revenues remained unchanged in 2018. International revenues increased in 2017 due to higher demand. We may
experience a decline in European revenues in the event that generic datasinib product enters the market.
Yervoy (ipilimumab) — a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma.
• U.S. revenues increased in both periods due to higher demand. Revenue growth rate in 2018 decreased due to lower demand resulting
from other IO products being used in the adjuvant treatment of patients with melanoma, including Opdivo.
• International revenues increased in both periods due to higher demand primarily in Europe following the approval of the Opdivo
+Yervoy combination therapy for melanoma.
Baraclude (entecavir) — an oral antiviral agent for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
• International revenues decreased in both periods due to lower demand resulting from increased competition.
Reyataz (atazanavir sulfate) Franchise — Includes Reyataz - a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV and Evotaz (atazanavir 300
mg and cobicistat 150 mg) - a combination therapy containing Reyataz and Tybost* (cobicistat).
• The LOE for Reyataz in the U.S. occurred in December 2017, as a result revenues will continue to decline.
• International revenues decreased in both periods due to lower demand resulting from increased competition.
Sustiva (efavirenz) Franchise — a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, which includes Sustiva, an
antiretroviral drug, and bulk efavirenz, which is also included in the combination therapy, Atripla*.
• The LOE for Sustiva in the U.S. occurred in December 2017. Gilead terminated BMS's participation in the U.S. and Canada joint
venture following the launch of a generic version of Sustiva in the U.S. As a result, BMS's share of Atripla* revenues will further
decline during the next two years. Refer to “Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances” for further discussion.
• International revenues for 2018 include $204 million of U.S. Atripla* royalty revenue.
9Bristol-Myers Squibb
Hepatitis C Franchise — Daklinza (daclatasvir) - an NS5A replication complex inhibitor; Sunvepra (asunaprevir) - an NS3 protease
inhibitor; and beclabuvir - an NS5B inhibitor.
• U.S. and international revenues decreased in both periods due to lower demand resulting from increased competition.
Other Brands — includes all other brands, including those which have lost exclusivity in major markets, OTC brands and royalty revenue.
• International revenues decreased in 2018 primarily due to lower Plavix* royalties as a result of the adoption of amended revenue
guidance, the expiration of rights to Abilify* in Canada, lower diabetes product supply sales and continued generic erosion. The
revenue decrease in 2017 was due to out-licensing and divestiture of certain other brands and continued generic erosion.
Estimated End-User Demand
Pursuant to the SEC Consent Order described under “—SEC Consent Order”, we monitor the level of inventory on hand in the U.S.
wholesaler distribution channel and outside of the U.S. in the direct customer distribution channel. We are obligated to disclose products
with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception. Estimated levels of
inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand for the following products were not material to our results of
operations as of the dates indicated. At December 31, 2018, Daklinza had 6 months of inventory on hand in the U.S. as a result of minimum
required stock levels to support patient demand. We expect inventory on hand levels of Daklinza to exceed one month over the near term.
Below are international products that had estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand at
September 30, 2018.
Dafalgan, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had 1.2 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct customers
compared to 1.3 months of inventory on hand at June 30, 2018. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to the ordering
patterns of pharmacists in France.
Efferalgan, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had 1.7 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct
customers compared to also 1.4 months of inventory on hand at June 30, 2018. The level of inventory on hand was primarily
due to the ordering patterns of pharmacists in France.
Fervex, a cold and flu product, had 1.3 months of inventory on hand at direct customers compared to 1.5 months of inventory
on hand at June 30, 2018. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to the ordering patterns of pharmacists in France.
Daklinza, a Hepatitis C product, had 1.2 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct customers compared to 1.4 months
of inventory on hand at June 30, 2018. The level of inventory on hand was attributable to low volume in-market sales in Canada.
Perfalgan, an analgesic product, had 1.3 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct customers compared to 1.5 months
of inventory on hand at June 30, 2018. The level of inventory on hand was primarily in the Gulf Countries due to extended
delivery lead time.
Sustiva, an HIV product, had 1.1 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct customers compared to 1.0 months of
inventory on hand at June 30, 2018. The level of inventory on hand was attributable to low volume in-market sales in Canada.
In the U.S., we generally determine our months on hand estimates using inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out-
movement provided by our three largest wholesalers, which account for approximately 97% of total gross sales of U.S. products. Factors
that may influence our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in
wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In
addition, these estimates are calculated using third-party data, which may be impacted by their recordkeeping processes.
102018 Annual Report
Our non-U.S. businesses have significantly more direct customers. Information on available direct customer product level inventory and
corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information varies widely. We limit our direct customer
sales channel inventory reporting to where we can influence demand. When this information does not exist or is otherwise not available,
we have developed a variety of methodologies to estimate such data, including using historical sales made to direct customers and third-
party market research data related to prescription trends and end-user demand. Given the difficulties inherent in estimating third-party
demand information, we evaluate our methodologies to estimate direct customer product level inventory and to calculate months on hand
on an ongoing basis and make changes as necessary. Factors that may affect our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of
products, price increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers
and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations. As such, all of the information required to estimate months
on hand in the direct customer distribution channel for non-U.S. business for the year ended December 31, 2018 is not available prior to
the filing of this 2018 Form 10-K. We will disclose any product with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected
demand, subject to a de minimis exception, in the next quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Expenses
% Change
Dollar in Millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016
Cost of products sold $ 6,547 $ 6,094 $ 4,969 7 % 23 %
Marketing, selling and administrative 4,551 4,751 4,979 (4)% (5)%
Research and development 6,345 6,482 5,012 (2)% 29 %
Other income (net) (850) (1,682) (1,448) (49)% 16 %
Total Expenses $ 16,593 $ 15,645 $ 13,512 6 % 16 %
Cost of products sold
Cost of products sold include material, internal labor and overhead costs from our owned manufacturing sites, third-party product supply
costs and other supply chain costs managed by our global manufacturing and supply organization. Cost of products sold also includes
royalties and profit sharing, certain excise taxes, foreign currency hedge settlement gains and losses and the amortization of acquired
developed technology costs. Cost of products sold typically vary between periods as a result of product mix and volume (particularly
royalties and profit sharing), and to a lesser extent changes in foreign currency, price, inflation and costs attributed to manufacturing site
exits.
• Cost of products sold increased in 2018 due to higher royalties and profit sharing of $905 million resulting primarily from higher
Eliquis sales partially offset by product cost improvements, a $146 million impairment charge in 2017 to reduce the carrying value
of the small molecule active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturing operations in Swords, Ireland, and lower inventory charges.
• Cost of products sold increased in 2017 due to higher royalties and profit sharing of $753 million resulting primarily from higher
Eliquis sales and a $146 million impairment charge as discussed above. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher sales
volume, inventory charges, manufacturing startup costs and foreign currency.
Marketing, selling and administrative
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses primarily include salary and benefit costs, third-party professional and marketing fees,
outsourcing fees, shipping and handling costs, advertising and product promotion. Expenses are managed through regional
commercialization organizations or global enabling functions such as finance, legal, information technology and human resources. Certain
expenses are shared with alliance partners based upon contractual agreements. Expenses typically vary between periods due to new
product launch promotional activities.
• Marketing, selling and administrative expenses decreased in 2018 due to lower advertising, promotion and marketing expenses,
lower costs attributed to transformation initiatives and lower branded prescription drug fee, partially offset by higher BMS foundation
grants.
• Marketing, selling and administrative expenses decreased in 2017 due to lower advertising, promotion and sales-force expenses
supporting Daklinza and other established brands and lower BMS foundation grants.
11Bristol-Myers Squibb
Research and development
Research and development activities include discovery research, preclinical and clinical development, drug formulation and medical
support of marketed products. Expenses include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants and fees paid to clinical research organizations,
supplies, upfront and contingent milestone payments for licensing and asset acquisitions of investigational compounds, IPRD impairment
charges and proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs. The allocations include facilities, information technology, employee stock
compensation costs and other appropriate costs. Certain expenses are shared with alliance partners based upon contractual agreements.
Expenses typically vary between periods for a number of reasons, including the timing of license and asset acquisition charges and IPRD
impairment charges.
• Research and development expense decreased in 2018 due to lower site exit costs and IPRD impairment charges, partially offset
by expansion of Opdivo and other IO development programs, including NKTR-214.
• Research and development expense increased in 2017 due to higher license and asset acquisition charges, site exit charges, IPRD
impairment charges and expansion of Opdivo and other IO development programs.
Significant charges included in R&D expense were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Nektar $ 1,050 (a) $ — $ —
Cormorant 60 (b) — 35 (a)
IFM 25 (b) 311 (a) —
CytomX — 200 (a) 25 (a)
Halozyme — 105 (a) —
Flexus — 324 (b) 100 (b)
Cardioxyl — 100 (b) —
PsiOxus — 50 (a) —
Ono — 40 (a) —
Padlock — — 139 (a)
Nitto Denko — — 100 (a)
Other — — 40
License and asset acquisition charges 1,135 1,130 439
F-Star — 75 —
Other — — 13
IPRD impairments — 75 13
Site exit costs 79 383 83
Research and development significant charges $ 1,214 $ 1,588 $ 535
(a) Upfront payment
(b) Milestone payment
• License and asset acquisition charges resulted from strategic transactions to acquire or license certain investigational oncology,
cardiovascular, immunoscience and fibrotic disease compounds (or options to acquire or license) as disclosed in “—Acquisitions,
Divestitures, Licensing and Collaboration Arrangements.”
• IPRD impairment charges includes the discontinued development of an investigational compound which was part of our alliance
with F-Star in 2017.
• Site exit costs resulted from the expected exit of R&D sites in the U.S. through 2020 primarily due to the reduction in the
estimated useful lives of the related assets and an impairment charge in 2017 to reduce the carrying value of an R&D facility in
Wallingford, Connecticut.
122018 Annual Report
Other income (net)
• Other income (net) decreased in 2018 primarily due to losses on equity investments related to Nektar and a patent infringement
settlement in 2017 partially offset by lower restructuring and debt redemption charges.
• Other income (net) increased in 2017 primarily due to a patent infringement settlement and out-licensing income partially offset
by lower divestiture gains and related service fees and higher restructuring and debt redemption charges.
Components of other income (net) were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Interest expense $ 183 $ 196 $ 167
Investment income (173) (126) (97)
Loss/(gain) on equity investments 512 (23) 37
Provision for restructuring 131 293 109
Litigation and other settlements 76 (487) 47
Equity in net income of affiliates (93) (75) (77)
Divestiture gains (178) (164) (576)
Royalties and licensing income (1,353) (1,351) (719)
Transition and other service fees (12) (37) (238)
Pension and postretirement (27) (1) (72)
Intangible asset impairment 64 — 15
Loss on debt redemption — 109 —
Other 20 (16) (44)
Other income (net) $ (850) $ (1,682) $ (1,448)
• Loss/(gain) on equity investments includes a fair value adjustment of $534 million related to the Company's equity investment
in Nektar in 2018.
• Restructuring charges relate to changes to the Company's operating model to drive continued success in the near- and long-term
through a more focused investment in commercial opportunities for key brands and markets, a competitive and more agile R&D
organization that can accelerate the pipeline, streamline operations and realign manufacturing capabilities that broaden biologics
capabilities to reflect the current and future portfolio as well as streamline and simplify our small-molecule supply network.
The new operating model is expected to enable the Company to deliver the strategic, financial and operational flexibility necessary
to invest in the highest priorities across the Company. Aggregate restructuring charges of $268 million and $826 million have
been incurred in 2018 and 2017, respectively, for all actions including accelerated depreciation and impairment charges resulting
from early site exits.
• Litigation and other settlements include $481 million for BMS's share of a patent-infringement settlement related to Merck's
PD-1 antibody Keytruda* in 2017 and $70 million related to intellectual property and product liability settlements in 2018,
including $42 million recognized subsequent to the Company's earnings release for the fourth quarter of 2018.
• Divestiture gains includes divestiture of multiple mature global product lines in oncology and infectious therapy in 2018,
additional contingent consideration for the diabetes business in 2017 and certain OTC brands and investigational HIV medicines
businesses in 2016.
• Royalties and licensing income includes Keytruda* royalties in 2018 and 2017, upfront licensing fees from Biogen and Roche
in connection with the out-licensing of certain investigational genetically defined disease compounds in 2017 and contingent
consideration from the Erbitux* and diabetes business divestitures in 2018, 2017 and 2016, including the transfer of certain
royalty rights pertaining to diabetes product sales. A $50 million fee for amending a royalty rate and $25 million sales-based
milestone was also included in 2018.
• Transition and other service fees included fees resulting from the divestiture of the diabetes and investigational HIV medicines
businesses in 2017 and 2016.
• Pension and postretirement includes the interest cost, expected return on plan assets and amortization components of the net
periodic benefit cost (credit) as well as net charges for settlements, curtailments and special termination benefits of $121 million
in 2018, $162 million in 2017 and $92 million in 2016.
• Intangible asset impairment includes $64 million in 2018 for an out-licensed asset obtained in the 2010 acquisition of
ZymoGenetics, Inc., which did not meet its primary endpoint in a Phase II clinical study.
• A debt redemption loss of $109 million resulted from the early redemption of certain long-term debt obligations in 2017.
13Bristol-Myers Squibb
Income Taxes
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 5,968 $ 5,131 $ 5,915
Provision for Income Taxes 1,021 4,156 1,408
Effective Tax Rate 17.1% 81.0% 23.8%
Impact of Specified Items — 60.0% 1.8%
Changes in the effective tax rate was primarily due to new U.S. tax reform legislation known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the
Act) enacted on December 22, 2017. The Act moved from a worldwide tax system to a quasi-territorial tax system and was comprised
of broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code including, but not limited to, (1) reduced the U.S. tax rate from 35% to 21%; (2) added
a deemed repatriation transition tax on certain foreign earnings and profits; (3) generally eliminated U.S. federal income taxes on dividends
from foreign subsidiaries; (4) included certain income of controlled foreign companies in U.S. taxable income (GILTI); (5) created a new
minimum tax referred to as a base erosion anti-abuse income tax; (6) limited certain research-based credits; and (7) eliminated the domestic
manufacturing deduction.
Although many aspects of the Act were not effective until 2018, additional tax expense of $2.9 billion was recognized in the fourth quarter
of 2017 upon enactment of the Act. The additional expense increased the effective tax rate by 56.7% and included a $2.6 billion one-
time deemed repatriation transition tax on previously untaxed post-1986 foreign earnings and profits (including related tax reserves).
Those earnings were effectively taxed at a 15.5% rate to the extent that the specified foreign corporations held cash and certain other
assets and an 8.0% rate on the remaining earnings and profits. The remaining $285 million of additional tax expense included an adjustment
to measure net deferred tax assets at the new U.S. tax rate of 21%. The accounting for the reduction of deferred tax assets to the 21% tax
rate was complete as of December 31, 2017. The provisional tax charge for the deemed repatriation transition tax was reduced by $56
million in 2018 upon completion of the accounting which reduced the effective tax rate by 0.9%.
In addition, the tax impact attributed to specified items, including non-deductible R&D charges, valuation allowances for certain tax
assets resulting from equity investment losses and other jurisdiction tax rates increased the effective tax rate by 0.9% in 2018, 3.3% in
2017 and 1.8% in 2016.
After considering the impact of specified items including the transitional impacts of the Act discussed above, the effective tax rate
decreased by 3.9% in 2018 primarily due to the on-going impact of the Act and tax reserve releases partially offset by taxes attributed to
internal cash repatriations and earnings mix between high and low tax jurisdictions. After considering the impact of specified items, the
effective tax rate decreased by 1.0% in 2017 primarily due to the adoption of amended income tax accounting guidance related to share-
based payments and the early adoption of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory partially offset by earnings mix between
high and low tax jurisdictions. Refer to “Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7. Income Taxes” for further information.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude certain costs,
expenses, gains and losses and other specified items that are evaluated on an individual basis. These items are adjusted after considering
their quantitative and qualitative aspects and typically have one or more of the following characteristics, such as being highly variable,
difficult to project, unusual in nature, significant to the results of a particular period or not indicative of future operating results. Similar
charges or gains were recognized in prior periods and will likely reoccur in future periods including restructuring costs, accelerated
depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, R&D charges in connection with the acquisition or
licensing of third-party intellectual property rights, divestiture gains or losses, pension, legal and other contractual settlement charges
and debt redemption gains or losses, among other items. Deferred and current income taxes attributed to these items are also adjusted
for considering their individual impact to the overall tax expense, deductibility and jurisdictional tax rates.
Non-GAAP information is intended to portray the results of our baseline performance, supplement or enhance management, analysts and
investors' overall understanding of our underlying financial performance and facilitate comparisons among current, past and future periods.
For example, non-GAAP earnings and EPS information is an indication of our baseline performance before items that are considered by
us to not be reflective of our ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators we use as a basis for evaluating
performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting for future periods. This information
is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP.
142018 Annual Report
Specified items were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Impairment charges $ 17 $ 146 $ —
Accelerated depreciation and other shutdown costs 41 3 21
Cost of products sold 58 149 21
Marketing, selling and administrative 2 1 —
License and asset acquisition charges 1,135 1,130 439
IPRD impairments — 75 13
Site exit costs 79 383 83
Research and development 1,214 1,588 535
Loss/(gain) on equity investments(a) 512 — —
Provision for restructuring 131 293 109
Litigation and other settlements 70 (481) 40
Divestiture gains (177) (126) (559)
Royalties and licensing income (75) (497) (10)
Pension and postretirement 121 162 91
Intangible asset impairment 64 — 15
Loss on debt redemption — 109 —
Other income (net) 646 (540) (314)
Increase to pretax income 1,920 1,198 242
Income taxes on items above (268) (87) 51
Income taxes attributed to U.S. tax reform (56) 2,911 —
Income taxes (324) 2,824 51
Increase to net earnings 1,596 4,022 293
Noncontrolling interest — (59) —
Increase to net earnings used for Diluted Non-GAAP EPS calculation $ 1,596 $ 3,963 $ 293
(a) Specified items included these amounts upon adoption of amended guidance for the recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities in 2018.
The reconciliations from GAAP to Non-GAAP were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2018 2017 2016
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS used for Diluted EPS Calculation — GAAP $ 4,920 $ 1,007 $ 4,457
Specified Items 1,596 3,963 293
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS used for Diluted EPS Calculation — Non-GAAP $ 6,516 $ 4,970 $ 4,750
Average Common Shares Outstanding — Diluted 1,637 1,652 1,680
Diluted EPS Attributable to BMS — GAAP $ 3.01 $ 0.61 $ 2.65
Diluted EPS Attributable to Specified Items 0.97 2.40 0.18
Diluted EPS Attributable to BMS — Non-GAAP $ 3.98 $ 3.01 $ 2.83
15Bristol-Myers Squibb
Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our net cash position was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,911 $ 5,421
Marketable securities — current 1,973 1,391
Marketable securities — non-current 1,775 2,480
Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities 10,659 9,292
Short-term debt obligations (1,703) (987)
Long-term debt (5,646) (6,975)
Net cash position $ 3,310 $ 1,330
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held in the U.S. were approximately $9.3 billion at December 31, 2018. Most of the
remaining $1.4 billion is held primarily in our international affiliates for local operating needs. We are subject to a one-time deemed
repatriation transition tax in which $2.1 billion will be payable over the next eight years as a result of U.S. tax reform. We expect to have
more flexibility in accessing cash and future cash that may be generated in foreign subsidiaries. We believe that our existing cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities together with cash generated from operations and issuance of commercial paper in the U.S. will
be sufficient to satisfy our normal cash requirements for at least the next few years, including dividends, capital expenditures, milestone
payments, working capital, deemed repatriation transition tax and $1.3 billion of debt maturing in 2019.
Management continuously evaluates the Company’s capital structure to ensure the Company is financed efficiently, which may result in
the repurchase of common stock and debt securities, termination of interest rate swap contracts prior to maturity and issuance of debt
securities. The average amount of commercial paper outstanding was $19 million at a weighted-average rate of 1.27% during 2018. The
maximum amount of commercial paper outstanding was $300 million with no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2018.
Dividend payments were $2.6 billion in 2018 and 2017 and $2.5 billion in 2016. Dividend decisions are made on a quarterly basis by
our Board of Directors. Annual capital expenditures were approximately $1.0 billion in 2018, $1.1 billion in 2017 and $1.2 billion in
2016 and are expected to be approximately $800 million in 2019 and $600 million in 2020. We continue to expand our biologics
manufacturing capabilities and other facility-related activities. For example, we constructed a new large-scale biologics manufacturing
facility in Ireland that will produce multiple therapies for our growing biologics portfolio when approved for commercial use in early
2020. We also paid $1.85 billion to Nektar in 2018 for certain collaboration rights and 8.3 million shares of its common stock representing
a 4.8% ownership interest.
Our investment portfolio includes non-current marketable securities, which are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate
fluctuations and other market factors. Our investment policy establishes limits on the amount and time to maturity of investments with
any institution. The policy also requires that investments are only entered into with corporate and financial institutions that meet high
credit quality standards. Refer to “Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements” for
further information.
As of December 31, 2018, we had three revolving credit facilities totaling $5.0 billion, which consisted of a 364-day $2.0 billion facility
that was scheduled to expire in March 2019 and two five-year $1.5 billion facilities that were extended to September 2022 and July 2023,
respectively. All of these facilities provide for customary terms and conditions with no financial covenants and our two $1.5 billion
revolving facilities are extendable annually by one year on the anniversary date with the consent of the lenders. No borrowings were
outstanding under any of these revolving facilities as of December 31, 2018 or 2017.
In connection with our pending acquisition of Celgene, in January 2019 we entered into a bridge commitment letter that provides for up
to $33.5 billion in a 364-day senior unsecured bridge loan facility. We also entered into an $8 billion term loan credit agreement consisting
of a $1 billion 364-day tranche, a $4 billion three-year tranche and a $3 billion five-year tranche. The term loan reduced the commitments
under the bridge facility to $25.5 billion. If we obtain additional funding by issuing securities or obtaining other loans, the amount of the
bridge facility will be correspondingly reduced. The bridge loan and the term loan are subject to customary terms and conditions and do
not have any financial covenants. No amounts will be borrowed under either the bridge loan or the term loan prior to the closing of the
pending acquisition of Celgene.
In January 2019, we also entered into two new revolving credit facilities totaling $3.0 billion: a 364-day $2.0 billion facility expiring in
January 2020 and a three-year $1.0 billion facility expiring in January 2022. The 364-day $2.0 billion facility replaced our existing 364-
day $2.0 billion revolving facility, which was terminated concurrently upon the effectiveness of the new 364-day facility, and supports
our commercial paper borrowings, if any. Each of these facilities provide for customary terms and conditions with no financial covenants.
162018 Annual Report
No borrowings were outstanding under these two revolving facilities or on our two $1.5 billion revolving facilities as of February 25,
2019.
Following the announcement of our pending acquisition of Celgene, we also entered into forward starting interest rate swap option
contracts (swaptions), with a total notional value of $7.6 billion, to hedge future interest rate risk associated with the anticipated issuance
of long-term debt to fund the acquisition. The swaptions provide us with the right to enter into forward starting interest rate swap contracts
for periods of 10 and 30 years through January 2020.
Additional regulations in the U.S. could be passed in the future including additional healthcare reform initiatives, further changes to tax
laws, additional pricing laws and potential importation restrictions which may reduce our results of operations, operating cash flow,
liquidity and financial flexibility. We continue to monitor the potential impact of the economic conditions in certain European and other
countries and the related impact on prescription trends, pricing discounts and creditworthiness of our customers. We believe these economic
conditions will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow or financial flexibility.
The UK voted to depart from the EU during June 2016. Similar to other companies in our industry, certain regulatory, trade, labor and
other aspects of our business will likely be affected over time. However, we currently do not believe that these matters and other related
financial effects will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Our sales in the UK
represent less than 3% of our consolidated revenues.
Credit Ratings
In January 2019, Moody's placed BMS under review for downgrade and Standard & Poor's placed BMS on CreditWatch with negative
implications, each following the announcement to acquire Celgene. BMS's current long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by
Moody's Investors Service are A2 and Prime-1, respectively, and BMS's current long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by
Standard & Poor's are A+ and A-1+, respectively. The long-term ratings reflect the agencies' opinion that we have a low default risk but
are somewhat susceptible to adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions. The short-term ratings reflect the
agencies' opinion that we have good to extremely strong capacity for timely repayment. Any credit rating downgrade may affect the
interest rate of any debt we may incur, the fair market value of existing debt and our ability to access the capital markets generally. The
current long-term and short-term ratings do not reflect any impact from the proposed acquisition of Celgene.
Cash Flows
The following is a discussion of cash flow activities:
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Cash flow provided by/(used in):
Operating activities $ 5,940 $ 5,275 $ 3,058
Investing activities (874) (66) 1,480
Financing activities (3,535) (4,077) (2,653)
Operating Activities
Cash flow from operating activities represents the cash receipts and disbursements from all of our activities other than investing and
financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting net earnings for noncontrolling interest, non-cash operating items, gains
and losses attributed to investing and financing activities and changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting from timing differences
between the receipts and payments of cash and when the transactions are recognized in our results of operations. As a result, changes in
cash from operating activities reflect the timing of cash collections from customers and alliance partners; payments to suppliers, alliance
partners and employees; customer discounts and rebates; and tax payments in the ordinary course of business. For example, annual
employee bonuses are typically paid in the first quarter of the subsequent year. In addition, cash collections continue to be impacted by
longer payment terms for certain biologic products in the U.S., primarily our newer oncology products including Opdivo, Yervoy and
Empliciti (90 days to 120 days). The longer payment terms are used to more closely align with the insurance reimbursement timing for
physicians and cancer centers following administration to the patients.
17Bristol-Myers Squibb
The $700 million change in cash flow from operating activities compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to:
• Higher cash collections and timing of payments in the ordinary course of business of approximately $2.2 billion.
Partially offset by:
• Higher R&D licensing and collaboration payments of approximately $600 million primarily due to the Nektar transaction in
2018;
• Lower litigation settlement proceeds of approximately $500 million primarily due to the Merck settlement in 2017; and
• Lower out-license proceeds of approximately $400 million primarily due to the Biogen and Roche transactions in 2017.
The $2.2 billion change in cash flow from operating activities compared to 2016 was primarily attributable to:
• Higher cash collections and timing of payments in the ordinary course of business of approximately $400 million;
• Lower income tax payments of approximately $1.5 billion;
• Litigation settlement proceeds of approximately $500 million primarily due to the Merck settlement; and
• Out-licensing proceeds of $500 million primarily due to the Biogen and Roche transactions.
Partially offset by:
• Higher R&D licensing payments of approximately $400 million primarily due to the CytomX, Halozyme and Nitto Denko
transactions; and
• Higher contributions to pension plans of approximately $300 million.
Investing Activities
Cash requirements from investing activities include cash used for acquisitions, manufacturing and facility-related capital expenditures
and purchases of marketable securities with original maturities greater than 90 days at the time of purchase reduced by proceeds from
business divestitures (including royalties) and the sale and maturity of marketable securities.
The $800 million change in cash flow from investing activities compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to:
• Lower net sales and maturities of marketable securities with maturities greater than 90 days of approximately $900 million; and
• Higher net acquisition and other payments of approximately $500 million primarily due to the purchase of 8.3 million shares
of Nektar common stock in 2018.
Partially offset by:
• Higher business divestiture proceeds of approximately $500 million primarily due to the divestiture of manufacturing operations
in Swords, Ireland and certain mature brands.
The $1.5 billion change in cash flow from investing activities compared to 2016 was primarily attributable to:
• Lower net sales of marketable securities with maturities greater than 90 days of approximately $700 million;
• Lower business divestiture proceeds of approximately $600 million primarily due to certain OTC brands and investigational
HIV medicines businesses in 2016; and
• Higher asset acquisition payments of approximately $300 million primarily due to the acquisition of IFM in 2017.
Financing Activities
Cash requirements from financing activities include cash used to pay dividends, repurchase common stock and repay long-term debt and
other borrowings reduced by proceeds from the exercise of stock options and issuance of long-term debt and other borrowings.
The $500 million change in cash flow from financing activities compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to:
• Lower repurchases of common stock of $2.1 billion primarily due to the accelerated share repurchase agreements in 2017.
Partially offset by:
• Lower net borrowings of $1.5 billion primarily due to the issuance of long-term debt used to repurchase common stock in 2017.
The $1.4 billion change in cash flow from financing activities compared to 2016 was primarily attributable to:
• Higher repurchase of common stock of $2.2 billion primarily due to the accelerated share repurchase agreements.
Partially offset by:
• Higher net borrowing activity of $900 million primarily to fund the repurchase of common stock.
182018 Annual Report
Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
Payments due by period for our contractual obligations at December 31, 2018 were as follows:
Obligations Expiring by Period
Dollars in Millions Total 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Later Years
Short-term borrowings $ 454 $ 454 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Long-term debt 6,776 1,250 — — 750 817 3,959
Interest on long-term debt(a) 2,832 192 183 183 183 167 1,924
Operating leases 663 122 92 77 69 61 242
Purchase obligations 3,074 1,087 620 430 353 291 293
Uncertain tax positions(b) 72 72 — — — — —
Deemed repatriation transition tax 2,119 79 101 196 196 299 1,248
Total (c) $ 15,990 $ 3,256 $ 996 $ 886 $ 1,551 $ 1,635 $ 7,666
(a) Includes estimated future interest payments and periodic cash settlements of derivatives.
(b) Includes only short-term uncertain tax benefits because of uncertainties regarding the timing of resolution.
(c) Excludes pension and other liabilities because of uncertainties regarding the timing of resolution.
In addition to the above, we are committed to an aggregated $14.0 billion of potential future research and development milestone payments
to third parties for in-licensing, asset acquisitions and development programs including early-stage milestones of $5.5 billion (milestones
achieved through Phase III clinical studies) and late-stage milestones of $8.5 billion (milestones achieved post Phase III clinical studies).
Payments generally are due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental and regulatory milestones for which the specific
timing cannot be predicted. Some of these agreements also provide for sales-based milestones aggregating $4.4 billion that we would be
obligated to pay to alliance partners upon achievement of certain sales levels in addition to royalties. We also have certain manufacturing,
development and commercialization obligations in connection with alliance arrangements. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of
these obligations. Refer to “Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances” for further information regarding our alliances. We
do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are material or reasonably likely to become material to our financial condition or
results of operations.
SEC Consent Order / FCPA Settlement
As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, we entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning
certain wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which was attached as
Exhibit 10 to our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.
Under the terms of the Consent, we agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to our direct customers
(including wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and government purchasers) based on expected demand or on
amounts that do not exceed approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a timely public disclosure of any change in
practice. We also agreed in the Consent to certain measures that we have implemented including: (a) establishing a formal review and
certification process of our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC; (b) establishing a business risk and disclosure group;
(c) retaining an outside consultant to comprehensively study and help re-engineer our accounting and financial reporting processes;
(d) publicly disclosing any sales incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose of inducing them to purchase products in excess
of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that our budget process gives appropriate weight to inputs that come from the bottom to the top,
and not just from the top to the bottom, and adequately documenting that process.
We have established a company-wide policy to limit our sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the Consent. This
policy includes the adoption of various procedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the terms of the
Consent. These procedures include a governance process to escalate to appropriate management levels potential questions or concerns
regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In addition, compliance with the policy is
monitored on a regular basis.
19Bristol-Myers Squibb
We maintain DSAs with our U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which account for nearly 100% of our gross U.S. revenues. Under the
current terms of the DSAs, our wholesaler customers provide us with weekly information with respect to months on hand product-level
inventories and the amount of out-movement of products. The three largest wholesalers currently account for approximately 97% of our
gross U.S. revenues. The inventory information received from our wholesalers, together with our internal information, is used to estimate
months on hand product level inventories at these wholesalers. We estimate months on hand product inventory levels for our U.S. business’s
wholesaler customers other than the three largest wholesalers by extrapolating from the months on hand calculated for the three largest
wholesalers. In contrast, our non-U.S. business has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product
level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where available,
varies widely. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to estimate months on hand product level inventories for these business units.
We believe the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to ensure compliance with the Consent.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
For recently issued accounting standards, refer to “Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued
Accounting Standards.”
Critical Accounting Policies
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. Our critical accounting policies are those that significantly impact our
financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need
to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of this uncertainty, actual results may vary from these
estimates.
Revenue Recognition
Our accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on reported results and relies on certain estimates. Revenue is
recognized following a five-step model: (1) identify the customer contract; (2) identify the contract's performance obligation; (3) determine
the transaction price; (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligation; and (5) recognize revenue when or as a performance
obligation is satisfied. Revenue is also reduced for GTN sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates
and judgment after considering legal interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, historical experience, payer channel mix (e.g.
Medicare or Medicaid), current contract prices under applicable programs, unbilled claims and processing time lags and inventory levels
in the distribution channel. Estimates are assessed each period and adjusted as required to revise information or actual experience.
GTN Adjustments
The following categories of GTN adjustments involve significant estimates, judgments and information obtained from external sources.
Refer to “Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2. Revenue.” for further discussion and analysis of each significant category of GTN
sales adjustments.
Charge-backs and cash discounts
Our U.S. business participates in programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense
and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties, including covered entities under the 340B Drug Pricing Program, whereby
pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price to participating entities. These entities purchase products through wholesalers
at the lower program price and the wholesalers then charge us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower program price.
Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of unprocessed charge-back claims attributable to a sale (typically within a two
to four week time lag).
In the U.S. and certain other countries, cash discounts are offered as an incentive for prompt payment, generally approximating 2% of
the sales price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of unprocessed cash discounts (typically within a one month
time lag).
Medicaid and Medicare rebates
Our U.S. business participates in state government Medicaid programs and other qualifying Federal and state government programs
requiring discounts and rebates to participating state and local government entities. All discounts and rebates provided through these
programs are included in our Medicaid rebate accrual. Medicaid rebates have also been extended to drugs used in managed Medicaid
plans. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates is presented as a liability.
202018 Annual Report
Rebates and discounts are offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. managing prescription drug programs and Medicare
Advantage prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug benefit. We also pay a 50% point of service discount to the CMS
when the Medicare Part D beneficiaries are in the coverage gap (“donut hole”). The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates and
discounts is presented as a liability.
Other rebates, returns, discounts and adjustments
Other GTN sales adjustments include sales returns and all other programs based on applicable laws and regulations for individual non-
U.S. countries as well as rebates offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. to a lesser extent. The non-U.S. programs include
several different pricing schemes such as cost caps, volume discounts, outcome-based pricing schemes and pricing claw-backs that are
based on sales of individual companies or an aggregation of all companies participating in a specific market. The estimated amount of
unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts is presented as a liability.
Estimated returns for established products are determined after considering historical experience and other factors including levels of
inventory in the distribution channel, estimated shelf life, product recalls, product discontinuances, price changes of competitive products,
introductions of generic products, introductions of competitive new products and lower demand following the LOE. Estimated returns
for new products are determined after considering historical sales return experience of similar products, such as those within the same
product line, similar therapeutic area and/or similar distribution model and estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and
projected demand. The estimated amount for product returns is presented as a liability.
Use of information from external sources
Information from external sources is used to estimate GTN adjustments. Our estimate of inventory at the wholesalers are based on the
projected prescription demand-based sales for our products and historical inventory experience, as well as our analysis of third-party
information, including written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers with respect to their inventory levels and sell-
through to customers and third-party market research data, and our internal information. The inventory information received from
wholesalers is a product of their recordkeeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers
and hospitals.
We have also continued the practice of combining retail and mail prescription volume on a retail-equivalent basis. We use this methodology
for internal demand forecasts. We also use information from external sources to identify prescription trends, patient demand and average
selling prices. Our estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party information, as certain third-party
information was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags between the date as of which third-party
information is generated and the date on which we receive third-party information.
Pension Benefits
Accounting for pension and postretirement benefit plans requires actuarial valuations based on significant assumptions for discount rates
and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. In consultation with our actuaries, these significant assumptions and others such
as salary growth, retirement, turnover, lump sum election rates, healthcare trends and mortality rates are evaluated and selected based on
expectations or actual experience during each remeasurement date. Pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a
material effect on reported earnings, projected benefit obligations and future cash funding. Actual results in any given year may differ
from those estimated because of economic and other factors.
The yield on high quality corporate bonds that coincides with the cash flows of the plans’ estimated payouts is used in determining the
discount rate. The Citi Pension Discount curve is used for the U.S. plans. The present value of benefit obligations at December 31, 2018
for the U.S. pension plans was determined using a 4.1% discount rate. If the assumed discount rate used in determining the U.S. pension
plans’ projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2018 was reduced by an additional 1%, the projected benefit obligation would increase
by approximately $500 million.
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is estimated considering expected returns for individual asset classes with input from
external advisors. We also consider long-term historical returns including actual performance compared to benchmarks for similar
investments. The Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan's pension expense for 2018 was determined using an average 6.6%
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Other U.S. Plans' pension expense was determined using a 7.8% expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in determining the U.S. plans’ pension expense
for 2018 was reduced by 1%, such expense would increase by $42 million.
For a more detailed discussion on retirement benefits, refer to “Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 16. Retirement Benefits.”
21Bristol-Myers Squibb
Long-lived Assets
Other Intangible Assets
Other intangible assets were $1.1 billion at December 31, 2018, including licenses ($192 million of which $84 million is allocated to
unapproved products), developed technology rights ($501 million), capitalized software ($366 million) and IPRD ($32 million). Intangible
assets are assessed for impairment whenever current facts or circumstances warrant a review, although IPRD is assessed at least annually.
Intangible assets are highly vulnerable to impairment charges, particularly newly acquired assets for recently launched products or IPRD.
These assets are initially measured at fair value and therefore any reduction in expectations used in the valuations could potentially lead
to impairment. Some of the more common potential risks leading to impairment include competition, earlier than expected LOE, pricing
pressures, adverse regulatory changes or clinical study results, delay or failure to obtain regulatory approval and additional development
costs, inability to achieve expected synergies, higher operating costs, changes in tax laws and other macro-economic changes. The
complexity in estimating the fair value of intangible assets in connection with an impairment test is similar to the initial valuation.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment is tested for impairment whenever current facts or circumstances require a review including whether it is
more likely than not that the asset will be disposed of prior to its estimated remaining useful life. Additionally, these long-lived assets
are periodically reviewed to determine if any change in facts or circumstances would result in a change to the estimated useful life of the
asset, possibly resulting in the acceleration of depreciation. If such circumstances exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows
generated by the asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists
at its lowest level of identifiable cash flows. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between
the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. Expectations of future cash flows are subject to change based upon the near and long-term
production volumes and margins generated by the asset as well as any potential alternative future use. Accelerated depreciation, impairment
and other related charges for certain manufacturing and R&D facilities were $137 million in 2018, $533 million in 2017 and $104 million
in 2016. Additional charges will continue to occur as a result of the Company’s restructuring actions announced in 2016.
Assets Held-for-Sale
The following criteria is considered before concluding assets are classified as held-for-sale; (1) management’s commitment to a plan to
sell, (2) availability for immediate sale in its present condition, (3) initiation of an active program to identify a buyer, (4) probability of
a completed sale within one year, (5) actively marketed for sale at a reasonable price in relation to its current fair value, and (6) likelihood
of significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn. If all of the criteria is met as of the balance sheet date,
the assets and liabilities are presented separately in the balance sheet as held-for-sale at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value
less costs to sell and are no longer depreciated or amortized while classified as held-for-sale. We have classified $479 million of assets
and $152 million of liabilities as held-for-sale at December 31, 2018 which are related to the planned sale of the UPSA consumer health
business, a division of BMS which manufactures and markets pain treatment and other OTC products for domestic sale in France and
export sales outside of France.
Income Taxes
Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized.
The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including long-range forecasts
of future taxable income and evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to
earnings in the period when such assessments are made. Our deferred tax assets were $2.1 billion at December 31, 2018 (net of valuation
allowances of $3.2 billion) and $2.3 billion at December 31, 2017 (net of valuation allowances of $2.8 billion).
The U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards were $206 million at December 31, 2018. These carryforwards were acquired as a
result of certain acquisitions and are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The net operating loss
carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards expired in varying
amounts beginning in 2018 (certain amounts have unlimited lives).
As discussed more fully in “Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7. Income Taxes”, a provisional tax charge of $2.6 billion
attributable to the one-time deemed repatriation transition tax on certain foreign earnings was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2017.
The accounting for the reduction of deferred tax assets to the 21% tax rate was complete as of December 31, 2017, and the tax charge
for the deemed repatriation transition tax is complete as of December 31, 2018. The provisional tax charge for the deemed repatriation
transition tax was reduced by $56 million in 2018.
222018 Annual Report
Prior to the Mead Johnson split-off in 2009, the following transactions occurred: (i) an internal spin-off of Mead Johnson shares while
still owned by us; (ii) conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares; and (iii) conversion of Mead Johnson & Company
to a limited liability company. These transactions as well as the split-off of Mead Johnson through the exchange offer should qualify as
tax-exempt transactions under the Internal Revenue Code based upon a private letter ruling received from the Internal Revenue Service
related to the conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares, and outside legal opinions.
Certain assumptions, representations and covenants by Mead Johnson were relied upon regarding the future conduct of its business and
other matters which could affect the tax treatment of the exchange. For example, the current tax law generally creates a presumption that
the exchange would be taxable to us, if Mead Johnson or its shareholders were to engage in transactions that result in a 50% or greater
change in its stock ownership during a four year period beginning two years before the exchange offer, unless it is established that the
exchange offer were not part of a plan or series of related transactions to effect such a change in ownership. If the internal spin-off or
exchange offer were determined not to qualify as a tax exempt transaction, the transaction could be subject to tax as if the exchange was
a taxable sale by us at market value.
In addition, a negative basis or excess loss account (ELA) existed in our investment in stock of Mead Johnson prior to these transactions.
We received an opinion from outside legal counsel to the effect that it is more likely than not that we eliminated the ELA as part of these
transactions and do not have taxable income with respect to the ELA. The tax law in this area is complex and it is possible that even if
the internal spin-off and the exchange offer is tax exempt under the Internal Revenue Code, the IRS could assert that we have additional
taxable income for the period with respect to the ELA. We could be exposed to additional taxes if this were to occur. Based upon our
understanding of the Internal Revenue Code and opinion from outside legal counsel, a tax reserve of $244 million was established reducing
the gain on disposal of Mead Johnson included in discontinued operations in 2009.
We agreed to certain tax related indemnities with Mead Johnson as set forth in the tax sharing agreement, including certain taxes related
to its business prior to the completion of the IPO and created as part of the restructuring to facilitate the IPO. Mead Johnson has also
agreed to indemnify us for potential tax effects resulting from the breach of certain representations discussed above as well as certain
transactions related to the acquisition of Mead Johnson’s stock or assets.
Liabilities are established for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to,
transfer pricing matters, tax credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes
ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known.
For discussions on income taxes, refer to “Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued
Accounting Standards—Income Taxes” and “—Note 7. Income Taxes.”
Contingencies
In the normal course of business, we are subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business, that
cover a wide range of matters, including, among others, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental
liability, contractual claims and tax matters. We recognize accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be
incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict
and, as such, actual results could vary from these estimates.
For discussions on contingencies, refer to “Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued
Accounting Standards—Contingencies,” “—Note 7. Income Taxes” and “—Note 18. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
23Bristol-Myers Squibb
Product and Pipeline Developments
Our R&D programs are managed on a portfolio basis from early discovery through late-stage development and include a balance of early-
stage and late-stage programs to support future growth. Our late stage R&D programs in Phase III development include both investigational
compounds for initial indications and additional indications or formulations for marketed products. Spending on these programs represent
approximately 35-45% of our annual R&D expenses in the last three years. Opdivo was the only investigational compound or marketed
product that represented greater than 10% of our R&D expenses in the last three years. Our late-stage development programs could
potentially have an impact on our revenue and earnings within the next few years if regulatory approvals are obtained and products are
successfully commercialized. The following are the developments in our marketed products and our late-stage pipeline:
Product Indication Date Developments
August 2018 Approval in Japan for treatment of adjuvant melanoma.
EC approval for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with involvement of lymph nodes
July 2018
or metastatic disease who have undergone complete resection.
Melanoma Announced results from the Phase III CheckMate-238 trial evaluating Opdivo versus Yervoy
in patients with stage IIIB/C or stage IV melanoma who are at high risk of recurrence following
June 2018 complete surgical resection demonstrated statistically longer recurrence-free survival for
Opdivo, the primary endpoint of the study, versus Yervoy at a minimum follow-up of 24
months across key subgroups, including disease stages and BRAF mutation status.
Announced in June 2018 that the FDA lifted a partial clinical hold placed on CheckMate-602,
a randomized, open-label Phase III study evaluating the addition of Opdivo to pomalidomide
June/August and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. The decision
Multiple Myeloma
2018 follows consultation with the FDA and agreement on amendments to the study protocol. In
August 2018, the Company discontinued further enrollment of this study following a futility
analysis.
Approval in China for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC after prior
June 2018 platinum-based chemotherapy in adult patients without EGFR or ALK genomic tumor
aberrations.
NSCLC Announced that the pivotal, randomized Phase III CheckMate-078 trial evaluating Opdivo
versus docetaxel in a predominantly Chinese population with previously treated advanced
April 2018
NSCLC demonstrated superior overall survival benefit in the primary endpoint regardless of
PD-L1 expression or tumor histology.
Acceptance in China of sBLA filing for patients who had previously been treated for metastatic
January 2019
or recurrent SCCHN.
SCCHN Announced two-year overall survival data from CheckMate-141, a Phase III study, evaluating
Opdivo compared with investigator’s choice chemotherapy (cetuximab, docetaxel or
Opdivo April 2018
methotrexate) in patients with recurrent or metastatic SCCHN after failure on platinum-based
therapy.
Announced topline results from the Phase III CheckMate-331 study did not meet its primary
October 2018 endpoint of overall survival with Opdivo versus chemotherapy in patients with previously
treated relapsed SCLC.
SCLC
FDA approval as the first and only IO treatment option for patients with metastatic SCLC
August 2018 whose cancer has progressed after platinum-based chemotherapy and at least one other line
of therapy.
August 2018 Approval in Japan for patients with MPM which has progressed after chemotherapy.
Approval in Japan of an every 2 week/30 minute infusion dose and administration schedule
August 2018
for Opdivo in six indications.
Announced preliminary data from the ongoing PIVOT Phase I/II Study, which is evaluating
the combination of Opdivo with Nektar's investigational medicine, NKTR-214. The
preliminary results presented at the 2018 American Society of Clinical Oncology reported
June 2018
safety, efficacy and biomarker data for patients enrolled in the Phase I dose-escalation stage
of the study and for the first patients consecutively enrolled in select dose expansion cohorts
Various in Phase II.
EC approval of an every four-week (Q4W) Opdivo dosing schedule of 480 mg infused over
60 minutes as an option for patients with advanced melanoma and previously treated RCC
April 2018 as well as the approval of a two-week Opdivo dosing option of 240 mg infused over 30
minutes to replace weight-based dosing for all six approved monotherapy indications in the
EU.
FDA approval of the Company's sBLA to update Opdivo dosing to include 480 mg infused
March 2018 every four weeks for a majority of approved indications as well as a shorter 30 minute infusion
across all approved indications.
242018 Annual Report
Product Indication Date Developments
Announced new data from a cohort of the CheckMate-142 study in which Opdivo plus low-
October 2018 dose Yervoy demonstrated durable clinical benefit as a first-line treatment in patients with
MSI-H or dMMR mCRC.
CRC
FDA approval of Opdivo plus low-dose Yervoy for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients
July 2018 12 years and older with MSI-H or dMMR mCRC that has progressed following treatment
with a fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin and irinotecan.
Announced results from an interim analysis of the Phase II CheckMate-650 trial evaluating
Opdivo+Yervoy in patients with mCRPC showed that among 32 asymptomatic or minimally
symptomatic patients whose disease had progressed after second-generation hormone therapy
mCRPC February 2019 and who had not received chemotherapy (cohort 1), with a median follow-up of 11.9 months,
the objective response rate was 25%. Additionally, among 30 patients whose disease
progressed after taxane-based chemotherapy (cohort 2), with a median follow-up of 13.5
months, the objective response rate was 10%.
Announced four-year data from the Phase III CheckMate-067 clinical trial which continues
October 2018 to demonstrate durable, long-term survival benefits with the first-line combination of Opdivo
Melanoma +Yervoy, versus Yervoy alone, in patients with advanced melanoma.
Approval in Japan of Opdivo+Yervoy combination for chemotherapy-naive patients with
May 2018
unresectable melanoma.
Announced follow-up data evaluating Opdivo monotherapy and Opdivo in combination with
Yervoy in patients with platinum-pretreated mUC. Results from the Phase I/II CheckMate-032
mUC October 2018 trial showed that patients who received the combination of Opdivo1 mg/kg plus Yervoy 3 mg/
kg experienced a higher objective response rate compared to those who received Opdivo 3
mg/kg plus Yervoy 1 mg/kg or Opdivo alone.
Announced voluntary withdrawal of the Company's sBLA for the Opdivo plus low-
dose Yervoy for treatment of first-line advanced NSCLC in patients with TMB greater than
January 2019
or equal to 10 mutations per megabase as data from CheckMate-227, Part 1a, will not be
available within the PDUFA goal date of May 20, 2019.
Announced updates regarding regulatory actions by the CHMP in the EU for the ongoing
Opdivo+Yervoy review of its applications for an indication in metastatic first-line NSCLC with Opdivo plus
low-dose Yervoy in patients with TMB greater than or equal to 10 mutations per megabase.
October 2018
The CHMP requested additional information from CheckMate-227, including an overall
NSCLC survival analysis of Opdivo+Yervoy in patients who have TMB less than 10 mutations per
megabase.
Announced results from a part of the Phase III CheckMate-227 trial that evaluated Opdivo
plus low-dose Yervoy and Opdivo plus chemotherapy versus chemotherapy in patients with
June 2018
first-line NSCLC with PD-L1 expression <1%, across squamous and non-squamous tumor
histologies extended progression-free survival.
Announced the EMA validated a type II variation application for treatment in adult patients
May 2018 with first-line metastatic NSCLC who have TMB greater than or equal to 10 mutations per
megabase.
Announced new results from the Phase III CheckMate-214 study, showing that therapy with
February 2019 Opdivo plus low-dose Yervoy continued to demonstrate long-term survival benefits in patients
with previously untreated advanced or metastatic RCC.
Announced the EC approval of Opdivo plus low-dose Yervoy for previously untreated patients
January 2019
with intermediate and poor-risk advanced RCC.
Approval in Japan of Opdivo plus low-dose Yervoy for the treatment of unresectable or
August 2018
RCC metastatic RCC.
Announced patient-reported outcomes data from the Phase III CheckMate-214 trial in
intermediate- and poor-risk patients with advanced RCC treated with Opdivo plus low-dose
June 2018
Yervoy versus sunitinib over a two-year follow-up period reported significant and sustained
health-related quality of life improvements.
FDA approval of Opdivo+Yervoy combination for previously untreated patients with
April 2018
intermediate and poor-risk advanced RCC.
Announced patient-reported outcomes from the Phase III CheckMate-451 study did not meet
November its primary endpoint of overall survival with Opdivo+Yervoy versus placebo as a maintenance
SCLC
2018 therapy in patients with extensive-stage SCLC after completion of first-line platinum-based
chemotherapy.
Announced findings from the largest real-world data analysis of NVAF patient populations
November
Eliquis NVAF aged 80 and older receiving direct oral anticoagulants showing that Eliquis is associated with
2018
lower rates of stroke or systemic embolism and major bleeding than rivaroxaban or dabigatran.
25Bristol-Myers Squibb
Product Indication Date Developments
Received a positive CHMP opinion for polyarticular JIA via subcutaneous injection in
Orencia JIA January 2019
pediatric patients down to two years of age.
FDA approval of Empliciti injection for intravenous use in combination with pomalidomide
November
and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have
2018
received at least two prior therapies, including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor.
Empliciti RRMM Announced the EMA has validated the Company's type II variation application for Empliciti
in combination with pomalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone for the treatment of adult
September
patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least two prior therapies, including
2018
lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor (PI), and have demonstrated disease progression on
the last therapy.
Announced EC approval of Sprycel, in both tablet and powder for oral suspension
February 2019 formulations, in combination with chemotherapy for the treatment of pediatric patients with
newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive ALL.
ALL
FDA expanded the indication for Sprycel to include the treatment of pediatric patients one
December
Sprycel year of age and older with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive ALL in
2018
combination with chemotherapy.
EC expanded the indication for Sprycel to include the treatment of children and adolescents
CML July 2018 aged 1 year to 18 years with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome positive CML and to
include a powder for oral suspension.
EC approval of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in pediatric patients 12 years
Yervoy Melanoma January 2018
of age and older.
Announced results from a Phase II study of BMS-986165, an oral, selective TYK2 inhibitor
TYK2 September
Psoriasis which delivered significant skin clearance in patients with moderate to severe plaque
Inhibitor 2018
psoriasis.
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This 2018 Form 10-K (including documents incorporated by reference) and other written and oral statements we make from time to time
contain certain “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
Section 21E of the Exchange Act. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the fact they use words such as “should,” “could,”
“expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “target,” “may,” “project,” “guidance,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will” and other words and terms
of similar meaning and expression in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. One can also identify
forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements are
based on historical performance and current expectations and projections about our future financial results, goals, plans and objectives
and involve inherent risks, assumptions and uncertainties, including internal or external factors that could delay, divert or change any of
them in the next several years, and could cause our future financial results, goals, plans and objectives to differ materially from those
expressed in, or implied by, the statements. These statements are likely to relate to, among other things, our goals, plans and objectives
regarding our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, market position, product development, product approvals, sales efforts,
expenses, performance or results of current and anticipated products, our pending acquisition of Celgene and the outcome of contingencies
such as legal proceedings and financial results. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. We have included important factors in
the cautionary statements included in our most recently filed 2018 Form 10-K, particularly under “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” that we believe
could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.
Although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in
forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only
as of the date made. Additional risks that we may currently deem immaterial or that are not presently known to us could also cause the
forward-looking events discussed in this 2018 Form 10-K not to occur. Except as otherwise required by federal securities law, we undertake
no obligation to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events,
changed circumstances or otherwise after the date of this 2018 Form 10-K.
262018 Annual Report
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.
We are exposed to market risk resulting from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Certain derivative financial instruments
are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge our underlying economic exposure. All of our financial instruments, including
derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk considered as part of the overall fair value measurement. Derivative financial instruments
are not used for trading purposes.
Foreign Exchange Risk
Significant amounts of our revenues, earnings and cash flow are exposed to changes in foreign currency rates. Our primary net foreign
currency translation exposures are the euro and Japanese yen. Foreign currency forward contracts are used to manage risk primarily
arising from certain intercompany purchases and sales transactions; we are also exposed to foreign exchange transaction risk arising from
non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities and earnings denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies. Foreign currency
forward contracts are used to offset these exposures but are not designated as hedges.
We estimate that a 10% appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar (with all other
variables held constant) would decrease the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts by $231 million and $175 million at
December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, reducing earnings over the remaining life of the contracts.
We are also exposed to translation risk on non-U.S. dollar-denominated net assets. Non-U.S. dollar borrowings are used to hedge the
foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates and are designated as hedges of net investments. The effective
portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges is included in the foreign currency translation component of Accumulated
other comprehensive loss. If our net investment decreases below the equivalent value of the non-U.S. debt borrowings, the change in the
remeasurement basis of the debt would be subject to recognition in income as changes occur. For additional information, refer to
“Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements.”
Interest Rate Risk
We use fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges to provide an appropriate balance of fixed and floating
rate debt. We use cross-currency interest rate swap contracts designated to hedge the Company's net investment in its Japan subsidiary.
The fair values of these contracts as well as our marketable debt securities are analyzed at year-end to determine their sensitivity to interest
rate changes. In this sensitivity analysis, if there were a 100 basis point increase in short-term or long-term interest rates as of December
31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the expected adverse impact on our earnings would not be material.
We estimate that an increase of 100 basis points in long-term interest rates at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 would decrease
the fair value of long-term debt by $482 million and $569 million, respectively.
Credit Risk
We monitor our investments with counterparties with the objective of minimizing concentrations of credit risk. Our investment policy is
to invest only in institutions that meet high credit quality standards and establishes limits on the amount and time to maturity of investments
with any individual counterparty. The policy also requires that investments are only entered into with corporate and financial institutions
that meet high credit quality standards.
The use of derivative instruments exposes us to credit risk if the counterparty fails to perform when the fair value of a derivative instrument
contract is positive. If the counterparty fails to perform, collateral is not required by any party whether derivatives are in an asset or
liability position. We have a policy of diversifying derivatives with counterparties to mitigate the overall risk of counterparty defaults.
For additional information, refer to “Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements.”
27Bristol-Myers Squibb
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data
Year Ended December 31,
EARNINGS 2018 2017 2016
Net product sales $ 21,581 $ 19,258 $ 17,702
Alliance and other revenues 980 1,518 1,725
Total Revenues 22,561 20,776 19,427
Cost of products sold 6,547 6,094 4,969
Marketing, selling and administrative 4,551 4,751 4,979
Research and development 6,345 6,482 5,012
Other income (net) (850) (1,682) (1,448)
Total Expenses 16,593 15,645 13,512
Earnings Before Income Taxes 5,968 5,131 5,915
Provision for Income Taxes 1,021 4,156 1,408
Net Earnings 4,947 975 4,507
Noncontrolling Interest 27 (32) 50
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS $ 4,920 $ 1,007 $ 4,457
Earnings per Common Share
Basic $ 3.01 $ 0.61 $ 2.67
Diluted 3.01 0.61 2.65
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Dollars in Millions
Year Ended December 31,
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 2018 2017 2016
Net Earnings $ 4,947 $ 975 $ 4,507
Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income, net of taxes and reclassifications to earnings:
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges 70 (57) 4
Pension and postretirement benefits 53 214 (17)
Available-for-sale securities (25) 39 16
Foreign currency translation (254) 18 (38)
Total Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income (156) 214 (35)
Comprehensive Income 4,791 1,189 4,472
Comprehensive Income/(Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest 27 (32) 50
Comprehensive Income Attributable to BMS $ 4,764 $ 1,221 $ 4,422
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
282018 Annual Report
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Dollars in Millions, Except Share and Per Share Data
December 31,
ASSETS 2018 2017
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,911 $ 5,421
Marketable securities 1,973 1,391
Receivables 5,965 6,300
Inventories 1,195 1,166
Prepaid expenses and other 1,116 576
Total Current Assets 17,160 14,854
Property, plant and equipment 5,027 5,001
Goodwill 6,538 6,863
Other intangible assets 1,091 1,210
Deferred income taxes 1,371 1,610
Marketable securities 1,775 2,480
Other assets 2,024 1,533
Total Assets $ 34,986 $ 33,551
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Short-term debt obligations $ 1,703 $ 987
Accounts payable 1,892 2,248
Accrued liabilities 6,489 6,014
Deferred income 172 83
Income taxes payable 398 231
Total Current Liabilities 10,654 9,563
Deferred income 468 454
Income taxes payable 3,043 3,548
Pension and other liabilities 1,048 1,164
Long-term debt 5,646 6,975
Total Liabilities 20,859 21,704
Commitments and contingencies
EQUITY
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Shareholders’ Equity:
Preferred stock, $2 convertible series, par value $1 per share: Authorized 10 million shares; issued
and outstanding 3,590 in 2018 and 4,070 in 2017, liquidation value of $50 per share — —
Common stock, par value of $0.10 per share: Authorized 4.5 billion shares; 2.2 billion issued in
both 2018 and 2017 221 221
Capital in excess of par value of stock 2,081 1,898
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (2,762) (2,289)
Retained earnings 34,065 31,160
Less cost of treasury stock — 576 million common shares in 2018 and 575 million common
shares in 2017 (19,574) (19,249)
Total Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Shareholders' Equity 14,031 11,741
Noncontrolling interest 96 106
Total Equity 14,127 11,847
Total Liabilities and Equity $ 34,986 $ 33,551
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
29Bristol-Myers Squibb
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Dollars in Millions
Year Ended December 31,
2018 2017 2016
Cash Flows From Operating Activities:
Net earnings $ 4,947 $ 975 $ 4,507
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization, net 637 789 382
Deferred income taxes 86 1,010 (204)
Stock-based compensation 221 199 205
Impairment charges 126 327 63
Pension settlements and amortization 186 236 169
Divestiture gains and royalties (992) (706) (1,187)
Asset acquisition charges 85 760 274
Loss/(gain) on equity investments 512 (23) 37
Other adjustments (44) 120 (36)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Receivables (429) (431) (803)
Inventories (216) (29) (152)
Accounts payable (59) 320 104
Deferred income 84 (642) (64)
Income taxes payable 162 2,597 (453)
Other 634 (227) 216
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 5,940 5,275 3,058
Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
Sale and maturities of marketable securities 2,379 6,412 4,809
Purchase of marketable securities (2,305) (5,437) (3,089)
Capital expenditures (951) (1,055) (1,215)
Divestiture and other proceeds 1,249 722 1,334
Acquisition and other payments (1,246) (708) (359)
Net Cash (Used in)/Provided by Investing Activities (874) (66) 1,480
Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
Short-term debt obligations, net (543) 727 125
Issuance of long-term debt — 1,488 —
Repayment of long-term debt (5) (1,224) (15)
Repurchase of common stock (320) (2,469) (231)
Dividends (2,613) (2,577) (2,547)
Other (54) (22) 15
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities (3,535) (4,077) (2,653)
Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash and Cash Equivalents (41) 52 (33)
Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents 1,490 1,184 1,852
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 5,421 4,237 2,385
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year $ 6,911 $ 5,421 $ 4,237
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
302018 Annual Report
Note 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP, including the accounts of Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company and all of its controlled majority-owned subsidiaries and certain variable interest entities. All intercompany balances and
transactions are eliminated. Material subsequent events are evaluated and disclosed through the report issuance date. Refer to the Summary
of Abbreviated Terms at the end of this 2018 Form 10-K for terms used throughout the document.
Alliance and license arrangements are assessed to determine whether the terms provide economic or other control over the entity requiring
consolidation of an entity. Entities controlled by means other than a majority voting interest are referred to as variable interest entities
and are consolidated when BMS has both the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity that most significantly impacts
its economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the
entity.
Business Segment Information
BMS operates in a single segment engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of
innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. A global research and development organization and supply chain
organization are responsible for the discovery, development, manufacturing and supply of products. Regional commercial organizations
market, distribute and sell the products. The business is also supported by global corporate staff functions. The determination of a single
segment is consistent with the financial information regularly reviewed by the chief executive officer for purposes of evaluating
performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting future periods. For further
information on product and regional revenue, see “—Note 2. Revenue.”
Use of Estimates and Judgments
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of management estimates, judgments and assumptions. The most significant
assumptions are estimates in determining the fair value and potential impairment of intangible assets; sales rebate and return accruals;
legal contingencies; income taxes; and pension and postretirement benefits. Actual results may differ from estimated results.
Reclassifications
Certain prior period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Loss/(gain) on equity investments previously
presented in Impairment charges and Other adjustments in the consolidated statements of cash flows is now presented separately.
Revenue Recognition
Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method. Refer to “—Note 2. Revenue” for a detailed
discussion of accounting policies related to revenue recognition, including deferred revenue and royalties. Refer to “—Note 3. Alliances”
for further detail regarding alliances.
Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes includes income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the change in deferred taxes during the
year. Deferred taxes result from differences between the financial and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in
tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely
than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant
judgment including the long-range forecast of future taxable income and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the
deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made.
Tax benefits are recognized from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on
examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit recognized in the financial statements
for a particular tax position is based on the largest benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement.
31Bristol-Myers Squibb
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include bank deposits, time deposits, commercial paper and money market funds. Cash equivalents consist of
highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase and are recognized at cost, which
approximates fair value.
Marketable Debt Securities
Marketable debt securities are classified as “available-for-sale” on the date of purchase and reported at fair value. Fair value is determined
based on observable market quotes or valuation models using assessments of counterparty credit worthiness, credit default risk or
underlying security and overall capital market liquidity. Marketable debt securities are reviewed for impairment by assessing if the decline
in market value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary, which considers the intent and ability to retain the
investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value, the duration and extent that the market
value has been less than cost and the investee's financial condition.
Investments in Equity Securities
Investments in equity securities with readily determinable fair values are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in
Other income (net). Investments in equity securities without readily determinable fair values are recorded at cost minus any impairment,
plus or minus changes in their estimated fair value resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a
similar investment of the same issuer. Changes in the estimated fair value of investments in equity securities without readily determinable
fair values are recorded in Other income (net). Investments in 50% or less owned companies are accounted for using the equity method
of accounting when the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial decisions of the investee is maintained.
The share of net income or losses of equity investments accounted for using the equity method are included in Other income (net).
Investments in equity securities without readily determinable fair values and investments in equity accounted for using the equity method
are assessed for potential impairment on a quarterly basis based on qualitative factors.
Inventory Valuation
Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market.
Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation
Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalized at cost. Depreciation is computed on a straight-line method based
on the estimated useful lives of the related assets ranging from 20 to 50 years for buildings and 3 to 20 years for machinery, equipment
and fixtures.
Current facts or circumstances are periodically evaluated to determine if the carrying value of depreciable assets to be held and used may
not be recoverable. If such circumstances exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows generated by the long-lived asset, or
appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists at its lowest level of identifiable
cash flows. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset’s fair value and its
carrying value. An estimate of the asset’s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. If quoted market
prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques using unobservable fair value inputs, such as
a discounted value of estimated future cash flows.
Capitalized Software
Eligible costs to obtain internal use software are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software.
Acquisitions
Businesses acquired are consolidated upon obtaining control. The fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at
the date of acquisition. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill.
Business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred. Contingent consideration from potential development, regulatory, approval and
sales-based milestones and sales-based royalties are included in the purchase price for business combinations and are excluded for asset
acquisitions. Amounts allocated to the lead investigational compounds for asset acquisitions are expensed at the date of acquisition.
322018 Annual Report
Goodwill, Acquired In-Process Research and Development and Other Intangible Assets
The fair value of acquired intangible assets is typically determined using an income-based approach referred to as the excess earnings
method utilizing Level 3 fair value inputs. The market participant valuations assume a global view considering all potential jurisdictions
and indications based on discounted after-tax cash flow projections, risk adjusted for estimated probability of technical and regulatory
success (for IPRD).
Finite-lived intangible assets, including licenses, developed technology rights and IPRD projects that reach commercialization are
amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life. Estimated useful lives are determined considering the period the assets
are expected to contribute to future cash flows.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment by assessing qualitative factors or performing a quantitative analysis in determining
whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of net assets are below their carrying amounts. Examples of qualitative factors assessed
include our share price, financial performance compared to budgets, long-term financial plans, macroeconomic, industry and market
conditions as well as the substantial excess of fair value over the carrying value of net assets from the annual impairment test performed
in a prior year. Each relevant factor is assessed both individually and in the aggregate.
IPRD is tested for impairment on an annual basis and more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate a
potential reduction in the fair values of the assets below their carrying value. Impairment charges are recognized to the extent the carrying
value of IPRD is determined to exceed its fair value.
Finite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of the asset may not
be recoverable. If the carrying value exceeds the projected undiscounted pretax cash flows of the intangible asset, an impairment loss
equal to the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value (discounted after-tax cash flows) is recognized.
Restructuring
Restructuring charges are recognized as a result of actions to streamline operations and reduce the number of facilities. Estimating the
impact of restructuring plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs requires judgment. Actual results could vary from
these estimates.
Contingencies
Loss contingencies from legal proceedings and claims may occur from government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and
environmental liability, contractual claims, tax and other matters. Accruals are recognized when it is probable that a liability will be
incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Gain contingencies (including contingent proceeds related to the divestitures)
are not recognized until realized. Legal fees are expensed as incurred.
Advertising and Product Promotion Costs
Advertising and product promotion costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising and product promotion costs are included in Marketing,
selling and administrative expenses and were $672 million in 2018, $740 million in 2017 and $789 million in 2016.
Foreign Currency Translation
Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are
translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries
at changing rates are recognized in Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income.
Research and Development
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical study costs are accrued over the service periods specified in the
contracts and adjusted as necessary based upon an ongoing review of the level of effort and costs actually incurred. Research and
development costs are presented net of reimbursements from alliance partners. Upfront and contingent development milestone payments
for asset acquisitions of investigational compounds are also included in research and development expense if there are no alternative
future uses.
33Bristol-Myers Squibb
Cash Flow
Payments for licensing and asset acquisitions of investigational compounds are included in operating activities as well as out-licensing
proceeds. Payments for the acquisition of an ownership interest in a legal entity, including acquisitions that do not meet the accounting
definition of a business are included in investing activities, as well as divestiture proceeds, royalties and other consideration received
subsequent to the related sale of the asset or business. Other adjustments reflected in operating activities include divestiture gains and
losses and related royalties, asset acquisition charges, gains and losses on equity investments and gains and losses on debt redemption.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Amended guidance for revenue recognition was adopted in the first quarter of 2018 using the modified retrospective method with the
cumulative effect of the change recognized in Retained earnings. The new guidance, referred to as ASC 606, requires an entity to recognize
the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers and replaces most of
the existing revenue recognition standards in U.S. GAAP. A five-step model is utilized to achieve the core principle: (1) identify the
customer contract; (2) identify the contract’s performance obligation; (3) determine the transaction price; (4) allocate the transaction price
to the performance obligation; and (5) recognize revenue when or as a performance obligation is satisfied.
The timing of recognizing revenue for typical net product sales to our customers did not significantly change. However, transaction prices
are no longer required to be fixed or determinable and certain variable consideration might be recognized prior to the occurrence or
resolution of the contingent event. As a result, certain revenue previously deferred under the prior standard because the transaction price
was not fixed or determinable is now accounted for as variable consideration and might be recognized earlier provided such terms are
sufficient to reliably estimate the ultimate price expected to be realized.
Estimated future royalties and contingent fees related to certain arrangements are now recognized prior to the third party sale or event
occurring to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of estimated cumulative revenue will not occur. The new
guidance pertaining to the separation of licensing rights and related fee recognition did not significantly change the timing of recognizing
revenue in our existing alliance arrangements that are currently generating revenue. The timing of royalties, sales-based milestones and
other forms of contingent consideration resulting from the divestiture of businesses as well as royalties and sales-based milestones from
licensing arrangements did not change.
The cumulative effect of the accounting change resulted in recognizing contract assets of $214 million and a $168 million increase in
Retained earnings net of tax. The cumulative effect was primarily attributed to royalties and licensing rights reacquired by alliance partners
that are expected to be received in the future and are not eligible for the licensing exclusion. As a result of the new guidance and cumulative
effect adjustment, revenue was approximately $197 million lower in 2018, compared to what would have been reported under the previous
guidance. Refer to “—Note 2. Revenue” for further information.
Gains and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets
Amended guidance for gains and losses from the derecognition of nonfinancial assets (ASC 610) was adopted in the first quarter of 2018
using the modified retrospective method. The amendments clarify the scope of asset derecognition guidance, add guidance for partial
sales of nonfinancial assets and clarify recognizing gains and losses from the transfer of nonfinancial assets in contracts with noncustomers.
Certain transactions such as the sale or transfer of product rights that do not constitute a business will require accounting similar to ASC
606 including the potential recognition of variable consideration. The amended guidance may result in earlier recognition of variable
consideration depending on the facts and circumstances of each transaction.
The cumulative effect of the accounting change resulted in recognizing contract assets of $167 million and a $130 million increase in
Retained earnings net of tax. The cumulative effect was primarily attributed to royalties and termination fees for licensing rights reacquired
by third parties that are expected to be received in the future and are not eligible for the licensing exclusion. As a result of the new guidance
and cumulative effect adjustment, Other income (net) was approximately $140 million lower in 2018, compared to what would have
been reported under the previous guidance.
342018 Annual Report
Presentation of Net Periodic Pension and Postretirement Benefits
Amended guidance requiring all net periodic benefit components for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans other than
service costs to be recorded outside of income from operations (other income) was adopted in the first quarter of 2018 on a retrospective
basis. Cost of products sold; Marketing, selling and administrative; and Research and development expenses increased in the aggregate
with a corresponding offset in Other income (net).
As adjusted amounts upon adoption of the new guidance are as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016
Dollars in Millions As Reported As Adjusted As Reported As Adjusted
Cost of products sold $ 6,066 $ 6,094 $ 4,946 $ 4,969
Marketing, selling and administrative 4,687 4,751 4,911 4,979
Research and development 6,411 6,482 4,940 5,012
Other income (net) (1,519) (1,682) (1,285) (1,448)
Definition of a Business
Amended guidance that revises the definition of a business was adopted prospectively in the first quarter of 2018. The amendments
provide an initial screen that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired or disposed of is concentrated in a single
identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, an integrated set of assets and activities would not represent a business. If the
screen is not met, the set must include an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create
outputs for the set to represent a business. The amendment also narrows the definition of the term “output” and requires the transfer of
an organized work force when outputs do not exist. The amended guidance may result in more transactions being accounted for as assets
in the future with the impact to our results of operations dependent on the individual facts and circumstances of each transaction.
Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Liabilities
Amended guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosures of financial instruments was adopted using the modified
retrospective method in the first quarter of 2018. The new guidance requires that fair value adjustments for equity investments with readily
determinable fair values be reported through earnings. The new guidance also requires a qualitative impairment assessment for equity
investments without a readily determinable fair value based upon observable price changes and a charge through earnings if an impairment
exists. The cumulative effect of the accounting change resulted in a $36 million reduction to Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income and
a corresponding $34 million increase to Retained earnings, net of tax. Refer to “—Note 5. Other Income (Net)” for further information
and the impact on the results of operations.
Accounting for Hedging Activities
Amended guidance for derivatives and hedging was adopted using the modified retrospective method in the first quarter of 2018. The
amended guidance revises and expands items eligible for hedge accounting, simplifies hedge effectiveness testing and changes the timing
of recognition and presentation for certain hedged items. Certain disclosure requirements were also modified for hedging activities on a
prospective basis. The adoption of the amended standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations.
Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Amended guidance for the reclassification of certain tax effects from accumulated other comprehensive income was adopted prospectively
in the fourth quarter of 2018. The new guidance permits the reclassification of the income tax effect on amounts recorded within
accumulated other comprehensive income impacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into Retained earnings. The Company recorded a
cumulative effect adjustment to increase Accumulated other comprehensive loss by $283 million with a corresponding increase to Retained
earnings.
Collaborative Arrangements
Amended guidance clarifying the interaction between ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and ASC 808, Collaborative
Arrangements, was adopted retrospectively to the first quarter of 2018. The amended guidance clarifies when certain transactions between
collaborative arrangement participants should be accounted for and presented as revenue under ASC 606. The adoption of the amended
guidance did not have an impact on the Company’s results of operations.
35Bristol-Myers Squibb
Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted
Leases
In February 2016, the FASB issued amended guidance on lease accounting. The amended guidance requires the recognition of a right-
of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of future lease payments for leases with a term longer than 12
months. The amended guidance will be adopted on January 1, 2019, on a modified retrospective approach. The Company's assessment
of the amended guidance is substantially complete, including our implementation of a leasing software system procured from a third
party vendor, our gathering of lease information data, our assessment of the reasonable certainty of exercising renewal and termination
options, and our evaluation of changes and enhancements to processes and internal controls. Based on our assessment, we intend to elect
the package of practical expedients on adoption, apply the short-term lease recognition exemption for leases with terms of 12 months or
less that do not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that we are reasonably certain to exercise, and apply a portfolio approach
to discount our real property lease liabilities using the Company's incremental borrowing rate, as most real property leases do not provide
an implicit rate. Lease terms vary based on the nature of operations and the market dynamics in each country; however, all leased facilities
are classified as operating leases with remaining lease terms between 1 and 20 years, and comprise approximately 90% of our total lease
obligation, the discounted value of which is approximately $600 million as of December 31, 2018. The amended guidance is not expected
to materially impact the Company’s results of operations other than the recognition of the right-of-use asset and lease liability. Sublease
income is not material to the Company's results of operations. The cumulative effect of the accounting change is not expected to be
material to the Company's results of operations.
Financial Instruments - Measurement of Credit Losses
In June 2016, the FASB issued amended guidance for the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. Entities will be required
to use a forward-looking estimated loss model. Available-for-sale debt security credit losses will be recognized as allowances rather than
a reduction in amortized cost. The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with early adoption permitted in 2019 on a modified retrospective
approach. The amended guidance is not expected to materially impact the Company’s results of operations.
Goodwill Impairment Testing
In January 2017, the FASB issued amended guidance that simplifies the recognition and measurement of a goodwill impairment loss by
eliminating Step 2 of the quantitative impairment test. As a result, impairment charges will be required for the amount by which the
reporting units carrying amount exceeds its fair value up to the amount of its allocated goodwill. The guidance is effective on a prospective
basis on January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017.
The amended guidance is not expected to materially impact the Company’s results of operations.
362018 Annual Report
Note 2. REVENUE
The following table summarizes the disaggregation of revenue by nature:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Net product sales $ 21,581 $ 19,258 $ 17,702
Alliance revenues 647 962 1,252
Other revenues 333 556 473
Total Revenues $ 22,561 $ 20,776 $ 19,427
Net product sales represent more than 90% of the Company’s total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
Products are sold principally to wholesalers or distributors and to a lesser extent, directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government
agencies and pharmacies. Customer orders are generally fulfilled within a few days of receipt resulting in minimal order backlog.
Contractual performance obligations are usually limited to transfer of control of the product to the customer. The transfer occurs either
upon shipment or upon receipt of the product in certain non-U.S. countries after considering when the customer obtains legal title to the
product and when the Company obtains a right of payment. At these points, customers are able to direct the use of and obtain substantially
all of the remaining benefits of the product. Gross revenue to the three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of
global gross revenues were as follows:
2018 2017 2016
McKesson Corporation 25% 24% 22%
AmerisourceBergen Corporation 20% 18% 18%
Cardinal Health, Inc. 17% 15% 14%
Wholesalers are initially invoiced at contractual list prices. Payment terms are typically 30 to 90 days based on customary practices in
each country with the exception of certain biologic products in the U.S., including Opdivo, Yervoy and Empliciti (90 days to 120 days).
Revenue is reduced from wholesaler list price at the time of recognition for expected charge-backs, discounts, rebates, sales allowances
and product returns, which are referred to as GTN adjustments. These reductions are attributed to various commercial arrangements,
managed healthcare organizations and government programs such as Medicare, Medicaid and the 340B Drug Pricing Program containing
various pricing implications such as mandatory discounts, pricing protection below wholesaler list price or other discounts when Medicare
Part D beneficiaries are in the coverage gap. In addition, non-U.S. government programs include different pricing schemes such as cost
caps, volume discounts, outcome-based pricing and pricing claw-backs determined on sales of individual companies or an aggregation
of companies participating in a specific market. Charge-backs and cash discounts are reflected as a reduction to receivables and settled
through the issuance of credits to the customer, typically within one month. All other rebates, discounts and adjustments, including
Medicaid and Medicare, are reflected as a liability and settled through cash payments to the customer, typically within various time
periods ranging from a few months to one year.
Significant judgment is required in estimating GTN adjustments considering legal interpretations of applicable laws and regulations,
historical experience, payer channel mix, current contract prices under applicable programs, unbilled claims, processing time lags and
inventory levels in the distribution channel.
The following table summarizes GTN adjustments:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Gross product sales $ 30,174 $ 25,499 $ 22,364
GTN adjustments(a)
Charge-backs and cash discounts (2,735) (2,084) (1,582)
Medicaid and Medicare rebates (3,225) (2,086) (1,382)
Other rebates, returns, discounts and adjustments (2,633) (2,071) (1,698)
Total GTN adjustments (8,593) (6,241) (4,662)
Net product sales $ 21,581 $ 19,258 $ 17,702
(a) Includes adjustments for provisions for product sales made in prior periods resulting from changes in estimates of $96 million, $71 million and $155 million for the
years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
37Bristol-Myers Squibb
Alliance and other revenues consist primarily of amounts related to collaborations and out-licensing arrangements. Each of these
arrangements are evaluated for whether they represent contracts that are within the scope of the revenue recognition guidance in their
entirety or contain aspects that are within the scope of the guidance, either directly or by reference based upon the application of the
guidance related to the derecognition of nonfinancial assets (ASC 610).
Performance obligations are identified and separated when the other party can benefit directly from the rights, goods or services either
on their own or together with other readily available resources and when the rights, goods or services are not highly interdependent or
interrelated.
Transaction prices for these arrangements may include fixed up-front amounts as well as variable consideration such as contingent
development and regulatory milestones, sales-based milestones and royalties. The most likely amount method is used to estimate contingent
development, regulatory and sales-based milestones because the ultimate outcomes are binary in nature. The expected value method is
used to estimate royalties because a broad range of potential outcomes exist, except for instances in which such royalties relate to a
license. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price only to the extent a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative
revenue recognized is not probable of occurring when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
Significant judgment is required in estimating the amount of variable consideration to recognize when assessing factors outside of BMS’s
influence such as likelihood of regulatory success, limited availability of third party information, expected duration of time until resolution,
lack of relevant past experience, historical practice of offering fee concessions and a large number and broad range of possible amounts.
To the extent arrangements include multiple performance obligations that are separable, the transaction price assigned to each distinct
performance obligation is reflective of the relative stand-alone selling price and recognized at a point in time upon the transfer of control.
Three types of out-licensing arrangements are typically utilized: (1) arrangements when we out-license intellectual property to another
party and have no further performance obligations; (2) arrangements that include a license and an additional performance obligation to
supply product upon the request of the third party; and (3) collaboration arrangements, which include transferring a license to a third
party to jointly develop and commercialize a product.
Most out-licensing arrangements consist of a single performance obligation that is satisfied upon execution of the agreement when the
development and commercialization rights are transferred to a third party. Up-front fees are recognized immediately and included in
Other income (net). Although contingent development and regulatory milestone amounts are assessed each period for the likelihood of
achievement, they are typically constrained and recognized when the uncertainty is subsequently resolved for the full amount of the
milestone and included in Other income (net). Sales-based milestones and royalties are recognized when the milestone is achieved or the
subsequent sales occur. Sales-based milestones are included in Other income (net) and royalties are included in Alliance and other revenue.
Certain out-licensing arrangements may also include contingent performance obligations to supply commercial product to the third party
upon its request. The license and supply obligations are accounted for as separate performance obligations as they are considered distinct
because the third party can benefit from the license either on its own or together with other supply resources readily available to it and
the obligations are separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract in accordance with the revenue recognition guidance.
After considering the standalone selling prices in these situations, up-front fees, contingent development and regulatory milestone amounts
and sales-based milestone and royalties are allocated to the license and recognized in the manner described above. Consideration for the
supply obligation is usually based upon stipulated cost-plus margin contractual terms which represent a standalone selling price. The
supply consideration is recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control of the product to the third party and included in Alliance
and other revenue. The above fee allocation between the license and the supply represents the amount of consideration that the Company
expects to be entitled to for the satisfaction of the separate performance obligations.
Although collaboration arrangements are unique in nature, both parties are active participants in the operating activities and are exposed
to significant risks and rewards depending on the commercial success of the activities. Performance obligations inherent in these
arrangements may include the transfer of certain development or commercialization rights, ongoing development and commercialization
services and product supply obligations. Except for certain product supply obligations which are considered distinct and accounted for
as separate performance obligations similar to the manner discussed above, all other performance obligations are not considered distinct
and are combined into a single performance obligation since the transferred rights are highly integrated and interrelated to our obligation
to jointly develop and commercialize the product with the third party. As a result, up-front fees are recognized ratably over time throughout
the expected period of the collaboration activities and included in Other income (net) as the license is combined with other development
and commercialization obligations. Contingent development and regulatory milestones that are no longer constrained are recognized in
a similar manner on a prospective basis. Royalties and profit sharing are recognized when the underlying sales and profits occur and are
included in Alliance and other revenue. Refer to “—Note 3. Alliances” for further information.
382018 Annual Report
The following table summarizes the disaggregation of revenue by product and region:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Prioritized Brands
Opdivo $ 6,735 $ 4,948 $ 3,774
Eliquis 6,438 4,872 3,343
Orencia 2,710 2,479 2,265
Sprycel 2,000 2,005 1,824
Yervoy 1,330 1,244 1,053
Empliciti 247 231 150
Established Brands
Baraclude 744 1,052 1,192
Reyataz Franchise 427 698 912
Sustiva Franchise 283 729 1,065
Hepatitis C Franchise 17 406 1,578
Other Brands 1,630 2,112 2,271
Total Revenues $ 22,561 $ 20,776 $ 19,427
United States $ 12,586 $ 11,358 $ 10,720
Europe 5,658 4,988 4,215
Rest of World 3,733 3,877 3,964
Other(a) 584 553 528
Total Revenues $ 22,561 $ 20,776 $ 19,427
(a) Other revenues included royalties and alliance-related revenues for products not sold by our regional commercial organizations.
The following table summarizes contract assets as of December 31, 2018 and January 1, 2018:
Dollars in Millions December 31, 2018 January 1, 2018
Prepaid expenses and other $ 35 $ 349
Other assets 19 32
Total Contract Assets $ 54 $ 381
Contract assets are primarily estimated future royalties and termination fees not eligible for the licensing exclusion and therefore recognized
upon the adoption of ASC 606 and ASC 610. Contract assets are reduced and receivables are increased in the period the underlying sales
occur. Contingent development and regulatory milestones from out-licensing arrangements of $1.3 billion were constrained and not
recognized after considering the likelihood of a significant reversal of cumulative amount of revenue occurring. Cumulative catch-up
adjustments to revenue affecting contract assets or contract liabilities were not material during the year ended December 31, 2018. Revenue
recognized from performance obligation satisfied in prior periods was $495 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, consisting
primarily of royalties for out-licensing arrangements and revised estimates for GTN adjustments related to prior period sales.
Sales commissions and other incremental costs of obtaining customer contracts are expensed as incurred as the amortization periods
would be less than one year.
Note 3. ALLIANCES
BMS enters into collaboration arrangements with third parties for the development and commercialization of certain products. Although
each of these arrangements is unique in nature, both parties are active participants in the operating activities of the collaboration and
exposed to significant risks and rewards depending on the commercial success of the activities. BMS may either in-license intellectual
property owned by the other party or out-license its intellectual property to the other party. These arrangements also typically include
research, development, manufacturing, and/or commercial activities and can cover a single investigational compound or commercial
product or multiple compounds and/or products in various life cycle stages. The rights and obligations of the parties can be global or
limited to geographic regions. We refer to these collaborations as alliances and our partners as alliance partners.
39Bristol-Myers Squibb
The most common activities between BMS and its alliance partners are presented in results of operations as follows:
• When BMS is the principal in the end customer sale, 100% of product sales are included in Net product sales. When BMS's
alliance partner is the principal in the end customer sale, BMS's contractual share of the third-party sales and/or royalty income
are included in Alliance revenues as the sale of commercial products are considered part of BMS's ongoing major or central
operations. Refer to “—Note 2. Revenue” for information regarding recognition criteria.
• Amounts payable to BMS by alliance partners (who are the principal in the end customer sale) for supply of commercial products
are included in Alliance revenues as the sale of commercial products are considered part of BMS's ongoing major or central
operations.
• Profit sharing, royalties and other sales-based fees payable by BMS to alliance partners are included in Cost of products sold
as incurred.
• Cost reimbursements between the parties are recognized as incurred and included in Cost of products sold; Marketing, selling
and administrative expenses; or Research and development expenses, based on the underlying nature of the related activities
subject to reimbursement.
• Upfront and contingent development and approval milestones payable to BMS by alliance partners for investigational compounds
and commercial products are deferred and amortized over the expected period of BMS's development and co-promotion obligation
through the market exclusivity period or the periods in which the related compounds or products are expected to contribute to
future cash flows. The amortization is presented consistent with the nature of the payment under the arrangement. For example,
amounts received for investigational compounds are presented in Other income (net) as the activities being performed at that
time are not related to the sale of commercial products included in BMS’s ongoing major or central operations; amounts received
for commercial products are presented in alliance revenue as the sale of commercial products are considered part of BMS’s
ongoing major or central operations.
• Upfront and contingent approval milestones payable by BMS to alliance partners for commercial products are capitalized and
amortized over the shorter of the contractual term or the periods in which the related products are expected to contribute to future
cash flows. The amortization is included in Cost of products sold.
• Upfront and contingent milestones payable by BMS to alliance partners prior to regulatory approval are expensed as incurred
and included in Research and development expense.
• Royalties and other contingent consideration payable to BMS by alliance partners related to the divestiture of such businesses
are included in Other income (net) when earned.
• All payments between BMS and its alliance partners are presented in Cash Flows From Operating Activities, except as otherwise
described below.
Selected financial information pertaining to our alliances was as follows, including net product sales when BMS is the principal in the
third-party customer sale for products subject to the alliance. Expenses summarized below do not include all amounts attributed to the
activities for the products in the alliance, but only the payments between the alliance partners or the related amortization if the payments
were deferred or capitalized. Certain prior period amounts included below were revised to exclude amounts for arrangements that no
longer meet the criteria for collaboration arrangements.
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Revenues from alliances:
Net product sales $ 8,359 $ 6,917 $ 5,530
Alliance revenues 647 962 1,252
Total Revenues $ 9,006 $ 7,879 $ 6,782
Payments to/(from) alliance partners:
Cost of products sold $ 3,439 $ 2,718 $ 2,126
Marketing, selling and administrative (104) (62) (30)
Research and development 1,044 (28) (9)
Other income (net) (67) (46) (42)
Selected Alliance Balance Sheet Information: December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Receivables – from alliance partners $ 395 $ 322
Accounts payable – to alliance partners 904 875
Deferred income from alliances(a) 491 467
(a) Includes unamortized upfront and milestone payments.
402018 Annual Report
Specific information pertaining to each of our significant alliances is discussed below, including their nature and purpose; the significant
rights and obligations of the parties; specific accounting policy elections; and the income statement classification of and amounts
attributable to payments between the parties.
Pfizer
BMS and Pfizer jointly develop and commercialize Eliquis, an anticoagulant discovered by BMS. Pfizer funds between 50% and 60%
of all development costs depending on the study. Profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis except in certain countries where
Pfizer commercializes Eliquis and pays BMS a sales-based fee.
Co-exclusive license rights were granted to Pfizer in exchange for an upfront payment and potential milestone payments. Both parties
assumed certain obligations to actively participate in a joint executive committee and various other operating committees and have joint
responsibilities for the research, development, distribution, sales and marketing activities of the alliance using resources in their own
infrastructures. BMS and Pfizer manufacture the product in the alliance and BMS is the principal in the end customer product sales in
the U.S., significant countries in Europe, as well as Canada, Australia, China, Japan and South Korea. In 2015, BMS transferred full
commercialization rights to Pfizer in certain smaller countries in order to simplify operations. In the transferred countries, BMS supplies
the product to Pfizer at cost plus a percentage of the net sales price to end-customers which is recorded in full upon transfer of control
of the product to Pfizer.
The Company did not allocate consideration to the rights transferred to Pfizer as such rights were not sold separately by BMS or any
other party, nor could Pfizer receive any benefit for the delivered rights without the fulfillment of other ongoing obligations by BMS
under the alliance agreement. As such, the global alliance was treated as a single unit of accounting and upfront proceeds and any
subsequent contingent milestone proceeds are amortized over the expected period of BMS's co-promotion obligation through the market
exclusivity period. BMS received $884 million in non-refundable upfront, milestone and other licensing payments related to Eliquis
through December 31, 2018. Amortization of the Eliquis deferred income is included in Other income (net) as Eliquis was not a commercial
product at the commencement of the alliance.
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Revenues from Pfizer alliance:
Net product sales $ 6,329 $ 4,808 $ 3,306
Alliance revenues 109 64 37
Total Revenues $ 6,438 $ 4,872 $ 3,343
Payments to/(from) Pfizer:
Cost of products sold – Profit sharing $ 3,078 $ 2,314 $ 1,595
Other income (net) – Amortization of deferred income (55) (55) (55)
Selected Alliance Balance Sheet Information: December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Receivables $ 220 $ 193
Accounts payable 786 625
Deferred income 410 466
41Bristol-Myers Squibb
Otsuka
BMS and Otsuka co-promote Sprycel in the U.S. and the EU. Both parties actively participate in various governance committees, however,
BMS has control over the decision making. BMS is responsible for the development and manufacture of the product and is also the
principal in the end customer product sales. A fee is paid to Otsuka based on net sales levels in the Oncology Territory (U.S., Japan and
the EU) that equates to $294 million on the first $1 billion of annual net sales plus 1% of net sales in excess of $1 billion.
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Revenues from Otsuka alliances:
Net product sales – Oncology territory $ 1,705 $ 1,699 $ 1,544
Payments to Otsuka:
Cost of products sold – Oncology fee $ 297 $ 299 $ 304
BMS also had a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka, to co-develop and co-promote Abilify*. The U.S. portion of the
agreement expired in April 2015 and the EU portion expired in June 2014. In other countries where BMS had the exclusive right to sell
Abilify*, expiration occurred on a country-by-country basis with the last expiration in Canada in January 2018.
Ono
BMS and Ono jointly develop and commercialize Opdivo, Yervoy and several BMS investigational compounds in Japan, South Korea
and Taiwan. BMS is responsible for supply of the products. Profits, losses and development costs are shared equally for all combination
therapies involving compounds of both parties. Otherwise, sharing is 80% and 20% for activities involving only one of the party’s
compounds.
BMS and Ono also jointly develop and commercialize Orencia in Japan. BMS is responsible for the order fulfillment and distribution of
the intravenous formulation and Ono is responsible for the subcutaneous formulation. Both formulations are jointly promoted by both
parties with assigned customer accounts and BMS is responsible for the product supply. A co-promotion fee of 60% is paid when a sale
is made to the other party’s assigned customer.
In 2017, Ono granted BMS an exclusive license for the development and commercialization of ONO-4578, Ono’s Prostaglandin E2
receptor 4 antagonist. BMS acquired worldwide rights except in Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan where it was added to the existing
collaboration and in China and ASEAN countries where Ono retained exclusive rights. BMS paid $40 million to Ono, which was included
in Research and development expense in 2017. Ono is eligible to receive subsequent clinical, regulatory and sales-based milestone
payments of up to $480 million and royalties in countries where BMS has exclusive licensing rights.
In 2018, BMS provided Ono with a right to accept NKTR-214 into their alliance upon completion of a Phase I clinical study of Opdivo
and NKTR-214 in the Ono Territory. If the right is exercised, Ono will partially reimburse BMS for development costs incurred with the
study and share in certain future development costs, contingent milestone payments, profits and losses under the collaboration with Nektar.
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Revenues from Ono alliances:
Net product sales $ 165 $ 145 $ 147
Alliance revenues 294 268 280
Total Revenues $ 459 $ 413 $ 427
BMS is the principal in the end customer product sales and has the exclusive right to develop, manufacture and commercialize Opdivo
worldwide except in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. Ono is entitled to receive royalties of 4% in North America and 15% in all territories
excluding the three countries listed above, subject to customary adjustments.
422018 Annual Report
Gilead
BMS and Gilead operate a joint venture in Europe to develop and commercialize a combination product named Atripla*, which combines
BMS's Sustiva with Gilead's Truvada*. The joint venture is consolidated by Gilead, who is the principal in end customer product sales.
BMS receives a percentage of end customer sales which is recorded in Alliance revenues. The joint venture will continue until either
party terminates the arrangement or the last patent expires that allows market exclusivity to Atripla*.
Prior to 2018, BMS and Gilead operated a joint venture in the U.S. and Canada for Atripla*, which was terminated following the launch
of a generic version of Sustiva by a third-party in the U.S. As a result, deferred income and alliance receivables attributed to Sustiva
product held by the joint venture at December 31, 2017 was reduced by $438 million to reflect the post-termination selling price. BMS
is entitled to a fee equal to 55% of Atripla* U.S. net sales multiplied by the ratio of the difference in the average net selling prices of
Atripla* and Truvada* to the Atripla* average net selling price in 2018. The fee is reduced to 35% in 2019 and 15% in 2020, of Atripla*
U.S. net sales multiplied by the ratio described above. BMS supplies Sustiva at cost plus a markup to Gilead during this three-year period
but may terminate the supply agreement after a notice period.
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Revenues from Gilead alliances:
Alliance revenues $ 253 $ 623 $ 934
Equity in net loss of affiliates $ 2 $ 13 $ 12
Nektar
In 2018, BMS and Nektar commenced a worldwide license and collaboration for the development and commercialization of NKTR-214,
Nektar's investigational immuno-stimulatory therapy designed to selectively expand specific cancer-fighting T cells and natural killer
cells directly in the tumor micro-environment. The Opdivo and NKTR-214 combination therapy is currently in Phase II clinical studies
for multiple cancer indications and in Phase III clinical studies for melanoma and RCC. A joint development plan agreed by the parties
contemplates development in various indications and tumor types with each party responsible for the supply of their own product. BMS's
share of the development costs associated with therapies comprising a BMS medicine used in combination with NKTR-214 is 67.5%,
subject to certain cost caps for Nektar. The parties will also jointly commercialize the therapies, subject to regulatory approval. BMS's
share of global NKTR-214 profits and losses will be 35% subject to certain annual loss caps for Nektar.
BMS paid Nektar $1.85 billion for the rights discussed above and 8.3 million shares of Nektar common stock representing a 4.8%
ownership interest. BMS's equity ownership is subject to certain lock-up, standstill and voting provisions for a five-year period. The
amount of the up-front payment allocated to the equity investment was $800 million after considering Nektar's stock price on the date
of closing and current limitations on trading the securities. The remaining $1.05 billion of the up-front payment was allocated to the rights
discussed above and included in Research and development expense in the second quarter of 2018. BMS will also pay up to $1.8 billion
upon the achievement of contingent development, regulatory and sales-based milestones over the life of the alliance period. Research
and development expense payable under this agreement with Nektar was $59 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.
43Bristol-Myers Squibb
AbbVie
BMS and AbbVie jointly develop and commercialize Empliciti, a humanized monoclonal antibody for the treatment of multiple myeloma.
Both parties participate in development and U.S. commercialization committees in which BMS has final decision making authority.
AbbVie funds 20% of global development costs and BMS is solely responsible for supply, distribution and sales and marketing activities
and is the principal in the end customer product sales. AbbVie shares 30% of all profits and losses in the U.S. and is paid tiered royalties
outside of the U.S. AbbVie is also entitled to receive an additional $100 million if certain regulatory events occur and $200 million if
certain sales thresholds are achieved. The agreement may be terminated immediately by BMS or by either party for material breaches
(subsequent to a notice period).
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Revenues from AbbVie alliance:
Net product sales $ 162 $ 150 $ 132
Payments to AbbVie:
Cost of products sold – Profit sharing $ 44 $ 41 $ 34
Note 4. ACQUISITIONS, DIVESTITURES, LICENSING AND OTHER ARRANGEMENTS
Acquisitions
Acquisitions are evaluated to determine whether it is a business, an asset or a group of assets. The following transactions were accounted
for as asset acquisitions since they were determined not to be a business as that term is defined in ASC 805 primarily because no significant
processes were acquired. As a result, the amounts allocated to the lead investigational compounds were expensed and not capitalized.
Consideration for each transaction upon execution for the last 3 years was allocated as follows:
Deferred Tax Contingent
Dollars in Millions Year Upfront Payment R&D Expense Assets(a) Consideration
IFM(b) 2017 $ 325 $ 311 $ 14 $ 2,020
Cormorant 2016 35 35 — 485
Padlock 2016 150 139 11 453
(a) Relates to net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
(b) Includes $25 million for certain negotiation rights to collaborate, license or acquire an NLRP3 antagonist program from a newly formed entity established by the
former shareholders of IFM.
IFM
In 2017, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of IFM, a private biotechnology company focused on developing therapies that
modulate novel targets in the innate immune system to treat cancer, autoimmunity and inflammatory diseases. The acquisition provided
BMS with full rights to IFM's preclinical STING and NLRP3 agonist programs focused on enhancing the innate immune response for
treating cancer. Contingent consideration includes development, regulatory and sales-based milestone payments, of which $25 million
was included in Research and development expense in 2018, following the commencement of a Phase I clinical study. BMS may pay up
to $555 million in additional contingent milestones for any subsequent products selected from IFM's preclinical STING and NLRP3
agonist programs which is not included in the contingent consideration amount in the table above.
Cormorant
In 2016, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Cormorant, a private pharmaceutical company focused on developing therapies
for cancer and rare diseases. The acquisition provided BMS with full rights to Cormorant's lead candidate HuMax-IL8, a Phase I/II
monoclonal antibody that represents a potentially complementary IO mechanism of action to T-cell directed antibodies and co-stimulatory
molecules. Contingent consideration includes development and regulatory milestone payments, of which $60 million was included in
Research and development expense in 2018, upon conclusion of the 18-month reversion option period.
442018 Annual Report
Padlock
In 2016, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Padlock, a private biotechnology company dedicated to creating new medicines
to treat destructive autoimmune diseases. The acquisition provided BMS with full rights to Padlock’s PAD inhibitor discovery program
focused on the development of potentially transformational treatment approaches for patients with RA. Padlock’s PAD discovery program
may have additional utility in treating systemic lupus erythematosus and other autoimmune diseases. Contingent consideration includes
development and regulatory milestone payments.
Cardioxyl
In 2015, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Cardioxyl, a private biotechnology company focused on the discovery and
development of novel therapeutic agents for cardiovascular disease. The acquisition provided BMS with full rights to CXL-1427, a
nitroxyl prodrug in Phase II development for acute decompensated heart failure. Contingent consideration includes development,
regulatory and sales-based milestone payments, of which $100 million was included in Research and development expense in 2017
following the commencement of a Phase II clinical study.
Flexus
In 2015, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Flexus, a private biotechnology company focused on the discovery and development
of novel anti-cancer therapeutics. The acquisition provided BMS with full rights to F001287, a preclinical small molecule IDO1-inhibitor
targeted immunotherapy. In addition, BMS acquired Flexus's IDO/TDO discovery program which includes its IDO-selective, IDO/TDO
dual and TDO-selective compounds. Contingent consideration includes development and regulatory milestone payments of which $350
million and $100 million were included in Research and development expense in 2017 and 2016, respectively, following the
commencement of Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III clinical studies.
Divestitures
The following table summarizes proceeds, gains and royalty income resulting from divestitures. Revenue and pretax earnings related to
all divestitures and assets held-for-sale were not material in all periods presented (excluding divestiture gains).
Proceeds(a) Divestiture Gains Royalty Income
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Diabetes Business $ 579 $ 405 $ 333 $ — $ (126) $ — $ (661) $ (329) $ (361)
Erbitux* Business 216 218 252 — — — (145) (224) (246)
Manufacturing Operations 160 — — — — — — — —
Plavix* and Avapro*/Avalide* 80 — — — — — — — —
Investigational HIV Business — — 387 — (11) (272) — — —
OTC Business — — 317 — — (277) — — —
Mature Brands and Other 212 28 28 (178) (24) (15) (8) (4) (11)
$ 1,247 $ 651 $ 1,317 $ (178) $ (161) $ (564) $ (814) $ (557) $ (618)
(a) Includes royalties received subsequent to the related sale of the asset or business.
Diabetes Business
In February 2014, BMS and AstraZeneca terminated their diabetes business alliance agreements and BMS sold to AstraZeneca substantially
all of the diabetes business comprising the alliance. The divestiture included the shares of Amylin and the resulting transfer of its Ohio
manufacturing facility; the intellectual property related to Onglyza* and Farxiga* (including BMS's interest in the out-licensing agreement
for Onglyza* in Japan); and the purchase of BMS’s manufacturing facility located in Mount Vernon, Indiana in 2015.
Consideration for the transaction included a $2.7 billion payment at closing; contingent regulatory and sales-based milestone payments
of up to $1.4 billion (including $800 million related to approval milestones and $600 million related to sales-based milestones, payable
in 2020); tiered royalty payments ranging from 10% to 25% based on net sales through 2025 and payments up to $225 million if and
when certain assets are transferred to AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca will also pay BMS for any required product supply at a price approximating
the product cost as well as negotiated transitional service fees.
45Bristol-Myers Squibb
Consideration allocated to the development and supply agreements was amortized over the applicable service periods. Amortization of
deferred income attributed to the development agreement ended in December 2016 and was $113 million in 2016 and included in Other
income (net) as the sale of these services was not considered part of BMS’s ongoing major or central operations. Amortization of deferred
income attributed to the supply agreement ended in December 2017 and was recorded in Alliance revenues. Revenues attributed to the
supply agreement were included in Alliance revenues and were not material in 2018, 2017 and 2016. Royalties are presented in Other
income (net) and were $457 million in 2018, $229 million in 2017 and $227 million in 2016. Contingent consideration of $100 million
was received in 2017 resulting in an additional gain upon achievement of a regulatory approval milestone.
In September 2015, BMS transferred a percentage of its future royalty rights on Amylin net product sales in the U.S. to CPPIB. The
transferred rights represent approximately 70% of potential future royalties BMS is entitled to in 2019 to 2025. In exchange for the
transfer, BMS received an additional tiered-based royalty on Amylin net product sales in the U.S. from CPPIB in 2016 through 2018.
These royalties are presented in Other income (net) and were $45 million in 2018, $100 million in 2017 and $134 million in 2016.
In November 2017, BMS transferred a percentage of its future royalty rights on a portion of Onglyza* and Farxiga* net product sales to
Royalty Pharma. The transferred rights represent approximately 20% to 25% of potential future royalties BMS is entitled to for those
products in 2020 to 2025. In exchange for the transfer, BMS will receive an additional tiered-based royalty on Onglyza* and Farxiga*
net product sales from Royalty Pharma in 2018 and 2019. These royalties are presented in Other income (net) and were $159 million in
2018.
Erbitux* Business
BMS had a commercialization agreement with Lilly through Lilly’s subsidiary ImClone for the co-development and promotion of Erbitux*
in the U.S., Canada and Japan. BMS was the principal in the end customer product sales in North America and paid Lilly a distribution
fee for 39% of Erbitux* net sales in North America plus a share of certain royalties paid by Lilly.
In October 2015, BMS transferred its rights to Erbitux* in North America to Lilly in exchange for tiered sales-based royalties through
September 2018, which were included in Other income (net). Royalties earned were $145 million in 2018, $207 million in 2017 and
$227 million in 2016.
BMS transferred its co-commercialization rights in Japan to Merck KGaA in 2015 in exchange for sales-based royalties through 2032
which is included in Other income (net) when earned. Royalties earned were $17 million in 2017 and $19 million in 2016. As a result of
the adoption of ASC 610 in the first quarter of 2018, estimated future royalties resulting from the transfer of rights to Merck KGaA were
recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment in Retained earnings. Subsequent changes in estimates will be recorded in Other income (net).
Refer to “—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards” for further details.
Manufacturing Operations
In 2017, BMS sold its small molecule active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturing operations in Swords, Ireland to SK Biotek for
approximately $165 million, subject to certain adjustments. Initial proceeds of $158 million were received in the first quarter of 2018.
The transaction was accounted for as the sale of a business. The divestiture includes the transfer of the facility, the majority of employees
at the site, inventories and certain third-party contract manufacturing obligations. The assets were reduced to their estimated relative fair
value after considering the purchase price resulting in an impairment charge of $146 million that was included in Cost of products sold.
SK Biotek will provide certain manufacturing services for BMS through 2022.
Plavix* and Avapro*/Avalide*
Sanofi reacquired BMS's co-development and co-commercialization agreements for Plavix* and Avapro*/Avalide* in 2013. Consideration
for the transfer of rights included quarterly royalties through December 31, 2018 and a $200 million terminal payment received in 2018
of which $120 million was allocated to opt-out markets and $80 million was allocated to BMS's 49.9% interest in the Europe and Asia
territory partnership. Royalties expected to be received in 2018 and the portion of terminal payment allocated to opt-out markets was
reflected as a contract asset and cumulative effect adjustment upon adoption of ASC 610 in 2018 as BMS had fulfilled its performance
obligation. The $80 million allocated to BMS's partnership interest was deferred as of December 31, 2018 and will be recognized in Other
income (net) when transfer to Sanofi in 2019. Refer to “—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards” for
further details.
Royalties earned from Sanofi in the territory covering the Americas and Australia and opt-out markets were presented in Alliance revenues
and aggregated $26 million in 2018, $200 million in 2017 and $195 million in 2016. Royalties attributed to the territory covering Europe
and Asia earned by the territory partnership and paid to BMS were included in equity in net income of affiliates and amounted to $96
million in 2018, $95 million in 2017 and $95 million in 2016.
462018 Annual Report
Investigational HIV Business
In 2016, BMS sold its investigational HIV medicines business consisting of a number of R&D programs at different stages of discovery
and development to ViiV Healthcare. BMS received $350 million and is also entitled to receive from ViiV Healthcare contingent
development and regulatory milestone payments of up to $1.1 billion, sales-based milestone payments of up to $4.3 billion and future
tiered royalties. BMS earned transitional fees of $10 million and $105 million for certain R&D and other services in 2017 and 2016,
respectively.
OTC Business
In 2016, BMS sold to Reckitt an OTC business containing brands sold primarily in Mexico and Brazil for $317 million for a gain of $277
million, including the trademarks, inventory and certain other assets exclusively related to the products and a manufacturing facility
located in Mexico primarily dedicated to the products.
Mature Brands and Other
Divestitures include several brands sold to Cheplapharm resulting in proceeds of $153 million and divestiture gains of $127 million in
2018.
Assets Held-For-Sale
In 2018, BMS agreed to sell its UPSA consumer health business for $1.6 billion. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter
of 2019 and will be accounted for as a sale of a business. The business was accounted for as held-for-sale as of December 31, 2018.
Accordingly, assets of $479 million were reclassified to assets held-for-sale and included within prepaid expenses and other, including
$79 million of receivables, $81 million of inventory, $187 million of property, plant and equipment and $127 million of goodwill.
Additionally, liabilities of $152 million were reclassified to liabilities related to assets held-for-sale and included within accrued liabilities,
including of $78 million of accrued liabilities, $35 million accounts payable, $25 million of deferred tax liabilities and $14 million of
other liabilities at December 31, 2018.
In 2017, BMS agreed to sell an R&D facility in Wallingford, Connecticut. The transaction closed in 2018 and was accounted for as a
sale of an asset. The facility was accounted for as held-for-sale as of December 31, 2017 and reduced to its estimated relative fair value
resulting in an impairment charge of $79 million that was included in Research and development expense.
Licensing and Other Arrangements
Promedior
In 2015, BMS purchased a warrant that gives BMS the exclusive right to acquire Promedior, a biotechnology company whose lead asset,
PRM-151, is being developed for the treatment of IPF and MF. The warrant is exercisable upon delivery of Phase II data following either
of the IPF or MF Phase II clinical studies being directed by Promedior. The upfront payment allocated to the warrant was $84 million
and included in Research and development expense in 2015. The remaining $66 million of the $150 million upfront payment was allocated
to Promedior’s obligation to complete the Phase II studies which was amortized over the expected period of the Phase II studies. The
allocation was determined using Level 3 inputs. In 2018, BMS notified Promedior that it would not exercise its warrant to purchase all
outstanding shares of Promedior.
Halozyme
In 2017, BMS and Halozyme entered into a global collaboration and license agreement to develop subcutaneously administered BMS
IO medicines using Halozyme's ENHANZE* drug-delivery technology. This technology may allow for more rapid delivery of large
volume injectable medications through subcutaneous delivery. BMS paid $105 million to Halozyme for access to the technology which
was included in Research and development expense. BMS designated multiple IO targets, including PD-1, to develop using the ENHANZE*
technology and has an option to select additional targets within five years from the effective date up to a maximum of 11 targets. BMS
may pay contingent development, regulatory and sales-based milestones up to $160 million if achieved for each of the nominated
collaboration targets, additional milestone payments for combination products and future royalties on sales of products using the
ENHANZE* technology.
47Bristol-Myers Squibb
CytomX
In 2017, BMS expanded its strategic collaboration with CytomX to discover novel therapies using CytomX’s proprietary Probody platform.
As part of the original May 2014 collaboration to discover, develop and commercialize Probody therapeutics, BMS selected four oncology
targets, including CTLA-4. Pursuant to the expanded agreement, CytomX granted BMS exclusive worldwide rights to develop and
commercialize Probody therapeutics for up to eight additional targets. BMS paid CytomX $75 million for the rights to the initial four
targets which was expensed as R&D prior to 2017. BMS paid $200 million to CytomX for access to the additional targets which was
included in Research and development expense in 2017. BMS will also reimburse CytomX for certain research costs over the collaboration
period, pay contingent development, regulatory and sales-based milestones up to $448 million if achieved for each collaboration target
and future royalties.
Biogen
In 2017, BMS out-licensed to Biogen exclusive rights to develop and commercialize BMS-986168, an anti-eTau compound in development
for Progressive Supranuclear Palsy. Biogen paid $300 million to BMS which was included in Other income (net). BMS is also entitled
to contingent development, regulatory and sales-based milestone payments of up to $410 million if achieved and future royalties. BMS
originally acquired the rights to this compound in 2014 through its acquisition of iPierian. Biogen assumed all of BMS’s remaining
obligations to the former stockholders of iPierian.
Roche
In 2017, BMS out-licensed to Roche exclusive rights to develop and commercialize BMS-986089, an anti-myostatin adnectin in
development for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy. Roche paid $170 million to BMS which was included in Other income (net). BMS is
also entitled to contingent development and regulatory milestone payments of up to $205 million if achieved and future royalties.
Nitto Denko
In 2016, BMS and Nitto Denko entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement granting BMS the right to develop and
commercialize Nitto Denko's investigational siRNA molecules targeting HSP47 in vitamin A containing formulations, which includes
Nitto Denko's lead asset ND-L02-s0201, currently in Phase II study for the treatment of advanced liver fibrosis. BMS paid $100 million
to Nitto Denko which was included in Research and development expense. BMS may pay contingent development, regulatory and sales-
based milestones up to $898 million if achieved and future royalties. The agreement also grants BMS the option to receive exclusive
licenses for HSP47 siRNAs in vitamin A containing formulations for the treatment of lung fibrosis and other organ fibrosis.
F-Star
In 2014, BMS acquired an exclusive option to purchase F-Star and its lead asset FS102, an anti-HER2 antibody fragment, in development
for the treatment of breast and gastric cancer among a well-defined population of HER2-positive patients. In 2017, BMS discontinued
development of FS102 and did not exercise its option, resulting in an IPRD charge of $75 million included in Research and development
expense and attributed to noncontrolling interest.
482018 Annual Report
Note 5. OTHER INCOME (NET)
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Interest expense $ 183 $ 196 $ 167
Investment income (173) (126) (97)
Loss/(gain) on equity investments 512 (23) 37
Provision for restructuring 131 293 109
Litigation and other settlements 76 (487) 47
Equity in net income of affiliates (93) (75) (77)
Divestiture gains (178) (164) (576)
Royalties and licensing income (1,353) (1,351) (719)
Transition and other service fees (12) (37) (238)
Pension and postretirement (27) (1) (72)
Intangible asset impairment 64 — 15
Loss on debt redemption — 109 —
Other 20 (16) (44)
Other income (net) $ (850) $ (1,682) $ (1,448)
• Loss/(gain) on equity investments includes a fair value adjustment of $534 million related to the Company's equity investment in
Nektar in 2018.
• Litigation and other settlements include $481 million for BMS's share of a patent-infringement settlement related to Merck's PD-1
antibody Keytruda* in 2017.
• Royalties and licensing income includes royalties resulting from business divestitures, intellectual property legal settlements and
upfront licensing fees including $470 million from Biogen and Roche in 2017.
• Transition and other service fees were primarily related to the divestiture of the diabetes and investigational HIV medicines
businesses in 2016.
Note 6. RESTRUCTURING
In October 2016, the Company announced a restructuring plan to evolve and streamline its operating model and expects to incur charges
in connection with employee workforce reductions and early site exits. The majority of charges are expected to be incurred through 2020,
range between $1.5 billion to $2.0 billion, and consist of employee termination benefit costs, contract termination costs, accelerated
depreciation, impairment charges and other site exit costs. Cash outlays in connection with these actions are expected to be approximately
40% to 50% of the total charges. Charges of approximately $1.1 billion have been recognized for these actions since the announcement
including an impairment charge for a small molecule manufacturing operation in Swords, Ireland. Restructuring charges are recognized
upon meeting certain criteria, including finalization of committed plans, reliable estimates and discussions with local works councils in
certain markets.
Other restructuring charges in addition to the above actions recognized prior were primarily related to specialty care transformation
initiatives designed to create a more simplified organization across all functions and geographic markets. In addition, accelerated
depreciation and other charges were incurred in connection with the expected early exits of a small molecule manufacturing site in
Cruiserath, Ireland and a R&D facility in Wallingford, Connecticut. Refer to “—Note 4. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Other
Arrangements” for further information.
Employee workforce reductions were approximately 900 in 2018, 1,900 in 2017 and 1,100 in 2016.
49Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following tables summarize the charges and activity related to the restructuring actions:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Employee termination costs $ 87 $ 267 $ 97
Other termination costs 44 26 12
Provision for restructuring 131 293 109
Accelerated depreciation 113 289 72
Asset impairments 16 241 13
Other shutdown costs 8 3 19
Total charges $ 268 $ 826 $ 213
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Cost of products sold $ 57 $ 149 $ 21
Marketing, selling and administrative 1 1 —
Research and development 79 383 83
Other income (net) 131 293 109
Total charges $ 268 $ 826 $ 213
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Liability at January 1 $ 186 $ 114 $ 125
Charges 148 319 116
Change in estimates (17) (26) (7)
Provision for restructuring 131 293 109
Foreign currency translation and other 1 18 —
Payments (219) (239) (120)
Liability at December 31 $ 99 $ 186 $ 114
Note 7. INCOME TAXES
The provision/(benefit) for income taxes consisted of:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Current:
U.S. $ 485 $ 2,782 $ 1,144
Non-U.S. 450 364 468
Total Current 935 3,146 1,612
Deferred:
U.S. 29 1,063 (101)
Non-U.S. 57 (53) (103)
Total Deferred 86 1,010 (204)
Total Provision $ 1,021 $ 4,156 $ 1,408
502018 Annual Report
Effective Tax Rate
The reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the U.S. statutory Federal income tax rate was:
% of Earnings Before Income Taxes
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Earnings before income taxes:
U.S. $ 2,338 $ 2,280 $ 3,100
Non-U.S. 3,630 2,851 2,815
Total $ 5,968 $ 5,131 $ 5,915
U.S. statutory rate 1,253 21.0 % 1,796 35.0 % 2,070 35.0 %
Deemed repatriation transition tax (56) (0.9)% 2,611 50.9 % — —
Deferred tax remeasurement — — 285 5.6 % — —
Global intangible low taxed income (GILTI) 94 1.6 % — — — —
Foreign tax effect of certain operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and
Switzerland (202) (3.4)% (561) (10.9)% (442) (7.5)%
U.S. Federal valuation allowance 119 2.0 % — — (29) (0.5)%
U.S. Federal, state and foreign contingent tax matters (55) (0.9)% 72 1.4 % 87 1.5 %
U.S. Federal research based credits (138) (2.3)% (144) (2.8)% (144) (2.4)%
Goodwill allocated to divestitures — — 4 0.1 % 34 0.6 %
U.S. Branded Prescription Drug Fee 21 0.3 % 52 1.0 % 52 0.9 %
Non-deductible R&D charges 17 0.3 % 266 5.2 % 100 1.7 %
Puerto Rico excise tax (152) (2.6)% (131) (2.6)% (131) (2.2)%
Domestic manufacturing deduction — — (78) (1.5)% (122) (2.1)%
State and local taxes (net of valuation allowance) 67 1.1 % 77 1.5 % 23 0.4 %
Foreign and other 53 0.9 % (93) (1.9)% (90) (1.6)%
$ 1,021 17.1 % $ 4,156 81.0 % $ 1,408 23.8 %
New Tax reform legislation was enacted on December 22, 2017, known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (The Act). The Act moved
from a worldwide tax system to a quasi-territorial tax system and was comprised of broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code
including, but not limited to, (1) reduced the U.S. tax rate from 35% to 21%; (2) added a deemed repatriation transition tax on certain
foreign earnings and profits; (3) generally eliminated U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; (4) included
certain income of controlled foreign companies in U.S. taxable income (GILTI); (5) created a new minimum tax referred to as a base
erosion anti-abuse income tax; (6) limited certain U.S. Federal research based credits; and (7) eliminated the domestic manufacturing
deduction.
Although many aspects of the Act were not effective until 2018, additional tax expense of $2.9 billion was recognized in the fourth quarter
of 2017 upon its enactment, including a $2.6 billion one-time deemed repatriation transition tax on previously untaxed post-1986 foreign
earnings and profits (including related tax reserves). Those earnings were effectively taxed at a 15.5% rate to the extent that the specified
foreign corporations held cash and certain other assets and an 8.0% rate on the remaining earnings and profits. The remaining additional
tax expense included an adjustment to measure net deferred tax assets at the new U.S. tax rate of 21%. The provisional tax charge for the
deemed repatriation transition tax (including related tax reserves) under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 was reduced by $56 million
in 2018.
The accounting for the reduction of deferred tax assets to the 21% tax rate was complete as of December 31, 2017, and the tax charge
for the deemed repatriation transition tax is complete as of December 31, 2018.
Prior to the enactment of the act, earnings for certain of our manufacturing operations in low tax jurisdictions, such as Switzerland, Ireland
and Puerto Rico, were indefinitely reinvested. As a result of the transition tax under the Act, the Company is no longer indefinitely
reinvested with respect to its undistributed earnings from foreign subsidiaries and has provided a deferred tax liability or foreign and
state income and withholding tax that would apply. The Company remains indefinitely reinvested with respect to its financial statement
basis in excess of tax basis of its foreign subsidiaries. A determination of the deferred tax liability with respect to this basis difference is
not practicable. BMS operates under a favorable tax grant in Puerto Rico not scheduled to expire prior to 2023.
A valuation allowance was set up in 2018 as a result of the Nektar equity investment fair value losses that would be considered limited
as a capital loss.
U.S. Federal, state and foreign contingent tax matters includes a $119 million tax benefit in 2018 with respect to lapse of statutes.
51Bristol-Myers Squibb
Goodwill allocated to business divestitures as well as the U.S. Branded Prescription Drug Fee are not deductible for tax purposes.
R&D charges primarily from acquisition related and milestone payments to former shareholders are not deductible for tax purposes.
These include Cormorant and IFM in 2018; Flexus, Cardioxyl and IFM in 2017; and Flexus, Padlock and Cormorant in 2016.
Puerto Rico imposes an excise tax on the gross company purchase price of goods sold from our manufacturer in Puerto Rico. The excise
tax is recognized in Cost of products sold when the intra-entity sale occurs. For U.S. income tax purposes, the excise tax is not deductible
but results in foreign tax credits that are generally recognized in our provision for income taxes when the excise tax is incurred.
Deferred Taxes and Valuation Allowance
The components of current and non-current deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Deferred tax assets
Foreign net operating loss carryforwards $ 2,978 $ 2,872
State net operating loss and credit carryforwards 121 143
U.S. Federal net operating loss and credit carryforwards 67 99
Deferred income 188 212
Milestone payments and license fees 552 386
Pension and postretirement benefits 26 131
Intercompany profit and other inventory items 670 651
Other foreign deferred tax assets 327 312
Share-based compensation 54 60
Other 352 280
Total deferred tax assets 5,335 5,146
Valuation allowance (3,193) (2,827)
Deferred tax assets net of valuation allowance 2,142 2,319
Deferred tax liabilities
Depreciation (61) (11)
Acquired intangible assets (220) (216)
Goodwill and other (533) (527)
Total deferred tax liabilities (814) (754)
Deferred tax assets, net $ 1,328 $ 1,565
Recognized as:
Deferred income taxes – non-current $ 1,371 $ 1,610
Income taxes payable – non-current (18) (45)
Liabilities related to assets held-for-sale (25) —
Total $ 1,328 $ 1,565
The U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards were $206 million at December 31, 2018. These carryforwards were acquired as a
result of certain acquisitions and are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The net operating loss
carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying
amounts beginning in 2018 (certain amounts have unlimited lives).
At December 31, 2018, a valuation allowance of $3.2 billion was established for the following items: $2.9 billion primarily for foreign
net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, $134 million for state deferred tax assets including net operating loss and tax credit
carryforwards and $138 million for U.S. Federal deferred tax assets including equity fair value adjustments and U.S. Federal net operating
loss carryforwards.
522018 Annual Report
Changes in the valuation allowance were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Balance at beginning of year $ 2,827 $ 3,078 $ 3,534
Provision 458 50 39
Utilization (43) (335) (355)
Foreign currency translation (48) 341 (142)
Acquisitions — 2 2
Non U.S. rate change (1) (309) —
Balance at end of year $ 3,193 $ 2,827 $ 3,078
Income tax payments were $747 million in 2018, $546 million in 2017 and $2.0 billion in 2016.
Business is conducted in various countries throughout the world and is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. A significant number of
tax returns that are filed are subject to examination by various Federal, state and local tax authorities. Tax examinations are often complex,
as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of items reported requiring several years to resolve. Liabilities are established for
possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax
credit deductibility of certain expenses, and deemed repatriation transition tax. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes
ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known. The effect of changes in
estimates related to contingent tax liabilities is included in the effective tax rate reconciliation above.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Balance at beginning of year $ 1,155 $ 995 $ 944
Gross additions to tax positions related to current year 48 173 49
Gross additions to tax positions related to prior years 21 30 49
Gross additions to tax positions assumed in acquisitions — — 1
Gross reductions to tax positions related to prior years (106) (22) (22)
Settlements 2 (20) (13)
Reductions to tax positions related to lapse of statute (119) (13) (4)
Cumulative translation adjustment (6) 12 (9)
Balance at end of year $ 995 $ 1,155 $ 995
Additional information regarding unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Unrecognized tax benefits that if recognized would impact the effective tax rate $ 853 $ 1,002 $ 854
Accrued interest 167 148 112
Accrued penalties 11 15 17
Accrued interest and penalties payable for unrecognized tax benefits are included in either current or non-current income taxes payable.
Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are included in income tax expense.
BMS is currently under examination by a number of tax authorities which have proposed or are considering proposing material adjustments
to tax positions for issues such as transfer pricing, certain tax credits and the deductibility of certain expenses. It is reasonably possible
that new issues will be raised by tax authorities which may require adjustments to the amount of unrecognized tax benefits; however, an
estimate of such adjustments cannot reasonably be made at this time.
It is also reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2018 could decrease in the range of
approximately $320 million to $360 million in the next twelve months as a result of the settlement of certain tax audits and other events.
The expected change in unrecognized tax benefits may result in the payment of additional taxes, adjustment of certain deferred taxes
and/or recognition of tax benefits. It is reasonably possible that new issues will be raised by tax authorities that may increase unrecognized
tax benefits; however, an estimate of such increases cannot reasonably be made at this time. BMS believes that it has adequately provided
for all open tax years by tax jurisdiction.
53Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following is a summary of major tax jurisdictions for which tax authorities may assert additional taxes based upon tax years currently
under audit and subsequent years that will likely be audited:
U.S. 2008 to 2012, 2015 to 2018
Canada 2009 to 2018
France 2015 to 2018
Germany 2008 to 2018
Italy 2017 to 2018
Mexico 2013 to 2018
Note 8. EARNINGS PER SHARE
Year Ended December 31,
Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data 2018 2017 2016
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS used for Basic and Diluted EPS Calculation $ 4,920 $ 1,007 $ 4,457
Weighted-average common shares outstanding - basic 1,633 1,645 1,671
Incremental shares attributable to share-based compensation plans 4 7 9
Weighted-average common shares outstanding - diluted 1,637 1,652 1,680
Earnings per share - basic $ 3.01 $ 0.61 $ 2.67
Earnings per share - diluted 3.01 0.61 2.65
Note 9. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
Financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable and payable, debt instruments and
derivatives.
Changes in exchange rates and interest rates create exposure to market risk. Certain derivative financial instruments are used when
available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the underlying economic exposure. These instruments qualify as cash flow, net investment
and fair value hedges upon meeting certain criteria, including effectiveness of offsetting hedged exposures. Changes in fair value of
derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized in earnings as they occur. Derivative financial instruments are not
used for trading purposes.
Financial instruments are subject to counterparty credit risk which is considered as part of the overall fair value measurement. Counterparty
credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis and mitigated by limiting amounts outstanding with any individual counterparty, utilizing
conventional derivative financial instruments and only entering into agreements with counterparties that meet high credit quality standards.
The consolidated financial statements would not be materially impacted if any counterparty failed to perform according to the terms of
its agreement. Collateral is not required by any party whether derivatives are in an asset or liability position under the terms of the
agreements.
Fair Value Measurements – The fair value of financial instruments are classified into one of the following categories:
Level 1 inputs utilize unadjusted quoted prices in active markets accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities.
The fair value hierarchy provides the highest priority to Level 1 inputs.
Level 2 inputs utilize observable prices for similar instruments and quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in non-active
markets. Additionally, certain corporate debt securities utilize a third-party matrix pricing model using significant inputs
corroborated by market data for substantially the full term of the assets. Equity and fixed income funds are primarily invested in
publicly traded securities valued at the respective NAV of the underlying investments. Level 2 derivative instruments are valued
using LIBOR yield curves, less credit valuation adjustments, and observable forward foreign exchange rates at the reporting date.
Valuations of derivative contracts may fluctuate considerably from volatility in underlying foreign currencies and underlying
interest rates driven by market conditions and the duration of the contract.
Level 3 unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. There were no Level 3 financial assets or liabilities
as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
542018 Annual Report
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below:
December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Dollars in Millions Level 1 Level 2 Level 1 Level 2
Cash and cash equivalents - Money market and other securities $ — $6,173 $ — $4,728
Marketable securities:
Certificates of deposit — 971 — 141
Commercial paper — 273 — 50
Corporate debt securities — 2,379 — 3,548
Equity investments — 125 — 132
Derivative assets — 44 — 13
Equity investments 88 266 67 —
Derivative liabilities — (31) — (52)
Available-for-sale Securities
Changes in fair value of equity investments are included in Other income (net) upon adoption of ASU 2016-01 in the first quarter of
2018. The following table summarizes our debt and equity securities, classified as available-for-sale:
December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Gross Unrealized Gross Unrealized
Amortized Amortized
Dollars in Millions Cost Gains Losses Fair Value Cost Gains Losses Fair Value
Certificates of deposit $ 971 $ — $ — $ 971 $ 141 $ — $ — $ 141
Commercial paper 273 — — 273 50 — — 50
Corporate debt securities 2,416 — (37) 2,379 3,555 3 (10) 3,548
Equity investments(a) — — — — 31 37 (1) 67
$ 3,660 $ — $ (37) $ 3,623 $ 3,777 $ 40 $ (11) $ 3,806
Equity investments(b) 479 132
Total $ 4,102 $ 3,938
December 31, December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Current marketable securities $ 1,973 $ 1,391
Non-current marketable securities(c) 1,775 2,480
Other assets(a) 354 67
Total $ 4,102 $ 3,938
(a) Includes equity investments with readily determinable fair values not measured using the fair value option as of December 31, 2017.
(b) Includes equity and fixed income funds measured using the fair value option at December 31, 2017. Refer to “—Note.1 Accounting Policies and Recently Issued
Accounting Standards” for more information.
(c) All non-current marketable securities mature within five years as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Equity investments not measured at fair value and excluded from the above table were limited partnerships and other equity method
investments of $114 million at December 31, 2018 and $66 million at December 31, 2017 and other equity investments without readily
determinable fair values of $206 million at December 31, 2018 and $152 million at December 31, 2017. These amounts are included in
Other assets. Adjustments to equity investments without readily determinable fair values were $19 million resulting from observable
price changes for similar securities of the same issuer and were recorded in Other income (net).
The following table summarizes net loss recorded for equity investments with readily determinable fair values held as of December 31,
2018:
Year Ended
Dollars in Millions December 31, 2018
Net loss recognized $ (530)
Less: Net gain recognized for equity investments sold 7
Net unrealized loss on equity investments held $ (537)
55Bristol-Myers Squibb
Qualifying Hedges and Non-Qualifying Derivatives
Cash Flow Hedges — Foreign currency forward contracts are used to hedge certain forecasted intercompany inventory purchases and
sales transactions and certain foreign currency transactions. The fair value for contracts designated as cash flow hedges is temporarily
reported in Accumulated other comprehensive loss and included in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. Upon adoption of
the amended guidance for derivatives and hedging, the entire change in fair value of the hedging instrument included in the assessment
of hedge effectiveness is recorded in the derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges component of Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income.
The net gain or loss on foreign currency forward contracts is expected to be reclassified to net earnings (primarily included in Cost of
products sold) within the next 12 months. The notional amount of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was primarily attributed
to the euro of $1.2 billion and Japanese yen of $464 million at December 31, 2018.
The earnings impact related to discontinued cash flow hedges and hedge ineffectiveness was not significant during all periods presented.
Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when the forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring within 60 days after the
originally forecasted date or when the hedge is no longer effective. Assessments to determine whether derivatives designated as qualifying
hedges are highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of hedged items are performed at inception and on a quarterly basis.
Foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments are used to offset exposures in certain foreign currency
denominated assets, liabilities and earnings. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized in earnings as they occur.
Net Investment Hedges — Non-U.S. dollar borrowings of €950 million ($1.1 billion) at December 31, 2018 are designated to hedge euro
currency exposures of the net investment in certain foreign affiliates. These borrowings are designated as net investment hedges and
recognized in long term debt. The effective portion of foreign exchange gain on the remeasurement of euro debt was $45 million and
$48 million in 2018 and 2016, respectively, and a loss of $134 million in 2017, and were recorded in the foreign currency translation
component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss with the related offset in long-term debt.
In January 2018, BMS entered into $300 million of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts maturing in December 2022 designated
to hedge Japanese yen currency exposures of the Company's net investment in its Japan subsidiary. Contract fair value changes are
recorded in the foreign currency translation component of Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income with a related offset in Pension and other
liabilities.
Fair Value Hedges — Fixed to floating interest rate swap contracts are designated as fair value hedges and used as an interest rate risk
management strategy to create an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt. The contracts and underlying debt for the hedged
benchmark risk are recorded at fair value. The effective interest rate for the contracts is one-month LIBOR (2.50% as of December 31,
2018) plus an interest rate spread ranging from 0.3% to 4.6%. Gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value of the underlying debt
attributable to the hedged benchmark interest rate risk are recorded in interest expense with an associated offset to the carrying value of
debt. Since the specific terms and notional amount of the swap are intended to match those of the debt being hedged, all changes in fair
value of the swap are recorded in interest expense with an associated offset to the derivative asset or liability on the consolidated balance
sheet. As a result, there was no net impact in earnings. When the underlying swap is terminated prior to maturity, the fair value adjustment
to the underlying debt is amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining term of the debt.
The following summarizes the fair value of outstanding derivatives:
December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Asset(a) Liability(b) Asset(a) Liability(b)
Dollars in Millions Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:
Interest rate swap contracts $ — $ — $ 755 $ (10) $ — $ — $ 755 $ (6)
Cross-currency interest rate swap contracts 50 — 250 (5) — — — —
Foreign currency forward contracts 1,503 44 496 (10) 944 12 489 (9)
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:
Foreign currency forward contracts 54 — 600 (6) 206 1 1,369 (37)
(a) Included in prepaid expenses and other and other assets.
(b) Included in accrued liabilities and pension and other liabilities.
562018 Annual Report
The following table summarizes the financial statement classification and amount of gain/(loss) recognized on hedging instruments:
Year Ended December 31,
2018 2017 2016
Cost of Other Cost of Other Cost of Other
Dollars in Millions products sold income (net) products sold income (net) products sold income (net)
Interest rate swap contracts $ — $ 23 $ — $ 31 $ — $ 36
Cross-currency interest rate swap contracts — 8 — — — —
Foreign currency forward contracts 4 14 12 (52) (20) (36)
The following table summarizes the effect of derivative and non-derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments in Other
Comprehensive (Loss)/Income:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges
Foreign currency forward contracts gain/(loss):
Recognized in Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income(a) $ 86 $ (108) $ 6
Reclassified to Cost of products sold (4) (12) 20
Reclassified to Other income (net) — 36 (8)
Derivatives qualifying as net investment hedges
Cross-currency interest rate swap contracts loss:
Recognized in Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income (5) — —
Non-derivatives qualifying as net investment hedges
Non U.S. dollar borrowings gain/(loss):
Recognized in Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income 45 (134) 48
(a) The amount is expected to be reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months.
Debt Obligations
Short-term debt obligations include:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Commercial paper $ — $ 299
Non-U.S. short-term borrowings 320 512
Current portion of long-term debt 1,249 —
Other 134 176
Total $ 1,703 $ 987
The average amount of commercial paper outstanding was $19 million and $389 million at a weighted-average interest rate of 1.27%
and 1.17% during 2018 and 2017, respectively. The maximum amount of commercial paper outstanding was $300 million with no
outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2018. The maximum amount of commercial paper outstanding was $1.3 billion with $299
million outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2017.
57Bristol-Myers Squibb
Long-term debt and the current portion of long-term debt includes:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Principal Value:
1.750% Notes due 2019 $ 500 $ 500
1.600% Notes due 2019 750 750
2.000% Notes due 2022 750 750
7.150% Notes due 2023 302 302
3.250% Notes due 2023 500 500
1.000% Euro Notes due 2025 655 682
6.800% Notes due 2026 256 256
3.250% Notes due 2027 750 750
1.750% Euro Notes due 2035 655 682
5.875% Notes due 2036 287 287
6.125% Notes due 2038 226 230
3.250% Notes due 2042 500 500
4.500% Notes due 2044 500 500
6.875% Notes due 2097 87 87
0.13% - 5.75% Other - maturing 2019 - 2024 58 59
Subtotal 6,776 6,835
Adjustments to Principal Value:
Fair value of interest rate swap contracts (10) (6)
Unamortized basis adjustment from swap terminations 201 227
Unamortized bond discounts and issuance costs (72) (81)
Total $ 6,895 $ 6,975
Current portion of long-term debt $ 1,249 $ —
Long-term debt 5,646 6,975
The fair value of long-term debt was $7.1 billion and $7.5 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, valued using Level 2
inputs which are based upon the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt instruments. The fair value of short-term borrowings
approximates the carrying value due to the short maturities of the debt instruments.
Senior unsecured notes were issued in registered public offerings in 2017. The notes rank equally in right of payment with all of BMS's
existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and are redeemable in whole or in part, at any time at a predetermined redemption
price. The following table summarizes the issuance of long-term debt obligations in 2017 (none in 2018 and 2016):
Dollars in Millions 2017
Principal Value:
1.600% Notes due 2019 $ 750
3.250% Notes due 2027 750
Total $ 1,500
Proceeds net of discount and deferred loan issuance costs $ 1,488
Forward starting interest rate swap contracts terminated:
Notional amount $ 750
Realized gain 6
Unrealized loss (2)
582018 Annual Report
BMS repaid $750 million of 0.875% Notes at maturity in 2017. The Company repurchased certain long-term debt obligations with interest
rates ranging from 5.875% to 6.875% in 2017. The following summarizes the debt redemption activity:
Dollars in Millions 2017
Principal amount $ 337
Carrying value 366
Debt redemption price 474
Loss on debt redemption(a) 109
(a) Including acceleration of debt issuance costs, gain on previously terminated interest rate swap contracts and other related fees.
Interest payments were $212 million in 2018, $215 million in 2017 and $191 million in 2016 net of amounts received from interest rate
swap contracts.
At December 31, 2018, the Company had three separate revolving credit facilities totaling $5.0 billion from a syndicate of lenders
including two $1.5 billion facilities expiring in September 2022 and July 2023 that are extendable annually by one year on the anniversary
date with the consent of the lenders. In January 2019, an existing 364 day $2.0 billion facility expiring in March 2019 was replaced with
a new 364 day $2.0 billion facility expiring in January 2020 and a new three-year $1.0 billion facility expiring in January 2022 was
entered into. All credit facilities provide for customary terms and conditions with no financial covenants. No borrowings were outstanding
under any revolving credit facility at December 31, 2018 or 2017.
Available financial guarantees provided in the form of bank overdraft facilities, stand-by letters of credit and performance bonds were
approximately $1.0 billion at December 31, 2018. Stand-by letters of credit are issued through financial institutions in support of guarantees
for various obligations. Performance bonds are issued to support a range of ongoing operating activities, including sale of products to
hospitals and foreign ministries of health, bonds for customs, duties and value added tax and guarantees related to miscellaneous legal
actions.
Note 10. RECEIVABLES
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Trade receivables $ 4,914 $ 4,599
Less charge-backs and cash discounts (245) (209)
Less bad debt allowances (33) (43)
Net trade receivables 4,636 4,347
Alliance receivables 395 322
Prepaid and refundable income taxes 218 691
Royalties, VAT and other 716 940
Receivables $ 5,965 $ 6,300
Non-U.S. receivables sold on a nonrecourse basis were $756 million in 2018, $637 million in 2017 and $618 million in 2016. In the
aggregate, receivables from three pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. represented 70% and 65% of total trade receivables at
December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Changes to the allowances for bad debt, charge-backs and cash discounts were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Balance at beginning of year $ 252 $ 174 $ 122
Provision 2,739 2,090 1,613
Utilization (2,707) (2,015) (1,561)
Other (6) 3 —
Balance at end of year $ 278 $ 252 $ 174
59Bristol-Myers Squibb
Note 11. INVENTORIES
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Finished goods $ 396 $ 384
Work in process 1,026 931
Raw and packaging materials 202 273
Inventories $ 1,624 $ 1,588
Inventories $ 1,195 $ 1,166
Other assets 429 422
Other assets include inventory expected to remain on hand beyond one year in both periods.
Note 12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND LEASES
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Land $ 104 $ 100
Buildings 5,231 4,848
Machinery, equipment and fixtures 2,962 3,059
Construction in progress 548 980
Gross property, plant and equipment 8,845 8,987
Less accumulated depreciation (3,818) (3,986)
Property, plant and equipment $ 5,027 $ 5,001
United States $ 3,772 $ 3,617
Europe 1,140 1,266
Rest of the World 115 118
Total $ 5,027 $ 5,001
Depreciation expense was $505 million in 2018, $682 million in 2017 and $448 million in 2016.
Annual minimum rental commitments for non-cancelable operating leases (primarily real estate and motor vehicles) are approximately
$100 million in each of the next five years and an aggregate $200 million thereafter. Operating lease expense was approximately $130
million in 2018, $120 million in 2017 and $140 million in 2016. Sublease income and capital lease obligations were not material for all
periods presented.
Note 13. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
December 31,
Estimated
Dollars in Millions Useful Lives 2018 2017
Goodwill $ 6,538 $ 6,863
Other intangible assets:
Licenses 5 – 15 years $ 510 $ 567
Developed technology rights 9 – 15 years 2,357 2,357
Capitalized software 3 – 10 years 1,156 1,381
IPRD 32 32
Gross other intangible assets 4,055 4,337
Less accumulated amortization (2,964) (3,127)
Total other intangible assets $ 1,091 $ 1,210
602018 Annual Report
An out of period adjustment was included in the year ended December 31, 2018 to reduce Goodwill and increase Accumulated other
comprehensive loss by $180 million attributed to goodwill from prior acquisitions of foreign entities previously not recorded in the correct
local currency. The adjustment did not impact the consolidated results of operations and was not material to previously reported balance
sheets.
Amortization expense of other intangible assets was $198 million in 2018, $190 million in 2017 and $178 million in 2016. Future annual
amortization expense of other intangible assets is expected to be approximately $230 million in 2019, $190 million in 2020, $160 million
in 2021, $130 million in 2022, and $100 million in 2023.
Other intangible asset impairment charges were $84 million in 2018, $80 million in 2017 and $33 million in 2016. In 2018, a $64 million
impairment charge was recorded in Other income (net) for an out-licensed asset obtained in the 2010 acquisition of ZymoGenetics, Inc.,
which did not meet its primary endpoint in a Phase II clinical study. A $75 million IPRD charge was recognized and attributed to
noncontrolling interest after BMS declined to exercise its option to purchase F-Star in 2017.
Note 14. ACCRUED LIABILITIES
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Rebates and returns $ 2,417 $ 2,024
Employee compensation and benefits 848 869
Research and development 805 783
Dividends 669 654
Royalties 391 285
Branded Prescription Drug Fee 188 303
Liabilities related to assets held-for-sale 152 —
Litigation and other settlements 118 38
Restructuring 85 155
Pension and postretirement benefits 35 40
Other 781 863
Accrued liabilities $ 6,489 $ 6,014
61Bristol-Myers Squibb
Note 15. EQUITY
Common Stock Capital in Accumulated Treasury Stock
Excess Other
of Par Value Comprehensive Retained Noncontrolling
Dollars and Shares in Millions Shares Par Value of Stock Loss Earnings Shares Cost Interest
Balance at January 1, 2016 2,208 $ 221 $ 1,459 $ (2,468) $31,613 539 $(16,559) $ 158
Net earnings — — — — 4,457 — — 50
Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income — — — (35) — — — —
Cash dividends declared(c) — — — — (2,557) — — —
Stock repurchase program — — — — — 4 (231) —
Stock compensation — — 266 — — (7) 11 —
Distributions — — — — — — — (38)
Balance at December 31, 2016 2,208 221 1,725 (2,503) 33,513 536 (16,779) 170
Accounting change - cumulative effect(a) — — — — (787) — — —
Adjusted balance at January 1, 2017 2,208 221 1,725 (2,503) 32,726 536 (16,779) 170
Net earnings — — — — 1,007 — — 27
Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income — — — 214 — — — —
Cash dividends declared(c) — — — — (2,573) — — —
Stock repurchase program — — — — — 44 (2,477) —
Stock compensation — — 173 — — (5) 7 —
Variable interest entity — — — — — — — (59)
Distributions — — — — — — — (32)
Balance at December 31, 2017 2,208 221 1,898 (2,289) 31,160 575 (19,249) 106
Accounting change - cumulative effect(b) — — — (34) 332 — — —
Adjusted balance at January 1, 2018 2,208 221 1,898 (2,323) 31,492 575 (19,249) 106
Net earnings — — — — 4,920 — — 27
Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income — — — (156) — — — —
Cash dividends declared(c) — — — — (2,630) — — —
Stock repurchase program — — — — — 5 (313) —
Stock compensation — — 183 — — (4) (12) —
Adoption of ASU 2018-02(b) — — — (283) 283 — — —
Distributions — — — — — — — (37)
Balance at December 31, 2018 2,208 $ 221 $ 2,081 $ (2,762) $34,065 576 $(19,574) $ 96
(a) Cumulative effect resulting from adoption of ASU 2016-16.
(b) Refer to “—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards” for additional information.
(c) Cash dividends declared per common share were $1.61, $1.57 and $1.53 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
BMS has a stock repurchase program authorized by its Board of Directors allowing for repurchases in the open market or through private
transactions, including plans established in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The stock repurchase
program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Treasury stock is recognized at the cost to
reacquire the shares. Shares issued from treasury are recognized utilizing the first-in first-out method.
BMS repurchased $2 billion of its common stock in 2017 through accelerated share repurchase agreements. The agreements were funded
through a combination of debt and cash.
622018 Annual Report
The components of Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
2018 2017 2016
Dollars in Millions Pretax Tax After Tax Pretax Tax After Tax Pretax Tax After Tax
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges:
Unrealized gains/(losses) $ 86 $ (9) $ 77 $ (101) $ 33 $ (68) $ (5) $ — $ (5)
Reclassified to net earnings(a) (4) (3) (7) 19 (8) 11 12 (3) 9
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges 82 (12) 70 (82) 25 (57) 7 (3) 4
Pension and postretirement benefits:
Actuarial (losses)/gains (89) (3) (92) 47 11 58 (126) (3) (129)
Amortization(b) 65 (13) 52 77 (31) 46 78 (25) 53
Settlements(b) 121 (28) 93 167 (57) 110 91 (32) 59
Pension and postretirement benefits 97 (44) 53 291 (77) 214 43 (60) (17)
Available-for-sale securities:
Unrealized (losses)/gains (30) 5 (25) 38 6 44 (12) (1) (13)
Realized (gains)/losses(b) — — — (7) 2 (5) 29 — 29
Available-for-sale securities (30) 5 (25) 31 8 39 17 (1) 16
Foreign currency translation (245) (9) (254) (20) 38 18 (33) (5) (38)
Total Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income $ (96) $ (60) $ (156) $ 220 $ (6) $ 214 $ 34 $ (69) $ (35)
(a) Included in Cost of products sold.
(b) Included in Other income (net).
The accumulated balances related to each component of Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income, net of taxes, were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges $ 51 $ (19)
Pension and postretirement benefits (2,102) (1,883)
Available-for-sale securities (30) 32
Foreign currency translation (681) (419)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (2,762) $ (2,289)
Note 16. RETIREMENT BENEFITS
BMS sponsors defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans and termination indemnity plans for regular full-time employees.
The principal defined benefit pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan (the “Plan”), covering most U.S. employees
and representing approximately 66% of the consolidated pension plan assets and 60% of the obligations. Future benefits related to service
for this plan were eliminated in 2009. BMS contributes at least the minimum amount required by the ERISA. Plan benefits are based
primarily on the participant’s years of credited service and final average compensation. As of December 2018, Plan assets consist primarily
of fixed-income securities.
In December 2018, BMS announced plans to fully terminate the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan (the “Plan”). Pension
obligations related to the Plan of $3.6 billion will be distributed through a combination of lump sum payments to eligible Plan participants
who elect such payments and through the purchase of a group annuity contract from Athene Annuity and Life Company ("Athene"), a
wholly-owned insurance subsidiary of Athene Holding Ltd. The benefit obligation for the Plan as of December 31, 2018 was therefore
determined on a plan termination basis for which it is assumed that a portion of eligible active and deferred vested participants will elect
lump sum payments. The remaining obligation expected to be transferred to Athene includes an annuity purchase price premium. The
Plan has sufficient assets to satisfy all transaction obligations. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2019 at which
time the Company expects to record a total non-cash pre-tax pension settlement charge of approximately $1.5 billion to $2.0 billion.
63Bristol-Myers Squibb
The net periodic benefit cost/(credit) of defined benefit pension plans includes:
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Service cost — benefits earned during the year $ 26 $ 25 $ 24
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation 193 188 192
Expected return on plan assets (386) (411) (418)
Amortization of prior service credits (4) (4) (3)
Amortization of net actuarial loss 74 82 84
Settlements and curtailments 121 159 91
Special termination benefits — 3 1
Net periodic benefit cost/(credit) $ 24 $ 42 $ (29)
Pension settlement charges were recognized after determining the annual lump sum payments will exceed the annual interest and service
costs for certain pension plans, including the primary U.S. pension plan in 2018, 2017 and 2016.
Changes in defined benefit pension plan obligations, assets, funded status and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets
were as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Benefit obligations at beginning of year $ 6,749 $ 6,440
Service cost—benefits earned during the year 26 25
Interest cost 193 188
Settlements and Curtailments (278) (330)
Actuarial (gains)/losses (523) 368
Benefits paid (123) (121)
Foreign currency and other (78) 179
Benefit obligations at end of year $ 5,966 $ 6,749
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year $ 6,749 $ 5,831
Actual return on plan assets (203) 804
Employer contributions 71 396
Settlements (276) (330)
Benefits paid (123) (121)
Foreign currency and other (89) 169
Fair value of plan assets at end of year $ 6,129 $ 6,749
Funded status $ 163 $ —
Assets/(Liabilities) recognized:
Other assets $ 622 $ 487
Accrued liabilities (32) (31)
Pension and other liabilities (427) (456)
Funded status $ 163 $ —
Recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss:
Net actuarial losses $ 2,717 $ 2,849
Prior service credit (30) (36)
Total $ 2,687 $ 2,813
The accumulated benefit obligation for defined benefit pension plans was $6.0 billion and $6.7 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017,
respectively.
642018 Annual Report
Additional information related to pension plans was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017
Pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:
Projected benefit obligation $ 1,275 $ 1,166
Fair value of plan assets 817 678
Pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:
Accumulated benefit obligation $ 1,181 $ 1,008
Fair value of plan assets 757 550
Actuarial Assumptions
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine defined benefit pension plan obligations at December 31 were as follows:
2018 2017
Discount rate 3.5% 3.1%
Rate of compensation increase 0.5% 0.5%
Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine defined benefit pension plan net periodic benefit cost/(credit) for the years
ended December 31 were as follows:
2018 2017 2016
Discount rate 3.1% 3.5% 3.8%
Expected long-term return on plan assets 6.2% 7.0% 7.2%
Rate of compensation increase 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
The yield on high quality corporate bonds matching the duration of the benefit obligations is used in determining the discount rate. The
Citi Pension Discount curve is used in developing the discount rate for the U.S. plans.
The expected return on plan assets was determined using the expected rate of return and a calculated value of assets, referred to as the
“market-related value” which approximated the fair value of plan assets at December 31, 2018. Differences between assumed and actual
returns are amortized to the market-related value on a straight-line basis over a three-year period. Several factors are considered in
developing the expected return on plan assets, including long-term historical returns and input from external advisors. Individual asset
class return forecasts were developed based upon market conditions, for example, price-earnings levels and yields and long-term growth
expectations. The expected long-term rate of return is the weighted-average of the target asset allocation of each individual asset class.
Historical long-term actual annualized returns for U.S. pension plans were as follows:
2018 2017 2016
10 years 10.4% 6.8% 6.1%
15 years 7.8% 9.3% 7.1%
20 years 7.1% 7.5% 7.7%
Actuarial gains and losses resulted from changes in actuarial assumptions (such as changes in the discount rate and revised mortality
rates) and from differences between assumed and actual experience (such as differences between actual and expected return on plan
assets). Actuarial gains in 2018 related to plan benefit obligations were primarily the result of increases in discount rates. Actuarial losses
in 2017 related to plan benefit obligations were primarily the result of decreases in discount rates. Gains and losses are amortized over
the life expectancy of the plan participants for U.S. plans (33 years in 2019) and expected remaining service periods for most other plans
to the extent they exceed 10% of the higher of the market-related value or the projected benefit obligation for each respective plan. As
the result of adopting ASU 2017-07, refer to “—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards” for further
details, the periodic benefit cost or credit is included in Other income (net) except for the service cost component which is included in
Cost of products sold, Research and development, and Marketing, selling and administrative expenses.
65Bristol-Myers Squibb
Postretirement Benefit Plans
Comprehensive medical and group life benefits are provided for substantially all U.S. retirees electing to participate in comprehensive
medical and group life plans and to a lesser extent certain benefits for non-U.S. employees. The medical plan is contributory. Contributions
are adjusted periodically and vary by date of retirement. The life insurance plan is noncontributory. Plan assets consist principally of
equity and fixed-income securities. Postretirement benefit plan obligations were $253 million and $298 million at December 31, 2018
and 2017, respectively, and the fair value of plan assets were $331 million and $364 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The weighted-average discount rate used to determine benefit obligations was 3.9% and 3.3% at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The net periodic benefit credits were not material.
Plan Assets
The fair value of pension and postretirement plan assets by asset category at December 31, 2018 and 2017 was as follows:
December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Dollars in Millions Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Plan Assets
Equity securities $ 124 $ — $ — $ 124 $ 799 $ — $ — $ 799
Equity funds 2 475 — 477 160 1,358 — 1,518
Fixed income funds — 606 — 606 — 724 — 724
Corporate debt securities — 3,865 — 3,865 — 1,919 — 1,919
U.S. Treasury and agency securities — 553 — 553 — 729 — 729
Short-term investment funds — 55 — 55 — 135 — 135
Insurance contracts — — 134 134 — — 138 138
Cash and cash equivalents 311 — — 311 214 — — 214
Other — 105 19 124 — 92 13 105
Plan assets subject to leveling $ 437 $ 5,659 $ 153 $ 6,249 $ 1,173 $ 4,957 $ 151 $ 6,281
Plan assets measured at NAV as a practical expedient
Equity funds $ — $ 488
Venture capital and limited partnerships 121 154
Other 91 191
Total plan assets measured at NAV as a practical expedient 212 833
Net plan assets $ 6,461 $ 7,114
The investment valuation policies per investment class are as follows:
Level 1 inputs utilize unadjusted quoted prices in active markets accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities.
The fair value hierarchy provides the highest priority to Level 1 inputs. These instruments include equity securities, equity funds
and fixed income funds publicly traded on a national securities exchange, and cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents
are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase and are recognized at cost,
which approximates fair value. Pending trade sales and purchases are included in cash and cash equivalents until final settlement.
Level 2 inputs utilize observable prices for similar instruments, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in non-active
markets, and other observable inputs that can be corroborated by market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Equity funds, fixed income funds, and short-term investment funds classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy are valued
at the NAV of their shares held at year end, which represents fair value. Corporate debt securities and U.S. Treasury and agency
securities classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy are valued utilizing observable prices for similar instruments and
quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active.
Level 3 unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. Insurance contracts are held by certain foreign
pension plans and are carried at contract value, which approximates the estimated fair value and is based on the fair value of the
underlying investment of the insurance company.
Venture capital and limited partnership investments are typically only redeemable through distributions upon liquidation of the underlying
assets. There were no significant unfunded commitments for these investments and essentially all liquidations are expected to occur by
the end of 2019. Most of the remaining investments using the practical expedient are redeemable on a weekly or monthly basis.
662018 Annual Report
The investment strategy is to maximize return while maintaining an appropriate level of risk to provide sufficient liquidity for benefit
obligations and plan expenses. During 2018, a target allocation of 97% long-duration fixed income and 3% private equity was adopted
and is now maintained for the principal defined benefit pension plan, the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan. BMS common
stock represents less than 1% of the plan assets at December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Contributions and Estimated Future Benefit Payments
Contributions to pension plans were $71 million in 2018, $396 million in 2017 and $81 million in 2016 and are not expected to be material
in 2019. Estimated annual future benefit payments for non-terminating plans (including lump sum payments) will be approximately $100
million in each of the next five years and in the subsequent five year period.
Savings Plans
The principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings and Investment Program. The contribution is based on
employee contributions and the level of Company match. The expense attributed to defined contribution plans in the U.S. was
approximately $200 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016.
Note 17. EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS
On May 1, 2012, the shareholders approved the 2012 Plan, which replaced the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. The 2012 Plan provides for
109 million shares to be authorized for grants, plus any shares from outstanding awards under the 2007 Plan as of February 29, 2012 that
expire, are forfeited, canceled, or withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations. As of December 31, 2018, 102 million shares were
available for award. Shares are issued from treasury stock to satisfy our obligations under this Plan.
Executive officers and key employees may be granted options to purchase common stock at no less than the market price on the date the
option is granted. Options generally become exercisable ratably over four years and have a maximum term of ten years. The plan provides
for the granting of stock appreciation rights whereby the grantee may surrender exercisable rights and receive common stock and/or cash
measured by the excess of the market price of the common stock over the option exercise price. The Company has not granted any stock
options or stock appreciation rights since 2009.
Restricted stock units may be granted to key employees, subject to restrictions as to continuous employment. Generally, vesting occurs
ratably over a four year period from grant date. A stock unit is a right to receive stock at the end of the specified vesting period but has
no voting rights.
Market share units are granted to executives. Vesting is conditioned upon continuous employment until the vesting date and a payout
factor of at least 60% of the share price on the award date. The payout factor is the share price on vesting date divided by share price on
award date, with a maximum of 200%. The share price used in the payout factor is calculated using an average of the closing prices on
the grant or vest date, and the nine trading days immediately preceding the grant or vest date. Vesting occurs ratably over four years.
Performance share units are granted to executives, have a three year cycle and are granted as a target number of units subject to adjustment.
The number of shares issued when performance share units vest is determined based on the achievement of performance goals and based
on the Company's three-year total shareholder return relative to a peer group of companies. Vesting is conditioned upon continuous
employment and occurs on the third anniversary of the grant date.
Stock-based compensation expense for awards ultimately expected to vest is recognized over the vesting period. Forfeitures are estimated
based on historical experience at the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
Other information related to stock-based compensation benefits are as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2018 2017 2016
Restricted stock units $ 102 $ 95 $ 89
Market share units 38 35 37
Performance share units 81 69 79
Total stock-based compensation expense $ 221 $ 199 $ 205
Income tax benefit $ 41 $ 59 $ 69
67Bristol-Myers Squibb
Stock Options Restricted Stock Units Market Share Units Performance Share Units
Weighted- Number Weighted- Number Weighted- Number Weighted-
Number of Average of Average of Average of Average
Options Exercise Price Nonvested Grant-Date Nonvested Grant-Date Nonvested Grant-Date
Shares in Millions Outstanding of Shares Awards Fair Value Awards Fair Value Awards Fair Value
Balance at January 1, 2018 3.8 $ 19.04 4.9 $ 56.85 1.5 $ 62.25 3.5 $ 62.57
Granted — — 2.4 61.40 0.7 72.33 1.1 67.60
Released/Exercised (2.1) 20.22 (1.7) 56.95 (0.6) 61.70 (1.6) 64.84
Adjustments for actual payout — — — — 0.1 59.29 0.1 64.84
Forfeited/Canceled — — (0.6) 58.85 (0.2) 66.08 (0.3) 63.12
Balance at December 31, 2018 1.7 $ 17.51 5.0 $ 58.83 1.5 $ 66.76 2.8 $ 63.28
Vested or expected to vest 1.7 $ 17.51 4.4 $ 58.85 1.3 $ 66.67 3.3 $ 63.10
Restricted Market Performance
Dollars in Millions Stock Units Share Units Share Units
Unrecognized compensation cost $ 212 $ 43 $ 85
Expected weighted-average period in years of compensation cost to be recognized 2.7 2.7 1.7
Amounts in Millions, except per share data 2018 2017 2016
Weighted-average grant date fair value (per share):
Restricted stock units $ 61.40 $ 54.39 $ 60.56
Market share units 72.33 60.14 65.26
Performance share units 67.60 57.91 64.87
Fair value of awards that vested:
Restricted stock units $ 98 $ 91 $ 81
Market share units 40 33 50
Performance share units 103 84 93
Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised $ 89 $ 84 $ 158
The fair value of restricted stock units, market share units and performance share units approximates the closing trading price of BMS's
common stock on the grant date after adjusting for the units not eligible for accrued dividends. In addition, the fair value of market share
units and performance share units considers the probability of satisfying the payout factor and total shareholder return, respectively.
The following table summarizes significant outstanding and exercisable options at December 31, 2018:
Number Weighted-Average Weighted-Average Aggregate
Outstanding and Exercisable Remaining Contractual Exercise Price Intrinsic Value
(in millions) Life (in years) Per Share (in millions)
Options Outstanding and Exercisable 1.7 0.2 $ 17.51 $ 57
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on the closing stock price of $51.98
on December 31, 2018.
682018 Annual Report
Note 18. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in various lawsuits, claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings
that arise in the ordinary course of business. These claims or proceedings can involve various types of parties, including governments,
competitors, customers, suppliers, service providers, licensees, employees, or shareholders, among others. The resolution of these matters
often develops over a long period of time and expectations can change as a result of new findings, rulings, appeals or settlement
arrangements. The Company recognizes accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount
of loss can be reasonably estimated. These matters involve patent infringement, antitrust, securities, pricing, sales and marketing practices,
environmental, commercial, contractual rights, licensing obligations, health and safety matters, consumer fraud, employment matters,
product liability and insurance coverage. Legal proceedings that are material or that the Company believes could become material are
described below.
Although the Company believes it has substantial defenses in these matters, there can be no assurance that there will not be an increase
in the scope of pending matters or that any future lawsuits, claims, government investigations or other legal proceedings will not be
material. Unless otherwise noted, the Company is unable to assess the outcome of the respective litigation nor is it able to provide an
estimated range of potential loss. Furthermore, failure to enforce our patent rights would likely result in substantial decreases in the
respective product revenues from generic competition.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Plavix* - Australia
As previously disclosed, Sanofi was notified that, in August 2007, GenRx Proprietary Limited (GenRx) obtained regulatory approval of
an application for clopidogrel bisulfate 75mg tablets in Australia. GenRx, formerly a subsidiary of Apotex Inc. (Apotex), has since changed
its name to Apotex. In August 2007, Apotex filed an application in the Federal Court of Australia (the Federal Court) seeking revocation
of Sanofi’s Australian Patent No. 597784 (Case No. NSD 1639 of 2007). Sanofi filed counterclaims of infringement and sought an
injunction. On September 21, 2007, the Federal Court granted Sanofi’s injunction. A subsidiary of the Company was subsequently added
as a party to the proceedings. In February 2008, a second company, Spirit Pharmaceuticals Pty. Ltd., also filed a revocation suit against
the same patent. This case was consolidated with the Apotex case, and a trial occurred in April 2008. On August 12, 2008, the Federal
Court of Australia held that claims of Patent No. 597784 covering clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, and taurocholate
salts were valid. The Federal Court also held that the process claims, pharmaceutical composition claims, and claim directed to clopidogrel
and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts were invalid. The Company and Sanofi filed notices of appeal in the Full Court of the Federal
Court of Australia (Full Court) appealing the holding of invalidity of the claim covering clopidogrel and its pharmaceutically acceptable
salts, process claims, and pharmaceutical composition claims which have stayed the Federal Court’s ruling. Apotex filed a notice of
appeal appealing the holding of validity of the clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, and taurocholate claims. A hearing
on the appeals occurred in February 2009. On September 29, 2009, the Full Court held all of the claims of Patent No. 597784 invalid. In
November 2009, the Company and Sanofi applied to the High Court of Australia (High Court) for special leave to appeal the judgment
of the Full Court. In March 2010, the High Court denied the Company and Sanofi’s request to hear the appeal of the Full Court decision.
The case was remanded to the Federal Court for further proceedings related to damages sought by Apotex. The Company and Apotex
have settled the Apotex case, and the case was dismissed. The Australian government has intervened in this matter and is seeking maximum
damages up to 449 million AUD ($316 million), plus interest, which would be split between the Company and Sanofi, for alleged losses
experienced for paying a higher price for branded Plavix* during the period when the injunction was in place. The Company and Sanofi
have disputed that the Australian government is entitled to any damages and the Australian government's claim is still pending and a trial
was concluded in September 2017. The Company is expecting a decision in 2019.
Sprycel - Europe
In May 2013, Apotex, Actavis Group PTC ehf, Generics [UK] Limited (Mylan) and an unnamed company filed oppositions in the EPO
seeking revocation of European Patent No. 1169038 (the ‘038 patent) covering dasatinib, the active ingredient in Sprycel. On January
20, 2016, the Opposition Division of the EPO revoked the ‘038 patent. In May 2016, the Company appealed the EPO’s decision to the
EPO Board of Appeal. In February 2017, the EPO Board of Appeal upheld the Opposition Division’s decision, and revoked the ‘038
patent. Orphan drug exclusivity and data exclusivity for Sprycel in the EU expired in November 2016. The EPO Board of Appeal’s
decision does not affect the validity of our other Sprycel patents within and outside Europe, including different patents that cover the
monohydrate form of dasatinib and the use of dasatinib to treat CML. Additionally, in February 2017, the EPO Board of Appeal reversed
and remanded an invalidity decision on European Patent No. 1610780 and its claim to the use of dasatinib to treat CML, which the EPO’s
Opposition Division had revoked in October 2012. In December 2018, the EPO’s Opposition Division upheld the validity of the patent
directed to the use of dasatinib to treat CML, which expires in 2024. The Company intends to take appropriate legal actions to
protect Sprycel. Generics have been approved in certain EU markets. We may experience a decline in European revenues in the event
that generic dasatinib product enters the market.
69Bristol-Myers Squibb
Anti-PD-1 Antibody Patent Oppositions and Litigation
In September 2015, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (Dana-Farber) filed a complaint in Massachusetts federal court seeking to correct the
inventorship on up to five related U.S. patents directed to methods of treating cancer using PD-1 and PD-L1 antibodies. Specifically,
Dana-Farber is seeking to add two scientists as inventors to these patents. In October 2017, Pfizer was allowed to intervene in this case
alleging that one of the scientists identified by Dana-Farber was employed by a company eventually acquired by Pfizer during the relevant
period. In February 2019, the Company settled the lawsuit with Pfizer. A bench trial in the lawsuit with Dana-Farber began on February
4, 2019. A decision is expected in 2019.
Eliquis Patent Litigation - U.S.
In 2017, twenty-five generic companies sent the Company Paragraph-IV certification letters informing the Company that they had filed
aNDAs seeking approval of generic versions of Eliquis. As a result, two Eliquis patents listed in the FDA Orange Book are being
challenged: the composition of matter patent claiming apixaban specifically and a formulation patent. In April 2017, the Company, along
with its partner Pfizer, initiated patent lawsuits under the Hatch-Waxman Act against all generic filers in federal district courts in Delaware
and West Virginia. In August 2017, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office granted patent term restoration to the composition of matter
patent, thereby restoring the term of the Eliquis composition of matter patent, which is the Company’s basis for projected LOE, from
February 2023 to November 2026. The Company has settled lawsuits with a number of aNDA filers through December 2018. The
settlements do not affect the Company’s projected LOE for Eliquis.
PRICING, SALES AND PROMOTIONAL PRACTICES LITIGATION
Plavix* State Attorneys General Lawsuits
The Company and certain affiliates of Sanofi are defendants in consumer protection and/or false advertising actions brought by several
states relating to the sales and promotion of Plavix*.
PRODUCT LIABILITY LITIGATION
The Company is a party to various product liability lawsuits. Plaintiffs in these cases seek damages and other relief on various grounds
for alleged personal injury and economic loss. As previously disclosed, in addition to lawsuits, the Company also faces unfiled claims
involving its products.
Byetta*
Amylin, a former subsidiary of the Company, and Lilly are co-defendants in product liability litigation related to Byetta*. To date, there
are over 500 separate lawsuits pending on behalf of approximately 2,000 active plaintiffs (including pending settlements), which include
injury plaintiffs as well as claims by spouses and/or other beneficiaries, in various courts in the U.S. The majority of these cases have
been brought by individuals who allege personal injury sustained after using Byetta*, primarily pancreatic cancer, and, in some cases,
claiming alleged wrongful death. The majority of cases are pending in Federal Court in San Diego in an MDL or in a coordinated
proceeding in California Superior Court in Los Angeles (JCCP). In November 2015, the defendants' motion for summary judgment based
on federal preemption was granted in both the MDL and the JCCP. In November 2017, the Ninth Circuit reversed the MDL summary
judgment order and remanded the case to the MDL. In November 2018, the California Court of Appeal reversed the state court dismissal
and the state court cases were remanded to the JCCP for further proceedings. Amylin has product liability insurance covering a substantial
number of claims involving Byetta* and any additional liability to Amylin with respect to Byetta* is expected to be shared between the
Company and AstraZeneca.
Abilify*
The Company and Otsuka are co-defendants in product liability litigation related to Abilify*. Plaintiffs allege Abilify* caused them to
engage in compulsive gambling and other impulse control disorders. There have been over 2,000 cases filed in state and federal courts
and additional cases are pending in Canada. The Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation has consolidated the federal court cases for
pretrial purposes in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Florida. On February 15, 2019, the Company and Otsuka entered
into a master settlement agreement establishing a proposed settlement program to resolve all Abilify* compulsivity claims filed as of
January 28, 2019 in the MDL as well as the various state courts, including California and New Jersey.
Eliquis
The Company and Pfizer are co-defendants in product liability litigation related to Eliquis. Plaintiffs assert claims, including claims for
wrongful death, as a result of bleeding they allege was caused by their use of Eliquis. As of January 2019, no claims remain pending in
the MDL in the U.S District Court for the Southern District of New York. Three cases remain pending in state courts and one remains
pending in Canada. Over 200 cases have been dismissed with prejudice in the MDL. The claims of 23 plaintiffs are on appeal to the
Second Circuit Court of Appeals. The Company expects a decision in 2019.
702018 Annual Report
Onglyza*
The Company and AstraZeneca are co-defendants in product liability litigation related to Onglyza*. Plaintiffs assert claims, including
claims for wrongful death, as a result of heart failure or other cardiovascular injuries they allege were caused by their use of Onglyza*.
As of January 2019, claims are pending in state and federal court on behalf of approximately 250 individuals who allege they ingested
the product and suffered an injury. A significant majority of these claims are pending in federal courts. In February 2018, the Judicial
Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ordered all federal cases to be transferred to an MDL in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District
of Kentucky. As part of the Company’s global diabetes business divestiture, the Company sold Onglyza* to AstraZeneca in February
2014 and any potential liability with respect to Onglyza* is expected to be shared with AstraZeneca.
SHAREHOLDER DERIVATIVE LITIGATION
Since December 2015, three shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in New York state court against certain officers and directors of
the Company. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, breaches of fiduciary duty surrounding the Company’s previously disclosed
October 2015 civil settlement with the SEC of alleged FCPA violations in China in which the Company agreed to a payment of
approximately $14.7 million in disgorgement, penalties and interest. As of October 2017, all three of the lawsuits have been dismissed.
The Company received a notice of appeal as to one of the dismissed lawsuits. Oral argument in the appeal of the dismissal has been
scheduled for February 2019.
SECURITIES LITIGATION
Since February 2018, two separate putative class action complaints were filed in the U.S. District for the Northern District of California
and in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Company, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer,
Giovanni Caforio, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, Charles A. Bancroft and certain former and current executives of the
Company. The case in California has been voluntarily dismissed. The remaining complaint alleges violations of securities laws for the
Company’s disclosures related to the CheckMate-026 clinical trial in lung cancer. A fully briefed motion to dismiss in pending before
the court. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this litigation.
OTHER LITIGATION
Acquisition of Celgene Litigation
As of February 20, 2019, nine complaints were filed by Celgene shareholders in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, U.S.
District Court for the District of New Jersey, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York and the Court of Chancery of
the State of Delaware seeking to enjoin the Company's proposed acquisition of Celgene. The complaints in these actions name as defendants
Celgene and the members of Celgene's board of directors. Four of these complaints also name the Company and Burgundy Merger Sub,
Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company that was formed solely for the purpose of completing the pending acquisition of Celgene
and will be merged with and into Celgene upon the completion of the acquisition, as defendants. Of the complaints naming the Company
as a defendant, three are styled as putative class actions. The plaintiffs allege violations of various federal securities laws and breaches
of fiduciary duties in connection with the acquisition of Celgene by the Company.
Separately, a tenth complaint styled as a putative class action was filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware on behalf of
the Company's shareholders naming members of the Company's board of directors as defendants. This complaint alleges that each of the
members of the Company's board of directors breached his or her fiduciary duties to the Company and its shareholders by failing to
disclose material information about the pending acquisition.
The Company, Burgundy Merger Sub and Celgene intend to defend themselves vigorously in these lawsuits.
Acquisition of Flexus Litigation
In February 2015, the Company acquired Flexus including rights to its IDO-1 inhibitor. In September 2015, Incyte Corporation (“Incyte”)
sued Flexus and Flexus's founders (“Flexus Defendants”) in the Superior Court of the State of Delaware. In its initial and subsequent
amended complaints, Incyte alleged claims against the Flexus Defendants, among others, for the misappropriation of various trade secrets
relating to the research and development of Incyte's IDO-1 inhibitor. In November 2018, following a two and a-half week trial on trade
secrets, a jury in the Superior Court of Delaware returned a defense verdict on behalf of the Flexus Defendants. Incyte may appeal the
decision.
Average Wholesale Price Litigation
The Company is a defendant in a qui tam (whistleblower) lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, in
which the U.S. Government declined to intervene. The complaint alleges that the Company inaccurately reported its average manufacturer
prices to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to lower what it owed. Similar claims have been filed against other companies.
The Court denied the Company's motion to dismiss in November 2018.
71Bristol-Myers Squibb
GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATIONS
Like other pharmaceutical companies, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by national, state
and local government agencies in the U.S. and other countries in which BMS operates. As a result, the Company, from time to time, is
subject to various governmental inquiries and investigations. It is possible that criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties,
could result from government investigations.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS
As previously reported, the Company is a party to several environmental proceedings and other matters, and is responsible under various
state, federal and foreign laws, including CERCLA, for certain costs of investigating and/or remediating contamination resulting from
past industrial activity at the Company’s current or former sites or at waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties.
CERCLA Matters
With respect to CERCLA matters for which the Company is responsible under various state, federal and foreign laws, the Company
typically estimates potential costs based on information obtained from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or counterpart state
or foreign agency and/or studies prepared by independent consultants, including the total estimated costs for the site and the expected
cost-sharing, if any, with other “potentially responsible parties,” and the Company accrues liabilities when they are probable and reasonably
estimable. The Company estimated its share of future costs for these sites to be $62 million at December 31, 2018, which represents the
sum of best estimates or, where no best estimate can reasonably be made, estimates of the minimal probable amount among a range of
such costs (without taking into account any potential recoveries from other parties). The amount includes the estimated costs for any
additional probable loss associated with the previously disclosed North Brunswick Township High School Remediation Site.
Note 19. SUBSEQUENT EVENT
On January 3, 2019, BMS announced that the Company has entered into a definitive merger agreement under which BMS will acquire
Celgene. Under the terms of the agreement, if the merger is completed, Celgene shareholders will receive one share of BMS common
stock and $50.00 in cash for each share of Celgene common stock held by them. Celgene shareholders will also receive one tradeable
contingent value right for each share of Celgene representing the right to receive $9.00 in cash, which is subject to the achievement of
future regulatory milestones. Based on the closing price of a share of BMS common stock on January 2, 2019, the most recent trading
day prior to the date of the announcement, the merger consideration represented approximately $74 billion. The amount of consideration
to be received by Celgene stockholders will fluctuate with changes in the price of the shares of BMS common stock. BMS expects to
fund the transaction through a combination of existing cash and new debt. BMS also expects to enter into an accelerated share repurchase
program of up to approximately $5.0 billion, subject to the closing of the transaction, market conditions and Board of Directors' approval.
The Company expects the transaction will close at the end of the third quarter of 2019, subject to approval by Bristol-Myers Squibb and
Celgene shareholders and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals.
722018 Annual Report
Note 20. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
Dollars in Millions, except per share data First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
2018
Total Revenues $ 5,193 $ 5,704 $ 5,691 $ 5,973 $ 22,561
Gross Margin 3,609 4,079 4,043 4,283 16,014
Net Earnings 1,495 382 1,912 1,158 4,947
Net Earnings/(Loss) Attributable to:
Noncontrolling Interest 9 9 11 (2) 27
BMS 1,486 373 1,901 1,160 4,920
Earnings per Share - Basic(a) $ 0.91 $ 0.23 $ 1.16 $ 0.71 $ 3.01
Earnings per Share - Diluted(a) 0.91 0.23 1.16 0.71 3.01
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.40 $ 0.40 $ 0.40 $ 0.41 $ 1.61
Cash and cash equivalents $ 5,342 $ 4,999 $ 5,408 $ 6,911 $ 6,911
Marketable securities(b) 3,680 3,193 3,439 3,748 3,748
Total Assets 33,083 32,641 33,734 34,986 34,986
Long-term debt(c) 5,775 5,671 5,687 6,895 6,895
Equity 12,906 12,418 13,750 14,127 14,127
Dollars in Millions, except per share data First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
2017
Total Revenues $ 4,929 $ 5,144 $ 5,254 $ 5,449 $ 20,776
Gross Margin 3,664 3,575 3,675 3,768 14,682
Net Earnings 1,526 922 856 (2,329) 975
Net Earnings/(Loss) Attributable to:
Noncontrolling Interest (48) 6 11 (1) (32)
BMS 1,574 916 845 (2,328) 1,007
Earnings/(Loss) per Share - Basic(a) $ 0.95 $ 0.56 $ 0.52 $ (1.42) $ 0.61
Earnings/(Loss) per Share - Diluted(a) 0.94 0.56 0.51 (1.42) 0.61
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.39 $ 0.39 $ 0.39 $ 0.40 $ 1.57
Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,910 $ 3,470 $ 4,644 $ 5,421 $ 5,421
Marketable securities(b) 4,884 5,615 5,004 3,871 3,871
Total Assets 32,937 33,409 33,977 33,551 33,551
Long-term debt(c) 7,237 6,911 6,982 6,975 6,975
Equity 14,535 14,821 14,914 11,847 11,847
(a) Earnings per share for the quarters may not add to the amounts for the year, as each period is computed on a discrete basis.
(b) Marketable securities includes current and non-current assets.
(c) Long-term debt includes the current portion.
73Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following specified items affected the comparability of results in 2018 and 2017:
2018
First Second Third Fourth
Dollars in Millions Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year
Cost of products sold(a) $ 13 $ 14 $ 13 $ 18 $ 58
Marketing, selling and administrative 1 — — 1 2
License and asset acquisition charges 60 1,075 — — 1,135
Site exit costs 20 19 18 22 79
Research and development 80 1,094 18 22 1,214
Loss/(gain) on equity investments (15) 356 (97) 268 512
Provision for restructuring 20 37 45 29 131
Litigation and other settlements — — — 70 70
Divestiture gains (43) (25) (108) (1) (177)
Royalties and licensing income (50) (25) — — (75)
Pension and postretirement 31 37 27 26 121
Intangible asset impairment 64 — — — 64
Other income (net) 7 380 (133) 392 646
Increase/(decrease) to pretax income 101 1,488 (102) 433 1,920
Income taxes on items above (8) (218) 1 (43) (268)
Income taxes attributed to U.S. tax reform (32) 3 (20) (7) (56)
Income taxes (40) (215) (19) (50) (324)
Increase/(decrease) to net earnings $ 61 $ 1,273 $ (121) $ 383 $ 1,596
2017
First Second Third Fourth
Dollars in Millions Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year
Cost of products sold(a) $ — $ 130 $ 1 $ 18 $ 149
Marketing, selling and administrative — — — 1 1
License and asset acquisition charges 50 393 310 377 1,130
IPRD impairments 75 — — — 75
Site exit costs 72 96 64 151 383
Research and development 197 489 374 528 1,588
Provision for restructuring 164 15 28 86 293
Litigation and other settlements (481) — — — (481)
Divestiture gains (100) — — (26) (126)
Royalties and licensing income — (497) — — (497)
Pension and postretirement 33 36 22 71 162
Loss on debt redemption — 109 — — 109
Other income (net) (384) (337) 50 131 (540)
Increase/(decrease) to pretax income (187) 282 425 678 1,198
Income taxes on items above 72 20 (41) (138) (87)
Income taxes attributed to U.S. tax reform — — — 2,911 2,911
Income taxes 72 20 (41) 2,773 2,824
Increase/(decrease) to net earnings (115) 302 384 3,451 4,022
Noncontrolling interest (59) — — — (59)
Increase/(decrease) to net earnings attributable to BMS $ (174) $ 302 $ 384 $ 3,451 $ 3,963
(a) Specified items in Cost of products sold are accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs.
742018 Annual Report
REPORTS OF MANAGEMENT
Management’s Responsibility for Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and integrity of the financial information presented in this Annual Report. The
accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting
principles, applying certain estimates and judgments as required. In management’s opinion, the consolidated financial statements present
fairly the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors meets regularly with the internal auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP (D&T), the Company’s
independent registered accounting firm, and management to review accounting, internal control structure and financial reporting matters.
The internal auditors and D&T have full and free access to the Audit Committee. As set forth in the Company’s Standard of Business
Conduct and Ethics, the Company is firmly committed to adhering to the highest standards of moral and ethical behavior in all of its
business activities.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the supervision
and with the participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management assessed the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018 based on the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated
Framework” (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that assessment,
management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2018 to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements for external purposes
in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s financial statements included in
this report on Form 10-K and issued its report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2018, which is included herein.
Giovanni Caforio
Chief Executive Officer
Charles Bancroft
Chief Financial Officer
February 25, 2019
75Bristol-Myers Squibb
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
As of December 31, 2018, management carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its chief executive
officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e), as of the end of the period covered by this 2018 Form 10-K. Based on this evaluation,
management has concluded that as of December 31, 2018, such disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Exchange
Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief
financial officer, management assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018 based on
the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on that assessment, management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was
effective at December 31, 2018 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of
its financial statements for external purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s financial statements included in
this report on this 2018 Form 10-K and issued its report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2018, which is included herein.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 that have
materially affected, or are reasonable likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
OTHER INFORMATION
On February 20, 2019, in the Company's Amendment No. 2 to its Registration Statement on Form S-4 for the Company's pending
acquisition of Celgene, the Company disclosed that Starboard Value LP sent a notice of nomination of five directors to the Company's
board of directors, which the Company informed Starboard Value that it would review. In connection with its delivery of the notice,
Starboard Value requested to meet with the Company's management and that, pending these discussions, the notice and meetings be kept
confidential. The Company's management has subsequently met with Starboard Value on multiple occasions. Any vote on potential
changes to Company’s board of directors would come at our 2019 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the date for which has not been set
as of the time of this filing. The Company's shareholders are expected to vote on the proposed acquisition of Celgene on April 12, 2019.
762018 Annual Report
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the “Company”)
as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, and cash flows, for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In
our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31,
2018 and 2017, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB),
the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control -
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
February 25, 2019, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our
audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or
fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 25, 2019
We have served as the Company's auditor since 2006.
77Bristol-Myers Squibb
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of
December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)
issued by COSO.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the
consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018, of the Company and our report dated February 25,
2019, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based
on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company
in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission
and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 25, 2019
782018 Annual Report
PERFORMANCE GRAPH
The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholders' returns of our common shares with the cumulative total stockholders'
returns of the companies listed in the Standard & Poor's 500 Index and a composite peer group of major pharmaceutical companies
comprised of AbbVie, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Biogen, Celgene, Gilead, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Lilly, Merck, Novartis,
Pfizer, Roche and Sanofi. The graph assumes $100 investment on December 31, 2013 in each of our common shares, the S&P 500 Index
and the stock of our peer group companies, including reinvestment of dividends, for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, 2016,
2017 and 2018. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Bristol-Myers Squibb $ 100.00 $ 114.06 $ 136.04 $ 117.73 $ 126.95 $ 110.82
S&P 500 100.00 113.69 115.26 129.05 157.22 150.33
Peer Group 100.00 113.55 115.40 112.35 130.89 140.60
79Bristol-Myers Squibb
FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Amounts in Millions, except per share data 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Income Statement Data:
Total Revenues $ 22,561 $ 20,776 $ 19,427 $ 16,560 $ 15,879
Net Earnings 4,947 975 4,507 1,631 2,029
Net Earnings/(Loss) Attributable to:
Noncontrolling Interest 27 (32) 50 66 25
BMS 4,920 1,007 4,457 1,565 2,004
Net Earnings per Common Share Attributable to BMS:
Basic $ 3.01 $ 0.61 $ 2.67 $ 0.94 $ 1.21
Diluted 3.01 0.61 2.65 0.93 1.20
Average common shares outstanding:
Basic 1,633 1,645 1,671 1,667 1,657
Diluted 1,637 1,652 1,680 1,679 1,670
Cash dividends paid on BMS common and preferred stock $ 2,613 $ 2,577 $ 2,547 $ 2,477 $ 2,398
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.61 $ 1.57 $ 1.53 $ 1.49 $ 1.45
Financial Position Data at December 31:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,911 $ 5,421 $ 4,237 $ 2,385 $ 5,571
Marketable securities(a) 3,748 3,871 4,832 6,545 6,272
Total Assets 34,986 33,551 33,707 31,748 33,749
Long-term debt(a) 6,895 6,975 6,465 6,550 7,242
Equity 14,127 11,847 16,347 14,424 14,983
(a) Includes current and non-current portion.
802018 Annual Report
SUMMARY OF ABBREVIATED TERMS
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its consolidated subsidiaries may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, the Company, we,
our or us in this 2018 Form 10-K, unless the context otherwise indicates. Throughout this 2018 Form 10-K we have used terms which
are defined below:
2018 Form 10-K Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate
AbbVie AbbVie Inc. Lilly Eli Lilly and Company
ALL acute lymphoblastic leukemia LOE loss of exclusivity
Amgen Amgen Inc. mCRC metastatic colorectal cancer
Amylin Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. mCRPC metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer
aNDA abbreviated New Drug Application MDL multi-district litigation
ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations Mead Johnson Mead Johnson Nutrition Company
AstraZeneca AstraZeneca PLC Merck Merck & Co., Inc.
Biogen Biogen, Inc. MF myelofibrosis
Cardioxyl Cardioxyl Pharmaceuticals, Inc. MPM malignant pleural mesothelioma
U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
CERCLA MSI-H high microsatellite instability
Liability Act
Celgene Celgene Corporation mUC metastatic urothelial carcinoma
CHMP Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use NAV net asset value
CML chronic myeloid leukemia Nektar Nektar Therapeutics
Cormorant Cormorant Pharmaceuticals Nitto Denko Nitto Denko Corporation
CPPIB Credit Europe S.A.R.L., a Luxembourg private limited liability
CPPIB NKT natural killer T
company
CRC colorectal cancer Novartis Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation
CytomX CytomX Therapeutics, Inc. NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer
dMMR DNA mismatch repair deficient NVAF non-valvular atrial fibrillation
DSA Distribution Services Agreement Ono Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
EC European Commission OTC Over-the-counter
EMA European Medicines Agency Otsuka Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
EPO European Patent Office PAD Protein/Peptidyl Arginine Deiminase
EPS earnings per share Padlock Padlock Therapeutics, Inc.
ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 PD-1 programmed death receptor-1
EU European Union Pfizer Pfizer, Inc.
FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board Promedior Promedior, Inc.
FCPA Foreign Corrupt Practices Act PSA prostate-specific antigen
FDA U.S. Food and Drug Administration PsiOxus PsiOxus Therapeutics, Ltd.
Flexus Flexus Biosciences, Inc. R&D Research and Development
F-Star F-Star Alpha Ltd. RA rheumatoid arthritis
GAAP U.S. generally accepted accounting principles RCC renal cell carcinoma
Gilead Gilead Sciences, Inc. Reckitt Reckitt Benckiser Group plc
GlaxoSmithKline GlaxoSmithKline PLC Roche Roche Holding AG
GTN gross-to-net Sanofi Sanofi S.A.
Halozyme Halozyme Therapeutics, Inc. sBLA supplemental Biologics License Application
HIV human immunodeficiency virus SCCHN squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck
IFM IFM Therapeutics, Inc. SCLC small cell lung cancer
ImClone ImClone Systems Incorporated SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
IO Immuno-Oncology SK Biotek SK Biotek Co., Ltd.
IPF idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis the 2012 Plan The 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan
iPierian iPierian, Inc. U.S. United States
IPRD in-process research and development UK United Kingdom
Janssen Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. VTE venous thromboembolic
JIA Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis
81BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB Board of Directors
Giovanni Caforio, M.D. Dinesh C. Paliwal
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer,
Bristol-Myers Squibb Harman International
(b, c)
Peter J. Arduini
President and Chief Executive Officer, Theodore R. Samuels
Integra LifeSciences Holdings Corporation Former President, Capital Guardian
(a, c) Trust Company
(a, b)
Robert Bertolini
Former President and Chief Financial Officer, Vicki L. Sato, Ph.D.
Bausch & Lomb; Former Chief Financial Officer, Lead Independent Director, Bristol-Myers Squibb;
Schering-Plough Independent Chairman of the Board, Denali
(a, b) Therapeutics, Inc.; Former Professor of Management
Practice and Molecular and Cell Biology, Harvard
Matthew W. Emmens University
Former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman (b, d)
of the Board, Shire PLC; Former President,
Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Vertex Gerald L. Storch
Pharmaceuticals; Former Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Storch Advisors; Former
Astra Merck Vice Chairman, Target; Former Chairman and Chief
(c, d) Executive Officer, Toys “R” Us; Former Principal,
McKinsey & Company
Michael Grobstein (a, c)
Former Vice Chairman, Ernst & Young LLP
(a, c) Karen H. Vousden, Ph.D.
Chief Scientist, Cancer Research UK; Former Chief
Alan J. Lacy Executive Officer, Beatson Institute for Cancer
Trustee, Fidelity Funds; Former Chairman, Research
Dave & Buster’s Entertainment, Inc. (d)
(a, b)
(a) Audit Committee
(b) Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance
(c) Compensation and Management Development Committee
(d) Science and Technology Committee
82BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB Leadership Team
Giovanni Caforio, M.D. Ann Powell Judge
Chairman of the Board and Senior Vice President,
Chief Executive Officer Chief Human Resources Officer
Charles Bancroft Sandra Leung
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Executive Vice President,
Officer, Global Business Operations General Counsel
Paul Biondi Thomas J. Lynch, Jr., M.D.
Senior Vice President, Executive Vice President,
Strategy and Business Development Chief Scientific Officer
Chris Boerner, Ph.D. Lou Schmukler
Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President and President,
Chief Commercial Officer Global Product Development & Supply
Adam Dubow Paul von Autenried
Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President,
Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer Chief Information Officer
John Elicker
Senior Vice President,
Corporate Affairs and Investor Relations
83BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB Stockholder Information
Common Stock Form 10-K Product Names and Company Programs
Ticker symbol: BMY For a free copy of the Company’s Annual Global products and company program
New York Stock Exchange Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year names appearing throughout in italics
ended December 31, 2018, contact: are referred to herein by their registered
Stockholder Services and approved U.S. trademarks, unless
Corporate Secretary
specifically noted otherwise.
All inquiries concerning stockholder Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
accounts and stock transfer matters – 430 E. 29th Street, 14FL Abilify is a trademark of Otsuka
including address changes, the New York, NY 10016 Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
elimination of duplicate mailings and
the Shareowner Services Plus PlanSM – The Form 10-K is also available at Adcetris is a trademark of Seattle
should be directed to the Company’s investor.bms.com. Genetics, Inc.
Transfer Agent and Registrar: The most recent certifications by the Atripla, Truvada, and Tybost are trademarks
Company’s chief executive officer and chief of Gilead Sciences, Inc. and/or one
EQ Shareowner Services financial officer pursuant to Section 302 of of its affiliates.
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101 the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100 exhibits to the Company’s Form 10-K. The Avapro/Avalide (known in the EU
Company has also filed with the New York as Aprovel/Karvea) and Plavix are
www.shareowneronline.com Stock Exchange the most recent Annual trademarks of Sanofi
855-598-5485 (within the U.S.) CEO Certification as required by Section Byetta is a trademarks of Amylin
651-450-4064 (outside the U.S.) 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Pharmaceuticals, LLC
Listed Company Manual.
A telecommunications relay service should
ENHANZE is a trademark of Halozyme, Inc.
be used by the hearing impaired when
Additional Information
calling the telephone numbers above. Erbitux is a trademark of ImClone LLC
Information on the following subjects
Farxiga and Onglyza are trademarks of
Shareowner Services Plus PlanSM is available at www.bms.com:
AstraZeneca AB
The Shareowner Services Plus PlanSM is • Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation
designed for long-term investors who wish • Clinical Trials Gleevec is a trademark of Novartis AG
to build share ownership in the Company’s • Compliance and Ethics Ixempra is a trademark of R-Pharm
common stock over time. You can partici- • Diversity and Workforce Statistics US Operating, LLC
pate in the plan if you are a registered holder
of the Company’s common stock. If you do • Patient Assistance Programs Keytruda is a trademark of Merck Sharp
not own the Company’s common stock, you • Policy and Advocacy Engagement & Dohme Corp.
can become a participant by making your and Political Contributions Prostvac is a trademark of BN
initial purchase through the plan. The plan • Sustainability/Environmental Programs ImmunoTherapeutics Inc.
features dividend reinvestment, optional
cash purchase, share safekeeping, and This Annual Report contains certain SECURE THE FUTURE is trademark of
share sales and transfers. Bristol-Myers forward-looking information within the Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Squibb Company has appointed EQ Share- meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Brand names of products that are in all
owner Services as Administrator for the plan. Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking
italicized letters, without an asterisk, are
The plan is not sponsored or administered statements are based on current expec-
registered trademarks of Bristol-Myers
by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. tations and involve inherent risks and
Squibb and/or one of its subsidiaries.
uncertainties that could cause actual out-
comes and results to differ materially from
current expectations. Please see page 26 in
the Financial Review for a discussion and
description of these risks and uncertainties.
The Company undertakes no obligation
to publicly update any forward-looking
statement, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.
Shareowner Services Plus Plan is a
Service Mark of EQ Shareowner Services.
84| PATIENT STORY |
Waiting for a
Breakthrough
Samantha Wesson
“
I HAVEN’T LET MY DISEASE STOP ME FROM LIVING MY LIFE TO ITS FULLEST.”
Samantha Wesson is one of countless were short-lived, until her body
patients waiting for a breakthrough. adapted to and rejected the
treatments, usually after one to
A 54-year-old wife and mother from
two years.
Poughkeepsie, New York, Samantha suffers
from psoriasis – an incurable autoimmune Recently, Samantha developed
disease where skin cells build up and form the painful joint pain associated
scales and itchy, often painful, dry patches – with psoriatic arthritis. “Sometimes
and psoriatic arthritis, a form of arthritis that the pain in my knees and ankles
affects some people who have psoriasis. makes it difficult for me to get out
of bed,” she says.
“When I’ve been covered from head to toe,
it’s ugly, it’s painful, it’s itching, and it’s pretty Despite the many hardships
devastating,” Samantha says. Samantha has endured, she
Samantha (with her husband Paul) credits the support of remains positive and optimistic.
Like most patients, Samantha developed
her family and friends with the strength to stay hopeful “I have never let the disease control
psoriasis first, at age 15, and developed despite the autoimmune disorder with which she has
my life,” she says. “With the support
psoriatic arthritis later in life. struggled since age 15.
from my family and friends, I haven’t
“Unfortunately, people in our society judge others by their let it stop me from living my life to its fullest.”
appearance. At first, the psoriasis appeared behind my ears and
According to Samantha, progress on new treatment options means
on my scalp,” says Samantha. “For a young girl, and almost everyone
hope for patients.
with psoriasis, these symptoms can be terribly embarrassing
because most people think that the condition “I want to thank everyone who is working to find a breakthrough,”
is contagious, which it isn’t.” she says. “It would mean everything to me, and bring relief to my
family. But all I can do is wait, and hope for a new treatment that
Samantha began to treat her symptoms with creams and various
works for me.”
medications, to little or no effect. As her disease progressed,
she turned to other treatments – including biologics – which Bristol-Myers Squibb recently enrolled a Phase 3 clinical trial
provided her some relief. However, these breaks from her suffering with its TYK-2 inhibitor in psoriasis.
© 2019 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. All rights reserved.bms.com
Bristol-Myers Squibb
@bmsnews
Bristol-Myers Squibb
Bristol-Myers Squibb
430 E. 29th Street, 14FL, New York, NY 10016 • 212-546-4000
16
tropeR
launnA
8102
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB