IF I CAN MY LIFE
AND INSPLIIRVEE OTHERS
TO LIVE THEIR LIVES
MORE FULLY,
“THEN I’M BLESSED.”
-Jeff Julian
2016 | Annual ReportOn the cover: Jeff Julian. See Jeff's story on page 5.
The patient stories shared in this Annual Report depict individual patient responses to our medicines or investigational compounds and
are not representative of all patient responses. In addition, there is no guarantee that potential drugs or indications still in development
will receive regulatory approval.2016
|
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
Annual
Report
|
Throughout 2016, we strengthened our
platform for creating value, recognizing
our responsibility to shareholders to
build long-term, sustainable growth
through innovation that makes a
difference, today and tomorrow.”
“
- Giovanni Caforio, M.D., Chief Executive Officer
1
Researcher Tiffany Kuo working on next generation immunotherapy medicines.In every part of our organization
and in every part of the world, our
work continued to be driven by an
unwavering commitment to the
people at the center of everything
we do – our patients and their
“
families.”
- Giovanni Caforio, M.D., Chief Executive Officer
2016
We also focused on the future, continuing to makes a difference, today and tomorrow.
advance our Biopharma strategy by initiating
And throughout 2016, in every part of our
an important operating model evolution aimed
organization and in every part of the world, our
at focusing our resources on the most important
work continued to be driven by an unwavering
priorities for our business.
commitment to the people at the center of every-
It was a year in which we further strengthened thing we do – our patients and their families. They
our platform for creating value, recognizing our are the reason for our focus on transformational
responsibility to shareholders to build long-term, medicines. They are the reason we worked harder
sustainable growth through innovation that and faster to deliver our results.
|
tropeR
launnA
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
|
TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS
2016 was an important year for Bristol-Myers Squibb. We delivered strong operational and financial
results. We expanded the indications and market performance of our PD-1 inhibitor Opdivo. We
advanced Eliquis towards leadership in the prevention of stroke for patients with atrial fibrillation.
We advanced a broad and deep portfolio and pipeline of opportunities in Immuno-Oncology and in
core specialty therapeutic areas such as cardiovascular, fibrosis and immunoscience. And we continued
our work in underserved communities to make healthcare accessible to those who need it.
2
GLOBAL SALES by region
UNITED STATES
55% 23%
REST OF THE WORLD & OTHER
22% includes Japan (7%)
EUROPEThese accomplishments
represent just the latest
in a string of impressive
leadership milestones
achieved in 2016:
ELIQUIS
Delivering for Today in just over two years. This includes a new
#
indication in head and neck cancer, which 1
With respect to our overall operating
was achieved late in the year, as well as in
performance, 2016 was an outstanding year.
bladder cancer, which was achieved early in
We exceeded our budget targets and deliv-
2017. We also saw Opdivo grow outside the
ered $19.4 billion in revenue – 17% growth
U.S., with significant regulatory approvals
over the preceding year. This was due to
in the European Union and Japan. IN THE U.S.
double-digit growth in a number of key
markets and across much of our portfolio. Beyond Immuno-Oncology, other key • Total prescriptions
for all indications
growth drivers for our strong 2016 results
As a result of our strong operating per- and all specialties
included the anti-coagulant Eliquis, which among novel anti-
formance, we achieved 2016 GAAP EPS coagulants (NOACs)
delivered $3.3 billion in sales – an 80%
of $2.65 and Non-GAAP EPS of $2.83, • New-to-brand
increase over the previous year. Eliquis
which represents growth of over 150% and prescriptions for all
has become a leading oral anti-coagulant indications and all
41% vs. the previous year, respectively. specialties among
globally for stroke prevention in patients
oral anti-coagulants,
Much of our success in 2016 was driven with atrial fibrillation. In the U.S., we including warfarin
by the strength of our Immuno-Oncology established the leadership of Eliquis in • Reached #1 in
portfolio with revenues of nearly $5 billion. cardiology in terms of the number of total hospital/institutional
sales among NOACs
Opdivo sales reached $3.8 billion, as a result prescriptions, surpassing warfarin, the
of a strong uptake across all tumor types. long-time standard of care. Additionally,
Yervoy sales in the U.S. started to grow we made good progress in the overall GLOBAL MARKETS
again, due to the adoption of the combina- market, which includes primary care • 8 0% year-over-
year growth
tion regimen in melanoma. physicians. • Across indications,
Tackling the hardest-to-treat cancers is Orencia and Sprycel performed very well approved in more
than 90 countries
challenging, and we saw this first-hand in 2016. Both experienced double-digit worldwide
last August with the negative outcome of growth with $2.3 billion and $1.8 billion
Checkmate 026, our Opdivo monotherapy in sales, respectively.
clinical trial in 1st line lung cancer. We ESTIMATED
The company and its partner Ono also
have integrated important lessons learned
secured an important patent litigation
from this trial into our broad development 5.5M
settlement, signing a global license
program in lung cancer, and we believe
agreement to settle all patent-infringe-
our medicines will continue to play an
ment litigation related to Merck’s PD-1 PEOPLE
important role in improving treatment
antibody Keytruda* (pembrolizumab). treated with
outcomes for this deadly disease.
This settlement was a critical milestone Eliquis worldwide
More generally, we further broadened the for Bristol-Myers Squibb in protecting since launch
label for Opdivo, which is now approved our intellectual property rights as the early
in the U.S. for 11 indications in six tumor innovators in the science of PD-1, a key
types – an unprecedented accomplishment mechanism in Immuno-Oncology that PAGE 4 s
2016
|
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
Annual
Report
| 3DELIVERING by
the NUMBERS
$19.4
BILLION
in revenue has proven to have transformational impact in cancer care.
We will continue to assert our intellectual property rights in
17 this important field and to defend our scientific discoveries.
%
Delivering for Tomorrow
GROWTH
VS. 2015
Throughout the year, we also focused efforts on building our
future. This was very clear in the work we did to develop and
enhance our promising pipeline of transformational medicines.
Towards the end of the year, we started to see data from our
next wave pipeline in Immuno-Oncology, with three of these
new assets potentially entering registrational studies in 2017.
Opdivo In addition, we expect over a dozen data readouts spanning
$3.8 BILLION multiple tumor types that could further broaden the label
of Opdivo and Yervoy over the next couple of years.
Eliquis
$3.3 BILLION Lung cancer remains a priority for Bristol-Myers Squibb,
and we made important progress in our studies in combina-
Orencia
tion therapies, which are at the core of our strategy. In fact,
$2.3 BILLION
we have several ongoing Phase III combination programs to
Sprycel address the urgent need for improved treatment options for
$1.8 BILLION patients with lung cancer.
We also advanced our early pipeline in cardiovascular,
Hepatitis C Franchise
immunoscience and fibrosis, where we expect to see important
$1.6 BILLION
data readouts beginning in 2017. These programs address
WINNING in
Yervoy areas of high unmet medical need, such as heart failure, lupus
IMMUNO-ONCOLOGY
$1.1 BILLION and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Many of these are
first-in-class molecules, with the potential to be best-in-class. 10
We have always recognized the importance of acquiring
$4.9 innovation externally, and 2016 was an important year for
NEW I-O COMPOUNDS
business development at Bristol-Myers Squibb. Our business
in clinical development
development activity continued to enhance our key disease
BILLION
areas of focus and spanned partnerships with academia,
INVESTED TRIALS IN
IN R&D biotech and larger companies. We acquired Cormorant
35
Pharmaceuticals, which broadens the company’s oncology
pipeline focus on the tumor microenvironment, and Padlock
Therapeutics, which expands the company’s immunoscience
tumor types
pipeline. We signed license agreements with Nitto Denko PAGE 6 s
2016
|
tropeR
launnA
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
|
4JEFF JULIAN 2016
COMPETITOR. COACH. CANCER SURVIVOR.
As head coach of the Rose Bowl Aquatics “I wasn't ready,” he says. “I wasn't ready
for more than ten years, an eight-time DEAR FRIENDS‚ to leave my family. Basically what I kept
All-American at the University of Southern repeating was, ‘I can’t, I can’t, I can’t.’
FAMILY AND LOVED ONES,
California (USC) and a champion swimmer I couldn't leave my son, couldn't leave
since he was an adolescent, Jeff Julian has my wife.”
HAS BEEN
always known what it takes to succeed.
At first, his doctors gave Jeff and his wife,
MY WORLD
But in early January 2015, he made this ROCKED TODAY.” Kristine, little reason for hope. But then
announcement on social media: “Dear an oncologist at the University of California
“
Friends, Family and Loved Ones, My world has Los Angeles Medical Center mentioned a clinical trial with
been rocked today.” a combination therapy of two new immunotherapy drugs,
ipilimumab and nivolumab. Studies of this combination
Doctors had just given him the diagnosis of stage IV
therapy for the treatment of lung cancer are continuing.
lung cancer.
Jeff enrolled and after 12 weeks of treatment, the first
‘A Nagging Pain’
scans showed his tumors had shrunk significantly. They
Ever since the previous summer, Jeff hadn't felt right. “We
continued to shrink and are now substantially smaller than
had a lot of athletes in the water that had a lot of potential,
their original size.
and a lot of goals that we were shooting for,” he recalls.
“Then I started feeling pains in my back.” Inspiring Others
In July 2016, Jeff returned to his alma mater and was named
An x-ray revealed a large mass in Jeff's left lung. Subsequent
the USC Trojans’ men’s and women’s assistant coach. He also
scans revealed extensive metastases. “My prognosis was
continues to coach his son, an aspiring Olympian.
six to 12 months,” says Jeff. The hardest part, he says, was
sitting down with Trenton, his 17-year-old son, to talk about “If I can live my life and inspire others to live their lives more
the diagnosis. fully, then I’m blessed.” Jeff says.
|
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
Annual
Report
|
5for a targeted siRNA therapy in advanced NASH and with
PsiOxus Therapeutics for an “armed” oncolytic virus to
address solid tumors. Our collaboration with Enterome
focused on microbiome-derived biomarkers and drug
Dr. Alan Anderson of Texas Children’s Hospital examining a cancer
patient in Botswana. targets to be developed as therapeutics for cancer.
Global HOPE: Addressing Childhood Cancer In order to ensure resources are applied to the most import-
and Blood Disorders in Africa ant opportunities, the company initiated an evolution of our
operating model – one that is strengthening our ability to seize
When a child is diagnosed with a life-threatening
opportunities in an increasingly challenging environment.
disease such as cancer, parents cling to hope
that their child will survive. But hope is often Delivering for Underserved Communities
disproportionate depending on where you live.
Throughout the year, we continued to build and execute
In Africa, more than 100,000 children will develop
programs to help ensure that all patients have access to health
cancer this year, and the vast majority will die
care, including our medicines. Through our Bristol-Myers
because they have little access to diagnostic
Squibb Foundation, we promoted health equity and better
and treatment services. This is a stark contrast
health outcomes for people around the world. Through our
to high-income countries where 80 percent of
Patient Assistance programs, we provided medicines to
pediatric cancer patients will survive.
patients with financial challenges.
Led by the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation’s
Taken together, our commitment to access has been focused
SECURE THE FUTURE® program, the Global
on populations in need with a global scope. It has included
HOPE (Hematology-Oncology Pediatric Excellence)
HIV and cancer in Africa as well as hepatitis C in Asia.
initiative will address the lack of diagnosis, treat-
It has included cancer care for vulnerable populations, as
ment and care in pediatric hematology-oncology
well as mental health care for veterans in the U.S. And this
in southern and eastern Africa.
commitment has included several other programs, including
Together with the Texas Children’s Cancer and
those that help patients who need temporary help paying for
Hematology Centers and Baylor College of
their medication.
Medicine International Pediatric AIDS Initiative at
In 2016, our commitment to good citizenship extended beyond
Texas Children’s Hospital, the Bristol-Myers Squibb
these initiatives. We continued our work with the United
Foundation will partner with the governments of
Nations Global Compact, as well as our “Go Green” activi-
Botswana, Malawi and Uganda to develop a com-
ties at Bristol-Myers Squibb sites to promote sustainability.
prehensive treatment network and provide financial
and in-kind resources to the program. We provided disaster relief to support affected populations in
Haiti, Ecuador and Japan. And we joined the White House
Through a combined grant of $100 million, the
Moonshot Initiative, as we share its goal of accelerating new
group will work over the next five years to help
treatments and, eventually, finding a cure for cancer.
create an innovative pediatric hematology-oncology
treatment network that will help build long-term We also put in place an exciting new initiative to provide
capacity to treat and dramatically improve the cancer care to children in sub-Saharan Africa. Formally PAGE 8
prognosis of thousands of children with blood dis-
orders and cancer in southern and eastern Africa.
s
2016
| tropeR
launnA
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
|
6K.T. JONES
2016
FINDING PURPOSE IN A CANCER DIAGNOSIS
K.T. Jones was getting fitted for a tuxedo After nearly 12 years of battling Hodgkin
for his wedding when he noticed his bow tie I THOUGHT lymphoma and one treatment after another,
wasn’t cooperating. an oncologist told K.T. that he only had a
MY LIFE
WAS GETTING READY
few months to live and that he better get
“I couldn’t get the tie straight,” he recalled.
his affairs in order. Rather than tell his
“Every time I adjusted the tie it would always TO BEGIN, NOT COME
wife the grim news, K.T. got determined.
be slightly slanted.”
TO AN END.”
After countless hours of research on the
It was then that he noticed a lump in his neck.
internet, K.T.’s perseverance led to a
Though he thought he had just pulled a muscl“e
clinical trial for nivolumab in 2013.
at the gym the day before, K.T. visited a nearby
hospital where a physician examined the lump and “If I didn’t continue to push, I would have never found it,”
told him to have a biopsy as soon as he got home K.T. recalled. “But I hammered on and it was that fight
from his honeymoon. that got me into a clinical trial.”
Shortly after celebrating his marriage to his wife, Kristine, K.T. soon started to feel better and his health improved.
tests revealed K.T. had Hodgkin lymphoma. Nearly four years later, K.T.’s latest tests did not detect any
cancer. He and Kristine enjoy quality time together, he’s
“I thought my life was getting ready to begin, not come to
taken up walking every day and he’s followed his artistic
an end,” he said. For the next decade, K.T. juggled family
passion by becoming a freelance photographer.
life and work with chemotherapy treatments and ultimately
heart-breaking news that his cancer had once again recurred. He’s also filled with a new sense of purpose.
“I’d have good results and then shortly after stopping treatments, “I know other people who are fighting cancer now who I’ve
the cancer would start to grow again,” said K.T., who lives in helped find clinical trials,” K.T. said. “That’s my purpose
Delaware. “I didn’t have any other option than to keep trying.” for being here.”
|
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
Annual
Report
|
7ACHIEVEMENTS
SELECTION OF AWARDS
AND RECOGNITIONS
launched in 2017, Global HOPE is a Looking Forward
first-of-its-kind pediatric hematology-
Ranked among the top 10 As I look ahead, I am excited by the
oncology treatment network – one
on Corporate Responsibility tremendous opportunities we have
magazine’s list of the designed to develop capacity and
to advance the science and continue
100 Best Corporate Citizens
infrastructure to treat and dramatically making a difference in the lives of our
for the 8th consecutive year.
improve the prognosis and outcomes patients and their families. It is through
of thousands of children with cancer in this important work that we will deliver
southern and eastern Africa. long-term value for our shareholders.
Strengthening Our Company The appointment of Dr. Thomas Lynch,
Recognized by Forbes as one of Jr. as our Chief Scientific Officer is an
Culture
America’s Best Employers for 2016.
important step in our evolution as our
Our employees are committed to
Throughout the past year, we contin-
our mission to discover, develop company transitions to its next phase of
2016 and deliver innovative medicines ued our focus on the 25,000 people who growth. Tom brings a unique perspec-
that help patients prevail over make it all possible – our extraordinary tive to our business through his deep
serious diseases.
colleagues around the world. experience as a clinical researcher, leader
of large research centers and a practicing
We placed an increased priority on
physician. We are fortunate to have him
making sure that the experience of
leading our R&D organization.
Bristol-Myers Squibb employees is
Honored by the National Gay & engaging, challenging and rewarding. Building on our progress in 2016, we
Lesbian Chamber of Commerce We increased our focus on diversity and are well positioned to navigate the
in collaboration with its on creating a powerfully inclusive work increasing complexity and competi-
partners in the National Business
tiveness of our industry, including the
Inclusion Consortium as a Top 30 experience. We launched our new global
Best-of-the-Best company. People & Business Resource Groups very important conversations about
pricing and access. We will continue to
(PBRGs), an evolution of the U.S.-
draw on the energy, vision and diversity
based Employee Resource Groups,
of our workforce to discover, develop
which leverage employees’ business
and deliver transformational medicines.
insights and diverse perspectives. And
And we will continue to do all that
we advanced our WorkPlace initiative,
2016 Working Mother 100 we can to make sure that all patients –
making significant physical changes to
Best Companies - the 19th regardless of their circumstances – have
consecutive year that our buildings and offices to create an even
access to quality healthcare.
company has made the list. more energizing, collaborative work
The company was recognized This is who we are. This is what we do.
environment.
for on-and near-site childcare
options and full benefit eligibility.
At Bristol-Myers Squibb, our people
are our competitive advantage, and
throughout 2016, we continued to
Giovanni Caforio, M.D., Chief Executive Officer
celebrate and strengthen that fact. March 9, 2017
|
tropeR
launnA
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
|
8We believe the strength of
our science and having the
best people in the business
position us well to continue
delivering innovation that
make a difference in the
“
lives of patients.”
- Lamberto Andreotti, Chairman
Message from the Chairman of the Board
As I retire from the Board of Directors – after nearly Over the past two years, Giovanni has continued to evolve
20 years with the company – I have been reflecting on the our company, and I am confident that we are well positioned
significant transformation that Bristol-Myers Squibb has for long-term growth. Today, we are highly focused on
undergone to become a leading Biopharma company known transformational medicines in core therapeutic areas, such 2016
for its innovation and focus on patients. We have become a as oncology, cardiovascular, fibrosis and immunoscience. In
company known for leading scientific discoveries and inno- this innovation-based industry, there are unique challenges
vative medicines focused on the most challenging diseases. and risks, as we have experienced in the recent past, but
And we continue to evolve and change today, knowing that I believe the strength of our science and having the best
we must sustain the platform for long-term value creation. people in the business position us well to continue delivering
In 1998, I joined Bristol-Myers Squibb because I wanted to innovation that makes a difference in the lives of patients.
work for a company that was making a difference in people’s
There is no better example of this than the addition of
lives, particularly those struggling with cancer. Over a decade
Dr. Thomas Lynch, Jr. as our company’s new Chief Scientific
later, I was given the extraordinary opportunity to lead that
Officer. His experience and focus on patients over his career
company – to take that company to the next level and help it
makes him the right choice to lead our R&D organization.
reach its potential.
In closing, I also want to welcome the three new
I became Chief Executive Officer at a pivotal and exciting
Directors who recently joined our company’s Board –
time for Bristol-Myers Squibb. We had just made our
Bob Bertolini, Matt Emmens and Ted Samuels. Each
way through a period of adjustment and were in the midst
brings to our company important experience and skills
of our Biopharma transformation. We faced unprecedented
that will further strengthen and complement our Board.
challenges and opportunities as we transformed Bristol-
Myers Squibb to better compete in an ever-changing As Bristol-Myers Squibb continues to evolve and grow,
external environment. our focus on our patients and our people will continue
to set us apart. It’s why I am so proud of our company.
Without question, we rose to the challenges and seized the
It’s why I am so excited for our future.
opportunities, and by 2015, when I stepped down as CEO,
Bristol-Myers Squibb was widely recognized for pioneering Thank you.
the promising field of Immuno-Oncology, for having an
increasingly diversified portfolio of innovative medicines Lamberto Andreotti, Chairman
and for delivering strong shareholder return. March 9, 2017
|
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
Annual
Report
|
9BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB Development Pipeline
ONCOLOGY
PHASE I PHASE II PHASE III APPROVED INDICATIONS
Glypican-3 ADC^ Opdivo ✦ Opdivo ✦ Opdivo ✦
--Hepatocellular Carcinoma -- Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma --Adjuvant Melanoma -- Previously treated
(Follicular Lymphoma) Metastatic Melanoma
Anti-TIGIT^ -- 2nd line Small Cell
--Solid Tumors -- Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Lung Cancer -- 1st line BRAF wild-type
(Diffuse Large B-Cell Metastatic Melanoma
Anti-GITR^ -- Unresectable Non-Small
Lymphoma)
--Solid Tumors Cell Lung Cancer -- Melanoma across BRAF status
--MSI+ Colon
Cabiralizumab✦^ --1st line Head & Neck -- Previously treated Metastatic
--Solid Tumors --Ovarian✦# Squamous Non-Small Cell
--3rd line Gastric#
Lung Cancer
Anti-CD73^ -- 2nd line Hepatocellular
--1st line Glioblastoma
--Solid Tumors Carcinoma -- Previously treated Metastatic
--2nd line Glioblastoma Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell
Anti-OX40^ --CNS Lymphoma
Lung Cancer
--Solid Tumors -- 1st line Hepatocellular
Anti-LAG3 + Opdivo ✦
Carcinoma -- Previously treated advanced
Anti-LAG3^ --Solid Tumors
Renal Cell Carcinoma
2016 -- Solid Tumors & Lirilumab✦ --Adjuvant Bladder
Hematologic Malignancies -- Advanced Hodgkin
--Hematologic Malignancies --2nd line Esophageal
Lymphoma
IDO Inhibitor^
Urelumab + Opdivo ✦ -- Adjuvant Esophageal/
--Solid Tumors -- Previously treated Metastatic
-- Solid Tumors & Gastroesophageal
Head & Neck Cancer
Mesothelin-ADC^ Hematologic Malignancies
Opdivo ✦ + Yervoy✦
--Solid Tumors -- Previously treated Metastatic
Anti-Fucosyl GM1^ -- 1st line Non-Small
Urothelial Carcinoma◊
HuMax-IL8 -- Small Cell Lung Cancer Cell Lung Cancer
--Solid Tumors Opdivo ✦ + Yervoy✦
Empliciti -- 1st line Small Cell
Anti-HER2✦ ++ -- 1st line Multiple Myeloma Lung Cancer -- BRAF wild-type Metastatic
Melanoma
--Breast Cancer Pomalidomide Combo
-- 1st line Renal Cell
-- Melanoma across BRAF status
BET Inhibitor Yervoy✦ Carcinoma
--Solid Tumors --Adolescent Melanoma Yervoy✦
--1st line Head & Neck
--Metastatic Melanoma
Ulocuplumab Sprycel ✦
--1st line Gastric
--Hematologic Malignancies --Pediatric --Adjuvant Melanoma
--1st line Esophageal
Lirilumab✦^ Empliciti ✦
--Solid Tumors --1st line Mesothelioma -- Relapsed/Refractory Multiple
Myeloma Revlimid Combo
Lirilumab✦ + Empliciti ✦ Opdivo ✦ + Empliciti ✦
--Multiple Myeloma --Multiple Myeloma Sprycel ✦
-- 1st line Chronic
Urelumab + Empliciti ✦ Empliciti ✦
Myelogenous Leukemia
--Multiple Myeloma -- 1st line Multiple Myeloma
Revlimid Combo -- Refractory Chronic
Opdivo ✦
-- Solid Tumors & PROSTVAC ✦ ++ Myelogenous Leukemia
Hematologic Malignancies -- Metastatic Castration -
Resistant Prostate Cancer
Opdivo ✦ + Yervoy✦
--Solid Tumors
Opdivo ✦
--Pediatric
Note: Above pipeline excludes clinical collaborations
✦ D evelopment Partnership
Empliciti: AbbVie; Sprycel: Otsuka; Opdivo, Yervoy: Ono Pharmaceutical (our collaboration with Ono also includes other early stage compounds); PROSTVAC:
Bavarian Nordic; Lirilumab: Innate Pharma; Anti-HER2: F-star Alpha Ltd.; Cabiralizumab: Five Prime Therapeutics; Eliquis: Pfizer; Galectin-3 Inhibitor: Galecto
Biotech AB; Pentraxin-2: Promedior; HSP47: Nitto Denko Corporation
^ Trial(s) exploring various combinations
# Partner-run study
+ + Option rights
|
tropeR
launnA
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
|
10BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB Development Pipeline
IMMUNOSCIENCE
PHASE I PHASE II PHASE III APPROVED INDICATIONS
TYK2 Inhibitor (2) Lulizumab Orencia Orencia
-- Autoimmune Diseases --Lupus --Lupus Nephritis -- Rheumatoid Arthritis
Intravenous
PD-L1 Inhibitor BTK Inhibitor --Psoriatic Arthritis
-- Autoimmune Diseases -- Rheumatoid Arthritis -- Rheumatoid Arthritis
--Sjogren’s Syndrome
Subcutaneous
BTK Max Anti-CD40L
Nulojix
-- Rheumatoid Arthritis -- Autoimmune Disease -- Switch from CNI -- Rheumatoid Arthritis
Auto Injector
S1P1 TYK2 Inhibitor (1) Renal Transplant
-- Autoimmune Diseases --Psoriasis -- Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis
Anti-IP10 -- Early Rheumatoid Arthritis
-- Ulcerative Colitis
Nulojix
Anti-PD-L1 -- De Novo Renal Transplant
--Sepsis
Opdivo ✦
--Sepsis 2016
CARDIOVASCULAR
PHASE I PHASE II PHASE III APPROVED INDICATIONS
Factor XIa Inhibitor Nitroxyl Donor Eliquis✦
Eliquis✦
-- VTE Prevention,
--Thrombosis --Heart Failure --Pediatric VTE Treatment Orthopedic Surgery
PAR4 Antagonist
-- Stroke Prevention
--Thrombosis/Stroke in Atrial Fibrillation
--VTE Treatment
FIBROTIC DISEASES GENETICALLY DEFINED DISEASES
PHASE I PHASE II PHASE I
Galectin-3 Inhibtor✦ ++ LPA1 Antagonist Anti-Myostatin
-- Idiopathic --Fibrosis -- Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy
Pulmonary Fibrosis
PEG-FGF21 (1) Anti-eTau
PEG-FGF21 (2) --Fibrosis -- Progressive Supranuclear Palsy
--Fibrosis Pentraxin-2✦ ++
HSP47✦ --Myelofibrosis
--Fibrosis
-- Idiopathic
Pulmonary Fibrosis
Data as of January 1, 2017
◊ Approved by the FDA February 2, 2017
|
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
Annual
Report
|
11DAGMAR
2016
ENJOYING LIFE’S SIMPLE PLEASURES
Dagmar has a vibrant and dynamic Receiving the news that the cancer
personality that she shares in front CANCER DOES NOT EQUAL DEATH. had returned brought back the same
of a live studio audience as co-host emotions as did her first diagnosis,
CANCER EQUALS FIGHT.
of the successful weekday talk show, except this time Dagmar knew the
“Día a Día con Raymond y Dagmar,” ” questions to ask.
THE FIGHT .
in Puerto Rico.
“You are not afraid because you know
FOR SURVIVAL
In 2008, Dagmar experienced a
the way and have hope there is a way
persistent soreness in her throat. At first, she attributed it to
forward because you have survived,” said Dagmar.
“
her line of work, but after some time, Dagmar knew she had
to listen to her body and go to the doctor. A biopsy discovered After surgery on her lungs, Dagmar’s oncologist recommended
she had head and neck cancer. Opdivo. Dagmar began treatment in June 2015 and returned
to her routine way of life, including reprising her role as
Dagmar would remain away from the cameras for several months
co-host of “Día a Día.” In 2016, the FDA approved Opdivo
to receive chemotherapy and radiation. Through the pain, worry
for the treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic
and unknown, Dagmar remained hopeful and focused her time
squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck with disease
on life’s simple pleasures, especially her walks on the beach.
progression on or after platinum-based therapy.
“After being diagnosed with cancer, I had more appreciation
for the little moments in life. Walking on the beach and hearing Today, Dagmar uses her experience and platform to encourage
the waves, feeling the salt of the water and putting my feet in those with cancer to never give up. For her, the most important
the sand all became beautiful moments for me,” said Dagmar. thing a patient can hold onto is the belief in the possible.
Dagmar returned to work in 2009 and thought the worst was “There is a door and it is open. You cannot see it right
behind her. However, in 2015 a scan showed that the cancer now, but I can tell you that there is a door that you can
had metastasized to Dagmar’s lung. go through,” said Dagmar.
|
tropeR
launnA
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
|
12BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB
2016 Financial Report
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations | 2 |
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk | 25 |
Consolidated Financial Statements | 26 |
Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements | 29 |
Reports of Management | 73 |
Controls and Procedures | 74 |
Reports of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm | 75 |
Performance Graph | 77 |
Five-Year Financial Summary | 78 |
Summary of Abbreviated Terms | 79 |
1
25163 FIN P1, 80, 81, 82 CC2015.indd 1 3/6/17 9:51 PMBristol-Myers Squibb
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company is a global specialty biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver
innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. Refer to the Summary of Abbreviated Terms at the end of this 2016
Annual Report for terms used throughout the document.
In 2016, we received 19 approvals for new medicines and additional indications and formulations of currently marketed medicines in
major markets (the U.S., EU and Japan) as well as announced multiple regulatory milestone achievements for Opdivo. We also encountered
a significant setback in first-line lung cancer with the announcement of negative results of CheckMate-026 and we announced we would
not pursue an accelerated regulatory pathway for the Opdivo+Yervoy combination therapy in first-line lung cancer. We are pursuing a
broad program in first-line lung cancer encompassing combinations of Opdivo+Yervoy, Opdivo and chemotherapy and Opdivo combined
with Yervoy and chemotherapy. We are also committed to investigating Opdivo in combination with Yervoy and other anti-cancer agents
for other tumor types. We continue to believe that the breadth and depth of our IO portfolio positions us well for the future. We have 10
new IO compounds in clinical development and trials across 35 different tumor types. In October 2016, we announced an evolution to
our operating model which is discussed in "—Strategy" below.
Our revenues increased by 17% in 2016 as a result of higher Opdivo, Eliquis and Orencia product sales. These impacts were partially
offset by the expiration of our U.S. commercialization rights to Abilify*, the transfer of Erbitux* rights in North America and increased
competition for Reyataz, Sustiva and Baraclude in certain markets.
The increase in GAAP EPS from $0.93 in 2015 to $2.65 in 2016 was due to higher revenues, divestiture gains and royalties and lower
R&D license and asset acquisition charges partially offset by higher Eliquis profit sharing and Opdivo related expenses. The tax impact
of specified items and earnings mix contributed to the change in the effective tax rate. After adjusting for divestiture gains, R&D license
and asset acquisition charges and other specified items, non-GAAP EPS increased from $2.01 in 2015 to $2.83 in 2016.
Highlights
The following table summarizes our financial information:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2016 2015 2014
Total Revenues $ 19,427 $ 16,560 $ 15,879
Total Expenses 13,512 14,483 13,498
Earnings before Income Taxes 5,915 2,077 2,381
Provision for Income Taxes 1,408 446 352
Effective tax rate 23.8% 21.5% 14.8%
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS
GAAP 4,457 1,565 2,004
Non-GAAP 4,750 3,378 3,085
Diluted Earnings Per Share
GAAP 2.65 0.93 1.20
Non-GAAP 2.83 2.01 1.85
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities 9,069 8,930 11,843
Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude specified items
that represent certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other items impacting the comparability of financial results. For a detailed
listing of all specified items and further information and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures refer to “—Non-GAAP Financial
Measures."
22016 Annual Report
Significant Product and Pipeline Approvals
The following is a summary of the 19 significant approvals received in 2016.
Product Date Approval
JMHLW manufacturing and marketing approval for the treatment of relapsed or refractory
December 2016
cHL, received by our alliance partner, Ono.
EC approval for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory cHL after ASCT
November 2016
and treatment with brentuximab vedotin.
FDA approval for the treatment of patients with SCCHN with disease progression on or
November 2016
after platinum-based therapy.
JMHLW manufacturing and marketing approval for the treatment of unresectable or
Opdivo August 2016 metastatic RCC, received by our alliance partner, Ono.
FDA approval for the treatment of patients with cHL who have relapsed or progressed after
May 2016
auto-HSCT and post-transplantation brentuximab vedotin.
April 2016 EC approval for the treatment of previously treated RCC.
April 2016 EC approval for the treatment of previously treated patients with metastatic NSQ NSCLC.
JMHLW manufacturing and marketing approval for the treatment of previously untreated
February 2016
unresectable melanoma.
EC approval for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic melanoma, regardless of BRAF
May 2016
Opdivo+ mutational status.
Yervoy FDA expanded use for the treatment of previously untreated unresectable or metastatic
January 2016
melanoma, regardless of BRAF mutational status.
JMHLW manufacturing and marketing approval in combination with Revlimid* and
September 2016
dexamethasone for the treatment of multiple myeloma.
Empliciti
EC approval for the treatment of multiple myeloma as combination therapy with Revlimid*
May 2016
and dexamethasone in patients who have received at least one prior therapy.
EC approval in combination with MTX for the treatment of highly active and progressive
September 2016
disease in adult patients with RA not previously treated with MTX.
Announced the U.S. commercial launch of the Orencia ClickJect Autoinjector, a new self-
Orencia July 2016
administered autoinjector for adults with moderate to severe RA.
Announced the commercial launch in Japan of the Orencia ClickJect Autoinjector for adults
May 2016
with moderate to severe RA.
JMHLW manufacturing and marketing approval of Ximency combination tablet which
December 2016
contains daclatasvir, asunaprevir and beclabuvir for the treatment of HCV in genotype 1.
Hepatitis C FDA approval of Daklinza for use with sofosbuvir for the treatment of chronic HCV in
February 2016
Franchise genotypes 1 and 3 in three additional patient populations.
EC approval of Daklinza for use with sofosbuvir for the treatment of chronic HCV in three
January 2016
new patient populations.
EC approval for Reyataz oral powder indicated in HIV-infected children at least 3 months/5
Reyataz June 2016
kg and the optimized Reyataz capsule pediatric dosing recommendations.
Refer to "—Product and Pipeline Developments" for all of the developments in our marketed products and late-stage pipeline in 2016.
Strategy
Our focus as a specialty biopharmaceutical company is on discovering, developing and delivering transformational medicines that address
serious unmet medical needs. Our strategy is to combine the resources, scale and capability of a pharmaceutical company with the speed
and focus on innovation of the biotech industry. Our four strategic priorities are to drive business performance, continue to build a strong
franchise in IO, maintain a diversified portfolio both within and outside of IO, and continue our disciplined approach to capital allocation,
including establishing partnerships and collaborations as an essential component of successfully delivering transformational medicines
to patients.
3Bristol-Myers Squibb
We are developing new medicines in the following core therapeutic areas: oncology, including IO, immunoscience, cardiovascular, fibrotic
disease and GDD. In IO, we continue to invest through new studies in monotherapy, combination therapy and with new molecules and
mechanisms of action. Delivering promising new treatment options to patients with lung cancer as quickly as possible has been and
continues to be a priority for our company. We continue to invest significantly in our deep pipeline of innovative medicines covering a
broad array of cancers and have entered into several collaboration agreements to research and develop Opdivo and other approved or
investigational oncology agents in combination regimens, including with Yervoy. We remain focused and well-resourced in our first-line
lung development programs, and continuously look for ways to strengthen our broad portfolio and bring forward new treatments. Beyond
cancer, we continue to strengthen our early stage portfolio in immunoscience, cardiovascular, and fibrotic diseases internally and through
our partnerships with a diverse group of companies and academic institutions in new and expanded research activities. We believe our
internal and external focus is differentiated and contributes to the transformation of our portfolio.
Our commercial model continues to evolve and our marketed product portfolio is growing in a manner consistent with our overall strategy.
We continue to drive growth of Opdivo by expanding into additional indications and tumor types both as a monotherapy and in combination
with Yervoy and other anti-cancer agents. Beyond Opdivo and Yervoy, we are building on the continued success and remain strongly
committed to Eliquis, Orencia and Sprycel. Our commercial infrastructure is uniquely leveraged for potential growth.
In 2016, we announced plans for a multi-year evolution to our operating model by focusing commercial and R&D resources on key
brands and markets, delivering leaner administrative functions and streamlining our manufacturing network to reflect the importance of
biologics in our current and future portfolio. The new operating model will enable us to deliver the strategic, financial and operational
flexibility necessary to invest in the highest priorities.
Looking ahead, we will continue to implement our biopharma strategy by driving the growth of key brands, executing product launches,
investing in our diverse and innovative pipeline, including through business development, focusing on prioritized markets, increasing
investments in our biologics manufacturing capabilities and maintaining a culture of continuous improvement.
Acquisition and Licensing Arrangements
Acquisition and licensing transactions allow us to focus our resources behind our growth opportunities that drive the greatest long-term
value. We are focused on the following core therapeutic areas: oncology, including IO, immunoscience, cardiovascular and fibrotic
diseases. Significant transactions entered into in 2016 are summarized below:
Nitto Denko
In December 2016, BMS and Nitto Denko entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement granting BMS the right to develop and
commercialize Nitto Denko's investigational siRNA molecules targeting HSP47 in vitamin A containing formulations, which includes
Nitto Denko's lead asset ND-L02-s0201, currently in Phase Ib study for the treatment of advanced liver fibrosis. The agreement also
grants BMS the option to receive exclusive licenses for HSP47 siRNAs in vitamin A containing formulations for the treatment of lung
fibrosis and other organ fibrosis.
Cormorant
In July 2016, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Cormorant, a private pharmaceutical company focused on the development
of therapies for cancer and rare diseases. The acquisition provides BMS with full rights to Cormorant's lead candidate HuMax-IL8, a
Phase I/II monoclonal antibody that represents a potentially complementary IO mechanism of action to T-cell directed antibodies and
co-stimulatory molecules.
Padlock
In April 2016, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Padlock, a private biotechnology company dedicated to creating new
medicines to treat destructive autoimmune diseases. The acquisition provides BMS with full rights to Padlock’s PAD inhibitor discovery
program focused on the development of potentially transformational treatment approaches for patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Padlock’s
PAD discovery program may have additional utility in treating systemic lupus erythematosus and other autoimmune diseases.
Portola
In February 2016, BMS and Pfizer entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Portola to develop and commercialize the
investigational agent andexanet alfa in Japan. Andexanet alfa is designed to reverse the anticoagulant activity of Factor Xa inhibitors,
including Eliquis. BMS and Pfizer are responsible for all development and regulatory activities for andexanet alfa in Japan and for
exclusively commercializing the agent in Japan. Portola retains the rights to andexanet alfa outside of Japan and will be responsible for
the manufacturing supply.
In addition to the above transactions, in 2016, BMS provided notice of terminations to the California Institute for Biomedical Research
pertaining to a research collaboration agreement for the development of anti-fibrotic preclinical compounds and Dual Therapeutics, LLC
pertaining to a research collaboration agreement for the development of anti-cancer preclinical compounds.
42016 Annual Report
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Regional Revenues
The composition of the changes in revenues was as follows:
Year Ended December 31, 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014
Total Revenues Analysis of % Change Analysis of % Change
Total Foreign Total Foreign
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014 Change Exchange(b) Change Exchange(b)
United States $ 10,720 $ 8,188 $ 7,716 31 % — 6 % —
Europe 4,215 3,491 3,592 21 % (2)% (3)% (17)%
Rest of the World 3,964 4,142 3,459 (4)% (4)% 20 % (13)%
Other(a) 528 739 1,112 (29)% N/A (34)% N/A
Total $ 19,427 $ 16,560 $ 15,879 17 % (2)% 4 % (7)%
(a) Other revenues include royalties and alliance-related revenues for products not sold by our regional commercial organizations.
(b) Foreign exchange impacts were derived by applying the prior period average currency rates to the current period sales.
The increase in U.S. revenues in 2016 resulted from higher demand for Opdivo, Eliquis and Daklinza, partially offset by the full year
impact of the expiration/transfer of commercialization rights to Abilify* and Erbitux*. Average U.S. net selling prices increased by
approximately 5% after charge-backs, rebates and discounts. Refer to "—Product Revenues Commentary" below for additional
information.
The increase in U.S. revenues in 2015 resulted from the launch of Opdivo and Daklinza and higher demand for Eliquis and Sprycel
partially offset by the partial year impact of the expiration/transfer of commercialization rights to Abilify* and Erbitux*. Average U.S.
net selling prices increased by approximately 3% after charge-backs, rebates and discounts.
The increase in Europe revenues in 2016 resulted from higher demand for Opdivo and Eliquis partially offset by lower demand for Yervoy.
Europe revenues in 2015 included the recognition of approximately $170 million of previously deferred Daklinza revenue in France.
The decrease in Europe revenues in 2015 resulted from unfavorable foreign exchange and the expiration of commercialization rights to
Abilify* in the EU in June 2014 partially offset by the launch of Daklinza in certain EU countries in the third quarter of 2014 and higher
demand for Eliquis. Europe revenues in 2015 were also impacted by the recognition of previously deferred Daklinza revenue in France.
The decrease in Rest of the World revenues in 2016 resulted from increased competition for the Hepatitis C Franchise in Japan and
unfavorable foreign exchange (primarily Latin America) partially offset by higher demand for Opdivo and Eliquis.
The increase in Rest of the World revenues in 2015 resulted from the launch of the Daklinza and Sunvepra dual regimen in Japan in the
third quarter of 2014 and higher demand for Eliquis, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange (primarily in Japan).
The decrease in Other revenues in 2016 resulted from the expiration of certain supply arrangements. The decrease in Other revenues in
2015 resulted from the expiration/transfer of certain licensing and royalty rights. Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances"
for further discussion of the alliances.
No single country outside the U.S. contributed more than 10% of total revenues in 2016, 2015 or 2014 except for Japan which contributed
10% of total revenues in 2015.
5Bristol-Myers Squibb
Gross-to-Net Adjustments
We recognize revenue net of gross-to-net adjustments that are further described in "—Critical Accounting Policies". Our share of certain
Abilify* and Atripla* revenues is reflected net of all gross-to-net adjustments in alliance and other revenues. Although not presented as
a gross-to-net adjustment in the tables below, our share of Abilify* and Atripla* gross-to-net adjustments were approximately $460 million
in 2016, $1.1 billion in 2015 and $1.6 billion in 2014. These gross-to-net adjustments decreased in 2016 and 2015 due to the expiration
of our U.S. commercialization rights to Abilify* in April 2015.
The activities and ending reserve balances for each significant category of gross-to-net adjustments were as follows:
Other Rebates,
Charge-Backs and Medicaid and Returns, Discounts
Dollars in Millions Cash Discounts Medicare Rebates and Adjustments Total
Balance at January 1, 2015 $ 56 $ 267 $ 584 $ 907
Provision related to sale made in:
Current period 1,043 878 1,315 3,236
Prior period — (19) (96) (115)
Returns and payments (1,002) (688) (867) (2,557)
Foreign currency translation and other — (4) (46) (50)
Balance at December 31, 2015 $ 97 $ 434 $ 890 $ 1,421
Provision related to sale made in:
Current period 1,582 1,438 1,797 4,817
Prior period — (56) (99) (155)
Returns and payments (1,553) (1,296) (1,397) (4,246)
Foreign currency translation and other — — (31) (31)
Balance at December 31, 2016 $ 126 $ 520 $ 1,160 $ 1,806
The reconciliation of gross product sales to net product sales by each significant category of gross-to-net adjustments was as follows
(excluding alliance and other revenues such as Abilify* and Atripla*):
Year Ended December 31, % Change
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014
Gross product sales $ 22,364 $ 17,166 $ 13,793 30% 24%
Gross-to-Net Adjustments
Charge-backs and cash discounts (1,582) (1,043) (755) 52% 38%
Medicaid and Medicare rebates (1,382) (859) (551) 61% 56%
Other rebates, returns, discounts and adjustments (1,698) (1,219) (827) 39% 47%
Total Gross-to-Net Adjustments (4,662) (3,121) (2,133) 49% 46%
Net product sales $ 17,702 $ 14,045 $ 11,660 26% 20%
Changes in gross-to-net adjustments are primarily a function of changes in sales volume and payer channel mix, contractual and legislative
discounts and rebates. Gross-to-net adjustments have increased at a higher rate than gross product sales in 2016 and 2015 primarily
because of the increasing mix of U.S. versus international gross product sales where the adjustments are much higher.
• Charge-backs and cash discounts increased in both periods primarily due to higher Eliquis and Opdivo product sales in the U.S.
• Medicaid and Medicare rebates increased in both periods primarily due to higher Eliquis product sales in the U.S.
• Other rebates, returns, discounts and adjustments increased in 2016 primarily due to higher worldwide sales of Eliquis and
Opdivo and increased in 2015 due to higher sales of Eliquis and additional rebates for Daklinza of approximately $180 million
for amounts previously deferred in France.
62016 Annual Report
Product Revenues
Year Ended December 31, % Change
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014
Oncology
Empliciti (elotuzumab) $ 150 $ 3 $ — ** N/A
U.S. 133 3 — ** N/A
Non-U.S. 17 — — N/A N/A
Erbitux* (cetuximab) — 501 723 (100)% (31)%
U.S. — 487 682 (100)% (29)%
Non-U.S. — 14 41 (100)% (66)%
Opdivo (nivolumab) 3,774 942 6 ** **
U.S. 2,664 823 1 ** **
Non-U.S. 1,110 119 5 ** **
Sprycel (dasatinib) 1,824 1,620 1,493 13% 9%
U.S. 969 829 671 17% 24%
Non-U.S. 855 791 822 8% (4)%
Yervoy (ipilimumab) 1,053 1,126 1,308 (6)% (14)%
U.S. 802 602 709 33% (15)%
Non-U.S. 251 524 599 (52)% (13)%
Cardiovascular
Eliquis (apixaban) 3,343 1,860 774 80% **
U.S. 1,963 1,023 404 92% **
Non-U.S. 1,380 837 370 65% **
Immunoscience
Orencia (abatacept) 2,265 1,885 1,652 20% 14%
U.S. 1,532 1,271 1,064 21% 19%
Non-U.S. 733 614 588 19% 4%
Virology
Baraclude (entecavir) 1,192 1,312 1,441 (9)% (9)%
U.S. 66 135 215 (51)% (37)%
Non-U.S. 1,126 1,177 1,226 (4)% (4)%
Hepatitis C Franchise (daclatasvir and asunaprevir) 1,578 1,603 256 (2)% **
U.S. 827 323 — ** N/A
Non-U.S. 751 1,280 256 (41)% **
Reyataz (atazanavir sulfate) Franchise 912 1,139 1,362 (20)% (16)%
U.S. 484 591 689 (18)% (14)%
Non-U.S. 428 548 673 (22)% (19)%
Sustiva (efavirenz) Franchise 1,065 1,252 1,444 (15)% (13)%
U.S. 901 1,041 1,118 (13)% (7)%
Non-U.S. 164 211 326 (22)% (35)%
Neuroscience
Abilify* (aripiprazole) 128 746 2,020 (83)% (63)%
U.S. — 600 1,572 (100)% (62)%
Non-U.S. 128 146 448 (12)% (67)%
Mature Products and All Other 2,143 2,571 3,400 (17)% (24)%
U.S. 379 460 591 (18)% (22)%
Non-U.S. 1,764 2,111 2,809 (16)% (25)%
** Change in excess of 100%
7Bristol-Myers Squibb
Empliciti — a humanized monoclonal antibody for the treatment of multiple myeloma.
• Empliciti was launched in the U.S. in December 2015, in the EU in May 2016 and in Japan in September 2016.
Erbitux* — a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of certain types of metastatic colorectal cancer and SCCHN.
• BMS transferred its rights to Erbitux* in North America to Lilly in October 2015. Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements—Note
3. Alliances” for further discussion.
Opdivo — a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to the PD-1 on T and NKT cells that has been approved and continues to be
investigated as an anti-cancer treatment. Refer to "—Significant Product and Pipeline Approvals" for further discussion on the Opdivo
approvals in 2016 and 2015.
• U.S. and international revenues increased in both periods due to higher demand resulting from the rapid commercial acceptance
for several indications including melanoma, head and neck, lung, kidney and blood cancer. We expect competition to increase in
2017.
Sprycel — an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinase indicated for the first-line treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-
positive chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase and the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast
phase chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including Gleevec* (imatinib meslylate).
• U.S. revenues increased in both periods due to higher average net selling prices and demand.
• International revenues increased in 2016 due to higher demand. International revenues decreased in 2015 due to unfavorable foreign
exchange partially offset by higher demand. We may experience a decline in European revenues in the second half of 2017 due to
the unfavorable EPO Board of Appeal's decision.
Yervoy — a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma.
• U.S. revenues increased in 2016 due to higher demand as a result of the approvals for adjuvant treatment and the Opdivo+Yervoy
regimen for patients with metastatic melanoma. U.S. revenues decreased in 2015 due to lower demand resulting from the introduction
of other IO products being used to treat patients with melanoma, including Opdivo.
• International revenues decreased in 2016 due to lower demand resulting from the introduction of other IO products being used to
treat patients with melanoma, including Opdivo. International revenues decreased in 2015 due to unfavorable foreign exchange.
Eliquis — an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, targeted at stroke prevention in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and the prevention
and treatment of venous thromboembolic disorders.
• U.S. and international revenues increased in both periods due to higher demand resulting from increased commercial acceptance of
novel oral anticoagulants and market share gains.
Orencia — a fusion protein indicated for adult patients with moderate to severe active RA and is also indicated for reducing signs and
symptoms in certain pediatric patients with moderately to severely active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis.
• U.S. revenues increased in both periods due to higher average net selling prices and demand.
• International revenues increased in both periods due to higher demand partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange in 2015.
Baraclude — an oral antiviral agent for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
• U.S. revenues continued to decrease in both periods due to the loss of exclusivity in September 2014.
• International revenues decreased in 2016 following the loss of exclusivity in South Korea in October 2015. International revenues
decreased in 2015 due to unfavorable foreign exchange partially offset by higher demand in certain countries.
Hepatitis C Franchise — Daklinza - an NS5A replication complex inhibitor; Sunvepra - an NS3 protease inhibitor.
• Daklinza was launched in the U.S. in July 2015.
• International revenues decreased in 2016 due to lower demand resulting from increased competition, primarily in Japan. International
revenues in 2015 also included the recognition of approximately $170 million of previously deferred Daklinza revenue in France.
International revenues increased in 2015 due to higher demand following the launch in certain EU countries and Japan in the third
quarter of 2014 and the subsequent approvals in other international markets in 2015.
• U.S. and international revenues are expected to significantly decline in 2017 due to lower demand resulting from increased
competition.
82016 Annual Report
Reyataz Franchise — Includes Reyataz - a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV and Evotaz (atazanavir 300 mg and cobicistat 150
mg) - a combination therapy containing Reyataz and Tybost*.
• U.S. revenues continued to decrease in both periods due to lower demand resulting from increased competition partially offset by
higher average net selling prices in 2016. The loss of exclusivity for Reyataz is expected in December 2017 and we may experience
a higher decline in revenue in future periods due to generic competition.
• International revenues continued to decrease in both periods due to lower demand resulting from increased competition and
unfavorable foreign exchange.
Sustiva Franchise — a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, which includes Sustiva, an antiretroviral
drug, and bulk efavirenz, which is also included in the combination therapy, Atripla*.
• U.S. revenues continued to decrease in both periods due to lower demand resulting from increased competition partially offset by
higher average net selling prices. The loss of exclusivity for Sustiva is expected in December 2017 which may result in the termination
of the joint venture agreement with Gilead and may further reduce revenues beyond 2017.
• International revenues continued to decrease in both periods due to Sustiva's loss of exclusivity in Europe in November 2013.
Abilify* — an antipsychotic agent for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder.
• U.S. commercialization rights to Abilify* expired in April 2015.
• International revenues decreased in both periods following the expiration of our EU commercialization rights in June 2014 and
Otsuka becoming the principal for the end customer sales in certain markets.
Mature Products and All Other — includes all other products, including those which have lost exclusivity in major markets, the diabetes
alliance products, OTC brands and royalty revenue.
• U.S. revenues decreased in 2016 due to the favorable impact of the sales return reserve reduction for Plavix* of $63 million in 2015.
U.S. revenues decreased in 2015 primarily due to the diabetes business divestiture in February 2014.
• International revenues decreased in 2016 due to the expiration of certain supply arrangements, lower sales due to the divestiture of
certain mature and other products, increased competition for OTC products and unfavorable foreign exchange. International revenues
decreased in 2015 due to the expiration/transfer of certain licensing and royalty rights, the diabetes business divestiture, unfavorable
foreign exchange and continued generic erosion.
Estimated End-User Demand
Pursuant to the SEC Consent Order described below under “—SEC Consent Order”, we monitor the level of inventory on hand in the
U.S. wholesaler distribution channel and outside of the U.S. in the direct customer distribution channel. We are obligated to disclose
products with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception. Estimated
levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand for the following products were not material to our results
of operations as of the dates indicated. No U.S. products had estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one
month on hand at December 31, 2016. Below are international products that had estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel
in excess of one month on hand at September 30, 2016.
Dafalgan, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had 1.2 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct customers
compared to 1.2 months of inventory on hand at June 30, 2016. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to the ordering
patterns of pharmacists in France.
Efferalgan, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had 1.1 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct
customers compared to 1.2 months of inventory on hand at June 30, 2016. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to
the ordering patterns of pharmacists in France.
Fervex, a cold and flu product, had 4.8 months of inventory on hand at direct customers compared to 4.2 months of inventory
on hand at June 30, 2016. The level of inventory on hand was primarily in France to support product seasonality.
Perfalgan, an analgesic product, had 2.4 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct customers compared to 2.9 months
of inventory on hand at June 30, 2016. The level of inventory on hand was primarily in the Gulf Countries and Saudi Arabia
due to extended delivery lead time.
In the U.S., we generally determine our months on hand estimates using inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out-
movement provided by our three largest wholesalers, which account for approximately 95% of total gross sales of U.S. products. Factors
that may influence our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in
wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In
addition, these estimates are calculated using third-party data, which may be impacted by their recordkeeping processes.
9Bristol-Myers Squibb
Our non-U.S. businesses have significantly more direct customers. Information on available direct customer product level inventory and
corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information varies widely. We limit our direct customer
sales channel inventory reporting to where we can influence demand. When this information does not exist or is otherwise not available,
we have developed a variety of methodologies to estimate such data, including using historical sales made to direct customers and third-
party market research data related to prescription trends and end-user demand. Given the difficulties inherent in estimating third-party
demand information, we evaluate our methodologies to estimate direct customer product level inventory and to calculate months on hand
on an ongoing basis and make changes as necessary. Factors that may affect our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of
products, price increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers
and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations. As such, all of the information required to estimate months
on hand in the direct customer distribution channel for non-U.S. business for the year ended December 31, 2016 is not available prior to
the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K. We will disclose any product with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or
expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception, in the next quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Expenses
% Change
Dollar in Millions 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014
Cost of products sold $ 4,946 $ 3,909 $ 3,932 27 % (1)%
Marketing, selling and administrative 4,911 4,841 4,822 1 % —
Research and development 4,940 5,920 4,534 (17)% 31 %
Other (income)/expense (1,285) (187) 210 ** **
Total Expenses $ 13,512 $ 14,483 $ 13,498 (7)% 7 %
** Change in excess of 100%
Cost of products sold
Cost of products sold include material, internal labor and overhead costs from our owned manufacturing sites, third-party processing
costs and other supply chain costs managed by our global manufacturing and supply organization. Cost of products sold also includes
royalties and profit sharing attributed to licensed products and alliances, foreign currency hedge settlement gains and losses and the
amortization of acquired developed technology costs from business combinations and regulatory approval milestones.
Cost of products sold typically vary between periods as a result of product mix and volume (particularly resulting from royalties and
profit sharing expenses in connection with our alliances), changes in foreign currency, price, inflation and costs attributed to the
rationalization of manufacturing sites resulting in accelerated depreciation, impairment charges and other stranded costs.
• Cost of products sold increased in 2016 primarily due to higher Eliquis profit sharing of $700 million, lower foreign currency
hedge settlement gains and higher Puerto Rico excise tax.
• Cost of products sold remained relatively flat in 2015 as higher Eliquis profit sharing of $532 million was offset by favorable
foreign exchange.
Marketing, selling and administrative
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses include salary and benefit costs, third-party professional and marketing fees, outsourcing
fees, shipping and handling costs, advertising and product promotion and other expenses that are not attributed to product manufacturing
costs or research and development expenses. Expenses are managed through regional commercialization organizations or global enabling
functions such as finance, legal, information technology and human resources. Certain expenses are shared with alliance partners based
upon contractual agreements. Expenses typically vary between periods due to new product launch promotional activities.
• Marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased in 2016 due to higher advertising and promotion and additional sales-
related activities supporting Opdivo partially offset by lower spend for virology products and favorable foreign exchange.
• Marketing, selling and administrative expenses remained relatively flat in 2015 as increased sales-related activities supporting
Eliquis, Opdivo and the Hepatitis C Franchise were offset by favorable foreign exchange and $96 million of additional expenses
related to the Branded Prescription Drug Fee in 2014 resulting from changes in IRS guidelines.
102016 Annual Report
Research and development
Research and development activities include discovery research, preclinical and clinical development, drug formulation, as well as clinical
trials and medical support of marketed products. Expenses include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants and fees paid to clinical
research organizations, supplies, upfront and contingent milestone payments for licensing and asset acquisitions of investigational
compounds, IPRD impairment charges and proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs. The allocations include facilities,
information technology, employee stock compensation costs and other appropriate costs. Certain expenses are shared with alliance partners
based upon contractual agreements.
Expenses typically vary between periods for a number of reasons, including the timing of license and asset acquisition charges and IPRD
impairment charges.
• Research and development expenses decreased in 2016 due to lower license and asset acquisition charges partially offset by the
acceleration and expansion of Opdivo development programs and capabilities and lower IPRD impairment charges.
• Research and development expenses increased in 2015 due to higher license and asset acquisition charges and the acceleration and
expansion of Opdivo development programs and capabilities partially offset by lower IPRD impairment charges and favorable
foreign exchange.
• License and asset acquisition charges were $439 million in 2016, $1.7 billion in 2015 and $278 million in 2014 including $374
million for Padlock, Nitto Denko, Flexus and Cormorant in 2016, $1.3 billion for Flexus, Cardioxyl and Five Prime in 2015 and
$148 million for iPierian in 2014. A $100 million milestone was paid to former shareowners of Flexus for the commencement of
a Phase I clinical trial in 2016.
• IPRD impairment charges were $13 million in 2016, $160 million in 2015 and $343 million in 2014 including $160 million for
LPA1 Antagonist in 2015 and $310 million for peginterferon lambda in 2014.
• Accelerated depreciation was $70 million in 2016 and $29 million in 2015 as a result of the expected exit of certain R&D sites in
the U.S. Accelerated depreciation results from the reduction in the estimated useful lives of the related assets for each site at various
dates through 2020 and is expected to approximate $250 million in 2017.
Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances, Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 13. Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets" and "—Acquisition and Licensing Arrangements and —Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Specified Items" for further
information.
Other (income)/expense
Other income increased $1.1 billion in 2016 due to higher divestiture gains and royalties and licensing income, and to a lesser extent,
lower litigation and other settlements, pension and debt redemption charges.
Other expense decreased $397 million in 2015 due to lower pension charges partially offset by lower divestiture gains.
• Divestiture gains were $576 million in 2016, $196 million in 2015 and $564 million in 2014 including certain OTC products and
investigational HIV medicines businesses in 2016, the Mount Vernon, Indiana manufacturing facility, Erbitux*, Ixempra* and
certain mature and other OTC product businesses in 2015 and the diabetes business in 2014.
• Royalties and licensing income were $719 million in 2016, $383 million in 2015 and $283 million in 2014 including contingent
consideration from the Erbitux* and diabetes business divestitures, including the transfer of certain future royalty rights pertaining
to Amylin product sales.
• Pension charges were $91 million in 2016, $160 million in 2015 and $877 million in 2014 including an additional pension charge
of $713 million following the purchase of a group annuity contract from The Prudential Insurance Company of America in 2014.
• Provision for restructuring was $109 million in 2016, $118 million in 2015 and $163 million in 2014. In October 2016, the Company
announced an evolution to its operating model to drive the Company’s continued success in the near- and long-term through a
more focused investment in commercial opportunities for key brands and markets, a competitive and more agile R&D organization
that can accelerate the pipeline, streamlined operations and realigned manufacturing capabilities that broaden biologics capabilities
to reflect the current and future portfolio. The new operating model will enable the Company to deliver the strategic, financial and
operational flexibility necessary to invest in the highest priorities across the Company. Restructuring charges of approximately
$300 million are expected to be incurred in 2017 for all actions in addition to the accelerated depreciation impact discussed above.
Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures, Note 5. Other (Income)/Expense, Note 6. Restructuring
and Note 16. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans" for further information.
11Bristol-Myers Squibb
Income Taxes
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Earnings Before Income Taxes $ 5,915 $ 2,077 $ 2,381
Provision for income taxes 1,408 446 352
Effective tax rate 23.8% 21.5% 14.8%
Historically, the effective income tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35% due to our decision to indefinitely reinvest the
earnings for certain of our manufacturing operations in low tax jurisdictions such as Switzerland, Ireland and Puerto Rico. BMS operates
under a favorable tax grant in Puerto Rico not scheduled to expire prior to 2023.
The tax impact attributed to R&D charges, divestiture transactions and other specified items including additional transfer pricing reserves
in 2014 increased the effective tax rate by 1.8% in 2016 and 0.3% in 2015 and reduced the effective tax rate by 5.1% in 2014. No tax
benefits were attributed to the R&D charges for Padlock, Flexus and Cormorant in 2016, Flexus and Cardioxyl in 2015 and iPierian in
2014. Lower non-deductible goodwill allocated to business divestitures in 2015 and higher valuation allowances attributed to capital loss
carryforwards released in 2015 impacted the effective tax rates. Minimal income taxes were attributed to the diabetes business divestiture
gain in 2014 because of the capital loss deduction on the sale of the Amylin shares and tax basis differences resulting primarily from
allocated goodwill and Amylin deferred taxes. Unfavorable earnings mix between high and low tax jurisdictions and higher U.S. foreign
tax credits resulting from the Puerto Rico excise tax in all periods also impacted the effective tax rates. Refer to "Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 7. Income Taxes" for further information.
Comprehensive U.S. tax reform continues to be discussed and proposed, including among other items, changes to the corporate tax rate,
a border adjustment tax and changes to how the U.S. taxes foreign earnings. It is currently uncertain whether any of these changes will
be enacted, and if so, the effective dates. If comprehensive tax reform occurs, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
could be significantly impacted. However, we are unable to determine the potential impact at this time.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude certain costs,
expenses, gains and losses and other specified items that are evaluated on an individual basis. These items are adjusted after considering
their quantitative and qualitative aspects and typically have one or more of the following characteristics, such as being highly variable,
difficult to project, unusual in nature, significant to the results of a particular period or not indicative of future operating results. Similar
charges or gains were recognized in prior periods and will likely reoccur in future periods including restructuring costs, accelerated
depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, R&D charges in connection with the acquisition or
licensing of third party intellectual property rights, divestiture gains or losses, pension, legal and other contractual settlement charges
and debt redemption gains or losses, among other items. Deferred and current income taxes attributed to these items are also adjusted
for considering their individual impact to the overall tax expense, deductibility and jurisdictional tax rates.
Non-GAAP information is intended to portray the results of our baseline performance, supplement or enhance management, analysts and
investors overall understanding of our underlying financial performance and facilitate comparisons among current, past and future periods.
For example, non-GAAP earnings and EPS information is an indication of our baseline performance before items that are considered by
us to not be reflective of our ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators we use as a basis for evaluating
performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting for future periods. This information
is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP.
122016 Annual Report
Specified items were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Cost of products sold(a) $21 $ 84 $ 151
Additional year of Branded Prescription Drug Fee — —96
Process standardization implementation costs — 10 9
Marketing, selling and administrative — 10 105
License and asset acquisition charges 439 1,679 278
IPRD impairments 13 160 343
Accelerated depreciation and other 83 44 —
Research and development 535 1,883 621
Provision for restructuring 109 115 163
Litigation and other settlements 40 158 27
Divestiture gains (559) (187) (559)
Royalties and licensing income (10) — (10)
Pension charges 91 160 877
Intangible asset impairment 15 13 11
Written option adjustment — (123) 32
Loss on debt redemption — 180 45
Other(b) — —40
Other (income)/expense (314) 316 626
Increase to pretax income 242 2,293 1,503
Income taxes on items above 51 (480) (545)
Specified tax charge(c) — — 123
Income taxes 51 (480) (422)
Increase to net earnings $ 293 $ 1,813 $ 1,081
(a) Specified items in cost of products sold are accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs.
(b) Includes $16 million of additional year of Branded Prescription Drug Fee in 2014.
(c) The 2014 specified tax charge relates to transfer pricing matters.
The reconciliations from GAAP to Non-GAAP were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2016 2015 2014
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS used for Diluted EPS Calculation — GAAP $ 4,457 $ 1,565 $ 2,004
Specified Items 293 1,813 1,081
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS used for Diluted EPS Calculation — Non-GAAP $ 4,750 $ 3,378 $ 3,085
Average Common Shares Outstanding — Diluted 1,680 1,679 1,670
Diluted EPS Attributable to BMS — GAAP $ 2.65 $ 0.93 $ 1.20
Diluted EPS Attributable to Specified Items 0.18 1.08 0.65
Diluted EPS Attributable to BMS — Non-GAAP $ 2.83 $ 2.01 $ 1.85
13Bristol-Myers Squibb
Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our net cash position was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,237 $ 2,385
Marketable securities — current 2,113 1,885
Marketable securities — non-current 2,719 4,660
Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities 9,069 8,930
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt (992) (139)
Long-term debt (5,716) (6,550)
Net cash position $ 2,361 $ 2,241
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held in the U.S. were approximately $1.1 billion at December 31, 2016. Most of the
remaining $8.0 billion is held primarily in low-tax jurisdictions and attributable to earnings expected to be indefinitely reinvested offshore.
Cash repatriations are subject to restrictions in certain jurisdictions and may be subject to withholding and additional U.S. income taxes.
We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities together with cash generated from operations and issuance
of commercial paper in the U.S. will be sufficient to satisfy our normal cash requirements for at least the next few years, including
dividends, capital expenditures, milestone payments, working capital and maturities of long-term debt.
Management continuously evaluates the Company’s capital structure to ensure the Company is financed efficiently, which may result in
the repurchase of common stock and debt securities, termination of interest rate swap contracts prior to maturity and issuance of debt
securities. For example, we issued senior unsecured notes in a registered public offering generating proceeds of $1.3 billion and redeemed/
repurchased certain notes for nearly $2.0 billion during 2015. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 9. Financial Instruments and
Fair Value Measurements” for further details.
The Company’s common stock repurchase capacity was increased to $4.1 billion during October 2016. The Company entered into ASR
agreements to repurchase approximately $2.0 billion of common stock in February 2017. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note
15. Equity” for further details.
Dividend payments were $2.5 billion in 2016 and 2015 and $2.4 billion in 2014. Dividend decisions are made on a quarterly basis by
our Board of Directors. Capital expenditures were approximately $1.2 billion in 2016, $800 million in 2015 and $500 million in 2014
and are expected to be approximately $1.0 billion in 2017 and $900 million in 2018. The higher spending is expected as a result of
expanding our biologics manufacturing capabilities and other facility-related activities. For example, we are constructing a new large-
scale biologics manufacturing facility in Ireland that will produce multiple therapies for our growing biologics portfolio when completed
in 2019.
Our marketable securities portfolio is subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors,
which may impact our results of operations. Our investment policy places limits on these investments and the amount and time to maturity
of investments with any institution. The policy also requires that investments are only entered into with corporate and financial institutions
that meet high credit quality standards. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 9. Financial Instruments and Fair Value
Measurements” for further details.
We currently have two separate $1.5 billion revolving credit facilities from a syndicate of lenders. The facilities provide for customary
terms and conditions with no financial covenants and were extended to October 2020 and July 2021. Each facility is extendable annually
by one year on the anniversary date with the consent of the lenders. No borrowings were outstanding under either revolving credit facility
at December 31, 2016 or 2015.
Additional regulations in the U.S. could be passed in the future, which may reduce our results of operations, operating cash flow, liquidity
and financial flexibility. We continue to monitor the potential impact of the economic conditions in certain European and other countries
and the related impact on prescription trends, pricing discounts and creditworthiness of our customers. We believe these economic
conditions will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow or financial flexibility.
The UK voted to depart from the EU during June 2016. Similar to other companies in our industry, certain regulatory, trade, labor and
other aspects of our business will likely be affected over time. However, we currently do not believe that these matters and other related
financial effects will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Our sales in the UK
represent less than 2% of total revenues.
142016 Annual Report
Credit Ratings
BMS's long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by Moody's Investors Service are A2 and Prime-1, respectively, with a negative
long-term credit outlook. BMS's long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by Standard & Poor's are A+ and A-1+, respectively,
with a stable long-term credit outlook. BMS's long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by Fitch are A- and F2, respectively, with
a stable long-term credit outlook. Our long-term ratings reflect the agencies' opinion that we have a low default risk but are somewhat
susceptible to adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions. Our short-term ratings reflect the agencies' opinion
that we have good to extremely strong capacity for timely repayment. Any credit rating downgrade may affect the interest rate of any
debt we may incur, the fair market value of existing debt and our ability to access the capital markets generally.
Cash Flows
The following is a discussion of cash flow activities:
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Cash flow provided by/(used in):
Operating activities $ 2,850 $ 1,832 $ 3,148
Investing activities 1,480 (1,572) 1,216
Financing activities (2,445) (3,351) (2,437)
Operating Activities
Cash flow from operating activities represents the cash receipts and disbursements from all of our activities other than investing and
financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting net earnings for noncontrolling interest, non-cash operating items, gains
and losses attributed to investing and financing activities and changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting from timing differences
between the receipts and payments of cash and when the transactions are recognized in our results of operations. As a result, changes in
cash from operating activities reflect the timing of cash collections from customers and alliance partners; payments to suppliers, alliance
partners and employees; customer discounts and rebates; and tax payments in the ordinary course of business. For example, annual
employee bonuses are typically paid in the first quarter of the subsequent year. In addition, cash collections continue to be impacted by
longer payment terms for certain biologic products in the U.S., primarily our newer oncology products including Opdivo, Yervoy and
Empliciti (120 days to 150 days). The longer payment terms are used to more closely align with the insurance reimbursement timing for
physicians and cancer centers following administration to the patients.
The $1.0 billion increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2016 was primarily attributable to:
• Higher operating cash flow attributed to increased sales and the timing of cash collections and payments in the ordinary course
of business including the wind-down of the Abilify* alliance in 2015; and
• Lower upfront and milestone payments for alliance and licensing arrangements (approximately $600 million).
Partially offset by:
• Higher income tax payments of approximately $1.4 billion.
The $1.3 billion decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2015 was primarily attributable to:
• Timing of payments with alliance partners (approximately $700 million), particularly active product ingredient supply and
Medicaid rebates for Abilify*;
• Higher upfront payments for new alliance and licensing agreements (approximately $600 million); and
• Timing of customer collections resulting primarily from higher net product sales including those with extended payment terms
for certain new products and less factoring (approximately $400 million).
Partially offset by:
• The timing of other cash collections and payments in the ordinary course of business including among other items, changes in
inventory levels, particularly those related to Abilify*.
15Bristol-Myers Squibb
Investing Activities
Cash requirements from investing activities include cash used for acquisitions, manufacturing and facility-related capital expenditures
and purchases of marketable securities with maturities greater than 90 days reduced by proceeds from business divestitures (including
royalties) and the sale and maturity of marketable securities.
The $3.1 billion decrease in cash used in investing activities in 2016 was primarily attributable to:
• Higher net redemptions of marketable securities of approximately $2.1 billion in 2016 which were reinvested in cash equivalents
to manage credit and interest rate risks;
• Lower asset acquisition payments of approximately $800 million. Asset acquisitions include Cormorant and Padlock in 2016 and
Flexus and Cardioxyl in 2015; and
• Higher business divestiture proceeds of approximately $600 million including royalties and other contingent consideration
received subsequent to the divestiture. Divestitures include certain OTC products and investigational HIV businesses in 2016
and the Mount Vernon, Indiana manufacturing facility, Ixempra* and mature and other OTC product businesses in 2015.
Partially offset by:
• Higher capital expenditures of approximately $400 million.
The $2.8 billion decrease in cash provided by investing activities in 2015 was primarily attributable to:
• Lower business divestiture proceeds of $2.9 billion. Divestitures include the Mount Vernon, Indiana manufacturing facility,
Ixempra* and mature and other OTC product businesses in 2015 and the diabetes business in 2014;
• Higher asset acquisition payments of approximately $900 million. Asset acquisitions include Flexus and Cardioxyl in 2015 and
iPierian in 2014; and
• Higher capital expenditures of approximately $300 million.
Partially offset by:
• Lower net purchases of marketable securities of $1.3 billion in 2015.
Financing Activities
Cash requirements from financing activities include cash used to pay dividends, repurchase common stock and repay long-term debt and
other borrowings reduced by proceeds from the exercise of stock options and issuance of long-term debt and other borrowings.
The $906 million decrease in cash used in financing activities in 2016 was primarily attributable to:
• Lower long-term net debt repayments of approximately $700 million; and
• Higher net short-term borrowings of approximately $600 million in 2016, consisting primarily of changes in bank overdrafts.
Partially offset by:
• Repurchase of common stock of approximately $200 million in 2016 (none in 2015).
The $914 million increase in cash used in financing activities in 2015 was primarily attributable to:
• Lower net short-term borrowings of approximately $700 million in 2015, consisting primarily of changes in bank overdrafts.
Contractual Obligations
Payments due by period for our contractual obligations at December 31, 2016 were as follows:
Obligations Expiring by Period
Dollars in Millions Total 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Later Years
Short-term borrowings $ 243 $ 243 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Long-term debt 6,261 750 — 500 — — 5,011
Interest on long-term debt(a) 4,133 194 194 188 187 187 3,183
Operating leases 783 123 107 86 66 61 340
Purchase obligations 2,799 1,265 537 406 345 156 90
Uncertain tax positions(b) 70 70 — — — — —
Other long-term liabilities(c) 526 — 126 67 58 37 238
Total $ 14,815 $ 2,645 $ 964 $ 1,247 $ 656 $ 441 $ 8,862
(a) Includes estimated future interest payments and periodic cash settlements of derivatives.
(b) Includes only short-term uncertain tax benefits because of uncertainties regarding the timing of resolution.
(c) Does not include pension liability.
162016 Annual Report
In addition to the above, we are committed to an aggregated $10.4 billion of potential future research and development milestone payments
to third parties for in-licensing, asset acquisitions and development programs including early-stage milestones of $3.0 billion (milestones
achieved through Phase III clinical trials) and late-stage milestones of $7.4 billion (milestones achieved post Phase III clinical trials).
Payments generally are due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental and regulatory milestones for which the specific
timing cannot be predicted. Some of these agreements also provide for sales-based milestones aggregating $2.5 billion that we would be
obligated to pay to alliance partners upon achievement of certain sales levels in addition to royalties. We also have certain manufacturing,
development and commercialization obligations in connection with alliance arrangements. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of
these obligations. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances” for further information regarding our alliances.
For a discussion of contractual obligations, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 7. Income Taxes,” “—Note 9. Financial
Instruments and Fair Value Measurements,”and “—Note 16. Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities.”
SEC Consent Order / FCPA Settlement
As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, we entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning
certain wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which was attached as
Exhibit 10 to our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.
Under the terms of the Consent, we agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to our direct customers
(including wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and government purchasers) based on expected demand or on
amounts that do not exceed approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a timely public disclosure of any change in
practice. We also agreed in the Consent to certain measures that we have implemented including: (a) establishing a formal review and
certification process of our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC; (b) establishing a business risk and disclosure group;
(c) retaining an outside consultant to comprehensively study and help re-engineer our accounting and financial reporting processes;
(d) publicly disclosing any sales incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose of inducing them to purchase products in excess
of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that our budget process gives appropriate weight to inputs that come from the bottom to the top,
and not just from the top to the bottom, and adequately documenting that process.
We have established a company-wide policy to limit our sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the Consent. This
policy includes the adoption of various procedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the terms of the
Consent. These procedures include a governance process to escalate to appropriate management levels potential questions or concerns
regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In addition, compliance with the policy is
monitored on a regular basis.
We maintain IMAs with our U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which account for nearly 100% of our gross U.S. revenues. Under the
current terms of the IMAs, our wholesaler customers provide us with weekly information with respect to months on hand product-level
inventories and the amount of out-movement of products. The three largest wholesalers currently account for approximately 95% of our
gross U.S. revenues. The inventory information received from our wholesalers, together with our internal information, is used to estimate
months on hand product level inventories at these wholesalers. We estimate months on hand product inventory levels for our U.S. business’s
wholesaler customers other than the three largest wholesalers by extrapolating from the months on hand calculated for the three largest
wholesalers. In contrast, our non-U.S. business has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product
level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where available,
varies widely. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to estimate months on hand product level inventories for these business units.
We believe the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to ensure compliance with the Consent.
In addition, as previously disclosed, in October 2015, the Company reached a civil settlement with the SEC of alleged FCPA violations
in which the Company agreed to pay approximately $14.7 million in disgorgement, penalties and interest. As part of the settlement, the
Company also agreed to a two-year self-monitoring period of reporting to the government and is maintaining procedures to ensure
compliance.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
For recently issued accounting standards, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Recently Issued
Accounting Standards.”
17Bristol-Myers Squibb
Critical Accounting Policies
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. Our critical accounting policies are those that significantly impact our
financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need
to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of this uncertainty, actual results may vary from these
estimates.
Revenue Recognition
Our accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on reported results and relies on certain estimates. Revenue is
recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the sales price is fixed or determinable, collectability is reasonably assured
and title and substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred (generally upon shipment except in certain EU
markets which does not occur until delivery of the products to the customer). In 2014, we deferred approximately $300 million invoiced
for Daklinza under an early access program in France. A portion of this amount was recognized as revenue in 2015 when final pricing
was obtained. Revenue is also reduced for gross-to-net sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and
judgment after considering legal interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, historical experience, payer channel mix (e.g. Medicare
or Medicaid), current contract prices under applicable programs, unbilled claims and processing time lags and inventory levels in the
distribution channel. Estimates are assessed each period and adjusted as required to revised information or actual experience.
In alliance arrangements involving the delivery of more than one element, each undelivered element is evaluated whether it qualifies as
a separate unit of accounting. The consideration that is fixed or determinable is then allocated to each undelivered element and is recognized
as the related goods or services are delivered, limited to the consideration that is not contingent upon future deliverables. Consideration
associated with contingent milestones and royalties are allocated among the underlying elements if and when the amounts are determined
to be payable to BMS.
Gross-to-Net Adjustments
The following categories of gross-to-net adjustments involve significant estimates, judgments and information obtained from external
sources. Refer to “—Total Revenues” above for further discussion and analysis of each significant category of gross-to-net sales
adjustments.
Charge-backs and cash discounts
Our U.S. business participates in programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense
and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties, including covered entities under the 340B Drug Pricing Program, whereby
pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price to participating entities. These entities purchase products through wholesalers
at the lower program price and the wholesalers then charge us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower program price.
Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of unprocessed charge-back claims attributable to a sale (typically within a two
to four week time lag).
In the U.S. and certain other countries, cash discounts are offered as an incentive for prompt payment, generally approximating 2% of
the sales price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of unprocessed cash discounts (typically within a one month
time lag).
Medicaid and Medicare rebates
Our U.S. business participates in state government Medicaid programs and other qualifying Federal and state government programs
requiring discounts and rebates to participating state and local government entities. All discounts and rebates provided through these
programs are included in our Medicaid rebate accrual. Medicaid rebates have also been extended to drugs used in managed Medicaid
plans. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates is presented as a liability.
Rebates and discounts are offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. managing prescription drug programs and Medicare
Advantage prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug benefit. We also pay a 50% point of service discount to the Centers
for Medicare & Medicaid Services when the Medicare Part D beneficiaries are in the coverage gap ("donut hole"). The estimated amount
of unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts is presented as a liability.
182016 Annual Report
Other rebates, returns, discounts and adjustments
Other gross-to-net sales adjustments include sales returns and all other programs based on applicable laws and regulations for individual
non-U.S. countries as well as rebates offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. to a lesser extent. The non-U.S. programs
include several different pricing schemes such as cost caps, volume discounts, outcome-based pricing schemes and pricing claw-backs
that are based on sales of individual companies or an aggregation of all companies participating in a specific market. The estimated
amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts is presented as a liability.
Estimated returns for established products are determined after considering historical experience and other factors including levels of
inventory in the distribution channel, estimated shelf life, product recalls, product discontinuances, price changes of competitive products,
introductions of generic products, introductions of competitive new products and lower demand following the loss of exclusivity. The
estimated amount for product returns is presented as a liability.
Estimated returns for new products are determined after considering historical sales return experience of similar products, such as those
within the same product line, similar therapeutic area and/or similar distribution model. We defer recognition of revenue until the right
of return expires, sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns is developed in limited circumstances, or when insufficient
historical experience with products in a similar therapeutic area, distribution method or other characteristic is available. This typically
occurs when the new product is not an extension of an existing line of product or when historical experience with products in a similar
therapeutic category is lacking. Estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and projected demand are also considered in
estimating sales returns for new products.
Use of information from external sources
Information from external sources is used to estimate gross-to-net adjustments. Our estimate of inventory at the wholesalers are based
on the projected prescription demand-based sales for our products and historical inventory experience, as well as our analysis of third-
party information, including written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers with respect to their inventory levels and
sell-through to customers and third-party market research data, and our internal information. The inventory information received from
wholesalers is a product of their recordkeeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers
and hospitals.
We have also continued the practice of combining retail and mail prescription volume on a retail-equivalent basis. We use this methodology
for internal demand forecasts. We also use information from external sources to identify prescription trends, patient demand and average
selling prices. Our estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party information, as certain third-party
information was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags between the date as of which third-party
information is generated and the date on which we receive third-party information.
Retirement Benefits
Accounting for pension and postretirement benefit plans requires actuarial valuations based on significant assumptions for discount rates
and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. In consultation with our actuaries, these significant assumptions and others such
as salary growth, retirement, turnover, healthcare trends and mortality rates are evaluated and selected based on expectations or actual
experience during each remeasurement date. Pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported
earnings, projected benefit obligations and future cash funding. Actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because
of economic and other factors.
The yield on high quality corporate bonds that coincides with the cash flows of the plans’ estimated payouts is used in determining the
discount rate. The Citi Pension Discount curve is used for the U.S. plans. The present value of benefit obligations at December 31, 2016
for the U.S. pension plans was determined using a 4.0% discount rate. If the assumed discount rate used in determining the U.S. pension
plans’ projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2016 was reduced by an additional 1%, the projected benefit obligation would increase
by approximately $900 million.
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is estimated considering expected returns for individual asset classes with input from
external advisors. We also consider long-term historical returns including actual performance compared to benchmarks for similar
investments. The U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2016 was determined using a 7.8% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. If
the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in determining the U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2016 was reduced by 1%,
such expense would increase by $41 million.
For a more detailed discussion on retirement benefits, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 16. Pension, Postretirement and
Postemployment Liabilities.”
19Bristol-Myers Squibb
Business Combinations and Divestitures
Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in business combinations, licensing and other transactions were $8.3 billion (representing
25% of total assets) at December 31, 2016.
Accounting for transactions as business combinations and divestitures is significantly different than asset acquisitions and divestitures.
For example, acquired IPRD is capitalized for business combinations and expensed for asset acquisitions and the fair value of contingent
consideration and goodwill are only recognized in business combination transactions. Likewise, when a portion of a reporting unit that
constitutes a business is divested, goodwill associated with that business is included in the carrying value of the business in determining
the gain or loss. Derecognition of goodwill does not occur in asset dispositions. As a result, it is important to determine whether a business
or an asset or group of assets is acquired or divested. A business is defined in ASC 805 - Business Combinations as an integrated set of
inputs and processes that are capable of generating outputs that have the ability to provide a return to its investors or owners. Typical
inputs include long-lived assets (including intangible assets or rights to use long-lived assets), intellectual property and the ability to
obtain access to required resources. Typical processes include strategic, operational and resource management processes that are typically
documented or evident through an organized workforce.
We consider all of the above factors when determining whether a business was acquired (or divested) as well as the compound's development
phase if no commercial products are involved. For example, in evaluating our acquisitions of Cormorant and Padlock in 2016, Cardioxyl
and Flexus in 2015 and iPierian in 2014, we concluded that no significant processes were transferred to us, thus the transactions were
accounted for as asset acquisitions. As a result, the amounts allocated to the lead investigational compounds were expensed and not
capitalized. In addition, contingent consideration from potential development, regulatory, approval and sales-based milestones and sales-
based royalties were not included in the purchase price. Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures"
for further discussion on our acquisitions.
Similarly, in evaluating our divestitures of our investigational HIV medicines business and the business comprising the alliance with
Reckitt in 2016, Erbitux*, Ixempra* and the businesses comprising the alliances with The Medicines Company and Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International, Inc. in 2015, and our diabetes business to AstraZeneca in 2014 we concluded that all necessary inputs and
processes were transferred, and consequently the transactions were accounted for as sales of businesses, which resulted in the allocation
of goodwill ($98 million in 2016, $73 million in 2015 and $600 million in 2014) to the carrying value of the businesses in determining
the gain on sale. Contingent proceeds related to divestitures are not recognized until realized.
Valuation processes are also required for certain multiple element arrangements and include determination of judgmental and complex
matters, discussed above. For example, BMS purchased a warrant in 2015 that gives BMS the exclusive right to acquire Promedior, which
required the determination of the best estimated selling price of the two separate elements identified in the transaction (the warrant and
the clinical development services). Similarly, the divestiture of the diabetes business to AstraZeneca in 2014 required the determination
of the best estimated selling price of several elements including the business, supply and development agreements (including the appropriate
mark-ups) and the estimated fair value of the manufacturing facility. Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances" for
further discussion on both transactions.
Impairment
Other Intangible Assets, including IPRD
Other intangible assets were $1.4 billion at December 31, 2016, including licenses ($248 million of which $155 million is allocated to
unapproved products), developed technology rights ($669 million), capitalized software ($361 million) and IPRD ($107 million).
Intangible assets are assessed for impairment whenever current facts or circumstances warrant a review, although IPRD is assessed at
least annually. Intangible assets are highly vulnerable to impairment charges, particularly newly acquired assets for recently launched
products or IPRD. These assets are initially measured at fair value and therefore any reduction in expectations used in the valuations
could potentially lead to impairment. Some of the more common potential risks leading to impairment include competition, earlier than
expected loss of exclusivity, pricing pressures, adverse regulatory changes or clinical trial results, delay or failure to obtain regulatory
approval and additional development costs, inability to achieve expected synergies, higher operating costs, changes in tax laws and other
macro-economic changes. The complexity in estimating the fair value of intangible assets in connection with an impairment test is similar
to the initial valuation.
Considering the high risk nature of research and development and the industry’s success rate of bringing developmental compounds to
market, IPRD impairment charges are likely to occur in future periods. We recognized a $160 million charge in 2015 for BMS-986020
which was in Phase II development for treatment of IPF and $343 million in 2014, including a $310 million charge for peginterferon
lambda which was in Phase III development for treatment of HCV. For discussion on IPRD impairments, refer to “Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 13. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
202016 Annual Report
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment is tested for impairment whenever current facts or circumstances require a review including whether it is
more likely than not that the asset will be disposed of prior to its estimated remaining useful life. Additionally, these long-lived assets
are periodically reviewed to determine if any change in facts or circumstances would result in a change to the estimated useful life of the
asset, possibly resulting in the acceleration of depreciation. If such circumstances exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows
generated by the asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists
at its lowest level of identifiable cash flows. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between
the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. Expectations of future cash flows are subject to change based upon the near and long-term
production volumes and margins generated by the asset as well as any potential alternative future use. Accelerated depreciation and other
related charges for certain manufacturing and R&D facilities were $104 million in 2016, $115 million in 2015 and $151 million in 2014.
Additional charges will continue to occur as a result of the Company’s restructuring actions announced in the fourth quarter of 2016.
Contingencies
In the normal course of business, we are subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business, that
cover a wide range of matters, including, among others, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental
liability, contractual claims and tax matters. We recognize accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be
incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict
and, as such, actual results could vary from these estimates.
For discussions on contingencies, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Contingencies,” “—Note 7.
Income Taxes” and “—Note 18. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Income Taxes
Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized.
The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including long-range forecasts
of future taxable income and evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to
earnings in the period when such assessments are made. Our deferred tax assets were $4.3 billion at December 31, 2016 (net of valuation
allowances of $3.1 billion) and $4.1 billion at December 31, 2015 (net of valuation allowances of $3.5 billion).
Deferred tax assets related to a U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforward of $129 million and a U.S. Federal tax credit carryforward
of $27 million were recognized at December 31, 2016. The net operating loss carryforward expires in varying amounts beginning in
2022. The U.S. Federal tax credit carryforward expires in varying amounts beginning in 2017. The realization of these carryforwards is
dependent on generating sufficient domestic-sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. An $11 million valuation allowance was
established for this item at December 31, 2016. Although not assured, we believe it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets
not valued will be realized.
Taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries expected to be reinvested indefinitely offshore.
Prior to the Mead Johnson split-off in 2009, the following transactions occurred: (i) an internal spin-off of Mead Johnson shares while
still owned by us; (ii) conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares; and; (iii) conversion of Mead Johnson & Company
to a limited liability company. These transactions as well as the split-off of Mead Johnson through the exchange offer should qualify as
tax-exempt transactions under the Internal Revenue Code based upon a private letter ruling received from the Internal Revenue Service
related to the conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares, and outside legal opinions.
Certain assumptions, representations and covenants by Mead Johnson were relied upon regarding the future conduct of its business and
other matters which could affect the tax treatment of the exchange. For example, the current tax law generally creates a presumption that
the exchange would be taxable to us, if Mead Johnson or its shareholders were to engage in transactions that result in a 50% or greater
change in its stock ownership during a four year period beginning two years before the exchange offer, unless it is established that the
exchange offer were not part of a plan or series of related transactions to effect such a change in ownership. If the internal spin-off or
exchange offer were determined not to qualify as a tax exempt transaction, the transaction could be subject to tax as if the exchange was
a taxable sale by us at market value.
21Bristol-Myers Squibb
In addition, a negative basis or ELA existed in our investment in stock of Mead Johnson prior to these transactions. We received an
opinion from outside legal counsel to the effect that it is more likely than not that we eliminated the ELA as part of these transactions
and do not have taxable income with respect to the ELA. The tax law in this area is complex and it is possible that even if the internal
spin-off and the exchange offer is tax exempt under the Internal Revenue Code, the IRS could assert that we have additional taxable
income for the period with respect to the ELA. We could be exposed to additional taxes if this were to occur. Based upon our understanding
of the Internal Revenue Code and opinion from outside legal counsel, a tax reserve of $244 million was established reducing the gain on
disposal of Mead Johnson included in discontinued operations in 2009.
We agreed to certain tax related indemnities with Mead Johnson as set forth in the tax sharing agreement, including certain taxes related
to its business prior to the completion of the IPO and created as part of the restructuring to facilitate the IPO. Mead Johnson has also
agreed to indemnify us for potential tax effects resulting from the breach of certain representations discussed above as well as certain
transactions related to the acquisition of Mead Johnson’s stock or assets.
Liabilities are established for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to,
transfer pricing matters, tax credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes
ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known. For example, additional
reserves of $123 million were established in 2014 for certain transfer pricing matters related to periods from 2008 through 2014.
For discussions on income taxes, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Income Taxes” and “—Note 7.
Income Taxes.”
Product and Pipeline Developments
Our R&D programs are managed on a portfolio basis from early discovery through late-stage development and include a balance of early-
stage and late-stage programs to support future growth. Our late stage R&D programs in Phase III development include both investigational
compounds for initial indications and additional indications or formulations for marketed products. Spending on these programs represent
approximately 30-45% of our annual R&D expenses in the last three years. No individual investigational compound or marketed product
represented 10% or more of our R&D expenses in any of the last three years, except Opdivo in both 2016 and 2015. Our late-stage
development programs could potentially have an impact on our revenue and earnings within the next few years if regulatory approvals
are obtained and products are successfully commercialized. The following are the developments in our marketed products and our late-
stage pipeline:
Product Indication Date Developments
December JMHLW manufacturing and marketing approval for the treatment of relapsed or refractory
2016 cHL, received by our alliance partner, Ono.
December BMS and Seattle Genetics, Inc. announced results from a Phase I/II study evaluating Adcetris*
2016 (brentuximab) in combination with Opdivo in relapsed or refractory cHL.
November EC approval for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory cHL after ASCT
2016 and treatment with brentuximab vedotin.
cHL Announced new results from CheckMate-205, a Phase II trial evaluating Opdivo in patients
October 2016 with cHL, including patients who had received brentuximab vedotin before and/or after auto-
HSCT.
Announced results from CheckMate-205, a Phase II trial evaluating Opdivo in patients with
June 2016
cHL.
Opdivo FDA approval for the treatment of patients with cHL who have relapsed or progressed after
May 2016
auto-HSCT and post-transplantation brentuximab vedotin.
Announced results of ONO-4538-12, a Phase III trial evaluating Opdivo in patients with
unresectable advanced or recurrent gastric cancer refractory to or intolerant of standard
January 2017
therapy. A November 2016 announcement stated that the study had met its primary endpoint.
Gastric cancer Ono, our alliance partner, conducted the trial.
December BMS's alliance partner, Ono, submitted a supplemental application for Opdivo for the
2016 treatment of unresectable advanced or recurrent gastric cancer.
Announced extended follow-up data from CA209-003, a Phase I trial evaluating Opdivo in
April 2016
heavily pretreated advanced melanoma patients.
Melanoma
FDA expanded the use of Opdivo as a single agent to include previously untreated BRAF
January 2016
mutation positive advanced melanoma patients.
222016 Annual Report
Product Indication Date Developments
FDA approval for the treatment of patients with previously treated locally advanced or mUC,
February 2017
a type of bladder cancer.
Announced results from CheckMate-275, a Phase II trial evaluating Opdivo in platinum-
October 2016
refractory patients with mUC.
mUC Announced the EMA validated the Company's type II variation application which seeks to
September
extend the current indications to include the treatment of locally advanced mUC in adults
2016
after failure of prior platinum-containing therapy.
Announced data from CheckMate-032, a Phase I/II trial evaluating Opdivo in patients with
June 2016
mUC after platinum-based therapy.
Announced updated results from two Phase III trials (CheckMate-057 and CheckMate-017)
October 2016
evaluating Opdivo in previously treated metastatic NSCLC patients.
Presented the final primary analysis of CheckMate-026, a Phase III trial evaluating Opdivo
as a first-line monotherapy in patients with advanced NSCLC whose tumors expressed PD-
October 2016
NSCLC L1 1%. The top line results were disclosed in August 2016 and showed CheckMate-026
did not meet the primary endpoint of superior PFS.
Announced data from two Phase III trials (CheckMate-017 and CheckMate-057) evaluating
May 2016
Opdivo versus docetaxel in previously treated metastatic NSCLC.
Opdivo April 2016 EC approval for the treatment of previously treated patients with metastatic NSQ NSCLC.
JMHLW manufacturing and marketing approval for the treatment of unresectable or
August 2016
metastatic RCC, received by our alliance partner, Ono.
Announced long-term results from two dose-ranging studies, the Phase I CA209-003 study
RCC
June 2016 and the Phase II CA209-010 study, evaluating Opdivo in patients with previously treated
advanced RCC.
April 2016 EC approval for the treatment of previously treated patients with advanced RCC.
November FDA approval for the treatment of patients with SCCHN with disease progression on or after
2016 platinum-based therapy.
Announced new data from CheckMate-141, a Phase III trial evaluating Opdivo in patients
October 2016 with recurrent or metastatic SCCHN after platinum therapy compared to investigator's choice
of therapy.
SCCHN The EMA validated and in Japan BMS's alliance partner Ono submitted applications for
July 2016
Opdivo for patients with previously treated recurrent or metastatic SCCHN.
Announced data from CheckMate-141, a Phase III trial evaluating Opdivo in patients with
recurrent or metastatic SCCHN after platinum therapy compared to investigator's choice of
April 2016
therapy. In January 2016, CheckMate-141 was stopped early due to the DMC concluding
that the study met its primary endpoint.
Announced data from CheckMate-142, a Phase II trial evaluating Opdivo alone or in
Colorectal cancer June 2016 combination with Yervoy in patients with previously treated metastatic colorectal cancer,
including those with MSI-H.
Announced results from two trials (CheckMate-067 - Phase III; CheckMate-069 - Phase II)
June 2016 evaluating the Opdivo+Yervoy combination regimen in previously untreated advanced
melanoma.
EC approval for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic melanoma, regardless of BRAF
May 2016
Melanoma mutational status.
Announced data from CheckMate-069, Phase II trial evaluating the Opdivo+Yervoy
April 2016
combination regimen in previously untreated advanced melanoma.
FDA expanded use for the treatment of previously untreated unresectable or metastatic
January 2016
Opdivo+Yervoy melanoma, regardless of BRAF mutational status.
Announced additional results from CheckMate-032, a Phase I/II trial investigating two
November
mUC combination schedules of Opdivo+Yervoy in patients with locally advanced or mUC
2016
previously treated with platinum-based therapy.
Announced updated findings from CheckMate-012, a Phase Ib trial evaluating Opdivo
December
NSCLC monotherapy or in combination with Yervoy in patients with chemotherapy-naïve advanced
2016
NSCLC. Data was previously announced in June 2016.
Announced updated results from CheckMate-016, a Phase I trial evaluating the Opdivo+
RCC October 2016 Yervoy combination regimen in previously treated and treatment-naïve patients with
metastatic RCC.
December Announced updated results from CheckMate-032, a phase I/II trial evaluating Opdivo
SCLC
2016 monotherapy and in combination with Yervoy in previously treated SCLC patients.
23Bristol-Myers Squibb
Product Indication Date Developments
September JMHLW manufacturing and marketing approval in combination with Revlimid*
2016 (lenalidomide) and dexamethasone for the treatment of multiple myeloma.
Empliciti Multiple Myeloma
EC approval for the treatment of multiple myeloma as combination therapy with Revlimid*
May 2016
and dexamethasone in patients who have received at least one prior therapy.
Announced new data from CA184-029, a Phase III trial evaluating Yervoy in stage III
Yervoy Melanoma October 2016
melanoma patients who are at high risk of recurrence following complete surgical resection.
September EC approval in combination with MTX for the treatment of highly active and progressive
2016 disease in adult patients with RA not previously treated with MTX.
Announced the commercial launch of the Orencia ClickJect Autoinjector, a new self-
July 2016
Orencia RA administered autoinjector for adults with moderate to severe RA.
Presented findings from the first U.S. observational study exploring moderate to severe RA
June 2016 patients' response to treatment based on their baseline status for two biomarkers of poor
prognosis, anti-CCP and RF.
December JMHLW manufacturing and marketing approval of Ximency combination tablet which
2016 contains daclatasvir, asunaprevir and beclabuvir for the treatment of HCV in genotype 1.
FDA approval of Daklinza for use with sofosbuvir for the treatment of chronic HCV in
February 2016
Hepatitis C genotypes 1 and 3 in three additional patient populations.
HCV
Portfolio Announced results from the first completed all-oral chronic HCV regimen (Daklinza in
February 2016
combination with asunaprevir) Phase III trial that includes a Chinese patient population.
EC approval of Daklinza for use with sofosbuvir for the treatment of chronic HCV in three
January 2016
new patient populations.
EC approval for Reyataz oral powder indicated in HIV-infected children at least 3 months/5
Reyataz HIV June 2016
kg and the optimized Reyataz capsule pediatric dosing recommendations.
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This annual report on Form 10-K (including documents incorporated by reference) and other written and oral statements we make from
time to time contain certain “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the fact they use words such as “should”,
“expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “target”, “may”, “project”, “guidance”, “intend”, “plan”, “believe” and other words and terms of
similar meaning and expression in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. One can also identify
forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements are
based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of
them, and could cause actual outcomes to differ materially from current expectations. These statements are likely to relate to, among
other things, our goals, plans and projections regarding our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, market position, product
development, product approvals, sales efforts, expenses, performance or results of current and anticipated products and the outcome of
contingencies such as legal proceedings and financial results, which are based on current expectations that involve inherent risks and
uncertainties, including internal or external factors that could delay, divert or change any of them in the next several years. We have
included important factors in the cautionary statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly under “Item 1A. Risk
Factors,” that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.
Although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in
forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only
as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.
242016 Annual Report
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
We are exposed to market risk resulting from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Certain derivative financial instruments
are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge our underlying economic exposure. All of our financial instruments, including
derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk considered as part of the overall fair value measurement. Derivative financial instruments
are not used for trading purposes.
Foreign Exchange Risk
Significant amounts of our revenues, earnings and cash flow are exposed to changes in foreign currency rates. Our primary net foreign
currency translation exposures are the euro, Japanese yen and Chinese renminbi. Foreign currency forward contracts used to manage risk
which primarily arises from certain intercompany purchase transactions are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges when
appropriate. In addition, we are exposed to foreign exchange transaction risk arising from non-functional currency denominated assets
and liabilities and earnings denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies. Foreign currency forward contracts used to offset these exposures
are not designated as hedges.
We estimate that a 10% appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar (with all other
variables held constant) would decrease the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts by $86 million at December 31, 2016,
reducing earnings over the remaining life of the contracts.
We are also exposed to translation risk on non-U.S. dollar-denominated net assets. Non-U.S. dollar borrowings are used to hedge the
foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates and are designated as hedges of net investments. The effective
portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges is included in the foreign currency translation component of accumulated
other comprehensive income/(loss). If our net investment decreases below the equivalent value of the non-U.S. debt borrowings, the
change in the remeasurement basis of the debt would be subject to recognition in income as changes occur. For additional information,
refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 9. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements.”
Interest Rate Risk
We use fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges and forward starting interest rate swap contracts
designated as cash flow hedges as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. These contracts are intended to provide us with an
appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt, and forward starting swap contracts are used to manage the interest rate of future debt
issuances. We estimate that an increase of 100 basis points in short-term or long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of our
interest rate swap contracts by $36 million, or a decrease of 100 basis points in short-term or long-term interest rates would decrease the
fair value of our forward starting interest rate swap contracts by $125 million, thereby reducing earnings over the remaining life of the
contracts.
We estimate that an increase of 100 basis points in long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of long-term debt by $513
million. Our marketable securities are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors.
Our policy is to invest only in institutions that meet high credit quality standards. We estimate that an increase of 100 basis points in
interest rates in general would decrease the fair value of our debt investment portfolio by approximately $68 million.
Credit Risk
Although not material, certain European government-backed entities with a higher risk of default, such as Greece, Portugal, Italy and
Spain, are monitored through economic factors, including credit ratings, credit-default swap rates, debt-to-gross domestic product ratios
and other entity specific factors. Historically, our exposure was limited by factoring receivables. Our credit exposures in Europe may
increase in the future due to reductions in our factoring arrangements and the ongoing sovereign debt crisis.
We monitor our investments with counterparties with the objective of minimizing concentrations of credit risk. Our investment policy
establishes limits on the amount and time to maturity of investments with any individual counterparty. The policy also requires that
investments are only entered into with corporate and financial institutions that meet high credit quality standards.
The use of derivative instruments exposes us to credit risk. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is positive, we are
exposed to credit risk if the counterparty fails to perform. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is negative, the counterparty
is exposed to credit risk if we fail to perform our obligation. Collateral is not required by any party whether derivatives are in an asset or
liability position. We have a policy of diversifying derivatives with counterparties to mitigate the overall risk of counterparty defaults.
For additional information, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 9. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements.”
25Bristol-Myers Squibb
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
Dollars and Shares in Millions, Except Per Share Data
Year Ended December 31,
EARNINGS 2016 2015 2014
Net product sales $ 17,702 $ 14,045 $ 11,660
Alliance and other revenues 1,725 2,515 4,219
Total Revenues 19,427 16,560 15,879
Cost of products sold 4,946 3,909 3,932
Marketing, selling and administrative 4,911 4,841 4,822
Research and development 4,940 5,920 4,534
Other (income)/expense (1,285) (187) 210
Total Expenses 13,512 14,483 13,498
Earnings Before Income Taxes 5,915 2,077 2,381
Provision for Income Taxes 1,408 446 352
Net Earnings 4,507 1,631 2,029
Net Earnings Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest 50 66 25
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS $ 4,457 $ 1,565 $ 2,004
Earnings per Common Share
Basic $ 2.67 $ 0.94 $ 1.21
Diluted $ 2.65 $ 0.93 $ 1.20
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.53 $ 1.49 $ 1.45
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Dollars in Millions
Year Ended December 31,
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 2016 2015 2014
Net Earnings $ 4,507 $ 1,631 $ 2,029
Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss), net of taxes and reclassifications to earnings:
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges 4 (51) 69
Pension and postretirement benefits (17) 101 (324)
Available-for-sale securities 16 (54) 3
Foreign currency translation (38) (39) (32)
Total Other Comprehensive Loss (35) (43) (284)
Comprehensive Income 4,472 1,588 1,745
Comprehensive Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest 50 66 25
Comprehensive Income Attributable to BMS $ 4,422 $ 1,522 $ 1,720
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
262016 Annual Report
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Dollars in Millions, Except Share and Per Share Data
December 31,
ASSETS 2016 2015
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,237 $ 2,385
Marketable securities 2,113 1,885
Receivables 5,543 4,299
Inventories 1,241 1,221
Prepaid expenses and other 570 625
Total Current Assets 13,704 10,415
Property, plant and equipment 4,980 4,412
Goodwill 6,875 6,881
Other intangible assets 1,385 1,419
Deferred income taxes 2,996 2,844
Marketable securities 2,719 4,660
Other assets 1,048 1,117
Total Assets $ 33,707 $ 31,748
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt $ 992 $ 139
Accounts payable 1,664 1,565
Accrued liabilities 5,271 4,738
Deferred income 762 1,003
Income taxes payable 152 572
Total Current Liabilities 8,841 8,017
Deferred income 547 586
Income taxes payable 973 742
Pension and other liabilities 1,283 1,429
Long-term debt 5,716 6,550
Total Liabilities 17,360 17,324
Commitments and contingencies (Note 18)
EQUITY
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Shareholders’ Equity:
Preferred stock, $2 convertible series, par value $1 per share: Authorized 10 million shares; issued and outstanding
4,129 in 2016 and 4,161 in 2015, liquidation value of $50 per share — —
Common stock, par value of $0.10 per share: Authorized 4.5 billion shares; 2.2 billion issued in both 2016 and 2015
221 221
Capital in excess of par value of stock 1,725 1,459
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (2,503) (2,468)
Retained earnings 33,513 31,613
Less cost of treasury stock — 536 million common shares in 2016 and 539 million in 2015 (16,779) (16,559)
Total Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Shareholders' Equity 16,177 14,266
Noncontrolling interest 170 158
Total Equity 16,347 14,424
Total Liabilities and Equity $ 33,707 $ 31,748
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
27Bristol-Myers Squibb
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Dollars in Millions
Year Ended December 31,
2016 2015 2014
Cash Flows From Operating Activities:
Net earnings $ 4,507 $ 1,631 $ 2,029
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization, net 382 376 467
Deferred income taxes (204) (347) (542)
Stock-based compensation 205 235 213
Impairment charges 108 192 401
Pension settlements and amortization 169 245 971
Divestiture gains and royalties, net (1,187) (490) (760)
Asset acquisition charges 274 983 148
Other adjustments (44) 15 (21)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Receivables (803) (942) (252)
Inventories (152) 97 (254)
Accounts payable 104 (919) (44)
Deferred income (64) 218 613
Income taxes payable (545) 47 171
Other 100 491 8
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 2,850 1,832 3,148
Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
Sale and maturities of marketable securities 4,809 2,794 4,095
Purchase of marketable securities (3,089) (3,143) (5,719)
Capital expenditures (1,215) (820) (526)
Divestiture and other proceeds 1,334 708 3,585
Acquisition and other payments (359) (1,111) (219)
Net Cash Provided by/(Used in) Investing Activities 1,480 (1,572) 1,216
Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
Short-term borrowings, net 125 (449) 244
Issuance of long-term debt — 1,268 —
Repayment of long-term debt (15) (1,957) (676)
Interest rate swap contract terminations 42 (2) 105
Issuance of common stock 181 266 288
Repurchase of common stock (231) — —
Dividends (2,547) (2,477) (2,398)
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities (2,445) (3,351) (2,437)
Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash and Cash Equivalents (33) (95) 58
Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 1,852 (3,186) 1,985
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 2,385 5,571 3,586
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year $ 4,237 $ 2,385 $ 5,571
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
282016 Annual Report
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP, including the accounts of Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company and all of its controlled majority-owned subsidiaries and certain variable interest entities. All intercompany balances and
transactions are eliminated. Material subsequent events are evaluated and disclosed through the report issuance date. Refer to the Summary
of Abbreviated Terms at the end of this 2016 Annual Report for terms used throughout the document.
Alliance and license arrangements are assessed to determine whether the terms provide economic or other control over the entity requiring
consolidation of an entity. Entities controlled by means other than a majority voting interest are referred to as variable interest entities
and are consolidated when BMS has both the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity that most significantly impacts
its economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the
entity.
Use of Estimates and Judgments
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of management estimates, judgments and assumptions. The most significant
assumptions are estimates in determining the fair value and potential impairment of intangible assets; sales rebate and return accruals;
legal contingencies; income taxes; estimated selling prices used in multiple element arrangements; determining if an acquisition or
divestiture is a business or an asset; and pension and postretirement benefits. Actual results may differ from estimated results.
Reclassifications
Certain prior period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. The reclassifications provide a more concise
financial statement presentation and additional information is disclosed in the notes if material.
Prior Presentation Current Presentation
Consolidated Included in Marketing, selling and administrative
Advertising and product promotion
Statements of Earnings expenses
Assets held-for-sale Included in Prepaid expenses and other
Accrued expenses
Consolidated Balance Accrued rebates and returns Combined as Accrued liabilities
Sheets Dividends payable
Pension, postretirement and postemployment liabilities
Combined as Pension and other liabilities
Other liabilities
Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest Included in Other adjustments
Consolidated Statements
Divestiture gains and royalties included in Other adjustments Divestiture gains and royalties
of Cash Flows
Asset acquisition charges included in Other adjustments Asset acquisition charges
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the sales price is fixed or determinable, collectability is
reasonably assured and title and substantially all risks and rewards of ownership are transferred, generally at time of shipment (including
the supply of commercial products to alliance partners when they are the principal in the end customer sale). However, certain revenue
of non-U.S. businesses is recognized on the date of receipt by the customer. Alliance and other revenue related to Abilify* and Atripla*
is not recognized until the products are sold to the end customer by the alliance partner. Royalties are recognized when the third-party
sales are reliably measurable and collectability is reasonably assured. Refer to “—Note 3. Alliances” for further detail regarding alliances.
Revenue is reduced at the time of recognition for expected sales returns, discounts, rebates and sales allowances based on historical
experience updated for changes in facts and circumstances including the impact of applicable healthcare legislation. Revenue is deferred
when there is no historical experience with products in a similar therapeutic category or with similar operational characteristics, or until
the right of return no longer exists or sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns is developed.
29Bristol-Myers Squibb
Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes includes income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the change in deferred taxes during the
year. Deferred taxes result from differences between the financial and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in
tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely
than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant
judgment including the long-range forecast of future taxable income and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the
deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made.
Tax benefits are recognized from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on
examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit recognized in the financial statements
for a particular tax position is based on the largest benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include bank deposits, time deposits, commercial paper and money market funds. Cash equivalents consist of
highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase and are recognized at cost, which
approximates fair value.
Marketable Securities and Investments in Other Companies
Marketable securities are classified as “available-for-sale” on the date of purchase and reported at fair value. Fair value is determined
based on observable market quotes or valuation models using assessments of counterparty credit worthiness, credit default risk or
underlying security and overall capital market liquidity.
Investments in 50% or less owned companies are accounted for using the equity method of accounting when the ability to exercise
significant influence is maintained. The share of net income or losses of equity investments is included in other (income)/expense. Equity
investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing if the decline in market value of the investment below the carrying value is other
than temporary, which considers the intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated
recovery in market value, the duration and extent that the market value has been less than cost and the investee's financial condition.
Inventory Valuation
Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market.
Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation
Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalized at cost. Depreciation is computed on a straight-line method based
on the estimated useful lives of the related assets ranging from 20 to 50 years for buildings and 3 to 20 years for machinery, equipment
and fixtures.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Current facts or circumstances are periodically evaluated to determine if the carrying value of depreciable assets to be held and used may
not be recoverable. If such circumstances exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows generated by the long-lived asset, or
appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists at its lowest level of identifiable
cash flows. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset’s fair value and its
carrying value. An estimate of the asset’s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. If quoted market
prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques using unobservable fair value inputs, such as
a discounted value of estimated future cash flows.
Capitalized Software
Eligible costs to obtain internal use software are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software.
302016 Annual Report
Acquisitions
Businesses acquired are consolidated upon obtaining control. The fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at
the date of acquisition. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill.
Business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred. Contingent consideration from potential development, regulatory, approval and
sales-based milestones and sales-based royalties are included in the purchase price for business combinations and are excluded for asset
acquisitions. Amounts allocated to the lead investigational compounds for asset acquisitions are expensed at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill, Acquired In-Process Research and Development and Other Intangible Assets
The fair value of intangible assets is typically determined using the “income method” utilizing Level 3 fair value inputs. The market
participant valuations assume a global view considering all potential jurisdictions and indications based on discounted after-tax cash flow
projections, risk adjusted for estimated probability of technical and regulatory success (for IPRD).
Finite-lived intangible assets, including licenses, developed technology rights and IPRD projects that reach commercialization are
amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life. Estimated useful lives are determined considering the period the assets
are expected to contribute to future cash flows.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment by assessing qualitative factors or performing a quantitative analysis in determining
whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of net assets are below their carrying amounts. Examples of qualitative factors assessed
in 2016 include our share price, financial performance compared to budgets, long-term financial plans, macroeconomic, industry and
market conditions as well as the substantial excess of fair value over the carrying value of net assets from the annual impairment test
performed in a prior year. Each relevant factor is assessed both individually and in the aggregate.
IPRD is tested for impairment on an annual basis and more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate a
potential reduction in the fair values of the assets below their carrying value. If the carrying value of IPRD is determined to exceed the
fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference.
Finite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of the asset may not
be recoverable. If the carrying value exceeds the projected undiscounted pretax cash flows of the intangible asset, an impairment loss
equal to the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value (discounted after-tax cash flows) is recognized.
Restructuring
Restructuring charges are recognized as a result of actions to streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities. Estimating
the impact of restructuring plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs requires judgment. Actual results could vary
from these estimates.
Contingencies
Loss contingencies from legal proceedings and claims may occur from a wide range of matters, including government investigations,
shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability, contractual claims and tax matters. Accruals are recognized when it is probable
that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Gain contingencies (including contingent proceeds
related to the divestitures) are not recognized until realized. Legal fees are expensed as incurred.
Shipping and Handling Costs
Shipping and handling costs are included in marketing, selling and administrative expenses and were $70 million in 2016, $85 million
in 2015 and $115 million in 2014.
Advertising and Product Promotion Costs
Advertising and product promotion costs are included in marketing, selling and administrative expenses and were $789 million in 2016,
$825 million in 2015 and $734 million in 2014. Advertising and product promotion costs are expensed as incurred.
Foreign Currency Translation
Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are
translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries
at changing rates are recognized in OCI.
31Bristol-Myers Squibb
Research and Development
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical study costs are accrued over the service periods specified in the
contracts and adjusted as necessary based upon an ongoing review of the level of effort and costs actually incurred. Strategic alliances
with third parties provide licensing rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are
owned by the other party. Research and development is recognized net of reimbursements in connection with alliance agreements. Upfront
and contingent milestone payments for asset acquisitions of investigational compounds are also included in research and development
expenses.
Cash Flow
Upfront and contingent milestone payments for licensing of investigational compounds are included in operating activities and asset or
business acquisitions are included in investing activities. Divestiture proceeds are included in investing activities as well as royalties and
other consideration received subsequent to the related sale of the asset or business. Other adjustments reflected in operating activities
include divestiture gains and losses and related royalties, research and development asset acquisition charges, gains and losses on debt
redemption and changes in the fair value of written option liabilities.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition, which requires an entity to recognize the amount
of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The new standard and its
subsequent amendments that were issued will replace most of the existing revenue recognition standards in U.S. GAAP when it becomes
effective on January 1, 2018. A five step model will be utilized to achieve the core principle; (1) identify the customer contract, (2) identify
the contract’s performance obligation, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligation
and (5) recognize revenue when or as a performance obligation is satisfied. The new standard can be applied retrospectively to each prior
reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of the change recognized at the date of the initial application in
retained earnings. Disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows from customer contracts
will also be required.
The Company’s assessment of the new standard’s impact is substantially complete based on our current contracts. We currently believe
the timing of recognizing revenue for the typical net product sale to our customers will not significantly change. However, the new
standard will no longer require the transaction price to be fixed or determinable and certain variable consideration might be recognized
prior to the occurrence or resolution of the contingent event (subject to a revenue reversal constraint). As a result, certain revenue previously
deferred under the current standard because the transaction price was not fixed or determinable (e.g. early access programs) will be
accounted for as variable consideration and might be recognized earlier provided such terms are sufficient to reliably estimate the ultimate
price expected to be realized.
In addition, future royalties related to certain alliance arrangements (e.g. Sanofi and Japan Erbitux* arrangements disclosed in "—Note
3. Alliances") will be estimated and recognized prior to the third party sale occurring provided it is not probable that the estimated amounts
would be reversed in the future. However, the timing of royalties, sales-based milestones and other forms of contingent consideration
resulting from the divestiture of businesses (e.g. the diabetes and North American Erbitux* businesses disclosed in "—Note 3. Alliances")
as well as royalties and sales-based royalties from licensing arrangements is not expected to change. The new standard’s guidance
pertaining to the separation of licensing rights and related fee recognition is not expected to significantly change the timing of recognizing
revenue in our existing alliance arrangements that are currently generating revenue.
The Company currently anticipates to adopt the new standard on a modified retrospective basis with the cumulative effect of the change
reflected in retained earnings as of January 1, 2018 and not restate prior periods. As a result, certain future royalties discussed above will
be estimated and presented as a cumulative effect of an accounting change and excluded from the results of operations beginning in 2018
(other than subsequent significant revisions to the estimated amounts). Variable consideration pertaining to similar arrangements entered
into subsequent to the adoption of the new standard will also need to be estimated and accounted for in a comparable manner but the
initial estimate will be reflected in revenue and assessed each subsequent reporting period. No significant changes to business processes,
systems and controls are currently expected to be required.
In January 2016, the FASB issued amended guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosures of financial
instruments effective January 1, 2018 with early adoption not permitted. The new guidance requires that fair value adjustments for equity
securities with readily determinable fair values currently classified as available-for-sale be reported through earnings. The new guidance
also requires a qualitative impairment assessment for equity investments without a readily determinable fair value and a charge through
earnings if an impairment exists. The Company does not expect the amended standard to have a material impact on the Company’s results
of operations.
322016 Annual Report
In February 2016, the FASB issued amended guidance on lease accounting. The amended guidance requires the recognition of a right-
of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of future lease payments for leases with a term longer than 12
months. The guidance is effective beginning in 2019 with early adoption permitted on a modified retrospective approach. Although the
Company’s assessment of the amended standard has not been completed, minimal impacts to the results of operations are expected. The
undiscounted value of lease obligations is approximately $800 million at December 31, 2016, consisting primarily of facility leases
accounted for as operating leases. The initial right-of-use asset and lease liability amount reflected upon adoption will be subject to several
factors including the actual lease portfolio from the earliest date of initial application, selection of an appropriate discount rate and
determining the individual fixed lease payments and terms including renewal periods reasonably certain to occur.
In March 2016, the FASB issued amended guidance for share-based payment transactions. Excess tax benefits and deficiencies will be
recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings rather than capital in excess of par value of stock on a prospective basis. A policy
election will be available to account for forfeitures as they occur, with the cumulative effect of the change recognized as an adjustment
to retained earnings at the date of adoption. Excess tax benefits within the consolidated statement of cash flows will be presented as an
operating activity (prospective or retrospective application) and cash payments to tax authorities in connection with shares withheld for
statutory tax withholding requirements will be presented as a financing activity (retrospective application). The guidance is effective
beginning in 2017. The expected reduction of income tax expense for excess tax benefits in 2017 is not expected to be material. The
Company will continue its current practice relating to accounting for forfeitures. The cash flow presentation changes discussed above
will increase net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in financing activities by $208 million in 2016 and $273 million
in 2015.
In June 2016, the FASB issued amended guidance for the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. Entities will be required
to use a forward-looking estimated loss model. Available-for-sale debt security credit losses will be recognized as allowances rather than
a reduction in amortized cost. The guidance is effective beginning in 2020 with early adoption permitted in 2019 on a modified retrospective
approach. The Company does not expect the amended standard to have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations.
In October 2016, the FASB issued amended guidance on income tax accounting for intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The amended guidance requires that the tax consequences of transfers of assets between members of a consolidated group be recognized
in the period the transfer takes place (excluding inventory). The guidance is effective beginning in 2018 with early adoption permitted
in the first quarter of 2017 on a modified retrospective approach. The Company will early adopt the amended standard beginning in the
first quarter of 2017. As a result, prepaid receivables and deferred tax assets attributed to internal intellectual property transfers of
approximately $1 billion will be reduced as a cumulative effect of an accounting change in retained earnings and no longer amortized as
a component of income taxes ($86 million per year). In addition, the tax impact of future internal transfers of intellectual property will
be included in income tax expense when transferred and not amortized in subsequent periods.
In January 2017, the FASB issued amended guidance that revises the definition of a business. The amendments provide an initial screen
that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired or disposed of is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a
group of similar identifiable assets, the assets would not represent a business. To be considered a business, there must be an input and a
substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. To be a business without outputs, there will need
to be an organized workforce. The amendments also narrow the definition of the term outputs. The guidance is effective beginning in
2018 with early adoption permitted prospectively. The Company is assessing the potential impact of the amended standard.
In January 2017, the FASB issued amended guidance that simplifies the recognition and measurement of a goodwill impairment loss by
eliminating Step 2 of the quantitative impairment test. As a result, impairment charges will be required for the amount by which the
reporting units carrying amount exceeds its fair value up to the amount of its allocated goodwill. The guidance is effective on a prospective
basis in 2020, with early adoption permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017. The
Company does not expect the amended standard to have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations.
33Bristol-Myers Squibb
Note 2 BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
BMS operates in a single segment engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of
innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. A global research and development organization and supply chain
organization are responsible for the discovery, development, manufacturing and supply of products. Regional commercial organizations
market, distribute and sell the products. The business is also supported by global corporate staff functions. Segment information is
consistent with the financial information regularly reviewed by the chief executive officer for purposes of evaluating performance,
allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting future periods.
Products are sold principally to wholesalers, and to a lesser extent, directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies
and pharmacies. Gross revenues to the three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of global gross revenues were
as follows:
2016 2015 2014
McKesson Corporation 22% 21% 20%
AmerisourceBergen Corporation 18% 16% 17%
Cardinal Health, Inc. 14% 12% 12%
Selected geographic area information was as follows:
Revenues Property, Plant and Equipment
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015
United States $ 10,720 $ 8,188 $ 7,716 $ 3,865 $ 3,681
Europe 4,215 3,491 3,592 1,003 616
Rest of the World(a) 3,964 4,142 3,459 112 115
Other(b) 528 739 1,112 — —
Total $ 19,427 $ 16,560 $ 15,879 $ 4,980 $ 4,412
(a) Includes Japan which represented 7%, 10% and 6% of total revenues in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
(b) Other revenues include royalties and alliance-related revenues for products not sold by our regional commercial organizations.
Product revenues were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Oncology
Empliciti (elotuzumab) $ 150 $ 3 $ —
Erbitux* (cetuximab) — 501 723
Opdivo (nivolumab) 3,774 942 6
Sprycel (dasatinib) 1,824 1,620 1,493
Yervoy (ipilimumab) 1,053 1,126 1,308
Cardiovascular
Eliquis (apixaban) 3,343 1,860 774
Immunoscience
Orencia (abatacept) 2,265 1,885 1,652
Virology
Baraclude (entecavir) 1,192 1,312 1,441
Hepatitis C Franchise 1,578 1,603 256
Reyataz (atazanavir sulfate) Franchise 912 1,139 1,362
Sustiva (efavirenz) Franchise 1,065 1,252 1,444
Neuroscience
Abilify* (aripiprazole) 128 746 2,020
Mature Products and All Other 2,143 2,571 3,400
Total Revenues $ 19,427 $ 16,560 $ 15,879
342016 Annual Report
The composition of total revenues was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Net product sales $ 17,702 $ 14,045 $ 11,660
Alliance revenues 1,629 2,408 3,828
Other revenues 96 107 391
Total Revenues $ 19,427 $ 16,560 $ 15,879
Note 3 ALLIANCES
BMS enters into collaboration arrangements with third parties for the development and commercialization of certain products. Although
each of these arrangements is unique in nature, both parties are active participants in the operating activities of the collaboration and
exposed to significant risks and rewards depending on the commercial success of the activities. BMS may either in-license intellectual
property owned by the other party or out-license its intellectual property to the other party. These arrangements also typically include
research, development, manufacturing, and/or commercial activities and can cover a single investigational compound or commercial
product or multiple compounds and/or products in various life cycle stages. The rights and obligations of the parties can be global or
limited to geographic regions. We refer to these collaborations as alliances and our partners as alliance partners. Several products such
as Empliciti, Erbitux*, Opdivo, Sprycel, Yervoy, Eliquis, Orencia, Sustiva (Atripla*) and Abilify* as well as products comprising the
diabetes alliance discussed below and certain mature and other brands were included in alliance arrangements.
Payments between alliance partners are accounted for and presented in the results of operations after considering the specific nature of
the payment and the underlying activities to which the payments relate. Multiple alliance activities, including the transfer of rights, are
only separated into individual units of accounting if they have standalone value from other activities that occur over the life of the
arrangements. In these situations, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the activities or rights on a relative selling price basis. If
multiple alliance activities or rights do not have standalone value, they are combined into a single unit of accounting.
The most common activities between BMS and its alliance partners are presented in results of operations as follows:
• When BMS is the principal in the end customer sale, 100% of product sales are included in net product sales. When BMS's
alliance partner is the principal in the end customer sale, BMS's contractual share of the third-party sales and/or royalty income
are included in alliance revenue as the sale of commercial products are considered part of BMS's ongoing major or central
operations. Refer to "Revenue Recognition" included in "—Note 1. Accounting Policies" for information regarding recognition
criteria.
• Amounts payable to BMS by alliance partners (who are the principal in the end customer sale) for supply of commercial products
are included in alliance revenue as the sale of commercial products are considered part of BMS's ongoing major or central
operations.
• Profit sharing, royalties and other sales-based fees payable by BMS to alliance partners are included in cost of products sold as
incurred.
• Cost reimbursements between the parties are recognized as incurred and included in cost of products sold; marketing, selling
and administrative expenses; or research and development expenses, based on the underlying nature of the related activities
subject to reimbursement.
• Upfront and contingent development and approval milestones payable to BMS by alliance partners for investigational compounds
and commercial products are deferred and amortized over the shorter of the contractual term or the periods in which the related
compounds or products are expected to contribute to future cash flows. The amortization is presented consistent with the nature
of the payment under the arrangement. For example, amounts received for investigational compounds are presented in other
(income)/expense as the activities being performed at that time are not related to the sale of commercial products that are part
of BMS’s ongoing major or central operations; amounts received for commercial products are presented in alliance revenue as
the sale of commercial products are considered part of BMS’s ongoing major or central operations (except for the AstraZeneca
alliance pertaining to the Amylin products - see further discussion under the specific AstraZeneca alliance disclosure herein).
• Upfront and contingent approval milestones payable by BMS to alliance partners for commercial products are capitalized and
amortized over the shorter of the contractual term or the periods in which the related products are expected to contribute to future
cash flows. The amortization is included in cost of products sold.
• Upfront and contingent milestones payable by BMS to alliance partners prior to regulatory approval are expensed as incurred
and included in research and development expenses.
• Royalties and other contingent consideration payable to BMS by alliance partners related to the divestiture of such businesses
are included in other income when earned.
35Bristol-Myers Squibb
• Equity in net income of affiliates is included in other (income)/expense.
• All payments between BMS and its alliance partners are presented in cash flows from operating activities, except as otherwise
described below.
Selected financial information pertaining to our alliances was as follows, including net product sales when BMS is the principal in the
third-party customer sale for products subject to the alliance. Expenses summarized below do not include all amounts attributed to the
activities for the products in the alliance, but only the payments between the alliance partners or the related amortization if the payments
were deferred or capitalized.
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Revenues from alliances:
Net product sales $ 5,568 $ 4,308 $ 3,531
Alliance revenues 1,629 2,408 3,828
Total Revenues $ 7,197 $ 6,716 $ 7,359
Payments to/(from) alliance partners:
Cost of products sold $ 2,129 $ 1,655 $ 1,394
Marketing, selling and administrative (28) 15 134
Research and development 56 693 8
Other (income)/expense (1,009) (733) (1,076)
Noncontrolling interest, pretax 16 51 38
Selected Alliance Balance Sheet Information: December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Receivables – from alliance partners $ 903 $ 958
Accounts payable – to alliance partners 555 542
Deferred income from alliances(a) 1,194 1,459
(a) Includes unamortized upfront, milestone and other licensing proceeds, revenue deferrals attributed to Atripla* and undelivered elements of diabetes business divestiture
proceeds. Amortization of deferred income (primarily related to alliances) was $244 million in 2016, $307 million in 2015 and $362 million in 2014.
Upfront payments for new licensing and alliance agreements (including options to license or acquire the related assets) charged to research
and development expenses were $15 million in 2016, $619 million in 2015 and $70 million in 2014.
Specific information pertaining to each of our significant alliances is discussed below, including their nature and purpose; the significant
rights and obligations of the parties; specific accounting policy elections; and the income statement classification of and amounts
attributable to payments between the parties.
Pfizer
BMS and Pfizer are parties to a worldwide co-development and co-commercialization agreement for Eliquis, an anticoagulant discovered
by BMS. Pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. Profits and losses are shared equally on
a global basis except in certain countries where Pfizer commercializes Eliquis and pays BMS compensation based on a percentage of net
sales.
Upon entering into the agreement, co-exclusive license rights for the product were granted to Pfizer in exchange for an upfront payment
and potential milestone payments. Both parties assumed certain obligations to actively participate in the alliance and actively participate
in a joint executive committee and various other operating committees and have joint responsibilities for the research, development,
distribution, sales and marketing activities of the alliance using resources in their own infrastructures. BMS manufactures the product in
the alliance and is the principal in the end customer product sales in the U.S., significant countries in Europe, as well as Canada, Australia,
China, Japan and South Korea. In 2015, BMS transferred full commercialization rights to Pfizer in certain smaller countries in order to
simplify operations. In the transferred countries, BMS supplies the product to Pfizer at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-
customers.
The Company determined the rights transferred to Pfizer did not have standalone value as such rights were not sold separately by BMS
or any other party, nor could Pfizer receive any benefit for the delivered rights without the fulfillment of other ongoing obligations by
BMS under the alliance agreement, including the exclusive supply arrangement. As such, the global alliance was treated as a single unit
of accounting and upfront proceeds and any subsequent contingent milestone proceeds are amortized over the life of the related product.
362016 Annual Report
BMS received $884 million in non-refundable upfront, milestone and other licensing payments related to Eliquis through December 31,
2016. Amortization of the Eliquis deferred income is included in other income as Eliquis was not a commercial product at the
commencement of the alliance.
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Revenues from Pfizer alliance:
Net product sales $ 3,306 $ 1,849 $ 771
Alliance revenues 37 11 3
Total Revenues $ 3,343 $ 1,860 $ 774
Payments to/(from) Pfizer:
Cost of products sold – Profit sharing $ 1,595 $ 895 $ 363
Other (income)/expense – Amortization of deferred income (55) (55) (50)
Selected Alliance Cash Flow Information:
Deferred income — 20 100
Selected Alliance Balance Sheet Information: December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Deferred income $ 521 $ 576
Gilead
BMS and Gilead have joint ventures in the U.S. (for the U.S. and Canada) and in Europe to develop and commercialize Atripla* (efavirenz
600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), combining Sustiva, a product of BMS, and Truvada* (emtricitabine
and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), a product of Gilead. The joint ventures are consolidated by Gilead.
Both parties actively participate in a joint executive committee and various other operating committees with direct oversight over the
activities of the joint ventures. The joint ventures purchase Sustiva and Truvada* API in bulk form from the parties and complete the
finishing of Atripla*. The joint ventures or Gilead sell and distribute Atripla* and are the principal in the end customer product sales.
The parties no longer coordinate joint promotional activities.
Alliance revenue recognized for Atripla* include only the bulk efavirenz component of Atripla* which is based on the relative ratio of
the average respective net selling prices of Truvada* and Sustiva. Alliance revenue is deferred and the related alliance receivable is not
recognized until the combined product is sold to third-party customers.
In Europe, following the 2013 loss of exclusivity of Sustiva and effective January 1, 2014, the percentage of Atripla* net sales in Europe
recognized by BMS is equal to the difference between the average net selling prices of Atripla* and Truvada*. This alliance will continue
in Europe until either party terminates the arrangement or the last patent expires that allows market exclusivity to Atripla*.
In the U.S., the agreement may be terminated by Gilead upon the launch of a generic version of Sustiva or by BMS upon the launch of
a generic version of Truvada* or its individual components. The loss of exclusivity in the U.S. for Sustiva is expected in December 2017.
In the event Gilead terminates the agreement upon the loss of exclusivity for Sustiva, BMS will receive a quarterly royalty payment for
36 months following termination. Such payment in the first 12 months following termination is equal to 55% of Atripla* net sales
multiplied by the ratio of the difference in the average net selling prices of Atripla* and Truvada* to the Atripla* average net selling
price. In the second and third years following termination, the payment to BMS is reduced to 35% and 15%, respectively, of Atripla* net
sales multiplied by the price ratio described above. BMS will continue to supply Sustiva at cost plus a markup to the joint ventures during
this three-year period, unless either party elects to terminate the supply arrangement.
37Bristol-Myers Squibb
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Revenues from Gilead alliances:
Alliance revenues $ 934 $ 1,096 $ 1,255
Equity in net loss of affiliates $ 12 $ 17 $ 39
Selected Alliance Balance Sheet Information: December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Deferred income $ 634 $ 699
Otsuka
BMS has a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka, to co-develop and co-promote Abilify*, excluding certain Asian
countries. The U.S. portion of the agreement expired in April 2015. The agreement expired in all EU countries in June 2014 and in each
other non-U.S. country where we have the exclusive right to sell Abilify*, the agreement expires on the later of April 20, 2015 or loss of
exclusivity in any such country.
Both parties actively participated in joint executive governance and operating committees. Otsuka was responsible for providing all sales
force efforts in the U.S. effective January 2013, however, BMS was responsible for certain operating expenses up to various annual limits.
BMS purchased the API from Otsuka and completed the manufacturing of the product for subsequent sale to third-party customers in
the U.S. and certain other countries. Otsuka assumed responsibility for providing and funding sales force efforts in the EU effective April
2013. BMS also provided certain other services including distribution, customer management and pharmacovigilance. BMS is the principal
for the end customer product sales where it is the exclusive distributor for or has an exclusive right to sell Abilify*. Otsuka was the
principal for the end customer product sales in the U.S. and in the EU.
Alliance revenue only includes BMS’s share of total net sales to third-party customers in these territories. An assessment of BMS's
expected annual contractual share was completed each quarterly reporting period and adjusted based upon reported U.S. Abilify* net
sales at year end. BMS's annual contractual share was 50% in 2015 and 33% in 2014. The alliance revenue recognized in any interim
period or quarter did not exceed the amounts that were due under the contract.
BMS’s contractual share of third-party net sales was 65% in the EU. In these countries and the U.S., alliance revenue was recognized
when Abilify* was shipped and all risks and rewards of ownership had been transferred to third-party customers.
BMS and Otsuka also have an alliance for Sprycel in the U.S., Japan and the EU (the Oncology Territory). Both parties co-promote the
product in the U.S. and EU. In February 2015, the co-promotion agreement with Otsuka was terminated in Japan. Both parties actively
participate in various governance committees, however, BMS has control over the decision making. BMS is responsible for the
development and manufacture of the product and is also the principal in the end customer product sales. Ixempra* (ixabepilone) was
included in the above alliance prior to BMS's divestiture of that business in 2015. A fee is paid to Otsuka based on the following percentages
of combined annual net sales of Sprycel and Ixempra* in the Oncology Territory (including post divestiture Ixempra* sales):
% of Net Sales
2010 - 2012 2013 - 2020
$0 to $400 million 30% 65%
$400 million to $600 million 5% 12%
$600 million to $800 million 3% 3%
$800 million to $1.0 billion 2% 2%
In excess of $1.0 billion 1% 1%
During these annual periods, Otsuka contributes 20% of the first $175 million of certain commercial operational expenses relating to the
Oncology Products in the Oncology Territory and 1% of such costs in excess of $175 million.
382016 Annual Report
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Revenues from Otsuka alliances:
Net product sales $ 1,670 $ 1,501 $ 1,493
Alliance revenues(a) 2 604 1,778
Total Revenues $ 1,672 $ 2,105 $ 3,271
Payments to/(from) Otsuka:
Cost of products sold:
Oncology fee $ 304 $ 299 $ 297
Royalties 10 30 90
Cost of product supply 30 35 67
(a) Includes the amortization of the extension payment as a reduction to alliance revenue of $21 million in 2015 and $66 million in 2014.
Lilly
BMS had a commercialization agreement with Lilly through Lilly’s subsidiary ImClone for the co-development and promotion of Erbitux*
in the U.S., Canada and Japan. Both parties actively participated in a joint executive committee and various other operating committees
and shared responsibilities for research and development using resources in their own infrastructures. Lilly manufactured bulk requirements
for Erbitux* in its own facilities and filling and finishing was performed by a third party for which BMS had oversight responsibility.
BMS had exclusive distribution rights in North America and was responsible for promotional efforts in North America although Lilly
had the right to co-promote in the U.S. at their own expense. BMS was the principal in the end customer product sales in North America
and paid Lilly a distribution fee for 39% of Erbitux* net sales in North America plus a share of certain royalties paid by Lilly. BMS’s
rights and obligations with respect to the commercialization of Erbitux* in North America would have expired in September 2018.
In October 2015, BMS transferred its rights to Erbitux* in North America to Lilly in exchange for sales-based royalties as described
below. The transferred rights include, but are not limited to, full commercialization and manufacturing responsibilities. The transaction
was accounted for as a business divestiture and resulted in a non-cash charge of $171 million for intangible assets directly related to the
business and an allocation of goodwill.
BMS will receive royalties through September 2018, which is included in other income when earned. The royalty rates applicable to
North America are 38% on Erbitux* net sales up to $165 million in 2015, $650 million in 2016, $650 million in 2017 and $480 million
in 2018, plus 20% on net sales in excess of those amounts in each of the respective years. Royalties earned were $227 million in 2016
and $56 million in 2015.
BMS shared rights to Erbitux* in Japan under an agreement with Lilly and Merck KGaA and received 50% of the pretax profit from
Merck KGaA’s net sales of Erbitux* in Japan which was further shared equally with Lilly. BMS transferred its co-commercialization
rights in Japan to Merck KGaA in 2015 in exchange for sales-based royalties through 2032 which is included in other income when
earned. Royalties earned were $19 million in 2016 and $14 million in 2015.
39Bristol-Myers Squibb
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Revenues from Lilly alliance:
Net product sales $ — $ 492 $ 691
Alliance revenues — 9 32
Total revenues $ — $ 501 $ 723
Payments to/(from) Lilly:
Cost of products sold:
Distribution fees and royalties $ — $ 204 $ 287
Amortization of intangible asset — 11 37
Cost of product supply — 46 69
Other (income)/expense:
Royalties (246) (70) —
Divestiture loss — 171 —
AstraZeneca
Prior to the diabetes business divestiture discussed below, BMS had an alliance with AstraZeneca consisting of three worldwide co-
development and commercialization agreements covering (1) Onglyza* and related combination products sold under various names, (2)
Farxiga* and related combination products and, (3) beginning in August 2012 after BMS's acquisition of Amylin, Amylin's portfolio of
products including Bydureon*, Byetta*, Symlin* and Myalept*, as well as certain assets owned by Amylin, including a manufacturing
facility located in West Chester, Ohio.
Co-exclusive license rights for the product or products underlying each agreement were granted to AstraZeneca in exchange for an upfront
payment and potential milestone payments, and both parties assumed certain obligations to actively participate in the alliance. Both parties
actively participated in a joint executive committee and various other operating committees and had joint responsibilities for the research,
development, distribution, sales and marketing activities of the alliance using resources in their own infrastructures. BMS manufactured
the products in all three alliances and was the principal in the end customer product sales in substantially all countries.
For each alliance agreement, the rights transferred to AstraZeneca did not have standalone value as such rights were not sold separately
by BMS or any other party, nor could AstraZeneca have received any benefit for the delivered rights without the fulfillment of other
ongoing obligations by BMS under the alliance agreements, including the exclusive supply arrangement. As such, each global alliance
was treated as a single unit of accounting. As a result, upfront proceeds and any subsequent contingent milestone proceeds were amortized
over the life of the related products.
In 2012, BMS received a $3.6 billion non-refundable, upfront payment from AstraZeneca in consideration for entering into the Amylin
alliance. In 2013, AstraZeneca exercised its option for equal governance rights over certain key strategic and financial decisions regarding
the Amylin alliance and paid BMS $135 million as consideration. These payments were accounted for as deferred income and amortized
based on the relative fair value of the predominant elements included in the alliance over their estimated useful lives (intangible assets
related to Bydureon* with an estimated useful life of 13 years, Byetta* with an estimated useful life of 7 years, Symlin* with an estimated
life of 9 years, Myalept* with an estimated useful life of 12 years, and the Amylin manufacturing plant with an estimated useful life of
15 years). The amortization was presented as a reduction to cost of products sold because the alliance assets were acquired shortly before
the commencement of the alliance and AstraZeneca was entitled to share in the proceeds from the sale of any of the assets. The amortization
of the acquired Amylin intangible assets and manufacturing plant was also presented in cost of products sold. BMS was entitled to
reimbursements for 50% of capital expenditures related to the acquired Amylin manufacturing facility. BMS and AstraZeneca also shared
in certain tax attributes related to the Amylin alliance.
Prior to the termination of the alliance, BMS received non-refundable upfront, milestone and other licensing payments of $300 million
related to Onglyza* and $250 million related to Farxiga*. Amortization of the Onglyza* and Farxiga* deferred income was included in
other income as Onglyza* and Farxiga* were not commercial products at the commencement of the alliance. Both parties also shared
most commercialization and development expenses equally, as well as profits and losses.
402016 Annual Report
In February 2014, BMS and AstraZeneca terminated their alliance agreements and BMS sold to AstraZeneca substantially all of the
diabetes business comprising the alliance. The divestiture included the shares of Amylin and the resulting transfer of its Ohio manufacturing
facility; the intellectual property related to Onglyza* and Farxiga* (including BMS's interest in the out-licensing agreement for Onglyza*
in Japan); and the purchase of BMS’s manufacturing facility located in Mount Vernon, Indiana in 2015. Substantially all employees
dedicated to the diabetes business were transferred to AstraZeneca.
BMS and AstraZeneca entered into several agreements in connection with the sale, including a supply agreement, a development agreement
and a transitional services agreement. Under those agreements, BMS is obligated to supply certain products, including the active product
ingredients for Onglyza* and Farxiga* through 2020; to perform ongoing development activities for certain clinical trial programs
substantially through 2016; and to provide transitional services such as accounting, financial services, customer service, distribution,
regulatory, development, information technology and certain other administrative services for various periods in order to facilitate the
orderly transfer of the business operations.
Consideration for the transaction includes a $2.7 billion payment at closing; contingent regulatory and sales-based milestone payments
of up to $1.4 billion (including $800 million related to approval milestones and $600 million related to sales-based milestones, payable
in 2020); royalty payments based on net sales through 2025 and payments up to $225 million if and when certain assets are transferred
to AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca will also pay BMS for any required product supply at a price approximating the product cost as well as
negotiated transitional service fees.
Royalty rates on net sales are as follows:
2020 -
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2025
Onglyza* and Farxiga* Worldwide Net Sales up to $500 million 44% 35% 27% 12% 20% 22% 14-25%
Onglyza* and Farxiga* Worldwide Net Sales over $500 million 3% 7% 9% 12% 20% 22% 14-25%
Amylin products U.S. Net Sales — 2% 2% 5% 10% 12% 5-12%
The stock and asset purchase agreement contained multiple elements to be delivered subsequent to the closing of the transaction, including
the China diabetes business (transferred in 2014), the Mount Vernon, Indiana manufacturing facility (transferred in 2015), and the activities
under the development and supply agreements. Each of these elements was determined to have a standalone value. As a result, a portion
of the consideration received at closing was allocated to the undelivered elements using the relative selling price method after determining
the best estimated selling price for each element. The remaining amount of consideration was included in the calculation for the gain on
sale of the diabetes business. Contingent milestone and royalty payments are similarly allocated among the underlying elements if and
when the amounts are determined to be payable to BMS. Amounts allocated to the sale of the business are immediately recognized in
the results of operations. Amounts allocated to the other elements are recognized in the results of operations only to the extent each
element has been delivered.
Consideration of $3.8 billion was accounted for in 2014 (including royalties and $700 million of contingent regulatory milestone payments
related to the approval of Farxiga* in both the U.S. and Japan). Approximately $3.3 billion of the consideration was allocated to the sale
of the business and the remaining $492 million was allocated to the undelivered elements described above. The consideration includes
$235 million of earned royalties, including $192 million allocated to elements that were delivered. The gain on sale of the diabetes
business was $536 million, including $292 million during the third quarter of 2014 resulting primarily from the transfer of the China
diabetes business to AstraZeneca. The gain was based on the difference between the consideration allocated to the sale of the business
excluding royalties (net of transaction fees) and the carrying value of the diabetes business net assets (including a $600 million allocation
of goodwill and the reversal of $821 million of net deferred tax liabilities attributed to Amylin). Consideration of $179 million was
received in 2015 for the transfer of the Mount Vernon, Indiana manufacturing facility and related inventories resulting in a gain of $79
million for the amounts allocated to the delivered elements.
Consideration allocated to the development and supply agreements are amortized over the applicable service periods. Amortization of
deferred income attributed to the development agreement was included in other income as the sale of these services are not considered
part of BMS’s ongoing major or central operations. Revenues attributed to the supply agreement were included in alliance revenues.
Consideration for the transaction is presented for cash flow purposes based on the allocation process described above, either as an investing
activity if attributed to the sale of the business or related assets or as an operating activity if attributed to the transitional services, supply
arrangement or development agreement.
In September 2015, BMS transferred a percentage of its future royalty rights on Amylin net product sales in the U.S. to CPPIB. The
transferred rights represent approximately 70% of potential future royalties BMS is entitled to in 2019 to 2025. In exchange for the
transfer, BMS will receive an additional tiered-based royalty on Amylin net product sales in the U.S. from CPPIB in 2016 through 2018.
These royalties are presented in other income and were $134 million in 2016.
41Bristol-Myers Squibb
Summarized financial information related to the AstraZeneca alliances was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Revenues from AstraZeneca alliances:
Net product sales $ — $ 14 $ 160
Alliance revenues 129 182 135
Total Revenues $ 129 $ 196 $ 295
Payments to/(from) AstraZeneca:
Cost of products sold – Profit sharing $ — $ 1 $ 79
Cost reimbursements from AstraZeneca — — (33)
Other (income)/expense:
Amortization of deferred income (113) (105) (80)
Royalties (227) (215) (192)
Transitional services (7) (12) (90)
Divestiture gain — (82) (536)
Selected Alliance Cash Flow Information:
Deferred income 19 34 315
Divestiture and other proceeds 216 374 3,495
Selected Alliance Balance Sheet Information: December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Deferred income – Services not yet performed for AstraZeneca $ 38 $ 144
Sanofi
BMS and Sanofi have co-development and co-commercialization agreements for Plavix* and Avapro*/Avalide*. Effective January 1,
2013, Sanofi assumed essentially all of the worldwide operations of the alliance with the exception of Plavix* in the U.S. and Puerto
Rico where BMS is the operating partner with a 50.1% controlling interest. In exchange for the rights transferred to Sanofi, BMS receives
quarterly royalties from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2018 and a terminal payment from Sanofi of $200 million at the end of 2018.
Royalties received from Sanofi in the territory covering the Americas and Australia, opt-out markets, and former development royalties
are presented in alliance revenues and were $195 million in 2016, $211 million in 2015 and $223 million in 2014. Royalties attributed
to the territory covering Europe and Asia continue to be earned by the territory partnership and are included in equity in net income of
affiliates. Alliance revenues attributed to the supply of irbesartan API to Sanofi were $80 million in 2015 and $90 million in 2014. The
supply arrangement for irbesartan expired in 2015.
422016 Annual Report
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Revenues from Sanofi alliances:
Net product sales $ 38 $ 110 $ 102
Alliance revenues 200 296 317
Total Revenues $ 238 $ 406 $ 419
Payments to/(from) Sanofi:
Equity in net income of affiliates (95) (104) (146)
Noncontrolling interest – pretax 16 51 38
Selected Alliance Cash Flow Information:
Distributions (to)/from Sanofi – Noncontrolling interest (15) (45) (49)
Distributions from Sanofi – Investment in affiliates 99 105 153
Selected Alliance Balance Sheet Information: December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Investment in affiliates – territory covering Europe and Asia(a) $ 21 $ 25
Noncontrolling interest 45 44
(a) Included in alliance receivables.
The following is summarized financial information for interests in the partnerships with Sanofi for the territory covering Europe and
Asia, which are not consolidated but are accounted for using the equity method:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Net sales $ 235 $ 257 $ 360
Gross profit 195 213 297
Net income 192 209 292
Cost of products sold for the territory covering Europe and Asia includes discovery royalties of $20 million in 2016, $22 million in 2015
and $32 million in 2014, which are paid directly to Sanofi. All other expenses are shared based on the applicable ownership percentages.
Current assets and current liabilities include approximately $69 million in 2016, $76 million in 2015 and $94 million in 2014 related to
receivables/payables attributed to cash distributions to BMS and Sanofi as well as intercompany balances between partnerships within
the territory.
Ono
BMS is the principal in the end customer product sales and has the exclusive right to develop, manufacture and commercialize Opdivo,
an anti-PD-1 human monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anti-cancer treatment, in all territories worldwide except Japan, South
Korea and Taiwan. Ono is entitled to receive royalties following regulatory approvals in all territories excluding the three countries listed
above. Royalty rates on net sales are 4% in North America and 15% in all other applicable territories, subject to customary adjustments.
The alliance arrangement also includes collaboration activities in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan pertaining to Opdivo, Yervoy and several
BMS investigational compounds. Both parties have the right and obligation to jointly develop and commercialize the compounds. BMS
is responsible for supply of the products. Profits, losses and development costs are shared equally for all combination therapies involving
compounds of both parties. Otherwise, sharing is 80% and 20% for activities involving only one of the party’s compounds.
BMS and Ono also have an alliance to co-develop and co-commercialize Orencia in Japan. BMS is responsible for the order fulfillment
and distribution of the intravenous formulation and Ono is responsible for the subcutaneous formulation. Both formulations are jointly
promoted by both parties with assigned customer accounts and BMS is responsible for the product supply. A co-promotion fee of 60%
is paid to the other party when a sale is made to that party’s assigned customer and is recorded in cost of products sold.
43Bristol-Myers Squibb
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Revenues from Ono alliances:
Net product sales $ 147 $ 113 $ 113
Alliance revenues 280 61 28
Total Revenues $ 427 $ 174 $ 141
AbbVie
BMS and AbbVie have an alliance for Empliciti, a humanized monoclonal antibody for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Under the
terms of the alliance, BMS was granted exclusive global rights to co-develop and commercialize Empliciti from PDL BioPharma, Inc.
(now part of AbbVie). AbbVie currently participates in joint development and U.S. commercialization committees which BMS has final
decision making authority. Both parties are co-developing the product and AbbVie funds 20% of global development costs. BMS is solely
responsible for supply, distribution and sales and marketing activities within the alliance and is the principal in the end customer product
sales. AbbVie shares 30% of all profits and losses in the U.S. and is paid tiered royalties on net sales of Empliciti outside of the U.S. BMS
paid AbbVie $140 million for certain regulatory milestone events including $52 million for approval milestones through December 31,
2016. AbbVie is also entitled to receive additional milestone payments from BMS if certain regulatory events occur ($120 million) and
sales thresholds are achieved ($200 million). The agreement may be terminated at will by BMS or by either party for material breach by
the other party (subsequent to a notice period).
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Revenues from AbbVie alliance:
Net product sales $ 132 $ 3 $ —
F-Star
In October 2014, BMS entered into an agreement with F-Star. The agreement provides BMS with an exclusive option to purchase F-Star
and its Phase I ready lead asset FS102, a targeted therapy in development for the treatment of breast and gastric cancer among a well-
defined population of HER2-positive patients.
BMS paid $50 million to F-Star and its shareholders in 2014 in consideration for the option grant and certain licensing rights (included
in research and development expenses) and is responsible for conducting and funding the development of FS102. The option is exercisable
at BMS's discretion and expires upon the earlier of 60 days following obtaining proof of concept or June 2018. An additional $100 million
will be payable upon the exercise of the option plus an additional aggregate consideration of up to $325 million for contingent development
and regulatory approval milestone payments in the U.S. and Europe. BMS is not obligated to provide any additional financial support to
F-Star.
F-Star was determined not to be a business as defined in ASC 805 - Business Combinations. As a result, contingent consideration was
not included in the purchase price and no goodwill was recognized. However, F-Star is a variable interest entity as its equity holders lack
the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. BMS was determined to be the primary beneficiary because of both its power to
direct the activities most significantly and directly impacting the economic performance of the entity and its option rights described
above. Upon consolidation in 2014, noncontrolling interest was credited by $59 million to reflect the fair value of the FS102 IPRD asset
($75 million) and deferred tax liabilities.
442016 Annual Report
Promedior
In September 2015, BMS purchased a warrant that gives BMS the exclusive right to acquire Promedior, a biotechnology company whose
lead asset, PRM-151, is being developed for the treatment of IPF and MF. The warrant is exercisable upon completion of either of the
IPF or MF Phase II clinical studies being conducted by Promedior, which is expected to occur no earlier than 2017. The upfront payment
allocated to the warrant was $84 million and included in R&D expenses in 2015. The remaining $66 million of the $150 million upfront
payment was allocated to Promedior’s obligation to complete the Phase II studies which will be amortized over the expected period of
the Phase II studies. The allocation was determined using Level 3 inputs. Following BMS's review of the Phase II clinical study results,
if BMS elects to exercise the warrant it will be obligated to pay an additional $300 million (if based on the IPF study results) or $250
million (if based on the MF study results), plus additional aggregate consideration of up to $800 million for contingent development and
regulatory approval milestone payments in the U.S. and Europe.
Five Prime
In November 2015, BMS and Five Prime entered into an exclusive worldwide licensing and collaboration agreement for the development
and commercialization of Five Prime’s CSF1R antibody program, including cabiralizumab (FPA008) currently in Phase I/II development
for immunology and oncology indications. BMS will be responsible for the development, manufacturing and commercialization of
cabiralizumab, subject to Five Prime’s option to conduct certain studies at its cost to develop cabiralizumab in PVNS and in combination
with its own internal oncology pipeline assets. Five Prime also retained an option to co-promote in the U.S. The agreement replaces a
previous clinical collaboration agreement between the two parties.
In consideration for licensing rights, BMS made an upfront payment of $350 million in 2015 which was included in R&D expense. BMS
will also be committed to pay up to $1.4 billion upon the achievement of contingent development and regulatory milestones as well as
future royalties if the product is approved and commercialized.
Reckitt
In May 2013, BMS and Reckitt started a three-year alliance for several OTC products sold primarily in Mexico and Brazil. Reckitt
received the right to sell, distribute and market the products through May 2016. BMS received royalties on net sales of the products and
exclusively supplied certain of the products to Reckitt pursuant to a supply agreement at cost plus a markup. Certain limited assets,
including marketing authorizations and certain employees directly attributed to the business, were transferred to Reckitt at the start of
the alliance period. BMS retained ownership of all other assets related to the business including the trademarks covering the products.
In the framework of the alliance, BMS also granted Reckitt an option to acquire the trademarks, inventory and certain other assets
exclusively related to the products at the end of the alliance period at a price determined primarily based upon a multiple of sales from
May 2014 through May 2016. In April 2014, the alliance was modified to provide an option to Reckitt to purchase a BMS manufacturing
facility located in Mexico primarily dedicated to the products included in the alliance as well as the related employees. In July 2015,
Reckitt notified BMS that it was exercising its option. In May 2016, BMS sold the business for $317 million. Refer to "—Note 4.
Acquisitions and Divestitures” for further information.
Non-refundable upfront proceeds of $485 million received by BMS in 2013 were allocated to two units of accounting, including the
rights transferred to Reckitt and the fair value of the option to purchase the remaining assets using the best estimate of the selling price
for these elements after considering various market factors. These market factors included an analysis of any estimated excess of the fair
value of the business over the potential purchase price if the option is exercised. The fair value of the option was determined using Level
3 inputs and included in other liabilities. During 2015, BMS recognized other income of $123 million to decrease the fair value of the
option to zero due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against local currencies. The amount allocated to the rights transferred to Reckitt
is amortized as alliance revenue over the contractual term.
45Bristol-Myers Squibb
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Revenues from Reckitt alliance:
Alliance revenues $ 48 $ 140 $ 170
Other (income)/expense – Divestiture gain 277 — —
Selected Alliance Cash Flow Information:
Other changes in operating assets and liabilities $ — $ (129) $ 20
Divestiture and other proceeds 317 — —
Selected Alliance Balance Sheet Information: December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Deferred income $ — $ 36
The Medicines Company
In February 2013, BMS and The Medicines Company entered into a two-year alliance for Recothrom*, a recombinant thrombin for use
as a topical hemostat to control non-arterial bleeding during surgical procedures (previously acquired by BMS in connection with its
acquisition of ZymoGenetics, Inc. in 2010). The Medicines Company received the right to sell, distribute and market Recothrom* on a
global basis for two years. BMS exclusively supplied Recothrom* to The Medicines Company at cost plus a markup and received royalties
on net sales of Recothrom*. Certain employees directly attributed to the business and certain assets were transferred to The Medicines
Company at the start of the alliance period, including the Biologics License Application and related regulatory assets. BMS retained all
other assets related to Recothrom* including the patents, trademarks and inventory.
BMS also granted The Medicines Company an option to acquire the patents, trademarks, inventory and certain other assets exclusively
related to Recothrom* at a price determined based on a multiple of sales (plus the cost of any remaining inventory held by BMS at that
time). The Medicines Company exercised the option and acquired the business for $132 million in February 2015.
Non-refundable upfront proceeds of $115 million received by BMS in 2013 were allocated to two units of accounting, including the
rights transferred to The Medicines Company and the fair value of the option to purchase the remaining assets using the best estimate of
the selling price for these elements after considering various market factors. These market factors included an analysis of any estimated
excess of the fair value of the business over the potential purchase price if the option is exercised. The fair value of the option was $35
million at December 31, 2014 and was determined using Level 3 inputs and included in accrued expenses. The amount allocated to the
rights transferred to The Medicines Company was amortized as alliance revenue over the contractual term.
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2015 2014
Revenues from The Medicines Company alliance:
Alliance revenues $ 8 $ 66
Other (income)/expense – Divestiture gain (59) —
Selected Alliance Cash Flow Information:
Divestiture and other proceeds $ 132 $ —
462016 Annual Report
Valeant
In October 2012, BMS and PharmaSwiss SA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Valeant entered into an alliance for certain mature brand
products in Europe. Valeant received the right to sell, distribute, and market the products in Europe through December 31, 2014. BMS
exclusively supplied the products to Valeant at cost plus a markup.
BMS also granted Valeant an option to acquire the trademarks and intellectual property exclusively related to the products at a price
determined based on a multiple of sales. Valeant exercised the option and acquired the business for $61 million in January 2015.
Non-refundable upfront proceeds of $79 million received by BMS in 2012 were allocated to two units of accounting, including the rights
transferred to Valeant and the fair value of the option to purchase the remaining assets using the best estimate of the selling price for these
elements after considering various market factors. These market factors included an analysis of any estimated excess of the fair value of
the business over the potential purchase price if the option is exercised. The fair value of the option was determined using Level 3 inputs
and included in accrued expenses. A $16 million charge was included in other expenses to increase the fair value of the option to $34
million in 2014. The amount allocated to the rights transferred to Valeant was amortized as alliance revenue over the contractual term.
Summarized financial information related to this alliance was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2015 2014
Revenues from Valeant alliance:
Alliance revenues $ (1) $ 44
Other (income)/expense – Divestiture gain (88) —
Selected Alliance Cash Flow Information:
Other changes in operating assets and liabilities $ — $ 16
Divestiture and other proceeds 61 —
Note 4 ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES
Acquisitions
Acquisitions are evaluated to determine whether it is a business, an asset or a group of assets. The following transactions were accounted
for as asset acquisitions since they were determined not to be a business as that term is defined in ASC 805 - Business Combinations
primarily because no significant processes were acquired. As a result, the amounts allocated to the lead investigational compounds were
expensed and not capitalized. The consideration of each transaction was allocated as follows:
Deferred Tax Contingent
Dollars in Millions Year Upfront Payment R&D Expense Assets(a) Consideration
Cormorant 2016 $ 35 $ 35 $ — $ 485
Padlock 2016 150 139 11 453
$ 185 $ 174 $ 11 $ 938
Cardioxyl 2015 $ 200 $ 167 $ 33 $ 1,875
Flexus(b) 2015 814 800 14 450
$ 1,014 $ 967 $ 47 $ 2,325
iPierian 2014 $ 175 $ 148 $ 27 $ 554
(a) Relates to net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards
(b) Includes $14 million of acquisition costs.
Cormorant
In July 2016, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Cormorant, a private pharmaceutical company focused on the development
of therapies for cancer and rare diseases. The acquisition provides BMS with full rights to Cormorant's lead candidate HuMax-IL8, a
Phase I/II monoclonal antibody that represents a potentially complementary immuno-oncology mechanism of action to T-cell directed
antibodies and co-stimulatory molecules. Contingent consideration includes development and regulatory milestone payments.
47Bristol-Myers Squibb
Padlock
In April 2016, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Padlock, a private biotechnology company dedicated to creating new
medicines to treat destructive autoimmune diseases. The acquisition provides BMS with full rights to Padlock’s PAD inhibitor discovery
program focused on the development of potentially transformational treatment approaches for patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Padlock’s
PAD discovery program may have additional utility in treating systemic lupus erythematosus and other autoimmune diseases. Contingent
consideration includes development and regulatory milestone payments.
Cardioxyl
In December 2015, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Cardioxyl, a private biotechnology company focused on the discovery
and development of novel therapeutic agents for cardiovascular disease. The acquisition provided BMS with full rights to CXL-1427, a
nitroxyl prodrug in Phase II development for acute decompensated heart failure. Contingent consideration includes development,
regulatory and sales-based milestone payments.
Flexus
In April 2015, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of Flexus, a private biotechnology company focused on the discovery and
development of novel anti-cancer therapeutics. The acquisition provided BMS with full rights to F001287, a preclinical small molecule
IDO1-inhibitor targeted immunotherapy. In addition, BMS acquired Flexus's IDO/TDO discovery program which includes its IDO-
selective, IDO/TDO dual and TDO-selective compounds. Contingent consideration includes development and regulatory milestone
payments. A $100 million milestone was achieved and paid to former shareowners of Flexus in 2016 for the commencement of a Phase
I clinical trial and included in R&D expense.
iPierian
In April 2014, BMS acquired all of the outstanding shares of iPierian, a private biotechnology company focused on new treatments for
tauopathies, a class of neurodegenerative diseases. The acquisition provided BMS with full rights to IPN007, a preclinical monoclonal
antibody to treat progressive supranuclear palsy and other tauopathies. Contingent consideration includes development and regulatory
milestone payments and future royalties on net sales if any of the acquired preclinical assets are approved and commercialized.
Divestitures
Proceeds(a) Divestiture (Gains) / Losses Royalties
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014
Investigational HIV medicines $ 387 $ — $ — $ (272) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
OTC products (Reckitt) 317 — — (277) — — — — —
Diabetes 333 374 3,495 — (82) (536) (361) (215) (192)
Erbitux* 252 9 — — 171 — (246) (70) —
Recothrom* — 132 — — (59) — — — —
Mature brand products (Valeant) — 61 — — (88) — — — —
Ixempra* 13 113 — — (88) — (11) (8) —
Other 15 8 70 (15) (48) (28) — — —
$ 1,317 $ 697 $ 3,565 $ (564) $ (194) $ (564) $ (618) $ (293) $ (192)
(a) Includes royalties received subsequent to the related sale of the asset or business.
ViiV Healthcare
In February 2016, BMS sold its investigational HIV medicines business to ViiV Healthcare which includes a number of programs at
different stages of discovery, preclinical and clinical development. The transaction excluded BMS's HIV marketed medicines. BMS
earned transitional fees of $105 million for certain R&D and other services in 2016. In February 2016, BMS received an upfront payment
of $350 million. BMS will also receive from ViiV Healthcare contingent development and regulatory milestone payments of up to $1.1
billion, sales-based milestone payments of up to $4.3 billion and future tiered royalties if the products are approved and commercialized.
Other Divestitures
Refer to "—Note 3. Alliances" for a discussion on the divestiture transactions with Reckitt, Lilly, The Medicines Company, Valeant and
AstraZeneca. Revenues and pretax earnings related to these businesses were not material in 2016, 2015 and 2014 (excluding the divestiture
gains).
482016 Annual Report
Assets Held-For-Sale
Assets held-for-sale were $134 million at December 31, 2015 and included in prepaid expenses and other. The amount consisted primarily
of goodwill related to the investigational HIV medicines business and the business comprising an alliance with Reckitt. The allocation
of goodwill was determined using the relative fair value of the applicable business to the Company's reporting unit. Revenues and pretax
earnings related to these businesses were not material in 2016, 2015 and 2014 (excluding the divestiture gains).
Note 5 OTHER (INCOME)/EXPENSE
Other (income)/expense includes:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Interest expense $ 167 $ 184 $ 203
Investment income (105) (101) (101)
Provision for restructuring 109 118 163
Litigation and other settlements 47 159 23
Equity in net income of affiliates (77) (83) (107)
Divestiture gains (576) (196) (564)
Royalties and licensing income (719) (383) (283)
Transition and other service fees (238) (122) (170)
Pension charges 91 160 877
Intangible asset impairment 15 13 29
Equity investment impairment 45 — —
Written option adjustment — (123) 32
Loss on debt redemption — 180 45
Other (44) 7 63
Other (income)/expense $ (1,285) $ (187) $ 210
• Litigation and other settlements includes $90 million in 2015 for a contractual dispute related to a license.
• Transition and other service fees were related to the divestiture of the diabetes and investigational HIV businesses in 2016 and the
diabetes business in 2015 and 2014.
• Written option adjustments included the change in fair value of the written option liability attributed to the Reckitt alliance in 2015
and Valeant and Reckitt in 2014.
• A debt redemption loss of $180 million resulted from the early redemption of euro notes and a tender offer for certain other debt
securities in 2015.
• Other includes an unrealized foreign exchange loss of $52 million in 2015 resulting from the remeasurement of the Bolivar-
denominated cash and other monetary balances of BMS’s wholly-owned subsidiary in Venezuela as of December 31, 2015. The
exchange rate was changed to the SIMADI rate of 200 from the official CENCOEX rate of 6.3 after considering the limited amount
of foreign currency exchanged during the second half of 2015, published exchange rates and the continuing deterioration of
economic conditions in Venezuela.
Note 6 RESTRUCTURING
In October 2016, the Company announced a restructuring to evolve and streamline its operating model and expects to incur charges in
connection with employee workforce reductions and early site exits. The charges are expected to be incurred through 2020, range between
$1.5 billion to $2.0 billion and consist of employee termination benefit costs, contract termination costs, accelerated depreciation on
property, plant and equipment, impairments on long-lived assets and other site shutdown costs. Cash outlays in connection with these
actions are expected to be approximately 40% to 50% of the total charges. Charges of approximately $90 million were recognized for
these actions during the fourth quarter of 2016, primarily resulting from certain R&D employee workforce reductions and accelerated
depreciation on expected early site exits. Restructuring charges are recognized upon meeting certain criteria, including finalization of
committed plans, reliable estimates and discussions with local works councils in certain markets.
Other restructuring charges recognized prior to the above actions were primarily related to specialty care transformation initiatives
designed to create a more simplified organization across all functions and geographic markets. In addition, accelerated depreciation and
other charges were incurred in connection with early exits of a manufacturing site in Ireland and R&D site in the U.S.
Employee termination benefit costs were incurred for manufacturing, selling, administrative, and R&D employee workforce reductions
across all geographic regions of approximately 1,100 in 2016, 1,200 in 2015 and 1,400 in 2014.
49Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following tables summarize the charges and activity related to the restructuring actions:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Employee termination costs $ 97 $ 110 $ 157
Other termination costs 12 8 6
Provision for restructuring 109 118 163
Accelerated depreciation 72 104 138
Asset impairments 13 1 13
Other shutdown costs 19 10 —
Total charges $ 213 $ 233 $ 314
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Cost of products sold $ 21 $ 84 $ 151
Research and development 83 31 —
Other (income)/expense 109 118 163
Total charges $ 213 $ 233 $ 314
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Liability at January 1 $ 125 $ 156 $ 102
Charges 116 133 155
Change in estimates (7) (15) 8
Provision for restructuring 109 118 163
Foreign currency translation — (15) (2)
Spending (120) (134) (107)
Liability at December 31 $ 114 $ 125 $ 156
Note 7 INCOME TAXES
The provision/(benefit) for income taxes consisted of:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Current:
U.S. $ 1,144 $ 337 $ 334
Non-U.S. 468 456 560
Total Current 1,612 793 894
Deferred:
U.S. (101) (394) (403)
Non-U.S. (103) 47 (139)
Total Deferred (204) (347) (542)
Total Provision $ 1,408 $ 446 $ 352
502016 Annual Report
Effective Tax Rate
The reconciliation of the effective tax/(benefit) rate to the U.S. statutory Federal income tax rate was:
% of Earnings Before Income Taxes
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Earnings/(Loss) before income taxes:
U.S. $ 3,100 $(1,329) $ (349)
Non-U.S. 2,815 3,406 2,730
Total $ 5,915 $ 2,077 $ 2,381
U.S. statutory rate 2,070 35.0 % 727 35.0 % 833 35.0 %
Foreign tax effect of certain operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and
Switzerland (442) (7.5)% (535) (25.8)% (509) (21.4)%
U.S. tax effect of capital losses — — — — (361) (15.2)%
U.S. Federal valuation allowance release (29) (0.5)% (84) (4.0)% — —
U.S. Federal, state and foreign contingent tax matters 87 1.5 % 56 2.7 % 228 9.6 %
U.S. Federal research based credits (144) (2.4)% (132) (6.4)% (131) (5.4)%
Goodwill allocated to divestitures 34 0.6 % 25 1.2 % 210 8.8 %
U.S. Branded Prescription Drug Fee 52 0.9 % 44 2.1 % 84 3.5 %
R&D charges 100 1.7 % 369 17.8 % 52 2.2 %
Puerto Rico excise tax (131) (2.2)% (55) (2.7)% (28) (1.2)%
Domestic manufacturing deduction (122) (2.1)% (17) (0.8)% — —
State and local taxes (net of valuation allowance) 23 0.4 % 16 0.8 % 20 0.8 %
Foreign and other (90) (1.6)% 32 1.6 % (46) (1.9)%
$ 1,408 23.8 % $ 446 21.5 % $ 352 14.8 %
The effective tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily attributable to undistributed earnings of certain foreign
subsidiaries that have been considered or are expected to be indefinitely reinvested offshore. U.S. taxes have not been provided on
approximately $25.7 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016. These undistributed earnings
primarily relate to operations in Switzerland, Ireland and Puerto Rico. If these undistributed earnings are repatriated to the U.S. in the
future, or if it were determined that such earnings are to be remitted in the foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required.
Due to complexities in the tax laws and assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income
taxes that will have to be provided. BMS operates under a favorable tax grant in Puerto Rico not scheduled to expire prior to 2023.
The divestiture of certain businesses resulted in capital loss tax benefits including $361 million from the sale of Amylin shares in 2014.
Valuation allowances attributed to capital loss carryforwards were released in 2015 following the divestiture of Recothrom*, Ixempra*
and other mature brands. Additional reserves of $123 million were established in 2014 for certain transfer pricing matters related to tax
periods from 2008 through 2014. Orphan drug credits are included in the U.S. Federal research based credits for all periods presented.
Goodwill allocated to business divestitures (including the diabetes business in 2014) was not deductible for tax purposes as well as the
U.S. Branded Prescription Drug Fee in all periods. R&D charges resulting primarily from a milestone payment to the former shareholders
of Flexus and the acquisitions of Padlock and Cormorant in 2016, Flexus and Cardioxyl in 2015 and iPierian in 2014 were also not
deductible for tax purposes. Puerto Rico imposes an excise tax on the gross company purchase price of goods sold from our manufacturer
in Puerto Rico. The excise tax is recognized in cost of products sold when the intra-entity sale occurs. For U.S. income tax purposes, the
excise tax is not deductible but results in foreign tax credits that are generally recognized in our provision for income taxes when the
excise tax is incurred. Increased manufacturing activities for Opdivo resulted in the higher domestic manufacturing deduction in 2016.
51Bristol-Myers Squibb
Deferred Taxes and Valuation Allowance
The components of current and non-current deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Deferred tax assets
Foreign net operating loss carryforwards $ 2,945 $ 3,090
U.S. capital loss carryforwards 4 39
State net operating loss and credit carryforwards 114 324
U.S. Federal net operating loss and credit carryforwards 156 173
Deferred income 764 1,009
Milestone payments and license fees 534 560
Pension and postretirement benefits 358 462
Intercompany profit and other inventory items 1,241 607
Other foreign deferred tax assets 188 172
Share-based compensation 114 122
Legal and other settlements 5 63
Repatriation of foreign earnings 12 (1)
Internal transfer of intellectual property 629 635
Other 287 337
Total deferred tax assets 7,351 7,592
Valuation allowance (3,078) (3,534)
Deferred tax assets net of valuation allowance 4,273 4,058
Deferred tax liabilities
Depreciation (125) (105)
Acquired intangible assets (344) (338)
Goodwill and other (855) (802)
Total deferred tax liabilities (1,324) (1,245)
Deferred tax assets, net $ 2,949 $ 2,813
Recognized as:
Deferred income taxes – non-current $ 2,996 $ 2,844
Income taxes payable – non-current (47) (31)
Total $ 2,949 $ 2,813
Internal transfers of intellectual property resulted in the deferred tax assets included above and prepaid taxes of $372 million at December
31, 2016 and $484 million of prepaid taxes at December 31, 2015. These assets are being amortized over their expected lives. Refer to
Recently Issued Accounting Standards in "—Note 1. Accounting Policies" for information regarding the impact of amended guidance
that the Company expects to adopt in 2017.
The U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards were $368 million at December 31, 2016. These carryforwards were acquired as a
result of certain acquisitions and are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The net operating loss
carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying
amounts beginning in 2017 (certain amounts have unlimited lives).
At December 31, 2016, a valuation allowance of $3,078 million was established for the following items: $2,894 million primarily for
foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, $101 million for state deferred tax assets including net operating loss and tax
credit carryforwards, $11 million for U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards and $72 million for other U.S. Federal deferred tax
assets.
522016 Annual Report
Changes in the valuation allowance were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Balance at beginning of year $ 3,534 $ 4,259 $ 4,623
Provision 39 71 140
Utilization (355) (436) (109)
Foreign currency translation (142) (366) (395)
Acquisitions 2 6 —
Balance at end of year $ 3,078 $ 3,534 $ 4,259
Income tax payments were $2,041 million in 2016, $577 million in 2015 and $544 million in 2014. The current tax benefit realized as a
result of stock related compensation credited to capital in excess of par value of stock was $92 million in 2016, $147 million in 2015 and
$131 million in 2014.
Business is conducted in various countries throughout the world and is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. A significant number of
tax returns that are filed are subject to examination by various Federal, state and local tax authorities. Tax examinations are often complex,
as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of items reported requiring several years to resolve. Liabilities are established for
possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax
credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid
and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known. The effect of changes in estimates related to contingent tax
liabilities is included in the effective tax rate reconciliation above.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Balance at beginning of year $ 944 $ 934 $ 756
Gross additions to tax positions related to current year 49 52 106
Gross additions to tax positions related to prior years 49 56 218
Gross additions to tax positions assumed in acquisitions 1 1 —
Gross reductions to tax positions related to prior years (22) (34) (57)
Settlements (13) (46) (65)
Reductions to tax positions related to lapse of statute (4) (9) (12)
Cumulative translation adjustment (9) (10) (12)
Balance at end of year $ 995 $ 944 $ 934
Additional information regarding unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Unrecognized tax benefits that if recognized would impact the effective tax rate $ 854 $ 671 $ 668
Accrued interest 112 93 96
Accrued penalties 17 16 17
Interest expense 22 2 27
Penalty expense/(benefit) 4 1 (7)
Accrued interest and penalties payable for unrecognized tax benefits are included in either current or non-current income taxes payable.
Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are included in income tax expense.
BMS is currently under examination by a number of tax authorities, including but not limited to the major tax jurisdictions listed in the
table below, which have proposed or are considering proposing material adjustments to tax for issues such as transfer pricing, certain tax
credits and the deductibility of certain expenses. BMS estimates that it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax
benefits at December 31, 2016 will decrease in the range of approximately $255 million to $315 million in the next twelve months as a
result of the settlement of certain tax audits and other events. The expected change in unrecognized tax benefits, primarily settlement
related, will involve the payment of additional taxes, the adjustment of certain deferred taxes and/or the recognition of tax benefits. It is
reasonably possible that new issues will be raised by tax authorities that may increase unrecognized tax benefits; however, an estimate
of such increases cannot reasonably be made at this time. BMS believes that it has adequately provided for all open tax years by tax
jurisdiction.
53Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following is a summary of major tax jurisdictions for which tax authorities may assert additional taxes based upon tax years currently
under audit and subsequent years that will likely be audited:
U.S. 2008 to 2016
Canada 2006 to 2016
France 2013 to 2016
Germany 2007 to 2016
Italy 2011 to 2016
Mexico 2011 to 2016
Note 8 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Year Ended December 31,
Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data 2016 2015 2014
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS used for Basic and Diluted EPS Calculation $ 4,457 $ 1,565 $ 2,004
Weighted-average common shares outstanding - basic 1,671 1,667 1,657
Contingently convertible debt common stock equivalents — — 1
Incremental shares attributable to share-based compensation plans 9 12 12
Weighted-average common shares outstanding - diluted 1,680 1,679 1,670
Earnings per share - basic $ 2.67 $ 0.94 $ 1.21
Earnings per share - diluted $ 2.65 $ 0.93 $ 1.20
Note 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
Financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable and payable, debt instruments and
derivatives.
Changes in exchange rates and interest rates create exposure to market risk. Certain derivative financial instruments are used when
available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the underlying economic exposure. These instruments qualify as cash flow, net investment
and fair value hedges upon meeting certain criteria, including effectiveness of offsetting hedged exposures. Changes in fair value of
derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized in earnings as they occur. Derivative financial instruments are not
used for trading purposes.
Financial instruments are subject to counterparty credit risk which is considered as part of the overall fair value measurement. Counterparty
credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis and mitigated by limiting amounts outstanding with any individual counterparty, utilizing
conventional derivative financial instruments and only entering into agreements with counterparties that meet high credit quality standards.
The consolidated financial statements would not be materially impacted if any counterparty failed to perform according to the terms of
its agreement. Collateral is not required by any party whether derivatives are in an asset or liability position under the terms of the
agreements.
Fair Value Measurements – The fair value of financial instruments are classified into one of the following categories:
Level 1 inputs utilize unadjusted quoted prices in active markets accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities.
The fair value hierarchy provides the highest priority to Level 1 inputs.
Level 2 inputs utilize observable prices for similar instruments and quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in non-active
markets. Additionally, certain corporate debt securities utilize a third-party matrix pricing model using significant inputs
corroborated by market data for substantially the full term of the assets. Equity and fixed income funds are primarily invested in
publicly traded securities valued at the respective net asset value of the underlying investments. Level 2 derivative instruments
are valued using LIBOR yield curves, less credit valuation adjustments, and observable forward foreign exchange rates at the
reporting date. Valuations of derivative contracts may fluctuate considerably from volatility in underlying foreign currencies and
underlying interest rates driven by market conditions and the duration of the contract.
Level 3 unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. There were no Level 3 financial assets or liabilities
as of December 31, 2016 and 2015.
542016 Annual Report
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below:
December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015
Dollars in Millions Level 1 Level 2 Level 1 Level 2
Cash and cash equivalents - Money market and other securities $ — $3,532 $ — $1,825
Marketable securities:
Certificates of deposit — 27 — 804
Commercial paper — 750 — —
Corporate debt securities — 3,947 — 5,638
Equity funds — 101 — 92
Fixed income funds — 7 — 11
Derivative assets — 75 — 96
Equity investments 24 — 60 —
Derivative liabilities — (30) — (18)
Available-for-sale Securities
The following table summarizes available-for-sale securities:
Gross Gross
Unrealized Unrealized
Gain in Loss in
Amortized Accumulated Accumulated
Dollars in Millions Cost OCI OCI Fair Value
December 31, 2016
Certificates of deposit $ 27 $ — $ — $ 27
Commercial paper 750 — — 750
Corporate debt securities 3,945 10 (8) 3,947
Equity investments 31 — (7) 24
Total $ 4,753 $ 10 $ (15) $ 4,748
December 31, 2015
Certificates of deposit $ 804 $ — $ — $ 804
Corporate debt securities 5,646 15 (23) 5,638
Equity investments 74 10 (24) 60
Total $ 6,524 $ 25 $ (47) $ 6,502
December 31, December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Current marketable securities(a) $ 2,113 $ 1,885
Non-current marketable securities(b) 2,719 4,660
Other assets 24 60
Total $ 4,856 $ 6,605
(a) The fair value option for financial assets was elected for investments in equity and fixed income funds. The fair value of these investments were $108 million at
December 31, 2016 and $103 million at December 31, 2015 and were included in current marketable securities. Changes in fair value were not significant.
(b) All non-current marketable securities mature within five years as of December 31, 2016 and 2015.
55Bristol-Myers Squibb
Qualifying Hedges
The following summarizes the fair value of outstanding derivatives:
December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015
Dollars in Millions Balance Sheet Location Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:
Interest rate swap contracts Prepaid expenses and other $ 250 $ — $ — $ —
Interest rate swap contracts Other assets 500 1 1,100 31
Interest rate swap contracts Accrued liabilities 500 — — —
Interest rate swap contracts Pension and other liabilities 255 (3) 650 (1)
Forward starting interest rate swap contracts Prepaid expenses and other 500 8 — —
Forward starting interest rate swap contracts Other assets — — 500 15
Forward starting interest rate swap contracts Accrued liabilities 250 (11) — —
Forward starting interest rate swap contracts Pension and other liabilities — — 250 (7)
Foreign currency forward contracts Prepaid expenses and other 967 66 1,016 50
Foreign currency forward contracts Accrued liabilities 198 (9) 342 (5)
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:
Foreign currency forward contracts Prepaid expenses and other 106 — — —
Foreign currency forward contracts Accrued liabilities 291 (4) 445 (5)
Foreign currency forward contracts Pension and other liabilities 69 (3) — —
Cash Flow Hedges — Foreign currency forward contracts are used to hedge certain forecasted intercompany inventory purchase
transactions and certain other foreign currency transactions. The effective portion of changes in fair value for contracts designated as
cash flow hedges are temporarily reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss and included in earnings when the hedged item
affects earnings. The net gains on foreign currency forward contracts are expected to be reclassified to net earnings (primarily included
in cost of products sold) within the next two years. The notional amount of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was primarily
attributed to the euro ($617 million) and Japanese yen ($321 million) at December 31, 2016.
In 2015, BMS entered into $750 million of forward starting interest rate swap contracts maturing in March 2017 to hedge the variability
of probable forecasted interest expense associated with potential future issuances of debt. The contracts are designated as cash flow
hedges with the effective portion of fair value changes included in other comprehensive income.
The earnings impact related to discontinued cash flow hedges and hedge ineffectiveness was not significant during all periods presented.
Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when the forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring within 60 days after the
originally forecasted date or when the hedge is no longer effective. Assessments to determine whether derivatives designated as qualifying
hedges are highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of hedged items are performed at inception and on a quarterly basis.
Net Investment Hedges — Non-U.S. dollar borrowings of €950 million ($993 million) at December 31, 2016 are designated to hedge the
foreign currency exposures of the net investment in certain foreign affiliates. These borrowings are designated as net investment hedges
and recognized in long term debt. The effective portion of foreign exchange gains on the remeasurement of euro debt was $48 million,
$80 million, and $79 million for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and were recorded in the foreign currency translation component of
accumulated other comprehensive loss with the related offset in long-term debt.
Fair Value Hedges — Fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts are designated as fair value hedges used as an interest rate risk
management strategy to create an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt. The contracts and underlying debt for the hedged
benchmark risk are recorded at fair value. The effective interest rate for the contracts is one-month LIBOR (0.70% as of December 31,
2016) plus an interest rate spread ranging from (0.1)% to 4.6%. When the underlying swap is terminated prior to maturity, the fair value
basis adjustment to the underlying debt instrument is amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the debt.
The notional amount of fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts executed was $255 million in 2016 and $200 million in 2014. The
notional amount of fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts terminated was $500 million in 2016, $147 million in 2015 and $426
million in 2014 generating proceeds of $43 million in 2016, $28 million in 2015 and $119 million in 2014 (including accrued interest).
Additional contracts were terminated in connection with debt redemptions in 2015 and 2014.
562016 Annual Report
Debt Obligations
Short-term borrowings and the current portion of long-term debt includes:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Bank drafts and short-term borrowings $ 243 $ 139
Current portion of long-term debt 749 —
Total $ 992 $ 139
The average amount of commercial paper outstanding was $254 million at a weighted-average interest rate of 0.16% during 2015. The
maximum month end amount of commercial paper outstanding was $755 million with no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2015.
There were no commercial paper borrowings in 2016.
Long-term debt and the current portion of long-term debt includes:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Principal Value:
0.875% Notes due 2017 $ 750 $ 750
1.750% Notes due 2019 500 500
2.000% Notes due 2022 750 750
7.150% Notes due 2023 302 302
3.250% Notes due 2023 500 500
1.000% Euro Notes due 2025 601 630
6.800% Notes due 2026 256 256
1.750% Euro Notes due 2035 601 630
5.875% Notes due 2036 404 404
6.125% Notes due 2038 278 278
3.250% Notes due 2042 500 500
4.500% Notes due 2044 500 500
6.880% Notes due 2097 260 260
0% - 5.75% Other - maturing 2017 - 2030 59 79
Subtotal 6,261 6,339
Adjustments to Principal Value:
Fair value of interest rate swap contracts (2) 30
Unamortized basis adjustment from swap terminations 287 272
Unamortized bond discounts and issuance costs (81) (91)
Total $ 6,465 $ 6,550
Current portion of long-term debt $ 749 $—
Long-term debt 5,716 6,550
The fair value of long-term debt was $6,932 million and $6,909 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and was estimated
using Level 2 inputs which are based upon the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt instruments. The fair value of short-
term borrowings approximates the carrying value due to the short maturities of the debt instruments.
57Bristol-Myers Squibb
Senior unsecured notes were issued in a registered public offerings in 2015. The notes rank equally in right of payment with all of BMS's
existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and are redeemable in whole or in part, at any time at a predetermined redemption
price. BMS also terminated forward starting interest rate swap contracts entered into during 2015, resulting in an unrealized loss in other
comprehensive income. The following table summarizes the issuance of long-term debt obligations in 2015 (none in 2016 and 2014):
2015
Amounts in Millions Euro U.S. dollars
Principal Value:
1.000% Euro Notes due 2025 € 575 $ 643
1.750% Euro Notes due 2035 575 643
Total € 1,150 $ 1,286
Proceeds net of discount and deferred loan issuance costs € 1,133 $ 1,268
Forward starting interest rate swap contracts terminated:
Notional amount € 500 $ 559
Unrealized loss (16) (18)
The following summarizes the debt redemption activity for 2015 and 2014 (none in 2016):
Dollars in Millions 2015 2014
Principal amount $ 1,624 $ 582
Carrying value 1,795 633
Debt redemption price 1,957 676
Notional amount of interest rate swap contracts terminated 735 500
Interest rate swap termination payments 11 4
Loss on debt redemption(a) 180 45
(a) Including acceleration of debt issuance costs, loss on interest rate lock contract and other related fees.
Interest payments were $191 million in 2016, $205 million in 2015 and $238 million in 2014 net of amounts received from interest rate
swap contracts.
We currently have two separate $1.5 billion revolving credit facilities from a syndicate of lenders. The facilities provide for customary
terms and conditions with no financial covenants and were extended to October 2020 and July 2021. Each facility is extendable annually
by one year on the anniversary date with the consent of the lenders. No borrowings were outstanding under either revolving credit facility
at December 31, 2016 or 2015.
Available financial guarantees provided in the form of stand-by letters of credit and performance bonds were $812 million at December 31,
2016. Stand-by letters of credit are issued through financial institutions in support of guarantees for various obligations. Performance
bonds are issued to support a range of ongoing operating activities, including sale of products to hospitals and foreign ministries of health,
bonds for customs, duties and value added tax and guarantees related to miscellaneous legal actions. A significant majority of the
outstanding financial guarantees will expire within the year and are not expected to be funded.
582016 Annual Report
Note 10 RECEIVABLES
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Trade receivables $ 3,948 $ 3,070
Less charge-backs and cash discounts (126) (97)
Less bad debt allowances (48) (25)
Net trade receivables 3,774 2,948
Alliance receivables 903 958
Prepaid and refundable income taxes 627 182
Other 239 211
Receivables $ 5,543 $ 4,299
Non-U.S. receivables sold on a nonrecourse basis were $618 million in 2016, $476 million in 2015, and $812 million in 2014. In the
aggregate, receivables from three pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. represented 66% and 53% of total trade receivables at
December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Changes to the allowances for bad debt, charge-backs and cash discounts were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Balance at beginning of year $ 122 $ 93 $ 89
Provision 1,613 1,059 773
Utilization (1,561) (1,030) (769)
Balance at end of year $ 174 $ 122 $ 93
Note 11 INVENTORIES
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Finished goods $ 310 $ 381
Work in process 988 868
Raw and packaging materials 264 199
Inventories $ 1,562 $ 1,448
Inventories $ 1,241 $ 1,221
Other assets 321 227
Other assets include inventory pending regulatory approval of $54 million at December 31, 2016 and $85 million at December 31, 2015
and other amounts expected to remain on-hand beyond one year.
59Bristol-Myers Squibb
Note 12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND LEASES
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Land $ 107 $ 107
Buildings 4,930 4,515
Machinery, equipment and fixtures 3,287 3,347
Construction in progress 849 662
Gross property, plant and equipment 9,173 8,631
Less accumulated depreciation (4,193) (4,219)
Property, plant and equipment $ 4,980 $ 4,412
Depreciation expense was $448 million in 2016, $500 million in 2015 and $543 million in 2014.
Annual minimum rental commitments for non-cancelable operating leases (primarily real estate and motor vehicles) are approximately
$100 million in each of the next five years and an aggregate $300 million thereafter. Operating lease expense was approximately $145
million in 2016 and $140 million in 2015 and 2014. Sublease income and capital lease obligations were not material for all periods
presented.
Note 13 GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
December 31,
Estimated
Dollars in Millions Useful Lives 2016 2015
Goodwill $ 6,875 $ 6,881
Other intangible assets:
Licenses 5 – 15 years $ 564 $ 574
Developed technology rights 9 – 15 years 2,357 2,357
Capitalized software 3 – 10 years 1,441 1,302
IPRD 107 120
Gross other intangible assets 4,469 4,353
Less accumulated amortization (3,084) (2,934)
Total other intangible assets $ 1,385 $ 1,419
Amortization expense of other intangible assets was $178 million in 2016, $183 million in 2015 and $286 million in 2014. Future annual
amortization expense of other intangible assets is expected to be approximately $220 million in 2017, $200 million in 2018, $170 million
in 2019, $130 million in 2020, and $100 million in 2021. Other intangible asset impairment charges were $33 million in 2016, $181
million in 2015 and $380 million in 2014.
A $160 million IPRD impairment charge was recognized in 2015 for BMS-986020 (LPA1 Antagonist) which was in Phase II development
for treatment of IPF. The full write-off was required after considering the occurrence of certain adverse events, voluntary suspension of
the study and an internal assessment indicating a significantly lower likelihood of regulatory and commercial success. BMS acquired
BMS-986020 with its acquisition of Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2011. In addition, a contingent consideration liability of $8 million
related to the acquisition was also reversed because of the lower likelihood of success.
A $310 million IPRD impairment charge was recognized in 2014 for peginterferon lambda which was in Phase III development for
treatment of HCV. The full write-off was required after assessing the potential commercial viability of the asset and estimating its fair
value. The assessment considered the lower likelihood of filing for registration in certain markets after completing revised projections
of revenues and expenses. A significant decline from prior projected revenues resulted from the global introduction of oral non-interferon
products being used to treat patients with HCV and no other alternative uses for the product.
602016 Annual Report
Note 14 ACCRUED LIABILITIES
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Accrued rebates and returns $ 1,680 $ 1,324
Employee compensation and benefits 818 904
Accrued research and development 718 553
Dividends payable 660 655
Royalties 246 161
Branded Prescription Drug Fee 234 112
Restructuring 90 89
Pension and postretirement benefits 44 47
Litigation and other settlements 43 189
Other 738 704
Total accrued liabilities $ 5,271 $ 4,738
Note 15 EQUITY
Common Stock Capital in Accumulated Treasury Stock
Excess Other
of Par Value Comprehensive Retained Noncontrolling
Dollars and Shares in Millions Shares Par Value of Stock Loss Earnings Shares Cost Interest
Balance at January 1, 2014 2,208 $ 221 $ 1,922 $ (2,141) $32,952 559 $ (17,800) $ 82
Net earnings — — — — 2,004 — — 39
Other comprehensive loss — — — (284) — — — —
Cash dividends — — — — (2,415) — — —
Stock compensation — — (393) — — (11) 755 —
Debt conversion — — (22) — — (1) 53 —
Variable interest entity — — — — — — — 59
Distributions — — — — — — — (49)
Balance at December 31, 2014 2,208 221 1,507 (2,425) 32,541 547 (16,992) 131
Net earnings — — — — 1,565 — — 84
Other comprehensive loss — — — (43) — — — —
Cash dividends — — — — (2,493) — — —
Stock compensation — — (48) — — (8) 431 —
Debt conversion — — — — — — 2 —
Distributions — — — — — — — (57)
Balance at December 31, 2015 2,208 221 1,459 (2,468) 31,613 539 (16,559) 158
Net earnings — — — — 4,457 — — 50
Other comprehensive loss — — — (35) — — — —
Cash dividends — — — — (2,557) — — —
Stock repurchase program — — — — — 4 (231) —
Stock compensation — — 266 — — (7) 11 —
Distributions — — — — — — — (38)
Balance at December 31, 2016 2,208 $ 221 $ 1,725 $ (2,503) $33,513 536 $ (16,779) $ 170
Treasury stock is recognized at the cost to reacquire the shares. Shares issued from treasury are recognized utilizing the first-in first-out
method.
In October 2016, the Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of an additional $3.0 billion
of common stock. Repurchases may be made either in the open market or through private transactions, including under repurchase plans
established in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The stock repurchase program does not have an
expiration date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
61Bristol-Myers Squibb
On February 21, 2017, BMS entered into ASR agreements with each of Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC to
repurchase approximately $2.0 billion of common stock in the aggregate. The ASR will be funded through a combination of debt and
cash and are part of the existing share repurchase authorization. The total number of shares ultimately repurchased under the ASR will
be determined upon final settlement and based on a discount to the volume-weighted average price of BMS's common stock during the
ASR period which is expected to be completed by June 30, 2017.
The components of other comprehensive income/(loss) were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
2016 2015 2014
Dollars in Millions Pretax Tax After Tax Pretax Tax After Tax Pretax Tax After Tax
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges(a)
Unrealized gains/(losses) $ (5) $ — $ (5) $ 59 $ (22) $ 37 $ 139 $ (45) $ 94
Reclassified to net earnings 12 (3) 9 (130) 42 (88) (41) 16 (25)
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges 7 (3) 4 (71) 20 (51) 98 (29) 69
Pension and other postretirement benefits:
Actuarial losses (126) (3) (129) (88) 27 (61) (1,414) 464 (950)
Amortization(b) 78 (25) 53 85 (28) 57 104 (37) 67
Settlements and curtailments(c) 91 (32) 59 160 (55) 105 867 (308) 559
Pension and other postretirement benefits 43 (60) (17) 157 (56) 101 (443) 119 (324)
Available-for-sale securities:
Unrealized gains/(losses) (12) (1) (13) (71) 14 (57) 10 (6) 4
Realized (gains)/losses(c) 29 — 29 3 — 3 (1) — (1)
Available-for-sale securities 17 (1) 16 (68) 14 (54) 9 (6) 3
Foreign currency translation (33) (5) (38) (17) (22) (39) (8) (24) (32)
Total Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) $ 34 $ (69) $ (35) $ 1 $ (44) $ (43) $ (344) $ 60 $ (284)
(a) Included in cost of products sold
(b) Included in cost of products sold, research and development, and marketing, selling and administrative expenses
(c) Included in other (income)/expense
The accumulated balances related to each component of other comprehensive loss, net of taxes, were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges $ 38 $ 34
Pension and other postretirement benefits (2,097) (2,080)
Available-for-sale securities (7) (23)
Foreign currency translation (437) (399)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (2,503) $ (2,468)
Note 16 PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS
BMS sponsors defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans and termination indemnity plans for regular full-time employees.
The principal defined benefit pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan, covering most U.S. employees and
representing approximately 66% of the consolidated pension plan assets and 61% of the obligations. Future benefits related to service
for this plan were eliminated in 2009. BMS contributes at least the minimum amount required by the ERISA. Plan benefits are based
primarily on the participant’s years of credited service and final average compensation. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-
income securities.
622016 Annual Report
The net periodic benefit cost/(credit) of defined benefit pension plans includes:
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Service cost — benefits earned during the year $ 24 $ 25 $ 34
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation 192 242 305
Expected return on plan assets (418) (405) (508)
Amortization of prior service credits (3) (3) (3)
Amortization of net actuarial loss 84 91 110
Curtailments — (1) 1
Settlements 91 161 866
Special termination benefits 1 — 14
Net periodic benefit cost/(credit) $ (29) $ 110 $ 819
In September 2014, BMS and Fiduciary Counselors Inc., as an independent fiduciary of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Retirement
Income Plan, entered into a definitive agreement to transfer certain U.S. pension assets to Prudential to settle approximately $1.5 billion
of pension obligations. BMS purchased a group annuity contract from Prudential in December 2014, who irrevocably assumed the
obligation to make future annuity payments to certain BMS retirees. The transaction does not change the amount of the monthly pension
benefit received by affected retirees and surviving beneficiaries and resulted in a pretax settlement charge of $713 million. Pension
settlement charges were also recognized after determining the annual lump sum payments will exceed the annual interest and service
costs for certain pension plans, including the primary U.S. pension plan in 2016, 2015 and 2014.
Changes in defined benefit pension plan obligations, assets, funded status and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets
were as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Benefit obligations at beginning of year $ 6,418 $ 7,068
Service cost—benefits earned during the year 24 25
Interest cost 192 242
Settlements (173) (336)
Actuarial (gains)/losses 253 (321)
Benefits paid (109) (105)
Foreign currency and other (165) (155)
Benefit obligations at end of year $ 6,440 $ 6,418
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year $ 5,687 $ 6,148
Actual return on plan assets 513 (5)
Employer contributions 81 118
Settlements (173) (336)
Benefits paid (109) (105)
Foreign currency and other (168) (133)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year $ 5,831 $ 5,687
Funded status $ (609) $ (731)
Assets/(Liabilities) recognized:
Other assets $ 26 $ 71
Accrued liabilities (35) (37)
Pension and other liabilities (600) (765)
Funded status $ (609) $ (731)
Recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss:
Net actuarial losses $ 3,123 $ 3,140
Prior service credit (39) (39)
Total $ 3,084 $ 3,101
The accumulated benefit obligation for defined benefit pension plans was $6,381 million and $6,363 million at December 31, 2016 and
2015, respectively.
63Bristol-Myers Squibb
Additional information related to pension plans was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015
Pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:
Projected benefit obligation $ 6,195 $ 5,310
Fair value of plan assets 5,559 4,508
Pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:
Accumulated benefit obligation $ 5,978 $ 5,156
Fair value of plan assets 5,380 4,386
Actuarial Assumptions
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine defined benefit pension plan obligations at December 31 were as follows:
2016 2015
Discount rate 3.5% 3.8%
Rate of compensation increase 0.5% 0.5%
Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine defined benefit pension plan net periodic benefit (credit)/cost for the years
ended December 31 were as follows:
2016 2015 2014
Discount rate 3.8% 3.6% 4.2%
Expected long-term return on plan assets 7.2% 7.2% 7.6%
Rate of compensation increase 0.5% 0.8% 2.3%
The yield on high quality corporate bonds matching the duration of the benefit obligations is used in determining the discount rate. The
Citi Pension Discount curve is used in developing the discount rate for the U.S. plans.
The expected return on plan assets was determined using the expected rate of return and a calculated value of assets, referred to as the
“market-related value” which approximated the fair value of plan assets at December 31, 2016. Differences between assumed and actual
returns are amortized to the market-related value on a straight-line basis over a three-year period. Several factors are considered in
developing the expected return on plan assets, including long-term historical returns and input from external advisors. Individual asset
class return forecasts were developed based upon market conditions, for example, price-earnings levels and yields and long-term growth
expectations. The expected long-term rate of return is the weighted-average of the target asset allocation of each individual asset class.
Historical long-term actual annualized returns for U.S. pension plans were as follows:
2016 2015 2014
10 years 6.1% 6.7% 7.9%
15 years 7.1% 6.0% 6.4%
20 years 7.7% 8.1% 9.3%
Actuarial gains and losses resulted from changes in actuarial assumptions (such as changes in the discount rate and revised mortality
rates) and from differences between assumed and actual experience (such as differences between actual and expected return on plan
assets). Gains and losses are amortized over the life expectancy of the plan participants for U.S. plans (34 years in 2017) and expected
remaining service periods for most other plans to the extent they exceed 10% of the higher of the market-related value or the projected
benefit obligation for each respective plan. The amortization of net actuarial loss and prior service credit is expected to be approximately
$75 million in 2017. The periodic benefit cost or credit is included in cost of products sold, research and development, and marketing,
selling and administrative expenses, except for curtailments, settlements and other special termination benefits which are included in
other expenses.
642016 Annual Report
Postretirement Benefit Plans
Comprehensive medical and group life benefits are provided for substantially all U.S. retirees electing to participate in comprehensive
medical and group life plans and to a lesser extent certain benefits for non-U.S. employees. The medical plan is contributory. Contributions
are adjusted periodically and vary by date of retirement. The life insurance plan is noncontributory. Plan assets consist principally of
equity and fixed-income securities. Postretirement benefit plan obligations were $308 million and $355 million at December 31, 2016
and 2015, respectively, and the fair value of plan assets were $331 million and $328 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
The weighted-average discount rate used to determine benefit obligations was 3.6% at December 31, 2016 and 2015. The net periodic
benefit credits were not material.
Plan Assets
The fair value of pension and postretirement plan assets by asset category at December 31, 2016 and 2015 was as follows:
December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015
Dollars in Millions Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Plan Assets
Equity securities $ 833 $ — $ — $ 833 $ 785 $ — $ — $ 785
Equity funds 138 1,230 — 1,368 452 748 — 1,200
Fixed income funds — 804 — 804 249 724 — 973
Corporate debt securities — 1,405 — 1,405 — 1,382 — 1,382
U.S. Treasury and agency securities — 536 — 536 — 517 — 517
Short-term investment funds — 90 — 90 — 103 — 103
Insurance contracts — — 112 112 — — 115 115
Cash and cash equivalents 81 — — 81 106 — — 106
Other — 93 — 93 4 14 — 18
Plan assets subject to leveling $ 1,052 $ 4,158 $ 112 $ 5,322 $ 1,596 $ 3,488 $ 115 $ 5,199
Plan assets measured at NAV as a practical expedient
Equity funds $ 476 $ 495
Venture capital and limited partnerships 198 249
Other 166 72
Total plan assets measured at NAV as a practical expedient 840 816
Net plan assets $ 6,162 $ 6,015
The investment valuation policies per investment class are as follows:
Level 1 inputs utilize unadjusted quoted prices in active markets accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities.
The fair value hierarchy provides the highest priority to Level 1 inputs. These instruments include equity securities, equity funds
and fixed income funds publicly traded on a national securities exchange, and cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents
are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase and are recognized at cost,
which approximates fair value. Pending trade sales and purchases are included in cash and cash equivalents until final settlement.
Level 2 inputs utilize observable prices for similar instruments, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in non-active
markets, and other observable inputs that can be corroborated by market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Equity funds, fixed income funds, and short-term investment funds classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy are valued
at the net asset value of their shares held at year end, which represents fair value. Corporate debt securities and U.S. Treasury and
agency securities classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy are valued utilizing observable prices for similar instruments
and quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active.
Level 3 unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. Insurance contracts are held by certain foreign
pension plans and are carried at contract value, which approximates the estimated fair value and is based on the fair value of the
underlying investment of the insurance company.
In May 2015, the FASB issued amended guidance removing the requirement to categorize within the fair value hierarchy all investments
for which fair value is measured using the NAV per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient. The guidance is applied retrospectively
in the table above. Venture capital and limited partnership investments are typically only redeemable through distributions upon liquidation
of the underlying assets. There were no significant unfunded commitments for these investments and essentially all liquidations are
expected to occur by 2019. Most of the remaining investments using the practical expedient are redeemable on a weekly or monthly
basis.
65Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following summarizes the activity for financial assets utilizing Level 3 fair value measurements:
Dollars in Millions Insurance contracts
Fair value at January 1, 2015 $ 119
Purchases, sales and settlements, net 7
Realized losses (11)
Fair value at December 31, 2015 115
Purchases, sales and settlements, net (3)
Fair value at December 31, 2016 $ 112
The investment strategy is to maximize return while maintaining an appropriate level of risk to provide sufficient liquidity for benefit
obligations and plan expenses. A target asset allocation of 43% public equity (16% international, 14% global and 13% U.S.), 7% private
equity and 50% long-duration fixed income is maintained for the U.S. pension plans. Investments are diversified within each of the three
major asset categories. Approximately 90% of the U.S. pension plans equity investments are actively managed. BMS common stock
represents less than 1% of the plan assets at December 31, 2016 and 2015.
Contributions and Estimated Future Benefit Payments
Contributions to pension plans were $81 million in 2016, $118 million in 2015 and $124 million in 2014 and are expected to be
approximately $100 million in 2017. Estimated annual future benefit payments (including lump sum payments) range from approximately
$250 million to $400 million in each of the next five years, and aggregate $1.4 billion in the subsequent five year period.
Savings Plans
The principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings and Investment Program. The contribution is based on
employee contributions and the level of Company match. The expense attributed to defined contribution plans in the U.S. was
approximately $190 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014.
Note 17 EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS
On May 1, 2012, the shareholders approved the 2012 Plan, which replaced the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. The 2012 Plan provides for
109 million shares to be authorized for grants, plus any shares from outstanding awards under the 2007 Plan as of February 29, 2012 that
expire, are forfeited, canceled, or withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations. As of December 31, 2016, 106 million shares were
available for award. Shares are issued from treasury stock to satisfy our obligations under this Plan.
Executive officers and key employees may be granted options to purchase common stock at no less than the market price on the date the
option is granted. Options generally become exercisable ratably over four years and have a maximum term of ten years. The plan provides
for the granting of stock appreciation rights whereby the grantee may surrender exercisable rights and receive common stock and/or cash
measured by the excess of the market price of the common stock over the option exercise price. The Company has not granted any stock
options or stock appreciation rights since 2009.
Restricted stock units may be granted to key employees, subject to restrictions as to continuous employment. Generally, vesting occurs
ratably over a four year period from grant date. A stock unit is a right to receive stock at the end of the specified vesting period but has
no voting rights.
Market share units are granted to executives. Vesting is conditioned upon continuous employment until the vesting date and a payout
factor of at least 60% of the share price on the award date. The payout factor is the share price on vesting date divided by share price on
award date, with a maximum of 200%. The share price used in the payout factor is calculated using an average of the closing prices on
the grant or vest date, and the nine trading days immediately preceding the grant or vest date. Vesting occurs ratably over four years.
Performance share units are granted to executives, have a three year cycle and are granted as a target number of units subject to adjustment.
The number of shares issued when performance share units vest is determined based on the achievement of performance goals and based
on the Company's three-year total shareholder return relative to a peer group of companies. Vesting is conditioned upon continuous
employment and occurs on the third anniversary of the grant date.
662016 Annual Report
Stock-based compensation expense for awards ultimately expected to vest is recognized over the vesting period. Forfeitures are estimated
based on historical experience at the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
Other information related to stock-based compensation benefits are as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2016 2015 2014
Restricted stock units $ 89 $ 82 $ 75
Market share units 37 36 34
Performance share units 79 117 104
Total stock-based compensation expense $ 205 $ 235 $ 213
Income tax benefit $ 69 $ 77 $ 71
Stock Options Restricted Stock Units Market Share Units Performance Share Units
Weighted- Number Weighted- Number Weighted- Number Weighted-
Number of Average of Average of Average of Average
Options Exercise Price Nonvested Grant-Date Nonvested Grant-Date Nonvested Grant-Date
Shares in Thousands Outstanding of Shares Awards Fair Value Awards Fair Value Awards Fair Value
Balance at January 1, 2016 10,327 $ 21.62 4,499 $ 50.02 1,809 $ 53.10 4,078 $ 56.17
Granted — — 2,348 60.56 731 65.26 1,097 64.87
Released/Exercised (3,851) 22.60 (1,810) 45.00 (1,117) 44.33 (1,730) 54.02
Adjustments for actual payout — — — — 261 35.93 912 64.90
Forfeited/Canceled (73) 22.65 (446) 55.06 (157) 60.55 (242) 62.30
Balance at December 31, 2016 6,403 21.02 4,591 56.90 1,527 61.63 4,115 60.97
Vested or expected to vest 6,403 21.02 4,112 56.64 1,401 61.39 3,956 60.81
Restricted Market Performance
Dollars in Millions Stock Units Share Units Share Units
Unrecognized compensation cost $ 188 $ 42 $ 94
Expected weighted-average period in years of compensation cost to be recognized 2.7 2.8 1.6
Amounts in Millions, except per share data 2016 2015 2014
Weighted-average grant date fair value (per share):
Restricted stock units $ 60.56 $ 61.18 $ 52.22
Market share units 65.26 67.03 55.44
Performance share units 64.87 65.07 55.17
Fair value of awards that vested:
Restricted stock units $ 81 $ 77 $ 68
Market share units 50 47 49
Performance share units 93 75 90
Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised $ 158 $ 206 $ 199
The fair value of restricted stock units, market share units and performance share units approximates the closing trading price of BMS's
common stock on the grant date after adjusting for the units not eligible for accrued dividends. In addition, the fair value of market share
units and performance share units considers the probability of satisfying the payout factor and total shareholder return, respectively.
67Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options at December 31, 2016:
Options Outstanding and Exercisable
Number Weighted-Average Weighted-Average Aggregate
Outstanding and Exercisable Remaining Contractual Exercise Price Intrinsic Value
Range of Exercise Prices (in thousands) Life (in years) Per Share (in millions)
$1 - $20 3,052 2.15 $ 17.54 $ 125
$20 - $30 3,351 0.78 24.18 115
6,403 1.43 $ 21.02 $ 240
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on the closing stock price of $58.44
on December 31, 2016.
Note 18 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in various lawsuits, claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings
that arise in the ordinary course of business. These claims or proceedings can involve various types of parties, including governments,
competitors, customers, suppliers, service providers, licensees, employees, or shareholders, among others. The resolution of these matters
often develops over a long period of time and expectations can change as a result of new findings, rulings, appeals or settlement
arrangements. The Company recognizes accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount
of loss can be reasonably estimated. These matters involve patent infringement, antitrust, securities, pricing, sales and marketing practices,
environmental, commercial, contractual rights, licensing obligations, health and safety matters, consumer fraud, employment matters,
product liability and insurance coverage. Legal proceedings that are material or that the Company believes could become material are
described below.
Although the Company believes it has substantial defenses in these matters, there can be no assurance that there will not be an increase
in the scope of pending matters or that any future lawsuits, claims, government investigations or other legal proceedings will not be
material. Unless otherwise noted, the Company is unable to assess the outcome of the respective litigation nor is it able to provide an
estimated range of potential loss. Furthermore, failure to enforce our patent rights would likely result in substantial decreases in the
respective product revenues from generic competition.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Plavix* — Australia
As previously disclosed, Sanofi was notified that, in August 2007, GenRx Proprietary Limited (GenRx) obtained regulatory approval of
an application for clopidogrel bisulfate 75mg tablets in Australia. GenRx, formerly a subsidiary of Apotex Inc. (Apotex), has since changed
its name to Apotex. In August 2007, Apotex filed an application in the Federal Court of Australia (the Federal Court) seeking revocation
of Sanofi’s Australian Patent No. 597784 (Case No. NSD 1639 of 2007). Sanofi filed counterclaims of infringement and sought an
injunction. On September 21, 2007, the Federal Court granted Sanofi’s injunction. A subsidiary of the Company was subsequently added
as a party to the proceedings. In February 2008, a second company, Spirit Pharmaceuticals Pty. Ltd., also filed a revocation suit against
the same patent. This case was consolidated with the Apotex case, and a trial occurred in April 2008. On August 12, 2008, the Federal
Court of Australia held that claims of Patent No. 597784 covering clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, and taurocholate
salts were valid. The Federal Court also held that the process claims, pharmaceutical composition claims, and claim directed to clopidogrel
and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts were invalid. The Company and Sanofi filed notices of appeal in the Full Court of the Federal
Court of Australia (Full Court) appealing the holding of invalidity of the claim covering clopidogrel and its pharmaceutically acceptable
salts, process claims, and pharmaceutical composition claims which have stayed the Federal Court’s ruling. Apotex filed a notice of
appeal appealing the holding of validity of the clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, and taurocholate claims. A hearing
on the appeals occurred in February 2009. On September 29, 2009, the Full Court held all of the claims of Patent No. 597784 invalid. In
November 2009, the Company and Sanofi applied to the High Court of Australia (High Court) for special leave to appeal the judgment
of the Full Court. In March 2010, the High Court denied the Company and Sanofi’s request to hear the appeal of the Full Court decision.
The case has been remanded to the Federal Court for further proceedings related to damages sought by Apotex. The Australian government
has intervened in this matter and is also seeking damages for alleged losses experienced during the period when the injunction was in
place. The Company and Apotex have settled the Apotex case, and the case has been dismissed. The Australian government's claim is
still pending and a trial has been scheduled for August 2017. It is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of the Australian
government’s claim or its impact on the Company.
682016 Annual Report
Sprycel - European Union
In May 2013, Apotex, Actavis Group PTC ehf, Generics [UK] Limited (Mylan) and an unnamed company filed oppositions in the European
Patent Office (EPO) seeking revocation of European Patent No. 1169038 (the ‘038 patent) covering dasatinib, the active ingredient in
Sprycel. The ‘038 patent is scheduled to expire in April 2020 (excluding potential term extensions). On January 20, 2016, the Opposition
Division of the EPO revoked the ‘038 patent. In May 2016, the Company appealed the EPO’s decision to the EPO Board of Appeal. On
February 1, 2017, the EPO Board of Appeal upheld the Opposition Division's decision, and the ‘038 patent has been revoked. Orphan
drug exclusivity and data exclusivity for Sprycel in the EU expired in November 2016. The EPO Board of Appeal's decision does not
affect the validity of our other Sprycel patents within and outside Europe, including different patents that cover the monohydrate form
of dasatinib and the use of dasatinib to treat chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). Additionally, in February 2017, the EPO Board of
Appeal reversed and remanded an invalidity decision on European Patent No. 1610780 and its claim to the use of dasatinib to treat CML,
which the EPO's Opposition Division had revoked in October 2012. The Company intends to take appropriate legal actions to protect
Sprycel. We may experience a decline in European revenues in the event that generic dasatinib product enters the market.
Anti-PD-1 Antibody Patent Oppositions and Litigation
On January 20, 2017, BMS and Ono announced the companies have signed a global patent license agreement with Merck to settle all
patent-infringement litigation related to Merck’s PD-1 antibody Keytruda* (pembrolizumab). The agreement will result in the dismissal
with prejudice of all patent litigation between the companies pertaining to Keytruda*. BMS and Ono had asserted in litigation that Merck’s
sale of Keytruda* infringed the companies’ patents relating to the use of PD-1 antibodies to treat cancer in the U.S., Europe (UK,
Netherlands, France, Germany, Ireland, Spain and Switzerland), Australia and Japan.
As part of the agreement, Merck will make an initial payment of $625 million to BMS and Ono. Merck is also obligated to pay ongoing
royalties on global sales of Keytruda* of 6.5% from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2023, and 2.5% from January 1, 2024 through
December 31, 2026. Under the agreement, the companies have also granted certain rights to each other under their respective patent
portfolios pertaining to PD-1. The initial payment and royalties will be shared between BMS and Ono on a 75/25 percent allocation,
respectively after adjusting for each parties incurred legal fees.
In September 2015, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (Dana-Farber) filed a complaint in Massachusetts federal court seeking to correct the
inventorship of five related U.S. patents directed to methods of treating cancer using a PD-1 antibody. Specifically, Dana-Farber is seeking
to add two scientists as inventors to these patents.
PRICING, SALES AND PROMOTIONAL PRACTICES LITIGATION
Plavix* State Attorneys General Lawsuits
The Company and certain affiliates of Sanofi are defendants in consumer protection and/or false advertising actions brought by several
states relating to the sales and promotion of Plavix*. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or
their potential impact on the Company.
PRODUCT LIABILITY LITIGATION
The Company is a party to various product liability lawsuits. Plaintiffs in these cases seek damages and other relief on various grounds
for alleged personal injury and economic loss. As previously disclosed, in addition to lawsuits, the Company also faces unfiled claims
involving its products.
Plavix*
As previously disclosed, the Company and certain affiliates of Sanofi are defendants in a number of individual lawsuits in various state
and federal courts claiming personal injury damage allegedly sustained after using Plavix*. Currently, over 5,300 claims involving injury
plaintiffs as well as claims by spouses and/or other beneficiaries, are filed in state and federal courts in various states including California,
New Jersey, Delaware and New York. In February 2013, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation granted the Company and Sanofi’s
motion to establish a multi-district litigation (MDL) to coordinate Federal pretrial proceedings in Plavix* product liability and related
cases in New Jersey Federal Court. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or the potential impact
on the Company.
69Bristol-Myers Squibb
Byetta*
Amylin, a former subsidiary of the Company, and Lilly are co-defendants in product liability litigation related to Byetta*. To date, there
are over 500 separate lawsuits pending on behalf of approximately 2,000 active plaintiffs (including pending settlements), which include
injury plaintiffs as well as claims by spouses and/or other beneficiaries, in various courts in the U.S. The Company has agreed in principle
to resolve over 30 of these claims. The majority of these cases have been brought by individuals who allege personal injury sustained
after using Byetta*, primarily pancreatic cancer and pancreatitis, and, in some cases, claiming alleged wrongful death. The majority of
cases were pending in Federal Court in San Diego in an MDL or in a coordinated proceeding in California Superior Court in Los Angeles
(JCCP). In November 2015, the defendants' motion for summary judgment based on federal preemption was granted in both the MDL
and the JCCP. The plaintiffs in the MDL have appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and the JCCP plaintiffs have
appealed to the California Court of Appeal. Amylin has product liability insurance covering a substantial number of claims involving
Byetta* and any additional liability to Amylin with respect to Byetta* is expected to be shared between the Company and AstraZeneca.
It is not possible to reasonably predict the outcome of any lawsuit, claim or proceeding or the potential impact on the Company.
Abilify*
The Company and Otsuka are co-defendants in product liability litigation related to Abilify. Plaintiffs allege Abilify caused them to engage
in compulsive gambling and other impulse control disorders. There have been approximately 130 cases filed in state and federal courts
and several additional cases are pending in Canada. The Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation has consolidated the federal court cases
for pretrial purposes in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida.
Eliquis
The Company and Pfizer are co-defendants in product liability litigation related to Eliquis. Plaintiffs assert claims, including claims for
wrongful death, as a result of bleeding they allege was caused by their use of Eliquis. There have been over 80 cases filed in state and
federal courts in the United States and two cases filed in Canada. The Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation has consolidated the
federal court cases for pretrial purposes in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
SHAREHOLDER DERIVATIVE LITIGATION
Since December 2015, three shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in New York state court against certain officers and directors of
the Company. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, breaches of fiduciary duty surrounding the Company’s previously disclosed
October 2015 civil settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission of alleged Foreign Corrupt Practices Act violations in China
in which the Company agreed to a payment of approximately $14.7 million in disgorgement, penalties and interest. In May 2016, the
Company filed motions to dismiss two of the shareholder derivative lawsuits.
GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATIONS
Like other pharmaceutical companies, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by national, state
and local government agencies in the U.S. and other countries in which BMS operates. As a result, the Company, from time to time, is
subject to various governmental inquiries and investigations. It is possible that criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties,
could result from government investigations. The most significant investigations conducted by government agencies, of which the
Company is aware, are listed below.
Abilify* State Attorneys General Investigation
In March 2009, the Company received a letter from the Delaware Attorney General’s Office advising of a multi-state coalition (Coalition)
investigating whether certain Abilify* marketing practices violated those respective states’ consumer protection statutes. The Company
and the Executive Committee of the Coalition have reached a settlement in this matter, and all but one of the states (New Mexico) that
are members of the Coalition are participating in the settlement. Consent decrees were entered into with all participating states in December
2016.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS
As previously reported, the Company is a party to several environmental proceedings and other matters, and is responsible under various
state, federal and foreign laws, including CERCLA, for certain costs of investigating and/or remediating contamination resulting from
past industrial activity at the Company’s current or former sites or at waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties.
702016 Annual Report
CERCLA Matters
With respect to CERCLA matters for which the Company is responsible under various state, federal and foreign laws, the Company
typically estimates potential costs based on information obtained from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or counterpart state
or foreign agency and/or studies prepared by independent consultants, including the total estimated costs for the site and the expected
cost-sharing, if any, with other “potentially responsible parties,” and the Company accrues liabilities when they are probable and reasonably
estimable. The Company estimated its share of future costs for these sites to be $62 million at December 31, 2016, which represents the
sum of best estimates or, where no best estimate can reasonably be made, estimates of the minimal probable amount among a range of
such costs (without taking into account any potential recoveries from other parties). The $62 million includes the estimated costs for any
additional probable loss associated with the previously disclosed North Brunswick Township High School Remediation Site.
Note 19 SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
Dollars in Millions, except per share data First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
2016
Total Revenues $ 4,391 $ 4,871 $ 4,922 $ 5,243 $ 19,427
Gross Margin 3,339 3,665 3,617 3,860 14,481
Net Earnings 1,206 1,188 1,215 898 4,507
Net Earnings Attributable to:
Noncontrolling Interest 11 22 13 4 50
BMS 1,195 1,166 1,202 894 4,457
Earnings per Share - Basic(a) $ 0.72 $ 0.70 $ 0.72 $ 0.53 $ 2.67
Earnings per Share - Diluted(a) 0.71 0.69 0.72 0.53 2.65
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 0.38 $ 0.39 $ 1.53
Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,644 $ 2,934 $ 3,432 $ 4,237 $ 4,237
Marketable securities(b) 5,352 4,998 5,163 4,832 4,832
Total Assets 31,892 32,831 33,727 33,707 33,707
Long-term debt(c) 6,593 6,581 6,585 6,465 6,465
Equity 14,551 15,078 15,781 16,347 16,347
Dollars in Millions, except per share data First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
2015
Total Revenues $ 4,041 $ 4,163 $ 4,069 $ 4,287 $ 16,560
Gross Margin 3,194 3,150 2,972 3,335 12,651
Net Earnings/(Loss) 1,199 (110) 730 (188) 1,631
Net Earnings/(Loss) Attributable to:
Noncontrolling Interest 13 20 24 9 66
BMS 1,186 (130) 706 (197) 1,565
Earnings/(Loss) per Share - Basic(a) $ 0.71 $ (0.08) $ 0.42 $ (0.12) $ 0.94
Earnings/(Loss) per Share - Diluted(a) 0.71 (0.08) 0.42 (0.12) 0.93
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.37 $ 0.37 $ 0.37 $ 0.38 $ 1.49
Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,294 $ 4,199 $ 3,975 $ 2,385 $ 2,385
Marketable securities(b) 5,592 5,909 6,065 6,545 6,545
Total Assets 33,579 31,954 31,779 31,748 31,748
Long-term debt 7,127 6,615 6,632 6,550 6,550
Equity 15,689 15,291 15,273 14,424 14,424
(a) Earnings per share for the quarters may not add to the amounts for the year, as each period is computed on a discrete basis.
(b) Marketable securities includes current and non-current assets.
(c) Long-term debt includes the current portion.
71Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following specified items affected the comparability of results in 2016 and 2015:
2016
First Second Third Fourth
Dollars in Millions Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year
Cost of products sold(a) $ 4 $ 4 $ 7 $ 6 $ 21
License and asset acquisition charges 125 139 45 130 439
IPRD impairments — — — 13 13
Accelerated depreciation and other 13 13 14 43 83
Research and development 138 152 59 186 535
Provision for restructuring 4 18 19 68 109
Litigation and other settlements 43 — (3) — 40
Divestiture gains (269) (277) (13) — (559)
Royalties and licensing income — — — (10) (10)
Pension charges 22 25 19 25 91
Intangible asset impairment 15 — — — 15
Other (income)/expense (185) (234) 22 83 (314)
Increase/(decrease) to pretax income (43) (78) 88 275 242
Income tax on items above 83 76 (3) (105) 51
Increase/(decrease) to net earnings $ 40 $ (2) $ 85 $ 170 $ 293
(a) Specified items in cost of products sold are accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs.
2015
First Second Third Fourth
Dollars in Millions Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year
Cost of products sold(a) $ 34 $ 25 $ 15 $ 10 $ 84
Marketing, selling and administrative(b) 1 3 2 4 10
License and asset acquisition charges 162 869 94 554 1,679
IPRD impairments — — — 160 160
Accelerated depreciation and other — 2 15 27 44
Research and development 162 871 109 741 1,883
Provision for restructuring 12 28 10 65 115
Litigation and other settlements 14 1 — 143 158
Divestiture (gains)/losses (152) (8) (198) 171 (187)
Pension charges 27 36 48 49 160
Intangible asset impairment 13 — — — 13
Written option adjustment (36) — (87) — (123)
Loss on debt redemption — 180 — — 180
Other (income)/expense (122) 237 (227) 428 316
Increase/(decrease) to pretax income 75 1,136 (101) 1,183 2,293
Income tax on items above (68) (116) 43 (339) (480)
Increase/(decrease) to net earnings $ 7 $ 1,020 $ (58) $ 844 $ 1,813
(a) Specified items in cost of products sold are accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs.
(b) Specified items in marketing, selling and administrative are process standardization implementation costs.
722016 Annual Report
REPORTS OF MANAGEMENT
Management’s Responsibility for Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and integrity of the financial information presented in this Annual Report. The
accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting
principles, applying certain estimates and judgments as required. In management’s opinion, the consolidated financial statements present
fairly the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors meets regularly with the internal auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP (D&T), the Company’s
independent registered accounting firm, and management to review accounting, internal control structure and financial reporting matters.
The internal auditors and D&T have full and free access to the Audit Committee. As set forth in the Company’s Standard of Business
Conduct and Ethics, the Company is firmly committed to adhering to the highest standards of moral and ethical behavior in all of its
business activities.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the supervision
and with the participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management assessed the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016 based on the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated
Framework” (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that assessment,
management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2016 to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements for external purposes
in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s financial statements included in
this report on Form 10-K and issued its report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2016, which is included herein.
Giovanni Caforio
Chief Executive Officer
Charles Bancroft
Chief Financial Officer
February 21, 2017
73Bristol-Myers Squibb
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
As of December 31, 2016, management carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its chief executive
officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as such term
is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that as of December 31, 2016, such
disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the supervision
and with the participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management assessed the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016 based on the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated
Framework” (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that assessment,
management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2016 to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements for external purposes
in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s financial statements included in
this report on Form 10-K and issued its report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2016, which is included herein.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 that have
materially affected, or are reasonable likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
OTHER INFORMATION
None.
742016 Annual Report
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the “Company”)
as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2016, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February
21, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 21, 2017
75Bristol-Myers Squibb
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of
December 31, 2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal
executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors,
management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also,
projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk
that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2016, based on the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2016 of the Company and our report dated February 21,
2017 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 21, 2017
762016 Annual Report
PERFORMANCE GRAPH
The following performance graph compares the performance of Bristol-Myers Squibb for the periods indicated with the performance of
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index (S&P 500) and the average performance of a group consisting of our peer corporations on a line-
of-business basis. The corporations making up our Peer Group are AbbVie Inc, Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Biogen Inc., Celgene
Corp, Eli Lilly and Company, Gilead Sciences, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., Inc., Novartis AG, Pfizer, Inc.,
Roche Holding Ltd., and Sanofi.
Total return indices reflect reinvested dividends and are weighted using beginning-period market capitalization for each of the reported
time periods.
12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2013 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 12/31/2016
Bristol-Myers Squibb $100 $ 96 $ 163 $ 186 $ 222 $ 192
S&P 500 Index $100 $ 116 $ 154 $ 175 $ 177 $ 198
Peer Group $100 $ 118 $ 161 $ 183 $ 186 $ 181
Assumes $100 invested on 12/31/2011 in Bristol-Myers Squibb common stock, S&P 500 index, and Peer Group. Values are as of December
31 of specified year assuming dividends are reinvested.
77Bristol-Myers Squibb
Five-Year Financial Summary
Amounts in Millions, except per share data 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Income Statement Data:(a)
Total Revenues $ 19,427 $ 16,560 $ 15,879 $ 16,385 $ 17,621
Continuing Operations:
Net Earnings 4,507 1,631 2,029 2,580 2,501
Net Earnings Attributable to:
Noncontrolling Interest 50 66 25 17 541
BMS 4,457 1,565 2,004 2,563 1,960
Net Earnings per Common Share Attributable to BMS:
Basic $ 2.67 $ 0.94 $ 1.21 $ 1.56 $ 1.17
Diluted $ 2.65 $ 0.93 $ 1.20 $ 1.54 $ 1.16
Average common shares outstanding:
Basic 1,671 1,667 1,657 1,644 1,670
Diluted 1,680 1,679 1,670 1,662 1,688
Cash dividends paid on BMS common and preferred stock $ 2,547 $ 2,477 $ 2,398 $ 2,309 $ 2,286
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.53 $ 1.49 $ 1.45 $ 1.41 $ 1.37
Financial Position Data at December 31:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,237 $ 2,385 $ 5,571 $ 3,586 $ 1,656
Marketable securities(b) 4,832 6,545 6,272 4,686 4,696
Total Assets 33,707 31,748 33,749 38,592 35,897
Long-term debt(b) 6,465 6,550 7,242 7,981 7,232
Equity 16,347 14,424 14,983 15,236 13,638
(a) For a discussion of items that affected the comparability of results for the years 2016, 2015 and 2014, refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.”
(b) Includes current and non-current portion.
782016 Annual Report
SUMMARY OF ABBREVIATED TERMS
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, the Company, we, our or us in this 2016 Annual Report. Throughout
this 2016 Annual Report we have used terms which are defined below:
2016 Form 10-K Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 Lilly Eli Lilly and Company
AbbVie AbbVie Inc. MAA Marketing Authorization Application
Amira Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. MCOs Managed Care Organizations
Amylin Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. mCRC metastatic colorectal cancer
aNDA abbreviated New Drug Application Mead Johnson Mead Johnson Nutrition Company
anti-CCP anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (also ACPA) Medarex Medarex, Inc.
API active pharmaceutical ingredient Merck Merck & Co., Inc.
ASCT autologous stem cell transplant MF myelofibrosis
ASR accelerated share repurchase MSI-H high microsatellite instability
AstraZeneca AstraZeneca PLC MTX methotrexate
auto-HSCT autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation mUC metastatic urothelial carcinoma
BLA Biologics License Application NAV net asset value
Cardioxyl Cardioxyl Pharmaceuticals, Inc. NDA New Drug Application
CDAI Clinical Disease Activity Index Nitto Denko Nitto Denko Corporation
CERCLA U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act NKT natural killer T cells
cGMP current Good Manufacturing Practices Novartis Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation
cHL classical Hodgkin lymphoma NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer
CHMP Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use NSQ non-squamous
Cormorant Cormorant Pharmaceuticals NVAF nonvalvular atrial fibrillation
CPPIB CPPIB Credit Europe S.A.R.L., a Luxembourg private limited liability company OCI Other Comprehensive Income
Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Dept. of Health and
CSF1R colony stimulating factor 1 receptor OIG
Human Services
DMC Data Monitoring Committee Ono Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ORR objective response rate
EC European Commission OTC Over-the-counter
EGFR Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Otsuka Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
ELA excess loss account PAD Protein/Peptidyl Arginine Deiminase
EMA European Medicines Agency Padlock Padlock Therapeutics, Inc.
EPO European Patent Office PBMs Pharmacy Benefit Managers
EPS earnings per share PD-1 programmed death receptor-1
ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 PDMA Prescription Drug Marketing Act
EU European Union Pfizer Pfizer, Inc.
FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board PFS progression-free survival
FCPA Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Portola Portola Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
FDA U.S. Food and Drug Administration Promedior Promedior, Inc.
Five Prime Five Prime Therapeutics, Inc. PRP potentially responsible party
Flexus Flexus Biosciences, Inc. Prudential The Prudential Insurance Company of America
F-Star F-Star Alpha Ltd. PSA prostate-specific antigen
GAAP U.S. generally accepted accounting principles PVNS pigmented vilonodular synovitis
GDD Genetically Defined Diseases R&D Research and Development
Gilead Gilead Sciences, Inc. RA rheumatoid arthritis
HCV hepatitis C virus RAVs resistance-associated variants
HIV human immunodeficiency virus RCC renal cell carcinoma
HR hazard ratio Reckitt Reckitt Benckiser Group plc
HR 3590 The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act RF rheumatoid factor
HSP47 heat shock protein 47 SCCHN squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck
IMAs inventory management agreements SCLC small cell lung cancer
ImClone ImClone Systems Incorporated SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
IO Immuno-Oncology SQ squamous
Inhibitex Inhibitex, Inc. SVR Sustained virologic response
IPF idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis the 2012 Plan The 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan
iPierian iPierian, Inc. U.S. United States
IPRD in-process research and development UK United Kingdom
JMHLW Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Valeant Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc.
LDA Low Disease Activity VTE venous thromboembolic
LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate WTO World Trade Organization
79BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB Board of Directors
Lamberto Andreotti Alan J. Lacy
Chairman, Board of Directors, Non-Executive Chairman,
Bristol-Myers Squibb Dave & Buster’s Entertainment, Inc.
(a,b)
Giovanni Caforio, M.D.
Chief Executive Officer and Chairman-Designate, Thomas J. Lynch, Jr., M.D.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Massachusetts General Physicians Organization
Peter J. Arduini (b,d)
President and Chief Executive Officer,
Integra LifeSciences Holdings Corporation Dinesh C. Paliwal
(a) Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer,
Harman International Industries, Inc.
Robert J. Bertolini (a,b)
Former President and Chief Financial Officer,
Bausch & Lomb Theodore R. Samuels
Retired President, Capital Guardian Trust Company
Matthew W. Emmens
Retired Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Vicki L. Sato, Ph.D.
Shire PLC Professor of Management Practice,
Harvard Business School
Laurie H. Glimcher, M.D. (c,d)
President and CEO, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute;
Principal Investigator and Director, Dana-Farber/ Gerald L. Storch
Harvard Cancer Center; Richard and Susan Smith Chief Executive Officer, Hudson’s Bay Company
Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School and Non-Executive Chairman of Supervalu, Inc.
(d) (a,c)
Michael Grobstein Togo D. West, Jr.
Retired Vice Chairman, Ernst & Young LLP Chairman, TLI Leadership Group
(a,c) (b,c)
Members of the Board of Directors as of March 9, 2017.
Only eleven members will be elected at the May 2, 2017
Annual Meeting.
(a) Audit Committee
(b) Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance
(c) Compensation and Management Development Committee
(d) Science and Technology Committee
80BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB Leadership Team
Giovanni Caforio, M.D. Ann Powell Judge
Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President,
Chief Human Resources Officer
Charles Bancroft
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Sandra Leung
and Head of Global Business Operations Executive Vice President,
General Counsel
Emmanuel Blin
Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer Anne Nielsen
Senior Vice President,
Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer
Francis Cuss, MB BChir, FRCP
Executive Vice President and
Chief Scientific Officer Lou Schmukler
President, Global Manufacturing
and Supply
John Elicker
Senior Vice President,
Public Affairs and Investor Relations Paul von Autenried
Senior Vice President,
Chief Information Officer
Murdo Gordon
Executive Vice President,
Chief Commercial Officer
81BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB Stockholder Information
Common Stock Form 10-K Product Names and Company Programs
Ticker symbol: BMY For a free copy of the Company’s Annual Global products and company program
New York Stock Exchange Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year names appearing throughout in italics
ended December 31, 2016, contact: are referred to herein by their registered
Annual Meeting of Stockholders and approved U.S. trademarks, unless
Corporate Secretary
specifically noted otherwise.
Tuesday, May 2, 2017 10:00 a.m. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 345 Park Avenue Abilify is a trademark of Otsuka
3401 Princeton Pike New York, NY 10154-0037 Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Lawrence Township, NJ 08648
The Form 10-K is also available at Adcetris is a trademark of Seattle
Stockholder Services investor.bms.com. Genetics, Inc.
All inquiries concerning stockholder The most recent certifications by the Atripla is a trademark of Bristol-Myers
accounts and stock transfer matters – Company’s chief executive officer and chief Squibb and Gilead Sciences, LLC
financial officer pursuant to Section 302 of
including address changes, the
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as Avapro/Avalide (known in the EU
elimination of duplicate mailings and
exhibits to the Company’s Form 10-K. The as Aprovel/Karvea) and Plavix are
the Shareowner Services Plus PlanSM –
Company has also filed with the New York trademarks of Sanofi
should be directed to the Company’s
Stock Exchange the most recent Annual
Transfer Agent and Registrar: Bydureon, Byetta and Symlin are trade-
CEO Certification as required by Section
marks of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC
303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange
Wells Fargo Shareowner Services
Listed Company Manual. Erbitux is a trademark of ImClone LLC
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100 Farxiga and Onglyza are trademarks of
Additional Information
AstraZeneca AB
www.shareowneronline.com Information on the following subjects
Gleevec is a trademark of Novartis AG
is available at www.bms.com:
855-598-5485 (within the U.S.)
651-450-4064 (outside the U.S.) • Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation Ixempra is a trademark of R-Pharm
US Operating, LLC
A telecommunications relay service should • Clinical Trials
be used by the hearing impaired when • Compliance and Ethics Keytruda is a trademark of Merck Sharp
calling the telephone numbers above. • Diversity and Workforce Statistics & Dohme Corp.
Shareowner Services Plus PlanSM • Patient Assistance Programs Myalept is a trademark of Aegerion
• Policy and Advocacy Engagement Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
The Shareowner Services Plus PlanSM is
and Political Contributions
designed for long-term investors who wish Prostvac is a trademark of BN
to build share ownership in the Company’s • Sustainability/Environmental Programs ImmunoTherapeutics Inc.
common stock over time. You can partici-
This Annual Report contains certain Recothrom is a trademark of
pate in the plan if you are a registered holder
forward-looking information within the The Medicines Company
of the Company’s common stock. If you do
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
not own the Company’s common stock, you Revlimid is a trademark of Celgene
Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking
can become a participant by making your Corporation
statements are based on current expectations
initial purchase through the plan. The plan
and involve inherent risks and uncertainties Truvada and Tybost are trademarks
features dividend reinvestment, optional
that could cause actual outcomes and results of Gilead Sciences, Inc. and/or one
cash purchase, share safekeeping, and
to differ materially from current expectations. of its affiliates.
share sales and transfers. Bristol-Myers
Please see page 24 in the Financial Review
Squibb Company has appointed Wells Fargo Brand names of products that are in all
for a discussion and description of these
Shareowner Services as Administrator for the italicized letters, without an asterisk, are
risks and uncertainties. The Company
plan. The plan is not sponsored or adminis- registered trademarks of Bristol-Myers
undertakes no obligation to publicly update
tered by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. Squibb and/or one of its subsidiaries.
any forward-looking statement, whether as
a result of new information, future events or
otherwise.
Shareowner Services Plus Plan is a Service
Mark of Wells Fargo Shareowner Services.
82CALLIA BAINES
MANAGING THE PHYSICAL – AND EMOTIONAL – PAIN OF RA
Anyone who has been diagnosed with “I didn’t really want to tell anyone,” Callia
rheumatoid arthritis, or RA, knows firsthand I NOW GET TO says. “I didn’t want anyone to pity me.”
about pain – from swollen, stiff joints to
Finding an Answer
aching muscles and fatigue. LIVE MY LIFE AND
After graduating from college and taking
But for 28-year-old Callia Baines, not a full-time job in human resources, the
I’M
being able to live her life on her own terms Maryland resident continued to have
because of the debilitating effects of RA GRATEI FN UC L R FE OD RI B THL AY T.” symptoms of RA but was still undiagnosed
caused an emotional pain that too often until four years ago when a casual game
overshadowed her physical pain. “ of tug-of-war with her dog inadvertently
led to an answer.
“I didn’t really have a life,” recalls Callia, who began noticing
symptoms of RA as a teenager. “I couldn’t hang out with my While they were playing, the dog accidentally bit Callia’s
friends or, you know, just do normal things.” hand. The next morning she woke up to discover the same
hand was swollen and red. She went to her doctor, who ruled
For years, Callia and her family sought medical answers to
out that the dog bite caused the swelling and ordered blood-
why she was experiencing painful foot cramps and spasms
work. A test for RA came back positive.
that spread to her legs or why she was exhausted all the time.
Her symptoms drastically limited her activity in both high Finally having a diagnosis brought clarity to Callia’s world, but
school and college. But a diagnosis wasn’t immediate and initial treatments to manage her RA didn’t bring the relief she
Callia felt like she was left to deal with her condition all alone. had hoped for. That’s when her physician prescribed Orencia.
Following treatment, Callia felt like she was regaining mobility
During one particular episode in college, Callia called her
and also experiencing less pain.
mom crying because the pain in her feet was so severe and
she didn’t know what to do. Her mom asked if she could “I now get to live my life and I’m incredibly grateful for that,”
ask some of her friends for help. Callia says. “I feel like I can just be me.”
© 2017 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. All rights reserved.345 Park Avenue • New York, NY 10154-0037 • 212-546-4000
www.bms.com
Facebook “f” Logo CMYK / .ai Facebook “f” Logo CMYK / .ai