2010 ANNUAL REPORT
Significant Changes. Significant Results.
OUR BIOPHARMA
TRANSFORMATION
Bristol-Myers Squibb
345 Park Avenue • New York, NY 10154-0037
212-546-4000 • www.bms.com Get the free mobile app at
http://gettag.mobiIn 2004, just two weeks before her wedding, Sharon
Belvin learned that what she thought was a bad case
of bronchitis was in fact melanoma. Despite chemo-
therapy, the tumors spread to her lungs, lymph nodes
We stand today as a global
and brain. “I was only 22,” she says, “and it seemed
like my life was over.” But Sharon didn’t give up. She
company deeply committed
enrolled in a clinical trial for ipilimumab, an investi-
gational treatment for metastatic melanoma, now
to a single Mission: to discover,
being developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb as Yervoy.
develop and deliver innovative Since entering the trial, Sharon appears to be doing
well. Now, she and her husband, Rob, live happily
medicines that help patients with their rambunctious 3-year-old, Lillybeth, and
the latest addition to the family, James Michael. “I’m
prevail over serious diseases. exhausted just trying to keep up with the kids,” she
laughs. “Life is good.”
Chief Executive Officer Lamberto Andreotti (front center) with members
of the Senior Management Team. See page 103. BACK COVER
Janice Henn, pictured with her Yorkshire terrier, Killer, was
diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis when she was 35 years
old. That was 28 years ago. “No matter what I did for 25 years
I didn’t find anything to stop it,” she says. Arthritis took its toll
on everything she enjoyed doing: gardening, walking the dog,
family vacations and playing with her grandchildren. “When I
walked, it felt like my bones were frozen, like they were going to
break every step I took,” says Janice. In 2008, at the recommen-
dation of her doctor, Janice entered a clinical trial for Orencia
FRONT COVER
(abatacept) subcutaneous formulation. Since entering the trial,
Jennifer Lowinger is a research scientist in Applied Genomics at Bristol-Myers Squibb. her condition has improved. “I feel like I’m a participant in life
She is part of an R & D team exploring the use of chemical genetics to identify new again, rather than just an observer,” she says. “I’m so grateful.”
disease targets, one of the first steps in drug discovery and development.
Produced by the Bristol-Myers Squibb Public Affairs Department.
Copyright © 2011 Bristol-Myers Squibb. All rights reserved.TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS
MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Three years ago, we set out on a journey to become the In effect, last year’s success proves that our BioPharma
benchmark BioPharma company. transformation is both very real and very promising.
We evolved our Mission. We developed our strategy.
2010: A Year of Impressive Results
We headed in a new direction. In effect, we made several
Granted, 2010 was a challenging year across the board.
significant changes, while maintaining our steadfast
The global financial crisis had reached into every sector
commitment to the patients and communities we serve.
and affected every company. For those in the pharma-
Today, our BioPharma transformation is well under way
ceutical and biotechnology industries, the challenges
and near completion. Our portfolio is focused exclusively
were even greater, due to pricing pressures in Europe
on medicines. Our operations have been streamlined and
and the financial impact of health care reform in the
simplified. And our company now combines the global
United States.
experience, established commercial infrastructure and
Bristol-Myers Squibb, however, not only weathered
development capabilities of a major pharmaceutical
the storm; our company actually had a good year. This
company with the agility, biologics expertise and entre-
is true from both a short-term and long-term perspec-
preneurial spirit of a biotechnology firm.
tive. Our financials were strong – with sales up and
As a result, Bristol-Myers Squibb is now stronger and
expenses down – and our pipeline of products became
better equipped to deliver meaningful results – a fact
even more robust.
clearly demonstrated over the past year:
This balance between short-term and long-term is
• We achieved 4 percent sales growth;
absolutely essential. To be a successful differentiated
• We had a groundbreaking year with respect
BioPharma company, we must drive results today, while
to clinical data;
strengthening our company for the future. It is what we
• We received key regulatory approval of have done, and it is what we plan to continue to do.
products across the world;
Financial Performance
• We acquired ZymoGenetics, a renowned
With respect to financial performance, we continued
cutting-edge biotechnology company; and
to drive shareholder value. In fact, with an 8.8 percent
• We increased our dividend for the second increase, our total shareholder return (including divi-
consecutive year. dends) was one of the best in the industry.
Bristol-Myers Squibb 2010 Annual Report 1Pearls strategy. We retired $750 million principal amount
THE THREE PILLARS OF
of outstanding debt, increased our dividend by 3 percent
OUR BIOPHARMA STRATEGY
and initiated a $3 billion share repurchase program.
Products and Pipeline
In 2010, we obtained several significant regulatory
approvals. Sprycel was approved in the U.S. and Europe
Selective Continuous for use as a first-line treatment in newly diagnosed
Innovation
Integration Improvement
adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic
phase chronic myeloid leukemia. Kombiglyze XR was
approved in the U.S. as the first once daily, extended
release, fixed dose combination of a DPP4 inhibitor and
metformin for adults with type 2 diabetes. And Orencia
gained approval in Japan for rheumatoid arthritis and in
Europe for second-line use in rheumatoid arthritis, while
Net sales from continuing operations were $19.5 billion – a subcutaneous formulation was filed in the U.S.
up 4 percent over the previous year. That includes a
With respect to clinical data, 2010 was a very positive
6 percent increase in U.S. sales, with double-digit growth
year. We reported important Phase III data for three of
from Plavix, Sprycel, Sustiva, Baraclude and Orencia as
our new molecular entities. Yervoy (ipilimumab) showed
well as initial sales of Onglyza.
an unprecedented survival benefit in second-line meta-
Meanwhile, efficiencies were realized throughout the static melanoma patients; Eliquis (apixaban) showed
organization, including from the 50 percent reduction in a significant decrease in the risk of stroke without an
manufacturing plants brought about by the three-year increase in bleeding for warfarin-unsuitable, atrial fibril-
network rationalization effort completed last year. With lation patients; and dapagliflozin, a novel first-in-class
a focus on state-of-art technology, only 12 of the original SGLT2 inhibitor, continued to show a significant glucose
27 manufacturing plants remain. lowering effect with additional reductions observed in
secondary endpoints of weight loss and blood pressure
Our strategic focus on capital management led to strong
lowering in type 2 diabetes patients.
yields. We ended the year with $10 billion in cash and
marketable securities, while completing our strategic We completed six regulatory submissions for new
acquisition of ZymoGenetics, a cutting-edge biotechnol- medicines in the U.S. and Europe. And with another
ogy firm, as part of our ambitious, albeit focused String of year of positive benefit/risk data on Nulojix (belatacept)
Our BioPharma Progress
October 2007 December 2007 June 2008
String of Pearls strategy launched with Bristol-Myers Squibb unveiled the Bristol-Myers Squibb acquired Kosan
acquisition of Adnexus Pharmaceuticals. BioPharma strategy supported by three Biosciences, a cancer therapeutics company.
pillars: innovation, selective integration
Ixempra (ixabepilone) approved by the
and continuous improvement. July 2008
U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) for advanced breast cancer. Bristol-Myers Squibb expanded the Productiv-
January 2008
ity Transformation Initiative, expected to result
Sale of Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical in $2.5 billion in annual productivity savings
Imaging. and cost avoidance by 2012.
Erbitux (cetuximab) approved in Japan.
2This is our way forward.
This is our way of
becoming and remaining
the benchmark
BioPharma company.
Chief Executive Officer Lamberto Andreotti held a number of global town hall meetings
in 2010 to update employees on the company’s progress to become the benchmark
BioPharma company. He is pictured here at the company’s Shanghai office.
for patients with kidney transplants, we completed our in Asia. HIV/AIDS in Africa. Mental health and well-being
resubmission to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. in the U.S. In January, when Haiti was struck by a cata-
To ensure sustainability of our pipeline, we moved 15 strophic earthquake, Bristol-Myers Squibb, our Founda-
new high-quality compounds into preclinical develop- tion and employees lent a helping hand, contributing
ment and achieved a record number of proof-of-concept nearly $7 million in cash and product. And later in the
transitions, with six more compounds now progressing year, the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation launched an
toward Full Development. ambitious program, Together on Diabetes – a new five-
Corporate Responsibility year, $100 million initiative to improve health outcomes
of people living with type 2 diabetes in the U.S.
As in years past, our commitment to the patients and the
communities we serve extended well beyond our core We took our commitment to sustainability to the next
business markets and into the lives of millions of people level. We approved our Sustainability 2015 Goals, which
who generally do not have access to quality health care. lays out a plan to address social, economic and environ-
In 2010, we continued our work to help reduce health mental challenges in the communities we serve; we also
disparities in various therapeutic areas and in various joined the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s
places throughout the world. Cancer in Europe. Hepatitis largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative.
Our BioPharma Progress
August 2008 December 2008 March 2009
Partnership with PDL BioPharma (since trans- Oncology collaboration with Exelixis Global collaboration with Nissan
ferred to Abbott Laboratories) announced announced. Chemical Industries and Teijin Pharma
to develop elotuzumab, an investigational announced for the development of a
Agreement with AstraZeneca expanded
treatment for multiple myeloma. treatment for atrial fibrillation.
to develop and commercialize dapagliflozin
Sale of ConvaTec completed. in Japan.
April 2009
January 2009
September 2008 Commercialization agreement with
Collaboration with ZymoGenetics announced Otsuka extended for Abilify (aripiprazole).
Initial public offering for subsidiary
to develop novel treatment for hepatitis C.
Mead Johnson Nutrition announced.
Bristol-Myers Squibb 2010 Annual Report 32011 – The Way Forward strong management team. Build on the firm foundation
established by my predecessor, Jim Cornelius. Take our
In 2011, we expect the external challenges to persist.
BioPharma transformation to the next level.
But we also expect to build on the momentum created
last year as we continue to position our company As the record makes clear, we succeeded in every respect.
for long-term success as a focused, differentiated Bristol-Myers Squibb has an absolutely first-rate senior
BioPharma company. management team – one that clearly stands out with
To be sure, it will be a year of transition – the last full respect to experience, skill, passion and global diver-
year of exclusivity for Plavix and Avapro, but also a sity. We have navigated through an often challenging
period of potential significant product launches and external environment to increase sales, reduce costs,
regulatory submissions. and grow our promising pipeline. We have continued to
streamline our operations, develop our people, and pro-
We have several new molecular entities under regula-
duce the innovative science that helps patients prevail
tory review, including Yervoy for second-line metastatic
over serious diseases.
melanoma, Nulojix for kidney transplantation, Eliquis
This year, we will continue this transformation, and we
for thrombosis prevention and dapagliflozin for type
will continue working to deliver results, while positioning
2 diabetes. We expect to receive additional important
Bristol-Myers Squibb for longer-term growth. We will over-
clinical data for Yervoy (first-line metastatic melanoma)
come obstacles. We will seize opportunities. We will strive
and Eliquis (stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation),
to exceed expectations. And guided by our firm commit-
which may lead to regulatory submissions.
ment to the highest business standards and ethics, we
In 2011, we are also anticipating four significant will continue “to discover, develop and deliver innovative
Phase III transitions in hepatitis C, Alzheimer’s disease medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases.”
and oncology.
This is our way forward. This is our way of becoming and
Taken together – the product launches, the regulatory remaining the benchmark BioPharma company.
actions, the clinical data – all of this should keep us on
track to achieve our 2013 goals and position us well
for sustained growth for 2014 and beyond.
Our BioPharma Future
Lamberto Andreotti, Chief Executive Officer
March 8, 2011
When I became CEO in 2010, I set out to accomplish
a few key goals during my first year. Bring together a
Our BioPharma Progress
July 2009 November 2009 March 2010
FDA approved Onglyza (saxagliptin) Entered global collaboration with Alder Global agreement with Allergan, Inc.,
for treatment of type 2 diabetes in Biopharmaceuticals to develop a novel announced for development of an oral
adults. European Union approval treatment for rheumatoid arthritis. treatment for neuropathic pain.
followed in October.
June 2010
December 2009
August 2009 Ipilimumab first agent to improve overall
Strategic split-off of Mead Johnson
survival in previously treated patients with
Acquisition of Medarex, Inc., announced, Nutrition holdings completed,
advanced melanoma, in data presented
expanding our oncology and immunology focusing Bristol-Myers Squibb solely
at annual meeting of American Society of
pipelines and our biologics capabilities. on our biopharmaceutical business.
Clinical Oncology.
4MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
This is an exciting time at In other words, we assumed it was best to swim against
Bristol-Myers Squibb. Our the tide and challenge the conventional wisdom with
BioPharma transformation respect to scale and breadth.
is driving organizational
Now, three years later, we no longer make such assump-
change and delivering
tions … because we can already see the positive results.
meaningful results.
In fact, we see them every day – in the faces of the people
We have streamlined who work here and in the lives of the patients we serve.
operations and deci- We also read about them in the pages of industry reports.
sion-making. We have
This was particularly true over this past year. Despite a
increased sales, while
demanding external environment, we had a very suc-
cutting costs. We have
cessful year. From strong sales in the U.S. to significant
focused resources on our core competency – making
advances in the laboratory, we made great progress in
innovative medicines that help patients prevail.
2010 and set the stage for a strong 2011 and beyond.
Simply stated, we have fundamentally changed the way
Needless to say, as Chairman of the Board, I am pleased
we do business, and by all accounts, this transformation
with the direction of our company and grateful to all of
is having a positive impact across the board:
those who have made it possible – our Directors for their
• Our employees work in an exciting environment vision, Lamberto Andreotti and the Senior Managers for
conducive to personal growth; their practical leadership, and our 27,000 employees for
their passion, hard work and commitment to excellence.
• Our shareholders receive solid returns and are
confident about our promising future; and Since “retiring” as CEO last year, I have been able to step
back and take a more holistic view of the company. I have
• Our patients are getting the medicines they need
been able to remove myself from the day-to-day manage-
and the hope they deserve.
ment and look at the proverbial forest – observing the
When we first launched this effort, we made some company, studying the industry and analyzing the trends.
assumptions. We assumed that the external environ-
My conclusion – Bristol-Myers Squibb has never been
ment would become more challenging – that a new U.S.
stronger.
President would likely mean a new emphasis on health
care reform. We assumed that filling the void left by the
impending loss of Plavix exclusivity would necessitate
a change in our business model. And to that end, we
James M. Cornelius, Chairman
assumed that focused was better than diversified – that
March 8, 2011
we should shrink our footprint, sell off our non-pharma-
ceutical businesses, and target our resources.
Our BioPharma Progress
July 2010 Sprycel (dasatinib) approved in U.S. for Entered into an agreement with Simcere Phar-
newly diagnosed patients with chronic maceutical Group to develop an early-stage
Orencia (abatacept) approved in Japan.
myeloid leukemia. In December, Sprycel oncology compound in China.
was also approved in Europe for use in a
October 2010
first-line setting. December 2010
Acquisition of ZymoGenetics completed,
Acquired exclusive worldwide rights for
securing full ownership of pegylated inter- November 2010
festinavir, an investigational compound
feron lambda, other pipeline assets and an
Kombiglyze XR (saxagliptin and metformin for HIV, from Oncolys BioPharma.
existing product, Recothrom (recombinant
HCl extended release) approved in the U.S.
thrombin).
for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in adults.
Bristol-Myers Squibb 2010 Annual Report 5OUR BIOPHARMA TRANSFORMATION
DISCOVERING
Novel Compounds
Bristol-Myers Squibb’s revved-up Discovery engine is delivering more investiga-
tional compounds into the development pipeline, across all therapeutic areas, than
ever before. In 2010, 15 new compounds entered preclinical development, and six
transitioned to mid-stage clinical testing.
Being BioPharma has many advantages. Large and Small Molecules … and Some in Between
“We’re the optimum size for a research organization,” Historically, pharmaceutical companies have relied on
says Francis Cuss, MB BChir, FRCP, senior vice president, small molecules for most of their marketed products.
Research. “Large enough to take advantage of our oppor- Small molecules are usually less expensive and less com-
tunities, small enough to move quickly and decisively.” plicated to manufacture, and most can be taken orally.
Bristol-Myers Squibb has a library of more than 2 million
Avoiding a traditional research organizational structure
such molecules stored in a robotic retrieval and screening
based on fixed therapeutic areas, Cuss has divided the
platform. Greater than 75 percent of the targets we screen
Drug Discovery organization into two integrated parts:
against get hits that advance into development from this
Disease Sciences and Molecular Sciences.
system. It’s our strongest, most reliable starting point for
discovering potential new medicines.
“Our approach is, I believe, unique,” says John Houston,
Ph.D., senior vice president, Disease Sciences and Biolog-
Large molecules, or biologics, derived from recombinant DNA
ics. “And the result is we’ve built a really strong discovery
technologies, are becoming increasingly important. They are
and early clinical pipeline.”
often more difficult and expensive to manufacture than small
molecules and must usually be administered by injection.
Carl Decicco, Ph.D., senior vice president, Molecular Sciences
Yet they are often more specifically disease targeted. Cur-
and Candidate Optimization, agrees. “We set the bar high
rently, greater than one in three of our pipeline compounds
early in the process by putting a lot of effort into identifying
are biologics, as are two of our key marketed products.
the right targets,” he says, “and then we set up stringent
hurdles at various pipeline decision points.”
Now, we’re pioneering a new drug modality – millamole-
cules, which are midsize between small and large mol-
As part of our BioPharma strategy, we’ve sized our internal
ecules. Potentially, millamolecules combine advantages
Discovery groups to be smaller than industry norms.
of both small and large molecules, affecting cell surface
What makes us effective is our size, our experience and
targets as well as protein interactions inside cells. We are
our agility, which improves our ability to execute rapidly
synthesizing a millamolecule library, and novel types of
and decisively.
millamolecular compounds are nearing development.
To accelerate the discovery and development of new
Now we have three choices. Having multiple modalities
therapies, we are complementing and enhancing our
gives us the capability to go after the most important
internal capabilities with a suite of innovative alliances,
scientific and medical disease targets.
partnerships and acquisitions with small and large com-
panies. This is our String of Pearls strategy. “We take an
Turning Up the Heat Across Our Therapeutic Areas
integrated, global approach to these transactions, each
of which is designed to enhance and accelerate our Through our knowledge of the human genome and our
overall BioPharma strategy,” says Jeremy Levin, D.Phil., much-improved safety screens, we are discovering more
MB BChir, senior vice president of Strategy, Alliances new drugs with new mechanisms of action and better
and Transactions. safety profiles than ever before.
6REDEFINING
Bristol-Myers Squibb’s flexible-design laboratory at our research facilities in Princeton, New Jersey, houses innovative drug candidate purification technology.
Spectrix Analytical Services scientists Michael Appiah, foreground, and Tamara Shekunov, background, log samples and queue up purification experiments.
At center, Harold Weller, Ph.D., senior research fellow, Bristol-Myers Squibb, analyzes data and monitors work flow. Key to our selective integration and
continuous improvement BioPharma pillars, consolidating operations and using service providers such as Spectrix improve efficiency and reduce cost.
And importantly, they free up our scientists to perform critical functions and to pioneer new discovery approaches.
THE SCIENTIFIC PROCESS.
Bristol-Myers Squibb 2010 Annual Report 7DISCOVERING NOVEL COMPOUNDS
Our robust pipeline of small molecules and biologics – and ative colitis and lupus. We have a wide breadth of unique targets,
some millamolecules – is driven by internal Discovery efforts and multiple technologies and a growing wealth of experience in this
enhanced by String of Pearls transactions. Now, our Discovery therapeutic area.
teams have built up a reservoir of expertise, consistency and
focus. As a result, we’re having a productive run across all of Metabolics
our therapeutic areas as our scientists see their work steadily Diabetes is a complex, multifaceted disease. Our focus is dis-
advance into clinical development. covering novel compounds to treat the broader abnormalities
associated with diabetes – such as dyslipidemia and hyperten-
Often, there is no clear dividing line between one therapeutic
sion – and the complications of diabetes, which include heart
area and the next, as the science that drives one area may also
attack and stroke. Several agents, small molecules and biologics,
inform another.
are advancing into the clinic for diabetes, in addition to others
Cancer for obesity, which represents a significant risk factor for diabetes.
Our goal is to shrink the tumor and then keep the disease in
check. Currently, there are 15 compounds in Exploratory Devel- Neuroscience
opment, representing a broad range of approaches to fight the We’ve also built a robust neuroscience portfolio, and now we
disease across multiple tumor types. One innovative approach is have drugs in the clinic or nearing the clinic for schizophrenia,
immuno-oncology. We have both small molecules and biologic neuropathic pain, depression, migraine and Alzheimer’s disease.
programs that are designed to enhance the cancer-killing power Particularly interesting are compounds designed to address the
of the immune system or increase the visibility of the tumor to two leading pathologies of Alzheimer’s disease – amyloid plaques
the immune system. Another pioneering area is antibody drug and neurofibrillary tangles. Among our approaches is a first-in-
conjugates, in which a cancer-killing drug is linked to a monoclo- class program to determine whether we can delay the onset of
nal antibody. The antibody specifically targets a particular cancer Alzheimer’s by preventing the formation of amyloid plaques
cell antigen, thus delivering the drug directly to the cancer cell. in patients at risk for Alzheimer’s. Another industry-leading
A drug conjugate, anti-CD70, has entered the clinic, and others approach to the disease is designed to prevent a breakdown
will follow.
of neuronal cell microtubules and the formation of tangles.
Cardiovascular
Virology
Bristol-Myers Squibb’s long leadership in this therapeutic area,
Bristol-Myers Squibb has been a leader in virology research for
driven largely by in-licensed products, is now backed by a strong
20 years. Now, we’ve turned up the heat and are reinvesting in
and growing pipeline. Atherosclerosis and thrombosis remain
this critical therapeutic area. Bristol-Myers Squibb’s hepatitis C
significant unmet medical needs, and so we’re taking a broad-
virus (HCV) pipeline is one of the broadest portfolios of clinical
based approach with multiple points of intervention, focusing
assets and programs of any company. We have a number of small
on areas of innovation. Among those approaches is a first-in-class
molecules and biologics in clinical development and entering
small-molecule modulator of the liver X receptor, for athero-
the clinic, representing new targets and mechanisms of action
sclerosis, and a biologic, PCSK9 inhibitor, designed to drastically
targeting HCV. In HIV/AIDS, we acquired festinavir from Oncolys
and rapidly lower LDL cholesterol. Our goal is to treat athero-
BioPharma, have a novel HIV attachment inhibitor in the clinic
thrombosis at the vessel wall by directly attacking the underlying
disease mechanism that results in clot formation. and five new Discovery programs.
In short, 2010 proved to be a year of significant results for
Immunology
Bristol-Myers Squibb Research. In fact it’s been one of the most
In the past few years, we’ve built up our Discovery and early
productive on record. “It’s been a year of excellence,” says Francis
development capabilities in this area. Now, we have a number
Cuss. “We’ve made significant contributions to the discovery of
of small molecules and biologics in the pipeline. Among the
new drugs, to the progression of our early development portfolio
compounds in clinical development for rheumatoid arthritis are
an interleukin-6 inhibitor and a small-molecule CCR1 antagonist. into mid-stage clinical trials and to the support of our late-stage
Other compounds are targeted against Crohn’s disease, ulcer- portfolio. 2011 may indeed be even more productive.”
8Our Pipeline
Bristol-Myers Squibb is dedicated to discovering and developing
innovative medicines that address serious unmet medical needs
in key disease areas. In doing so, we believe we can better help
patients prevail.
Compounds in Exploratory Development are in preclinical or
early clinical development. Full Development compounds are
investigational drugs that are in later-stage clinical development
or have been submitted to regulatory agencies for approval.
Finally, medicines in Marketed Product Development are driving
current and future growth while also undergoing continued
clinical development to determine whether additional indications
and formulations would benefit patients.
DISEASE AREAS
Cancer
Cardiovascular
Immunology
(including Rheumatoid Arthritis and
Solid-Organ-Transplant Rejection)
Metabolics
(including Diabetes and Obesity)
Neuroscience Biologics Discovery California – formerly Medarex,
(including Psychiatric Disorders acquired by Bristol-Myers Squibb in 2009 – is now fully
and Alzheimer’s Disease)
integrated into the company. Here at our facility in
Milpitas, scientists discovered and developed Yervoy
(ipilimumab), currently under regulatory review for the
Virology treatment of patients with metastatic melanoma. Now,
(including HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis) researchers are developing the next wave of leading-edge
immuno-oncology therapies that enhance the cancer-
killing power of the body’s immune system or deliver
anticancer drugs directly into tumor cells. In photo top to
Exploratory Development bottom: Mark Selby, Ph.D., director, Discovery Research;
Full Development Alan Korman, Ph.D., vice president, Discovery Research;
Marketed Product Development and Changyu Wang, Ph.D., senior scientist.
Pipeline chart as of December 31, 2010.
Bristol-Myers Squibb 2010 Annual Report 9COMMITTED
The Eliquis (apixaban) core clinical team in action. Running Bristol-Myers Squibb’s largest clinical trial program – with more than 57,000 patients enrolled in 16
clinical trials in 41 countries – requires integrated cross-functional teams directing the program’s strategy, design and conduct. Eliquis is being studied for a range
of cardiovascular indications. Jack Lawrence, M.D., vice president and development lead, at right, confers with his colleagues. Seated, left to right, Lorraine Rossi,
associate director and operations lead, and Michael Hanna, M.D., group medical director. Standing, left to right, Robert Knabb, Ph.D., group director, and Puneet
Mohan, M.D., Ph.D., executive director and medical lead. This core team meets frequently with an extended team – including colleagues in Pharmaceutical Devel-
opment, Regulatory Sciences, Biometric Sciences, Pharmacovigilance and Clinical Pharmacology – as well as their counterparts at our alliance partner, Pfizer.
TO SCIENTIFIC EXCELLENCE.
10OUR BIOPHARMA TRANSFORMATION
DEVELOPING
New Therapies
As a BioPharma leader, we are unleashing the power of innovation through
internal integration and external collaboration. One result: a record number of
new product submissions.
“2010 was an extraordinary year for our R&D organization,” Advancing Through the Clinic
says Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D., executive vice president, chief
Our late-stage pipeline is considered among the best
scientific officer and president, R&D. “Across our develop-
in the industry. Cancer, cardiovascular and metabolic
ment programs, our clinical and regulatory teams have
diseases, and virology represent particularly strong
applied innovative approaches to our trials, have allowed
therapeutic areas, with multiple compounds in or
the science to lead the way and have executed programs
entering Full Development.
efficiently and successfully. Overall, in my 13 years with
Bristol-Myers Squibb, I don’t remember any other year Cancer
in which we’ve had such groundbreaking clinical data.” Bristol-Myers Squibb provided its first anticancer medi-
cation more than four decades ago – a medicine still
Our strategy is simple: Develop innovative medicines
prescribed today. Now, with three key products and
backed by extraordinary teams. Each of our medicines
about 20 compounds in development, we are poised
in development requires high-performing matrix teams
for global leadership with a reinvigorated franchise.
and a terrific amount of intellectual capital.
“This is a very exciting time,” says Renzo Canetta, M.D.,
We’re driving down an entrepreneurial and biotech mind-
vice president, Oncology Global Clinical Research. “We’re
set. Each team member contributes technical expertise
working across a number of areas, including biologics,
but also takes an enterprise perspective. This allows
immuno-oncology therapies, antibody drug conjugates
individuals and teams to be significantly more innovative
in finding solutions to development challenges. and other novel and targeted approaches.”
The effort seems to be paying off. In 2010, we achieved a Three investigational products are currently in Phase III
record number of significant new product submissions: clinical trials, representing the leading edge of around
200 clinical trials across our oncology pipeline, addressing
• Nulojix (belatacept), for solid-organ transplant, in Europe;
20 different tumor types:
• Yervoy (ipilimumab) for advanced melanoma, in the
U.S. and Europe; • The String of Pearls acquisition of Medarex in 2009,
including full rights to the investigational compound
• Eliquis (apixaban), for prevention of venous thrombo-
Yervoy, has positioned us for long-term leadership
embolic events, in Europe;
in immuno-oncology, a potentially transformational
• Dapagliflozin, for type 2 diabetes, in the U.S. and Europe; field. In addition to melanoma, Yervoy is being studied
in prostate and lung cancers;
As well as key milestones for marketed products:
• Sprycel (dasatinib), for newly diagnosed chronic myeloid • Phase III clinical studies are ongoing for brivanib, a
leukemia, in the U.S. and Europe, and submitted in Japan; potentially first-in-class small molecule for hepato-
TO SCIENTIFIC EXCELLENCE. • Orencia (abatacept) subcutaneous formulation, for cellular carcinoma; and
rheumatoid arthritis, in the U.S.; and • Necitumumab, an investigational biologic being
• Kombiglyze XR (saxagliptin and metformin HCl developed in partnership with Eli Lilly and Company
extended release), for type 2 diabetes, in the U.S. for lung cancer, entered Full Development in 2010.
Bristol-Myers Squibb 2010 Annual Report 11DEVELOPING NEW THERAPIES
Cardiovascular/Metabolics For Full Development compounds alone, Bristol-Myers Squibb
Our portfolio of investigational cardiovascular and metabolic is currently conducting nearly 100 clinical trials enrolling more
drugs in development is the most mature. Among them are Eliquis than 63,000 patients in 47 countries.
(apixaban) and dapagliflozin, both discovered by Bristol-Myers
At Bristol-Myers Squibb, we put patients first. Not waiting for
Squibb scientists and developed in collaboration with partners
safety information to come filtering back to us through clinical
Pfizer and AstraZeneca, respectively. A Phase III study for Eliquis,
trials or reporting feedback, we appropriately seek information as
AVERROES – for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation
permitted under applicable laws from electronic health records,
who are considered intolerant of or unsuitable for vitamin K
academic registries, government databases and insurance
antagonist therapy such as warfarin – was stopped early because
claims. We also strive to ensure that the information we gather
of clear evidence of improved efficacy with apixaban compared
is communicated as quickly, clearly and accurately as possible to
with aspirin, without increase in major bleeding. AVERROES was
health authorities, patients and payers.
conducted with 5,600 patients in 35 countries. ARISTOTLE, another
Phase III clinical study, with 18,000 patients, comparing Eliquis Beginning well before major investments in clinical studies are
against warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation, is ongoing. committed for an early-development compound, Bristol-Myers
Squibb seeks input from health authorities worldwide. The
Dapagliflozin is being studied for the treatment of patients with
approach we take is collaborative because regulators must
type 2 diabetes in several Phase III trials enrolling a total of 6,000
be confident in the safety of our medicines and the quality
patients. This is among the largest and most comprehensive
of our research.
diabetes clinical trial programs ever conducted. These studies are
building evidence that dapagliflozin, with a new mechanism of While it is critical that we meet regulatory standards for
action, has the potential to be an important new treatment for quality, safety and efficacy, we must also meet the needs of
diabetes. In clinical studies, dapagliflozin showed positive effects the health care system and its patients, who value medical
on glucose, body weight and blood pressure. innovation, transparency and access to scientific partnerships.
One innovative approach, launched in 2010, is an investigator-
Virology
sponsored research site on www.bms.com. This site is dedicated
This therapeutic area, particularly hepatitis C virus (HCV) drug
to facilitating partnerships and collaborations with physician
development, represents a growing strength. Innovative internal
researchers worldwide who wish to help advance innovation on
discoveries and programs – coupled with the String of Pearls
Bristol-Myers Squibb products, and it reflects our global approach
acquisition of ZymoGenetics in October, which provided us with
to partnerships with industry, academia and government to
full ownership of pegylated interferon lambda – have propelled
accelerate the development of new medicines.
us to an industry-leading position in HCV drug discovery and
To understand a compound’s full value for patients, payers and
development. In early-stage clinical trials, pegylated interferon
society in general, we assess the economics of disease, disease
lambda showed comparable effect on viral load to the current
intervention and treatment, patient survival and productivity,
standard of care, with improved tolerability. In addition, small-
and patient-reported perceptions of value and benefit. This
molecule NS5A and NS3 inhibitors, as stand-alone compounds or
knowledge is critical to help inform our development and
in combination, have shown promise as add-on to a pegylated
commercialization decisions.
interferon/ribavirin regimen. It is expected that pegylated
interferon lambda and NS5A will enter Full Development in 2011. “In short, if we do our jobs well, by the time we get to market with
a new medicine, we’ll be able to tell physicians how it can improve
Science Driven, Patient Focused
the standard of care for their patients,” says Brian Daniels, M.D.,
Often, approval of a product marks just the beginning of its senior vice president, Global Development and Medical Affairs.
developmental progress in finding benefits for patients. Many “We’ll also be able to tell payers how our medicine creates value
of our compounds represent a pipeline within a product, in not only for patients but also for the health care system and for
which there are multiple follow-on indications that can provide society as a whole. And we’ll be able to tell patients how we can
more benefit for patients than the first indication. help them prevail over serious diseases.”
12Nicholas F. Tomasic never thought much about diabetes … until he was diagnosed
with it five years ago. “I told the doctor, ‘You gotta be kidding,’” he says. But Nick
took the diagnosis seriously. He followed his doctor’s advice, maintained an active
lifestyle and improved his diet, eliminating fast foods, limiting his salt and sugar
intake and increasing fruits, vegetables and whole grains. In addition, he entered
a clinical trial for dapagliflozin, an investigational compound for type 2 diabetes
discovered by Bristol-Myers Squibb scientists and being developed in collaboration
with AstraZeneca. “I got smarter about my disease during that clinical trial,” he says.
“Now, I am working to keep my health under control.”
Bristol-Myers Squibb 2010 Annual Report 13OUR BIOPHARMA TRANSFORMATION
DELIVERING
Innovative Medicines
Innovation has transformed the discovery and development of our medicines.
So too is it revolutionizing their delivery to our customers and patients.
Over the next two years, we anticipate up to five new often follow a winding trail, facing any number of chal-
product launches as we simultaneously manage and grow lenges along the way to access appropriate health care
our existing product portfolio and progress our pipeline. and achieve better clinical outcomes. Bristol-Myers Squibb
And, as we manage these internal complexities, we also is increasingly focused on understanding that patient
must address the challenges of being a BioPharma leader journey and using these insights to drive better business
within a rapidly evolving and increasingly complex global decisions and, in the process, help patients prevail.
landscape – a landscape marked by geographic shifts
Traditionally, pharmaceutical companies have focused
in market opportunities, increased regulatory focus on
on the health care interaction between physician and
managing risk, health care budget rationalization and an
patient and what gets decided there. Now, we think a lot
explosive growth of new technologies.
more about the entire health care ecosystem and what
“In the face of these challenges and opportunities, our can get in the way of high-quality patient care. With more
BioPharma strategy – and an intense focus on the cus- stakeholders involved in making health care decisions, we
tomer – position us well in the short and long term,” says are faced with an increasingly complex customer network.
Béatrice Cazala, senior vice president, Commercial Opera-
Empowering the patient, ensuring compliance and provid-
tions, and president, Global Commercialization, Europe and
ing access to reimbursement are all critical components
Emerging Markets. “To be competitive, we’re identifying
of our customer-centric model. For example, a deeper
new and better ways to engage and educate a broad range
understanding of the patient journey has helped guide the
of stakeholders – including patients, health care providers,
support strategy for Sprycel (dasatinib) in the U.S., includ-
payers, governments, thought leaders, advocates – all criti-
ing the creation of online patient education resources, a
cal players in today’s dynamic health care environment.”
comprehensive patient reimbursement program and a
Some of our new approaches involve building new tech- patient call center staffed around the clock by registered
nology platforms for fast and easy delivery of information nurses. Such a strategy is designed to empower patients
to busy health care providers, services for payers to help with chronic myeloid leukemia and encourage them to
them better manage health and economic outcomes, and ask meaningful questions and seek appropriate care.
better integration of information for our internal staff to
Information When It’s Needed
continuously improve their interaction with customers.
Access to information is no longer a one-way street.
“We’re asking our teams to think differently about our Patients and customers – and all stakeholders – acquire
stakeholders, both who we engage and how we engage information from the Internet, from social media as well
them,” says Cazala. “The results are new strategies and as traditional media, from publications and from any
capabilities to ensure that, ultimately, the right medicine number of additional sources. As a result, many custom-
gets to the right patient at the right time.” ers have become data empowered. Now, online and
on-demand platforms provide customized information for
The Patient Journey
our customers. For example, videoconferencing now gives
Medicines don’t treat diseases; they treat patients. And physicians across Russia and Australia, even in remote
patients must often navigate complex systems of provid- areas, rapid access to Bristol-Myers Squibb scientific
ers and payers. Health care delivery is no longer a linear advisors and clinical trial results. In the U.S., a series of
path from doctor to patient, and now consumers must webcasts featuring experts on major depressive disorder
14FOCUSING
Bioprocess scientists Piotr Ucher and Nicole Simard review a sample of Orencia (abatacept) from a bioreactor at our state-of-the-art biologics manu-
facturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts. Their colleague Jonathan Lucas, in the background, monitors another reactor. When the Devens facility
becomes fully operational, each of the six 20,000-liter bioreactors will be able to grow 120 trillion cells, producing enough product for 10,000 doses
of Orencia for patients with rheumatoid arthritis. It takes about 55 days of exacting processes to manufacture the bulk product.
OUR EFFORTS.
Bristol-Myers Squibb 2010 Annual Report 15DELIVERING INNOVATIVE MEDICINES
broaden educational offerings to physicians, reaching doctors organizations. Across the company, our goals are aligned
when and where they are ready to learn. so that the products we bring to market meet patient needs
as well as bring value to the company and to shareholders.
Digital and remote detailing has also arrived, as the traditional
printed materials that sales representatives have used in doctors’ Manufacturing, or Technical Operations, is closely involved with
offices give way to tablet computers loaded with more compre- each product’s development, launch and delivery. “Every time
hensive and dynamic content. a customer or a patient orders one of our products anywhere in
Innovation has changed more than just how our medicines are the world, it’s our job to make sure that product is available and
discovered and developed. Innovation is also changing the way meets the high-quality standards expected of all our products,”
that physicians and patients are accessing information about says Carlo de Notaristefani, president, Technical Operations
our medications. It’s changing almost overnight. This explosion and Global Support Functions.
of digital media and technology has given us new tools for com-
Over the past several years, de Notaristefani and his team have
municating and targeting critical and timely information about
dramatically transformed the manufacturing organization,
our medicines.
consolidating facilities and investing heavily in creating new
It’s all about letting customers get the information they need capabilities required to support our BioPharma pipeline and prod-
when they need it. uct portfolio. “We’re looking toward the future and focusing our
capabilities and technologies around the company’s future port-
Seamless Integration
folio of medicines,” he says. Among our investments is the new
Insights from the patient journey and our focus on meeting state-of-the-art biologics facility in Devens, Massachusetts. Devens
customer needs are all critical to success. So too is the close construction was substantially completed in 2009. We expect to
integration among our R&D, commercial and manufacturing submit the site for regulatory approval in late 2011 or 2012.
Customer Connect is an innovative medical
information resource that is fully opera-
tional in Australia and being rolled out in
India, both countries where Bristol-Myers
Squibb sales reps may have to travel long
distances to meet with physicians. Here,
Melbourne rheumatologist Frank Laska,
M.D., confers online with Tiffany Bamford,
Ph.D., a Bristol-Myers Squibb scientific advi-
sor, while representative Ashley Henderson
looks on. “This technology is a quick way
to get answers to specific questions, access
resources and new data, and see slides of
relevant presentations,” says Laska.
16Giuseppa Maria Milazzo lives in Rome with her husband, Calogero. In 2008, she began to
feel inexplicably tired. “I couldn’t do anything,” she says. She was diagnosed with chronic
myeloid leukemia (CML), a cancer of the bone marrow. Her doctor Elisabetta Abruzzese,
M.D., Ph.D., of Sant’Eugenio Hospital and the University of Tor Vergata, Rome, recom-
mended that she enter a clinical trial with Sprycel (dasatinib) for newly diagnosed CML
patients. Since entering the trial, Giuseppa feels much better. “I have more energy, and
my outlook is more positive because I had a chance to participate in this research,” she
says. “I have my husband, my grandchildren and my family. So I am happy.”
Bristol-Myers Squibb 2010 Annual Report 17Bristol-Myers Squibb’s manufacturing facility in Shanghai – part of a joint venture through Sino-American Shanghai
Squibb – is one of China’s first modern pharmaceutical manufacturing bases, key to bringing new technology expertise
to China. Here, technician Chen Xiu Mei monitors the packaging process of Baraclude (entecavir), for patients with
chronic hepatitis B virus infection. This facility is one of two plants worldwide manufacturing Baraclude, and the only
one outside the U.S. Approved in China in 2005, Baraclude is among the most successful pharmaceutical product
launches in that country.
Patients Are Waiting pipelines and few new products. Not so for Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Since late 2002, we’ve launched 10 key products, each represent-
Now, we are looking forward to the potential approval and launch
ing a significant area of unmet patient need. And now, we’re
of up to five new products by the end of 2012. Each, if approved,
preparing for a number of new product launches followed by a
will address serious unmet patient need. The products are:
steady stream of pipeline assets in multiple therapeutic areas.
• Yervoy (ipilimumab), for patients with metastatic melanoma;
“We’re accelerating innovation and transformation and
• Brivanib, for patients with hepatocellular cancer;
pursuing multiple initiatives to integrate our processes and
• E liquis (apixaban), for a range of cardiovascular deliver the potential of our customer-centric approach,” says
indications, including venous thromboembolism and Anthony C. Hooper, senior vice president, Commercial Opera-
stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation; tions, and president, U.S., Japan and Intercontinental. “In doing
• Dapagliflozin, for patients with type 2 diabetes; and so, we must adapt, learn and move rapidly to ensure successful
product launches and portfolio growth. We must be ever faster,
• Nulojix (belatacept), for solid-organ-transplant rejection.
more effective and more efficient, knowing that patients are
Nearing the end of periods of exclusivity for major brands, waiting for the medicines that will help them prevail against
many pharmaceutical companies face the prospect of dry serious diseases.”
18OUR BIOPHARMA TRANSFORMATION
ADDRESSING
Health Disparities
Aligned with our company’s Mission to help patients prevail, the Bristol-Myers
Squibb Foundation is a collaborative venture with patients, health care providers
and the community. Such collaborations are forged with the knowledge that innova-
tive partnerships are key to overcoming barriers to good health outcomes.
A teenage boy in the African country of Botswana, whom global philanthropic endeavors and created hope in the
we will call Baruti, has known more than his share of trag- face of some of the world’s most devastating and intrac-
edy. His mother died when he was 3, his father when he table health challenges.
was 8. Five years ago, at age 12, he too got sick.
The template for this strategy remains SECURE THE FUTURE,
“Your test results have come,” he recalls the doctor saying. Bristol-Myers Squibb’s $160-million initiative, launched in
“I’m sorry, but you are HIV positive.” 1999 to confront HIV/AIDS in Africa. It is the first and still
largest corporate philanthropic commitment to fighting
Even at 12, the boy understood what those words meant.
the disease on the continent. Partnerships with govern-
But Baruti was lucky. He was referred to the Botswana-
ments, medical institutions, physicians, community-based
Baylor College of Medicine Children’s Clinical Center of
organizations and people living with HIV/AIDS have
Excellence, one of six pediatric HIV/AIDS clinics in Africa
strengthened the capacity of local communities in Africa
made possible by the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation’s
to cope with the disease, helping ensure that the impact
SECURE THE FUTURE program.
of SECURE THE FUTURE will be much greater than the sum
of its many grants.
Now, sustained by a daily regimen of medications and
buoyed by his own unfailing optimism, Baruti looks to
That same collaborative spirit is seen in other parts of the
the future. Thanks to the love and support of his aunts,
world through Foundation initiatives such as those aimed
he has finished school and is now applying to college.
at fighting cancer in central and eastern Europe, hepatitis
He also mentors other young people with HIV/AIDS.
in Asia and mental illness in the United States.
“My life has turned around,” he says.
Bringing Down Barriers
The Power of Partnerships
The countries of central and eastern Europe have the
The Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation has made a differ-
highest incidence of cancer in the European Union, a
ence in the lives of countless people around the world.
burden made worse by a shortage of prevention and
screening efforts, a lack of information about the disease
Behind each success story is a deeply held faith in the
and a scarcity of health care resources generally. Work-
capacity of individuals to prevail and in the power of
ing in partnership with a broad range of organizations,
communities and partnerships to sustain and assist them.
the Foundation’s Bridging Cancer Care initiative is helping
“The work of mobilizing communities in the fight against improve cancer education, prevention and care in Poland,
disease begins with listening,” says John Damonti, presi- the Czech Republic, Hungary, Russia and Romania.
dent, Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, and vice president,
Delivering Hope confronts hepatitis B and C in Asia, diseases
Corporate Philanthropy. “You must hear the voices of
that can lead to cirrhosis, liver cancer and death. From the
those you are trying to help. Most of the answers are in
booming factory towns of southern China to the remote,
those communities and in those voices.”
dusty villages along India’s Tibetan border, Foundation part-
It is this approach – collaborative, respectful, compassion- ners in India, Taiwan, mainland China and Japan are imple-
ate – that has earned recognition for the Foundation’s menting a number of education and vaccination efforts. .
Bristol-Myers Squibb 2010 Annual Report 19ADDRESSING HEALTH DISPARITIES
Through an initiative called Mental Health and Well-Being, we the largest corporate initiative in the U.S. to fight type 2 diabetes.
are focusing in the U.S. at the community level on two targeted, Working with a wide variety of community-based, regional and
vulnerable groups: returning veterans and their families, and national partners, this program supports efforts to develop and
the mentally ill in the criminal justice system. Through grant expand effective models of patient self-management and broadly
making and capacity building, the Foundation is helping spur engage heavily affected communities to fight the nationwide
a variety of innovative efforts to link mental health and primary diabetes epidemic.
care services to increase care and improve access and support
“The health implications of type 2 diabetes are significant both
at the local level.
for the individual and for society,” says Damonti. “Our experience
In November 2010, the Foundation launched its latest initia- with SECURE THE FUTURE and other Foundation initiatives around
tive and a fifth area of focus: Together on Diabetes, a five-year, the world has shown that mobilizing affected communities can
$100-million program to help patients living with diabetes in have a profound impact on improving patient quality of life and
the U.S. better manage their disease. Together on Diabetes is health outcomes.”
Maria Milagros Aburto is a promotora de salud,
or community health educator, in the Hispanic
community in Washington, D.C. Here at La Clínica
del Pueblo, she is learning how to evaluate a per-
son’s body mass index under a program created by
the American Academy of Family Physicians’ Peers
for Progress initiative and the National Council of
La Raza and funded by the Bristol-Myers Squibb
Foundation’s Together on Diabetes program. Fol-
lowing intensive training, promotoras serve as vital
links between health care service providers, com-
munity support services and Hispanic patients who
face barriers to adequate health care. Promotoras
also educate patients about self-care and provide
ongoing emotional support and practical advice
to help patients adopt healthy lifestyles.
20Bristol-myers squiBB financial review
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations 2
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk 38
Consolidated Financial Statements 39
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 43
Reports of Management 96
Controls and Procedures 97
Reports of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm 98
Performance Graph 100
Five-Year Financial Summary 101
510019.Fin 4pg-CS4.indd 1 3/7/11 1:03 PMBristol-Myers Squibb
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, the Company, we, our or us) is a global
biopharmaceutical company, consisting of global pharmaceutical/biotechnology and international consumer medicines businesses,
whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. We license,
manufacture, market, distribute and sell pharmaceutical products.
We continued to execute our string-of-pearls strategy with the acquisition of ZymoGenetics, Inc. (ZymoGenetics) in October 2010,
and through various collaboration agreements entered into during the year. We met our productivity transformation initiative (PTI)
objectives and implemented a strategic process designed to achieve a culture of continuous improvement. We launched Kombiglyze
(saxagliptin and metformin) in the United States (U.S.) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in adults. We made key product and
pipeline advancements with Yervoy (ipilimumab), dapagliflozin, Eliquis (apixaban) Baraclude (entecavir), Sprycel (dasatinib) and
Orencia (abatacept). We received a warning letter at our Manati, Puerto Rico facility and voluntarily recalled certain lots of
Avalide (irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide) from the U.S., Puerto Rican, Canadian, Mexican and Argentinean markets. We
repurchased $750 million principal value of our higher interest rate debt through a tender offer and announced a $3.0 billion share
repurchase program under which 23 million shares were repurchased in 2010.
2010 Highlights
The following table is a summary of our financial highlights:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2010 2009
Net Sales $ 19,484 $ 18,808
Segment Income 4,642 4,492
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable to BMS 3,102 3,239
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations Attributable to BMS — 7,373
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS 3,102 10,612
Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations Attributable to BMS 1.79 1.63
Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations Attributable to BMS 2.16 1.85
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities 9,982 9,883
Net Sales
Worldwide net sales increased 4% primarily due to:
• Growth in various key products including Plavix (clopidogrel bisulfate); the virology portfolio, which includes Baraclude,
the Sustiva (efavirenz) Franchise and Reyataz (atazanavir sulfate); Orencia and Sprycel; and
• Sales of recently launched Onglyza (saxagliptin) and Kombiglyze.
Net sales increased from the prior year despite the unfavorable impact of:
• Increased Medicaid rebates from U.S. healthcare reform;
• The reduction in our contractual share of Abilify (aripiprazole) net sales from 65% to 58% from the extension of the
commercialization and manufacturing agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka);
• The declining sales of mature brands from strategic divestitures and generic competition;
• The Avalide recall; and
• Government austerity measures in Europe to reduce health care costs.
Segment Income
The increase in segment income is attributed to:
• Net sales growth of various key products;
• More efficient and reduced spending within marketing, selling and administrative; and
• Reduced promotional spending on certain key brands to coincide with their product life cycle.
22010 Annual Report
The increase was partially offset by:
• Reduced equity income from the impact of generic competition on international Plavix sales from our international
partnership with sanofi; and
• Increased research and development spending to support our maturing pipeline and possible launch of new products in
2011.
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
The decrease is primarily attributed to the unfavorable impact of specified items that affect the comparability of results including:
• A $236 million charge related to the impairment and loss on sale of manufacturing operations;
• A $207 million tax charge attributed to U.S. taxable income for earnings of foreign subsidiaries previously considered
permanently reinvested offshore; and
• Gains of $360 million in the prior year from the sale of certain mature brands.
The decrease was partially offset by:
• Reduced upfront licensing and milestone payments;
• A $125 million litigation settlement charge in 2009; and
• Increased segment income.
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
In 2009, we completed the split-off of Mead Johnson resulting in an after-tax gain of approximately $7.2 billion. The results of the
Mead Johnson business and related gain are included in discontinued operations.
Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations
Diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations increased 10% during 2010 due to the lower average outstanding
common shares attributed to:
• The full year impact of the 269 million share reduction resulting from the December 2009 Mead Johnson split-off; and
• Common stock repurchases of 23 million shares in 2010 made under the stock repurchase program announced in
May 2010.
Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and related EPS information, are
adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Our non-GAAP diluted EPS from
continuing operations increased 17% during 2010 after adjusting for specified items of $633 million in 2010 and $428 million in
2009. For a detailed listing of specified items and further information and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, see “—
Specified Items” and “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below.
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities
Sources of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included $4.5 billion generated from operating activities. Primary
nonoperating uses of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included:
• Dividend payments of $2.2 billion;
• Debt repurchase by means of a tender offer of $855 million;
• Acquisition of ZymoGenetics for $829 million;
• Common stock repurchases of $576 million; and
• Capital expenditures of $424 million.
Business Environment
We conduct our business primarily within the pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry, which is highly competitive and subject to
numerous government regulations. Many competitive factors may significantly affect sales of our products, including product
efficacy, safety, price and cost-effectiveness; marketing effectiveness; market access; product labeling; quality control and quality
assurance of our manufacturing operations; and research and development of new products. To successfully compete for business
in the healthcare industry, we must demonstrate that our products offer medical benefits as well as cost advantages. Our new
product introductions compete with other products already on the market in the same therapeutic category, in addition to potential
competition of new products that competitors may introduce in the future. We manufacture branded products, which are priced
higher than generic products. Generic competition is one of our leading challenges globally.
3Bristol-Myers Squibb
In the pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during
the period that the product has market exclusivity. When a product loses exclusivity, it is no longer protected by a patent and is
subject to new competing products in the form of generic brands. Upon exclusivity loss, we can lose a major portion of that
product’s sales in a short period of time. Competitors seeking approval of biological products under a full Biologics License
Application (BLA) must file their own safety and efficacy data and address the challenges of biologics manufacturing, which
involve more complex processes and are more costly than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. Under the new U.S.
healthcare legislation enacted in 2010, which is described more fully below, there is now an abbreviated path for regulatory
approval of generic versions of biological products. This new path for approval of biosimilar products under the U.S. healthcare
legislation significantly affects the regulatory data exclusivity for biological products. The new legislation provides a regulatory
mechanism that allows for regulatory approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on
the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full BLA. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the impact of the
new U.S. biosimilar legislation on the Company.
Globally, the healthcare industry is subject to various government-imposed regulations authorizing prices or price controls that have
and will continue to have an impact on our net sales. In March 2010, the U.S. government enacted healthcare reform legislation,
signing into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (HR 3590) and a reconciliation bill containing a package of changes
to the healthcare bill. The new legislation makes extensive changes to the current system of healthcare insurance and benefits
intended to broaden coverage and reduce costs. These bills significantly change how Americans receive healthcare coverage and
how they pay for it. They also have a significant impact on companies, in particular those companies in the pharmaceutical industry
and other healthcare related industries, including BMS. We have experienced and will continue to experience additional financial
costs and certain other changes to our business as the new healthcare law provisions become effective. For example, minimum
rebates on our Medicaid drug sales have increased from 15.1 percent to 23.1 percent and Medicaid rebates have also been extended
to drugs used in risk-based Medicaid managed care plans. In addition, we now extend discounts to certain critical access hospitals,
cancer hospitals and other covered entities as required by the expansion of the 340B Drug Pricing Program under the Public Health
Service Act.
In 2011, we will also provide a 50 percent discount on our brand-name drugs to patients within the Medicare Part D coverage gap,
also referred to as the “Donut Hole” and we will pay an annual non-tax-deductible fee to the Federal government based on an
allocation of our market share of branded prior year sales to certain U.S. government programs including Medicare, Medicaid,
Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense and TRICARE. This fee will be classified for financial reporting purposes
as an operating expense. These new discounts and the new pharmaceutical company fee under the 2010 U.S. healthcare reform law,
including related regulations for Medicare coverage gap, managed Medicaid and expansion of the Public Health Service 340B
program do not have historical claims experience and as such are subject to additional changes in estimates.
Higher rebates to Medicaid and Medicaid managed care plans reduced our net sales by $283 million and pre-tax income by $222
million during the year ended December 31, 2010. We also recognized a one-time tax charge of $21 million in the first quarter of
2010 due to the elimination of the tax deductibility of a portion of our retiree healthcare costs. The EPS impact of U.S. healthcare
reform in 2010 was $0.10. On an incremental year-over-year basis, we expect U.S. healthcare reform to have an additional negative
impact on earnings per share in 2011 of approximately $0.15. This estimate includes an expected reduction of net sales of
approximately $250 million due to new discounts associated with the Medicare Part D “Donut Hole” coverage gap and an increase
in marketing, sales and administrative expenses of approximately $250 million due to the new annual non-tax-deductible
pharmaceutical company fee. The aggregate financial impact of U.S. healthcare reform over the next few years depends on a
number of factors, including but not limited to pending implementation guidance, potential changes in sales volume eligible for the
new rebates, discounts or fees, and the impact of cost sharing arrangements with certain alliance partners. A positive impact on our
net sales from the expected increase in the number of people with healthcare coverage could potentially occur in the future, but is
not expected until 2014 at the earliest.
In many markets outside the U.S., we operate in environments of government-mandated, cost-containment programs, or under other
regulatory bodies or groups that can exert downward pressure on pricing. Pricing freedom is limited in the UK, for instance, by the
operation of a profit control plan and in Germany by the operation of a reference price system. Companies also face significant
delays in market access for new products as more than two years can elapse after drug approval before new medicines become
available in some countries.
The growth of Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) in the U.S. has played a large role in the competition that surrounds the
healthcare industry. MCOs seek to reduce healthcare expenditures for participants by making volume purchases and entering into
long-term contracts to negotiate discounts with various pharmaceutical providers. Because of the market potential created by the
large pool of participants, marketing prescription drugs to MCOs has become an important part of our strategy. Companies
compete for inclusion in MCO formularies and we generally have been successful in having our major products included. We
42010 Annual Report
believe that developments in the managed care industry, including continued consolidation, have had and will continue to have a
downward pressure on prices.
Pharmaceutical and biotechnology production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product.
Shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital expenditures and regulatory
approvals. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. As
biologics become a larger percentage of our product portfolio, we will continue to make arrangements with third-party
manufacturers and to make substantial investments to increase our internal capacity to produce biologics on a commercial scale.
One such investment is a new, state-of-the-art manufacturing facility for the production of biologics in Devens, Massachusetts. We
expect to submit the site for regulatory approval in late 2011 or 2012.
We have maintained a competitive position in the market and strive to uphold this position, which is dependent on our success in
discovering, developing and delivering innovative, cost-effective products to help patients prevail over serious diseases.
We are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this
time to reasonably assess the final outcomes of these investigations or litigations. For additional discussion of legal matters, see
Note 26 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Strategy
Over the past few years, we have transformed our Company into a focused biopharmaceutical company, a transformation that
encompasses all areas of our business and operations. This has not only focused our portfolio of products but has yielded and will
continue to yield substantial cost savings and cost avoidance. This in turn increases our financial flexibility to take advantage of
attractive market opportunities that may arise.
In May 2012, we expect the loss of exclusivity in the U.S. for our largest product, Plavix, after which time we expect a rapid,
precipitous, and material decline in Plavix net sales and a reduction in net income and operating cash flow. Such events are the
norm in the industry when companies experience the loss of exclusivity of a product. Recognizing this fact, we are, and have been,
focused on sustaining our business and building a robust foundation for the future. We plan to achieve this foundation by
continuing to support and grow our currently marketed products, advancing our pipeline, managing our costs, and maintaining and
improving our financial strength with a strong balance sheet.
However, these are part of an overall strategy to build the Company. This strategy includes a focus on emerging markets, “string-
of-pearls,” optimizing our mature brands portfolio and managing costs.
Our strategy in emerging markets is to develop and commercialize innovative products in key high-growth markets, tailoring the
approach to each market.
We also remain focused on our acquisition and licensing strategy known as the “string-of-pearls” with transactions which could
range from collaboration and license agreements to the acquisition of companies. In October 2010, we completed our acquisition of
ZymoGenetics. We also entered into or restructured collaboration agreements with various companies during 2010 including,
Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly), Allergan, Inc., Exelixis, Inc. (Exelixis) and Oncolys BioPharma, Inc.
We have continued with our core biopharmaceutical focus and the maximization of the value of our mature brands portfolio. In
2010, we completed the sale of various mature brands and the related manufacturing facilities in various countries.
Managing costs is another part of our overall strategy. We executed our PTI, through which we realized $2.5 billion in annual cost
savings and cost avoidance based on previous strategic plans for future years. We met our goal of $2.5 billion of cost savings and
cost avoidance on an annualized run-rate basis. To achieve this, we reduced general and administrative operations by simplifying,
standardizing and outsourcing certain processes and services, rationalized our mature brands portfolio, consolidated our global
manufacturing network while eliminating complexity and enhancing profitability, simplified our geographic footprint and
implemented a more efficient go-to-market model. Because the $2.5 billion of annual cost savings and avoidance is based on
previous strategic plans for future years and because our progress is measured on an annualized run-rate basis, the amount of cost
savings and avoidance does not correlate directly with our results of operations. Approximately 60% of the $2.5 billion in annual
cost savings and cost avoidance relates to marketing, selling and administrative expenses, 20-25% relates to costs of products sold,
and 15-20% relates to research and development expenses. In addition to the PTI, we continue to review our cost structure with the
intent to create a modernized, efficient and robust balance between building competitive advantages, securing innovative products
and planning for the future.
5Bristol-Myers Squibb
Product and Pipeline Developments
We manage our research and development (R&D) programs on a portfolio basis, investing resources in each stage of research and
development from early discovery through late-stage development. We continually evaluate our portfolio of R&D assets to ensure
that there is an appropriate balance of early-stage and late-stage programs to support future growth. We consider our R&D
programs that have entered into Phase III development to be significant, as these programs constitute our late-stage development
pipeline. These Phase III development programs include both investigational compounds in Phase III development for initial
indications and marketed products that are in Phase III development for additional indications or formulations. Spending on these
programs represents approximately 30-40% of our annual R&D expenses. No individual investigational compound or marketed
product represented 10% or more of our R&D expenses in any of the last three years. While we do not expect all of our late-stage
development programs to make it to market, our late-stage development programs are the R&D programs that could potentially
have an impact on our revenue and earnings within the next few years. The following are the recent significant developments in our
marketed products and our late-stage pipeline:
Yervoy (ipilimumab) – a monoclonal antibody currently in the registrational process for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. It is
also being studied for other indications including lung cancer as well as adjuvant melanoma and hormone-refractory prostate
cancer.
• In August 2010, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) accepted for filing and review the BLA for Yervoy for the
treatment of adult patients with advanced melanoma who have been previously treated. The application has been granted a
priority review designation by the FDA. The FDA’s current stated action date on the BLA is March 26, 2011.
• In May 2010, the Yervoy Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) for metastatic melanoma in pre-treated patients was
validated by the European Medicines Agency (EMA).
• In June 2010, the Company announced positive results from a Phase III randomized double blind study of Yervoy which
demonstrated that overall survival was significantly extended in patients with previously-treated metastatic melanoma who
received Yervoy. The results were statistically significant for patients receiving Yervoy alone or Yervoy in combination with a
gp100 peptide vaccine when compared to those patients who received the control therapy of gp100 alone. Forty-four to 46
percent of patients treated with Yervoy were alive at one year compared to 25 percent of patients treated with the control arm.
At two years, 22 to 24 percent of patients treated with Yervoy were alive compared to 14 percent of patients treated with the
control arm.
• In May 2010, the Company announced positive results from a randomized Phase II study evaluating Yervoy in combination
with standard chemotherapy in previously untreated patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. The study, known as
041, met the predefined criteria for significant improvement (p-value of <0.1) in immune-related progression-free survival, the
primary endpoint, over chemotherapy alone. An additional analysis of progression-free survival, assessed using the traditional
modified World Health Organization criteria, also reached statistical significance in one of the two dosing schedules that
combined Yervoy with standard chemotherapy.
Eliquis (apixaban) – an oral Factor Xa inhibitor in Phase III development for the prevention and treatment of venous
thromboembolic disorders and stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation that is part of our strategic alliance with Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer)
• Based upon discussions with the FDA and in agreement with Pfizer, we expect to submit an NDA filing in the U.S. including
data from both the AVERROES trial and the ARISTOTLE trial, assuming a positive outcome in the ARISTOTLE study, for an
indication in stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation, which will cover the broadest spectrum of patients in one single filing. We
expect to have the initial top line results from the ARISTOTLE data in the second quarter of 2011 and submit regulatory filings
in the US and Europe either in the third or fourth quarter of 2011.
• In February 2011, the Company and Pfizer published the full results of the AVERROES study of Eliquis in The New England
Journal of Medicine. The study demonstrated that, for patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) who were expected or demonstrated
to be unsuitable for a vitamin K antagonist therapy such as warfarin, Eliquis was statistically superior to aspirin in reducing the
composite of stroke or systematic embolism, without a significant increase in major bleeding, fatal bleeding or intracranial
bleeding. There were no significant differences in the risk of hemorrhagic stroke between Eliquis and aspirin. The study
results also showed that Eliquis demonstrated superiority for its secondary efficacy endpoint in reducing the composite of
stroke, systematic embolism, mycordial infarction or vascular death for patients with AF when compared with aspirin.
• In December 2010, the Company and Pfizer published results from the Phase III ADVANCE-3 study of Eliquis in The New
England Journal of Medicine. The results showed that Eliquis was statistically superior to 40 mg once-daily enoxaparin with
comparable rates of bleeding in the prevention of venous thromboembolism following total hip replacement surgery.
62010 Annual Report
• In November 2010, the Company and Pfizer reported that the Phase III APPRAISE-2 clinical trial in patients with recent Acute
Coronary Syndrome treated with Eliquis or placebo in addition to mono or dual antiplatelet therapy was discontinued. The
study was stopped early on the recommendation of an independent Data Monitoring Committee due to clear evidence of a
clinically important increase in bleeding among patients randomized to Eliquis which was not offset by clinically meaningful
reductions in ischemic events.
• In August 2010, the positive preliminary data from the AVERROES trial were presented at the European Society of Cardiology
congress in Stockholm, Sweden. The preliminary data demonstrated that Eliquis significantly reduced the relative risk of a
composite stroke or systematic embolism by 54 percent without a significant increase in major bleeding, fatal bleeding and
intracranial bleeding compared with aspirin in patients who were expected or demonstrated to be unsuitable for warfarin
treatment. Minor bleeding was significantly increased. In June 2010, the Company and Pfizer had announced that the Phase
III AVERROES trial was ending early due to clear evidence of efficacy. After an interim analysis by the Independent Data
Monitoring Committee showed a clinically important reduction in stroke and systematic embolism in patients with atrial
fibrillation considered intolerant of or unsuitable for warfarin therapy who received Eliquis as compared to aspirin. This
interim analysis also demonstrated an acceptable safety profile for Eliquis compared to aspirin.
• In March 2010, results from the ADVANCE-2 study were published in The Lancet. Results, which were presented in July
2009, showed that Eliquis was statistically superior to 40 mg once daily enoxaparin in reducing the incidence of venous
thromboembolism in patients undergoing elective total knee replacement surgery, according to ADVANCE-2 study results.
The study results also showed numerically lower rates of major and clinically relevant non-major bleeding in patients treated
with Eliquis compared to those treated with enoxaparin. These latter results did not meet statistical significance.
• In March 2010, the Eliquis Marketing Authorization Application for the prevention of venous thromboembolic events in adult
patients who have undergone elective hip or knee replacement was validated by the European Medicines Agency.
Nulojix (belatacept) – a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted at prevention of solid organ transplant
rejection.
• In May 2010, the FDA issued a complete response letter regarding our BLA for Nulojix for an indication of prophylaxis of
organ rejection and preservation of a functioning allograft in adult patients receiving renal transplants with use in combination
with interleukin-2 (IL-2) receptor antagonist, mycophenolic acid (MPA), and corticosteroids. In December 2010, the FDA
informed us that the information we submitted regarding Nulojix is a Complete Response to the request for additional
information outlined in the FDA complete response letter. The Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) date for FDA action
on the BLA is June 15, 2011. The FDA has advised us that we must resolve the GMP issues raised in the FDA’s recent
warning letter regarding our manufacturing facility in Manati, Puerto Rico prior to its granting approval of our pending BLA
for Nulojix. In December 2010, we notified the FDA that our Manati facility was inspection-ready. If upon re-inspection the
FDA is not satisfied, this could result in a delay in the approval of the Nulojix filing.
• In May 2010, Nulojix was the subject of eight clinical presentations related to kidney transplantation at the American
Transplant Congress.
• In March 2010, the FDA’s Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee voted 13 to 5 to recommend approval of
Nulojix, a selective co-simulation blocker for the prophylaxis of acute rejection in de novo kidney transplant patients. The FDA
is not bound by the recommendations of its Advisory Committee, but takes its advice into consideration when reviewing new
drug applications.
• In February 2010, the Nulojix MAA for the treatment of prophylaxis of organ rejection in kidney transplant patients was
validated by the EMA.
Dapagliflozin – an oral SGLT2 inhibitor in Phase III development for the treatment of diabetes that is part of our strategic alliance
with AstraZeneca
• In December 2010, the Company and AstraZeneca completed the submission of a New Drug Application with the FDA and a
Marketing Authorization Application with the European Medicines Agency for dapagliflozin as a once-daily oral therapy for
the treatment of adult patients with type 2 diabetes. The MAA was validated by the European Medicines Agency in January
2011.
• In September 2010, the Company and AstraZeneca announced results from a randomized, double blind Phase III clinical study
of dapagliflozin at the 46th European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) Annual Meeting which demonstrated that
the addition of dapagliflozin to glimepiride (a sulphonylurea) therapy produced significant reductions in glycosylated
hemoglobin levels (HbA1c) in adult patients with type 2 diabetes compared to glimepiride alone. The study also demonstrated
that dapagliflozin plus glimepiride achieved reductions in the secondary efficacy endpoints of change in total body weight, oral
glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and fasting plasma glucose (FPG) levels from baseline at week 24 compared to placebo plus
glimepiride. More people taking dapagliflozin and glimepiride were able to achieve a target HbA1c of less than 7% compared
7Bristol-Myers Squibb
to patients taking glimepiride alone. Also, drug-related adverse affects were reported at a similar rate between treatment
groups, but signs, symptoms and other reports suggestive of genital tract infections, but not urinary tract infections, were more
frequently reported in dapagliflozin treated subjects.
• In September 2010, the Company and AstraZeneca also announced at the EASD results from a randomized, double-blind Phase
III clinical study in adults with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin therapy alone. The study demonstrated
dapagliflozin was non-inferior compared to glipizide in improving HbA1c when added to existing metformin therapy during a
52-week treatment period. The study also demonstrated that dapagliflozin plus metformin achieved significant reductions in
key efficacy secondary endpoints: reduction in total body weight from baseline, compared with a weight gain on glipizide plus
metformin therapy and a reduced number of patients reporting one or more hypoglycemic events. Also, frequencies of adverse
events, serious adverse events and study discontinuations were comparable across treatment groups, but signs, symptoms and
other reports suggestive of urinary tract or genital infections were more common in dapagliflozin treated subjects.
• In June 2010, findings from a 24-week Phase III clinical study were published that demonstrated that dapagliflozin,
administered as monotherapy, achieved statistically significant mean reductions at 5 mg and 10 mg doses once daily in the
primary endpoint of glycosylated hemoglobin levels in treatment-naïve adult patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes,
compared to placebo.
• In June 2010, results from a 24-week Phase III clinical study were presented that demonstrated that the addition of
dapagliflozin achieved reductions in the primary endpoint, glycosylated hemoglobin level, in inadequately controlled type 2
diabetes patients who were treated with insulin (with or without oral anti-diabetes medications (OADS)), compared to placebo
plus insulin (with or without OADS). The study also demonstrated that dapagliflozin achieved reductions in the secondary
endpoints that evaluated the change in total body weight from baseline, change in baseline from in mean daily insulin dose and
change from baseline in fasting plasma glucose.
Plavix – a platelet aggregation inhibitor that is part of our alliance with sanofi-aventis (sanofi)
• In January 2011, the Company and sanofi announced that the FDA has granted the companies an additional six-month period
of exclusivity to market Plavix. Exclusivity for Plavix in the U.S. is now scheduled to expire on May 17, 2012.
• In March 2010, the Company and sanofi announced revisions to the U.S. prescribing information for Plavix, which include a
boxed warning. The boxed warning concerns the diminished effectiveness of Plavix in patients who have a genetic variation
leading to reduced formation of the active metabolite. These patients, who are designated as poor metabolizers, represent,
according to prescribing information, approximately 2% of whites, 4% of blacks and 14% of Chinese. The percentage of poor
metabolizers is estimated to be approximately 3% of the population, based on published studies. These revisions are in
addition to the updates to the Plavix labeling reported in November 2009 with warnings about the use of Prilosec (omeprazole)
and certain other drugs that could interfere with Plavix by reducing its effectiveness.
• In March 2010, the Company and sanofi announced the approval by the European Commission of the dual antiplatelet
combination tablet Duoplavin/Duocover (clopidogrel 75 mg and acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg or 75 mg), which is indicated for
the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients already taking both clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid (ASA).
Avalide – an angiotensin II receptor blocker for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic nephropathy that is also part of the sanofi
alliance
• On January 14, 2011, BMS and our partner sanofi-aventis voluntarily recalled certain lots of Avalide from the U.S., Puerto
Rican, Canadian, Mexican and Argentinean markets due to the identification of a less soluble form of irbesartan found in lots
produced at our Humacao, Puerto Rico, facility and four batches produced at our Evansville, Indiana, facility which has been
attributed to a manufacturing process change. Supply of Avalide to these markets will be affected indefinitely. Total Avalide
sales in these countries were $355 million in 2010. We are working with our partner sanofi-aventis to identify all possible
solutions to this issue, including process adjustments and alternate supply sources.
Abilify – an antipsychotic agent for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder that is part
of our strategic alliance with Otsuka
• In February 2011, the Company and Otsuka announced that the FDA approved Abilify as an adjunct to the mood stabilizers
lithium or valproate for the maintenance treatment of Bipolar I Disorder.
82010 Annual Report
Reyataz – a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV
• In February 2011, the FDA approved an update to the labeling for Reyataz to include dose recommendations in HIV-infected
pregnant women. In HIV combination therapy, treatment with the recommended adult dose of Reyataz 300 mg, boosted with
100 mg of ritonavir, achieved minimum plasma concentrations (24 hours post-dose) during the third trimester of pregnancy
comparable to that observed historically in HIV-infected adults. During the post partum period, atazanavir concentrations may
be increased; therefore, while no dose adjustment is necessary, patients should be monitored for two months after delivery.
Baraclude – an oral antiviral agent for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B
• In October 2010, the FDA approved the supplemental New Drug Application of Baraclude for the treatment of chronic
hepatitis B in adult patients with decompensated liver disease.
Sprycel – an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinases indicated for the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or
lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including Gleevec (imatinib
meslylate) and first-line treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase.
Sprycel is part of our strategic alliance with Otsuka.
• In December 2010, the Company announced that Sprycel 100 mg once daily received Marketing Authorization from the
European Commission for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic
myeloid leukemia in chronic phase.
• In December 2010, the Company and Otsuka announced at the 52nd Annual Meeting of the American Society of Hematology
that the 18-month follow-up results from the Phase III DASISION study of Sprycel in the first-line treatment of adults with
Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic phase chronic myeloid leukemia were consistent with 12 month data in which
Sprycel demonstrated higher and faster rates of complete cytogenetic response and major molecular response compared to
imatinib.
• In October 2010, the Company and Otsuka announced that the FDA approved Sprycel 100 mg once daily for the treatment of
adult patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase.
• In July 2010, the Company submitted for review in Japan the supplemental New Drug Application for Sprycel for the treatment
of adult patients with newly diagnosed chronic myeloid leukemia.
• In June 2010, the Company and Otsuka announced Phase III study results in which Sprycel 100 mg once daily demonstrated a
superior rate of confirmed complete cytogenetic response compared to Gleevec. The study showed that 77 percent of Sprycel
patients versus 66 percent of Gleevec patients achieved confirmed complete cytogenetic response rates by 12 months.
• In June 2010, the Company and Otsuka announced four year follow-up results from a Phase III randomized, open-label, dose-
optimization study of Sprycel in chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukemia patients resistant or intolerant to Gleevec. At four
years, for all patients administered Sprycel 100 mg once daily, overall survival was 82% (95% CI: 76%-88%) and progression-
free survival was 66% (95% CI: 57%-74%). The four-year safety data from this study are consistent with the previously
reported safety profile of Sprycel 100 mg once daily.
Orencia – a fusion protein indicated for rheumatoid arthritis
• In December 2010, the FDA accepted for review a supplemental Biologics License Application for the subcutaneous
formulation of Orencia, a treatment for adult patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis administered through an
injection into the skin. The PDUFA date is August 4, 2011.
• In November 2010, the Company announced that new Phase III clinical data showed that a weekly subcutaneous injection of an
investigational formulation of Orencia, following a single intravenous (I.V.) loading dose, provided an improvement in disease
activity similar to the improvement seen with monthly I.V. administration of Orencia in patients with moderate to severe
rheumatoid arthritis.
• In July 2010, the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approved the Japanese New Drug Application for Orencia
for the treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to existing treatment.
• In July 2010, the European Commission approved a new indication for Orencia, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), for
the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have responded inadequately to previous therapy
with one or more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including MTX or a TNF-alpha inhibitor.
• In January 2010, the European Commission approved Orencia in combination with methotrexate for the treatment of moderate
to severe active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in pediatric patients six years of age and older who have had an
insufficient response to other disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, including at least one TNF inhibitor.
9Bristol-Myers Squibb
Onglyza/Kombiglyze– a treatment for type 2 diabetes that is part of our strategic alliance with AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca)
• In November 2010, the FDA approved Kombiglyze XR (saxagliptin and metformin HCl extended-release) for the treatment of
type 2 diabetes in adults. Kombiglyze XR is the first and only once-a-day metformin extended-release (XR) plus dipeptidyl
peptidase-4 inhibitor combination tablet offering strong glycemic control across glycosylated hemoglobin levels, fasting
plasma glucose and post-prandial glucose.
• In July 2010, the Marketing Authorization Application for Kombiglyze (known in the U.S. as Kombiglyze), a fixed dose
combination of Onglyza and metformin tablets, as a treatment for adults with type 2 diabetes was validated by the European
Medicines Agency.
• In June 2010, the Company and AstraZeneca announced results from a 52-week Phase IIIb study in adults with type 2 diabetes
who had inadequate glycemic control on metformin therapy plus diet and exercise. The study found that the addition of
Onglyza 5 mg to existing metformin therapy achieved the primary objective of demonstrating non-inferiority compared to the
addition of titrated glipizide (sulphonylurea) to existing metformin therapy in reducing glycosylated hemoglobin levels. The
study also found that treatment with Onglyza 5 mg plus metformin resulted in a statistically significant lower proportion of
subjects reporting hypoglycemic events and statistically significant weight loss compared to titrated glipizide plus metformin.
Onglyza 5 mg plus metformin also resulted in a significantly smaller rise per week in HbA1c from week 24 to week 52
compared to titrated glipizide plus metformin.
• In June 2010, the Company and AstraZeneca announced results from a 76-week Phase III study of Onglyza as initial
combination therapy with metformin, which produced long-term glycemic improvements (as measured by HbA1c levels) in
treatment-naïve adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled on diet and exercise compared to treatment with an
investigational 10 mg dose of Onglyza or metformin alone. The study also demonstrated that a higher number of patients were
able to achieve the American Diabetes Association recommended glycosylated hemoglobin level target of less than 7% with
Onglyza and metformin as initial combination therapy, compared to monotherapy of either treatment at week 76.
• In March 2010, the Company and AstraZeneca announced the commencement of the “Saxagliptin Assessment of Vascular
Outcomes Recorded in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus” trial (SAVOR-TIMI 53), a multicenter, randomized, double-blind,
placebo-controlled Phase IV study, to evaluate treatment with Onglyza in adult type 2 diabetes patients with cardiovascular risk
factors. The five year study will follow approximately 12,000 patients with type 2 diabetes, who have either a history of
previous cardiovascular events or multiple risk factors for vascular disease, and includes patients with renal impairment.
Necitumumab (IMC-11F8) – an investigational anti-cancer agent, which is part of our strategic alliance with Lilly
• In January 2011, the Company and Lilly announced that enrollment was stopped in the Phase III INSPIRE study of
necitumumab as a first-line treatment for advanced non-small cell lung cancer. The trial is evaluating the addition of
necitumumab to a combination of Alimta (pemetrexed for injection) and cisplatin. The decision to stop enrollment followed an
Independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) recommendation that no new or recently enrolled patients continue treatment
in the trial because of safety concerns related to thromboembolism in the experimental arm of the study. The DMC also noted
that patients who have already received two or more cycles of necitumumab appear to have a lower ongoing risk for these
safety concerns. These patients may choose to remain on the trial, after being informed of the additional potential risks.
Investigators will continue to assess patients after two cycles to determine if there is a potential benefit from treatment.
Necitumumab continues to be studied in another Phase III trial named SQUIRE. This study is evaluating necitumumab as a
potential treatment for a different type of lung cancer called squamous non-small cell lung cancer in combination with Gemzar
(gemcitibane HCl for injection) and cisplatin. The same independent DMC recommended that this trial continue because no
safety concerns have been observed.
XL-184 – In June 2010, the Company terminated its development collaboration with Exelixis for the experimental cancer drug
XL-184 with all rights returning to Exelixis.
102010 Annual Report
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Our results from continuing operations exclude the results related to the Mead Johnson business prior to its split-off in December
2009, the ConvaTec business prior to its divestiture in August 2008 and the Medical Imaging business prior to its divestiture in
January 2008. These businesses have been segregated from continuing operations and included in discontinued operations for all
years presented, see “—Discontinued Operations” below.
Our results of continuing operations were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
% Change 2010 % Change 2009
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008 vs. 2009 vs. 2008
Net Sales $ 19,484 $18,808 $17,715 4% 6%
Total Expenses $ 13,413 $13,206 $12,939 2% 2%
Earnings from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes $ 6,071 $ 5,602 $ 4,776 8% 17%
% of net sales 31.2% 29.8% 27.0%
Provision for Income Taxes $ 1,558 $ 1,182 $ 1,090 32% 8%
Effective tax rate 25.7% 21.1% 22.8%
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 4,513 $ 4,420 $ 3,686 2% 20%
% of net sales 23.2% 23.5% 20.8%
Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest $ 1,411 $ 1,181 $ 989 19% 19%
% of net sales 7.2% 6.3% 5.6%
Attributable to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company $ 3,102 $ 3,239 $ 2,697 (4)% 20%
% of net sales 15.9% 17.2% 15.2%
Net Sales
The composition of the change in net sales was as follows:
Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008
Net Sales Analysis of % Change Analysis of % Change
Dollars in Total Foreign Total Foreign
Millions 2010 2009 2008 Change Volume Price Exchange Change Volume Price Exchange
U.S. $ 12,613 $ 11,867 $ 10,565 6% 3% 3% — 12% 5% 7% —
Non-U.S. 6,871 6,941 7,150 (1)% 2% (4)% 1% (3)% 3% — (6)%
Total $ 19,484 $ 18,808 $ 17,715 4% 2% 1% 1% 6% 4% 4% (2)%
U.S. Net Sales
U.S. net sales growth in 2010 was attributed to increased volume and higher average net selling prices. The impact of U.S. price
increases taken in 2010 was partially offset by:
• Increased Medicaid rebates attributed to healthcare reform; and
• The reduction in our contractual share of Abilify net sales from 65% to 58% effective January 1, 2010.
In 2010, Plavix and Abilify represented 49% and 16% of total U.S. net sales, respectively. Plavix contributed 80% of total U.S. net
sales growth driven primarily by higher average net selling prices. Abilify U.S. net sales decreased 6% due to changes in the
Abilify collaboration agreement.
In 2009, Plavix and Abilify represented 47% and 18% of total U.S. net sales, respectively. Plavix contributed 49% of total U.S. net
sales growth and was driven by higher average net selling process and increased demand. Abilify contributed 31% of total U.S. net
sales growth and was driven by increased demand.
Most key products also contributed to 2010 and 2009 U.S. net sales growth.
International Net Sales
International net sales remained relatively flat in 2010 as lower average net selling prices were mostly offset by increased volume
and a slight favorability in foreign exchange. The lower average net selling prices were primarily attributed to government austerity
measures in Europe to reduce health care costs.
11Bristol-Myers Squibb
The 2010 international sales volume reflects:
• Increased net sales of Baraclude, the HIV portfolio, Sprycel, Abilify and Orencia;
• Decreased net sales of mature brands attributed to divestitures and generic competition; and
• Decreased net sales of Plavix and Avapro (irbesartan)/Avalide attributed to increased generic competition.
The 2009 international net sales decrease includes a 6% negative impact of foreign exchange partially offset by the same factors
impacting 2010 sales growth.
Our reported international net sales do not include copromotion sales reported by our alliance partner, sanofi for Plavix and
Avapro/Avalide, which decreased in 2010 and 2009 due to generic competition.
Net sales of mature brands and businesses that were divested during 2008 through 2010 represented approximately 1% of total net
sales in each year. Further details on both domestic and international key product net sales are discussed below.
In general, our business is not seasonal. For information on U.S. pharmaceutical prescriber demand, reference is made to the table
within “—Estimated End-User Demand” below, which sets forth a comparison of changes in net sales to the estimated total
prescription growth (for both retail and mail order customers) for certain of our key pharmaceutical and new products. The U.S.
and non-U.S. net sales are categorized based upon the location of the customer.
We recognize revenue net of various sales adjustments to arrive at net sales as reported on the consolidated statements of earnings.
These adjustments are referred to as gross-to-net sales adjustments and are further described in “—Critical Accounting Policies”
below.
The reconciliation of our gross sales to net sales by each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustments were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Gross Sales $ 21,681 $ 20,555 $ 19,370
Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments
Charge-Backs Related to Government Programs (605) (513) (487)
Cash Discounts (255) (253) (235)
Managed Healthcare Rebates and Other Contract Discounts (499) (439) (360)
Medicaid Rebates (453) (229) (205)
Sales Returns (88) (101) (163)
Other Adjustments (297) (212) (205)
Total Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments (2,197) (1,747) (1,655)
Net Sales $ 19,484 $ 18,808 $ 17,715
The activities and ending balances of each significant category of gross-to-net sales reserve adjustments were as follows:
Charge-Backs Managed Women,
Related to Healthcare Rebates Infants and
Government Cash and Other Medicaid Sales Other Children
Dollars in Millions Programs Discounts Contract Discounts Rebates Returns Adjustments (WIC) Rebates Total
Balance at January 1, 2009 $ 45 $ 31 $ 154 $ 133 $ 209 $ 115 $ 195 $ 882
Provision related to sales made in current period 509 252 438 279 91 222 ⎯ 1,791
Provision related to sales made in prior periods 4 1 1 (50) 10 (10) ⎯ (44)
Returns and payments (513) (253) (395) (196) (111) (208) ⎯ (1,676)
Impact of foreign currency translation ⎯ (2) 1 ⎯ ⎯ 2 ⎯ 1
Discontinued operations (3) (3) ⎯ ⎯ (30) (33) (195) (264)
Balance at December 31, 2009 $ 42 $ 26 $ 199 $ 166 $ 169 $ 88 $ ⎯ $ 690
Provision related to sales made in current period 606 255 496 454 118 302 ⎯ 2,231
Provision related to sales made in prior periods (1) ⎯ 3 (1) (30) (5) ⎯ (34)
Returns and payments (599) (252) (482) (292) (69) (256) ⎯ (1,950)
Impact of foreign currency translation ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ (1) (2) ⎯ (3)
Balance at December 31, 2010 $ 48 $ 29 $ 216 $ 327 $ 187 $ 127 $ ⎯ $ 934
122010 Annual Report
Gross-to-net sales adjustments as a percentage of gross sales were 10.1% in 2010 and 8.5% in both 2009 and 2008 and are primarily
a function of gross sales trends, changes in sales mix and contractual and legislative discounts and rebates.
In 2010, gross-to-net sales adjustments increased overall by 26% which was primarily attributed to the enactment of U.S. healthcare
reform. Expected future increases in gross-to-net sales adjustments related to healthcare reform are further discussed in “—
Executive Summary⎯Business Environment” above. Specifically in 2010:
• Medicaid rebates increased due to the change in minimum rebates on drug sales from 15.1% to 23.1% and the extension of
the Medicaid rebate rate to drugs sold to risk-based Medicaid managed care organizations.
• Managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts increased mainly due to increased sales.
• Charge-backs related to government programs increased due to increased sales in the U.S. as well as additional rebates
required in certain European countries attributed to government austerity measures.
• Sales returns decreased primarily due to overall reduced provisions for various mature brands partially offset by a $44
million charge for estimated returns associated with the Avalide recall.
• Other adjustments increased overall due to additional rebates required for certain products sold in Europe attributed to
government austerity measures and higher discounts and increased rebates for coupon programs.
In 2009, gross-to-net sales adjustments increased by 6%. Specifically in 2009:
• Managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts increased by 22% primarily due to higher Plavix Medicare sales
and an increase in contractual discount rates.
• Sales returns decreased by 38% primarily due to lower provisions for Pravachol and Zerit, partially offset by increased
provisions for Sprycel and mature brands driven by higher than anticipated sales returns.
• Medicaid rebates included refunds from net overpayments of Medicaid rebates of $60 million from the three year period
2002 to 2004 after the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services policy group approved our revised calculations.
13Bristol-Myers Squibb
Net sales of key products represent 84% of total net sales in 2010, 81% in 2009 and 77% in 2008. The following table presents
U.S. and international net sales by key products, the percentage change from the prior period and the foreign exchange impact when
compared to the prior period. Commentary detailing the reasons for significant variances for key products is provided below:
% Change
Attributable to
Year Ended December 31, % Change Foreign Exchange
2010 vs. 2009 vs.
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 2009 2008
Key Products
Plavix (clopidogrel bisulfate)
U.S. $ 6,154 $ 5,556 $ 4,920 11% 13% — —
Non-U.S. 512 590 683 (13)% (14)% 4% (5)%
Total 6,666 6,146 5,603 8% 10% ⎯ ⎯
Avapro/Avalide (irbesartan/irbesartan-
hydrochlorothiazide)
U.S. 642 722 735 (11)% (2)% — —
Non-U.S. 534 561 555 (5)% 1% 3% (6)%
Total 1,176 1,283 1,290 (8)% (1)% 2% (3)%
Abilify (aripiprazole)
U.S. 1,958 2,082 1,676 (6)% 24% — —
Non-U.S. 607 510 477 19% 7% (2)% (9)%
Total 2,565 2,592 2,153 (1)% 20% — (2)%
Reyataz (atazanavir sulfate)
U.S. 754 727 667 4% 9% — —
Non-U.S. 725 674 625 8% 8% (1)% (8)%
Total 1,479 1,401 1,292 6% 8% — (4)%
Sustiva (efavirenz) Franchise
(total revenue)
U.S. 881 803 724 10% 11% — —
Non-U.S. 487 474 425 3% 12% (3)% (11)%
Total 1,368 1,277 1,149 7% 11% (1)% (4)%
Baraclude (entecavir)
U.S. 179 160 140 12% 14% — —
Non-U.S. 752 574 401 31% 43% 3% (5)%
Total 931 734 541 27% 36% 3% (4)%
Erbitux (cetuximab)
U.S. 646 671 739 (4)% (9)% — —
Non-U.S. 16 12 10 33% 20% 5% (4)%
Total 662 683 749 (3)% (9)% — —
Sprycel (dasatinib)
U.S. 188 123 92 53% 34% — —
Non-U.S. 388 298 218 30% 37% — (9)%
Total 576 421 310 37% 36% 1% (6)%
Ixempra (ixabepilone)
U.S. 99 99 98 — 1% — —
Non-U.S. 18 10 3 80% ** 3% N/A
Total 117 109 101 7% 8% — —
Orencia (abatacept)
U.S. 547 467 363 17% 29% — —
Non-U.S. 186 135 78 38% 73% 1% (9)%
Total 733 602 441 22% 37% — (2)%
Onglyza/Kombiglyze
(saxagliptin/saxagliptin and metformin)
U.S. 119 22 — ** N/A — N/A
Non-U.S. 39 2 — ** N/A — N/A
Total 158 24 — ** N/A — N/A
Mature Products and All Other
U.S. 446 435 411 3% 6% — —
Non-U.S. 2,607 3,101 3,675 (16)% (16)% 1% (4)%
Total 3,053 3,536 4,086 (14)% (13)% — (3)%
** Change is in excess of 200%.
142010 Annual Report
Plavix — a platelet aggregation inhibitor that is part of our alliance with sanofi
• U.S. net sales increased in 2010 and 2009 primarily due to higher average net selling prices. Estimated total U.S. prescription
demand decreased 1% in 2010 and increased 4% in 2009.
• International net sales continue to be impacted by the launch of generic clopidogrel products in the EU countries since August
2008. This has a negative impact on both our net sales as it relates to our EU sales in comarketing countries and our equity in
net income of affiliates as it relates to our share of sales from our partnership with sanofi in Europe and Asia. We expect
continued erosion of Plavix net sales in the EU, which will impact both our international net sales and our equity in net income
of affiliates.
• In January 2011, the Company and sanofi announced that the FDA has granted the companies an additional six-month period
of exclusivity to market Plavix. Exclusivity for Plavix in the U.S. is now scheduled to expire on May 17, 2012.
• See Note 26 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies—Plavix Litigation,” for further discussion on Plavix exclusivity litigation
in both the U.S. and EU.
Avapro/Avalide (known in the EU as Aprovel/Karvea) — an angiotensin II receptor blocker for the treatment of hypertension and
diabetic nephropathy that is also part of the sanofi alliance
• U.S. and international net sales decreased in 2010 primarily due to decreased overall demand due to generic competition in the
EU and reduced supply of Avalide in addition to a $44 million sales return adjustment recorded as a result of the Avalide
recall. Estimated total U.S. prescription demand decreased 17% in 2010.
• U.S. net sales decreased in 2009 primarily due to decreased overall demand as estimated total U.S. prescription demand
decreased 9% in 2009. International net sales increased in 2009 primarily due to higher average net selling prices partially
offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange impact.
Abilify — an antipsychotic agent for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder and is
part of our strategic alliance with Otsuka
• U.S. net sales decreased in 2010 primarily due to the reduction in our contractual share of net sales recognized from 65% to
58% and increased Medicaid rebates from healthcare reform. The decrease was partially offset by higher average net selling
prices and increased overall demand. U.S. net sales increased in 2009 primarily due to increased overall demand, new
indications for certain patients with bipolar 1 disorder and major depressive disorder, and higher average net selling prices.
The 2009 increase was partially offset by $49 million of amortization of the $400 million extension payment made to Otsuka
in April 2009. Estimated total U.S. prescription demand increased 5% in 2010 and 26% in 2009.
• In 2010 and 2009, international net sales increased due to increased prescription demand, which was aided by a new bipolar
indication in the second quarter of 2008 in the EU, offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange impact in 2009.
Reyataz — a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV
• U.S. net sales increased in 2010 primarily due to higher estimated total U.S. prescription demand of 4%. U.S. net sales
increased in 2009 due to higher estimated total U.S. prescription demand of 8% and higher average net selling prices.
• In 2010 and 2009, international net sales increased primarily due to higher demand across most markets with Europe being the
key driver due to the June 2008 approval for first-line treatment.
Sustiva Franchise — a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, which includes Sustiva, an
antiretroviral drug, and bulk efavirenz, which is also included in the combination therapy, Atripla (efavirenz 600
mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a product sold through a joint venture with Gilead
• U.S. net sales increased in 2010 primarily due to higher estimated total U.S. prescription demand of 7%. In 2009, U.S. net
sales increased primarily due to higher estimated total U.S. prescription demand of 10% as well as higher average net selling
prices.
• In 2010, international net sales increased primarily due to higher demand partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange.
• In 2009, international net sales increased primarily due to continued demand generated from the launch of Atripla in Canada
and the EU in the fourth quarter of 2007 partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange impact.
15Bristol-Myers Squibb
Baraclude — an oral antiviral agent for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B
• Worldwide net sales in 2010 and 2009 increased primarily due to continued strong demand in international markets.
• We continue to implement our global campaign to raise awareness about chronic hepatitis B as part of our overall market
expansion effort.
Erbitux — a monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor, which is
expressed on the surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as normal cells and is currently indicated for
use against colorectal cancer and head and neck cancer. Erbitux is part of our strategic alliance with Lilly.
• Sold by us almost exclusively in the U.S., net sales continue to decrease primarily due to lower demand and lower average net
selling prices.
Sprycel — an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinases indicated for the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid
or lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including Gleevec (imatinib
meslylate) and first-line treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic
phase. Sprycel is part of our strategic alliance with Otsuka.
• Worldwide net sales increased primarily due to higher demand in previously launched markets, growth attributed to recently
launched markets as well as higher U.S. average net selling prices.
• In the fourth quarter of 2010, Sprycel 100 mg once daily was approved as a first-line treatment of adult patients with newly
diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase in the U.S. and the EU.
Ixempra — a microtubule inhibitor for the treatment of patients with metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer and is part of our
strategic alliance with Otsuka
• Net sales continue to remain flat.
Orencia — a fusion protein indicated for adult patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate
response to one or more currently available treatments, such as methotrexate or anti-tumor necrosis factor therapy
• In 2010 worldwide net sales increased primarily due to increased demand. U.S. net sales were also impacted by higher
average selling prices.
• In 2009, worldwide net sales increased primarily due to increased demand.
Onglyza/Kombiglyze— treatment for type 2 diabetes
• Onglyza was launched in various countries in the third quarter of 2009.
• Kombiglyze was launched in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Mature Products and All Other — includes products which lost exclusivity in major markets and over the counter brands
• U.S. net sales remained relatively flat in 2010 and 2009 as the continued generic erosion of certain products was partially offset
by higher average net selling prices.
• International net sales decreased in 2010 and 2009 due to continued generic erosion of certain brands including TAXOL® and
Pravachol (pravastatin sodium), lower average net selling prices in Europe, the year over year impact of the rationalization and
divestitures of our non-strategic product portfolio and lower demand for certain over the counter products.
• Net sales in 2010 included $15 million of Recothrom net sales, a product acquired through our ZymoGenetics acquisition in
October 2010. See Note 5 “Acquisitions” for further details.
The estimated U.S. prescription change data provided throughout this report includes information only from the retail and mail
order channels and does not reflect information from other channels such as hospitals, home healthcare, clinics, federal facilities
including VA hospitals, and long-term care, among others.
In the first quarter of 2009, we changed our service provider for U.S. prescription data to Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. (WK), a
supplier of market research audit data for the pharmaceutical industry, for external reporting purposes and internal demand for most
products. Prior to 2009, we used prescription data based on the Next-Generation Prescription Service Version 2.0 of the National
Prescription Audit provided by IMS Health (IMS). We continuously seek to improve the quality of our estimates of prescription
change amounts and ultimate patient/consumer demand by reviewing estimate calculation methodologies, processes and analyzing
162010 Annual Report
internal and third-party data. We expect to continue to review and refine our methodologies and processes for calculation of these
estimates and will continue to review and analyze our own and third parties’ data used in such calculations.
The estimated prescription data is based on the Source Prescription Audit provided by the above suppliers and is a product of their
respective recordkeeping and projection processes. As such, the data is subject to the inherent limitations of estimates based on
sampling and may include a margin of error.
The change in Sprycel demand is calculated based upon tablets sold though retail and mail order channels based upon data obtained
from the IMS Health (IMS) National Sales Perspectives Audit, which is a product of IMS’ own recordkeeping and projection
processes. As such, the data is subject to the inherent limitations of estimates based on sampling and may include a margin of error.
We calculated the estimated total U.S. prescription change on a weighted-average basis to reflect the fact that mail order
prescriptions include a greater volume of product supplied, compared to retail prescriptions. Mail order prescriptions typically
reflect a 90-day prescription whereas retail prescriptions typically reflect a 30-day prescription. The calculation is derived by
multiplying mail order prescription data by a factor that approximates three and adding to this the retail prescriptions. We believe
that a calculation of estimated total U.S. prescription change based on this weighted-average approach provides a superior estimate
of total prescription demand in retail and mail order channels. We use this methodology for our internal demand reporting.
Estimated End-User Demand
The following tables set forth for each of our key products sold in the U.S. for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:
(i) total U.S. net sales for each year; (ii) change in reported U.S. net sales for each year; (iii) estimated total U.S. prescription
change for the retail and mail order channels calculated by us based on third-party data on a weighted-average basis, and (iv)
months of inventory on hand in the wholesale distribution channel.
Year Ended December 31, At December 31,
Change in U.S. % Change in U.S. Months on
Total U.S. Net Sales Net Sales Total Prescriptions Hand
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
(WK) (WK) (IMS)
Plavix $ 6,154 $ 5,556 $ 4,920 11% 13% 21% (1)% 4% 19% 0.5 0.5 0.4
Avapro/Avalide 642 722 735 (11)% (2)% 6% (17)% (9)% (7)% 0.4 0.4 0.5
Abilify 1,958 2,082 1,676 (6)% 24% 28% 5% 26% 23% 0.4 0.4 0.5
Reyataz 754 727 667 4% 9% 14% 4% 8% 14% 0.5 0.5 0.5
Sustiva Franchise(a) 881 803 724 10% 11% 20% 7% 10% 14% 0.4 0.5 0.6
Baraclude 179 160 140 12% 14% 59% 12% 13% 55% 0.6 0.5 0.7
Erbitux(b) 646 671 739 (4)% (9)% 8% N/A N/A N/A 0.5 0.5 0.5
Sprycel 188 123 92 53% 34% 59% 5% 10% 36% 0.6 0.7 0.8
Ixempra(b) 99 99 98 — 1% ** N/A N/A N/A 0.7 0.8 0.7
Orencia(b) 547 467 363 17% 29% 68% N/A N/A N/A 0.6 0.5 0.5
Onglyza/
Kombiglyze(c) 119 22 — ** N/A N/A ** N/A N/A 0.8* 3.7 —
(a) The Sustiva Franchise (total revenue) includes sales of Sustiva and revenue of bulk efavirenz included in the combination therapy Atripla. The months on hand
relates only to Sustiva.
(b) Erbitux, Ixempra and Orencia are parenterally administered products and do not have prescription-level data as physicians do not write prescriptions for these
products.
(c) Onglyza was launched in the U.S. in August 2009. Kombiglyze was launched in the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2010.
* Onglyza had 0.5 month of inventory on hand at December 31, 2010. Kombiglyze had 51.8 months of inventory on hand at December 31, 2010 to support the
initial product launch.
** Change in excess of 200%.
Pursuant to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Consent Order described below under "—SEC Consent Order",
we monitor the level of inventory on hand in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel and outside of the U.S. in the direct customer
distribution channel. We are obligated to disclose products with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected
demand, subject to a de minimis exception. Below are U.S. products that had estimated levels of inventory in the distribution
channel in excess of one month on hand at December 31, 2010, and international products that had estimated levels of inventory in
the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand at September 30, 2010.
Kombiglyze had 51.8 months of inventory on hand in the U.S. to support the initial product launch. This inventory is nominal and
is expected to be worked down in less than that amount of time as demand for this new product increases post launch.
17Bristol-Myers Squibb
Dafalgan, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had 1.2 months of inventory on hand at direct customers compared to
0.9 months of inventory on hand at December 31, 2009. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to the September
launch of a new dosage in France.
Fervex, a cold and flu product, had 2.3 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct customers compared to 3.9 months
of inventory on hand at December 31, 2009. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to lower than expected demand.
Videx, an antiviral product, had 1.5 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct customers compared to 1.3 months of
inventory on hand at December 31, 2009. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to government purchasing patterns
in Brazil.
Principen, an antibiotic product, had 1.3 months of inventory on hand at direct customers compared to a 0.8 months of inventory
on hand at December 31, 2009. The increased level of inventory is due to lower demand from the re-enforcement of antibiotic
law in Mexico which requires prescriptions for antibiotics.
In the U.S., for all products sold exclusively through wholesalers or through distributors, we generally determined our months on
hand estimates using inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out-movement provided by our three largest
wholesalers, which account for approximately 90% of total gross sales of U.S. products, and provided by our distributors. Factors
that may influence our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in
wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers.
In addition, these estimates are calculated using third-party data, which may be impacted by their recordkeeping processes.
For our businesses outside of the U.S., we have significantly more direct customers. Limited information on direct customer
product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where
available, varies widely. In cases where direct customer product level inventory, ultimate patient/consumer demand or out-
movement data does not exist or is otherwise not available, we have developed a variety of other methodologies to estimate such
data, including using such factors as historical sales made to direct customers and third-party market research data related to
prescription trends and end-user demand. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to estimate direct customer product level
inventory and to calculate months on hand. Factors that may affect our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of
products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers,
new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.
Geographic Areas
In general, our products are available in most countries in the world. The largest markets are in the U.S., France, Canada, Japan,
Italy, Spain, Germany, China and the United Kingdom. Our net sales by geographic areas, based on the location of the end
customer, were as follows:
Net Sales % Change % of Total Net Sales
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 2010 2009 2008
United States $ 12,613 $ 11,867 $ 10,565 6% 12% 65% 63% 60%
Europe 3,448 3,625 3,750 (5)% (3)% 18% 19% 21%
Japan, Asia Pacific and Canada 1,651 1,522 1,519 8% ⎯ 8% 8% 8%
Latin America, the Middle East
and Africa 856 843 1,047 2% (19)% 4% 5% 6%
Emerging Markets 804 753 725 7% 4% 4% 4% 4%
Other 112 198 109 (43)% 82% 1% 1% 1%
Total $ 19,484 $ 18,808 $ 17,715 4% 6% 100% 100% 100%
See “—Net Sales” above for a discussion on U.S. net sales increase.
Net sales in Europe decreased in 2010 primarily due to a 4% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, decreased net sales of certain
mature brands due to divestitures and increased generic competition for Plavix and Avapro/Avalide, partially offset by sales growth
in major European markets for Abilify, the HIV portfolio, Baraclude, Sprycel, Onglyza and Orencia. The sales growth of the
previously mentioned products was tempered by continuing fiscal challenges in European countries as healthcare payers, including
government agencies, have reduced and are expected to continue to reduce the cost of healthcare through actions that directly or
indirectly impose additional price reductions and support the expanded use of generic drugs. These measures include, but are not
limited to, mandatory discounts, rebates and other price reductions and are reflected in our net sales. In 2009, net sales decreased
primarily due to a 7% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, decreased net sales of certain mature brands due to divestitures and
182010 Annual Report
increased generic competition for Plavix, partially offset by sales growth in major European markets for the HIV portfolio, Abilify,
Baraclude, Sprycel and Orencia.
Net sales in Japan, Asia Pacific and Canada increased in 2010 primarily due to a 9% favorable foreign exchange impact and
increased net sales of Baraclude and Sprycel partially offset by decreased net sales of certain mature brands due to divestitures and
generic competition. In 2009, net sales remained relatively flat as decreased net sales of certain mature brands and a 1%
unfavorable foreign exchange impact was offset by increased net sales of Baraclude and Sprycel.
Net sales in Latin America, the Middle East and Africa increased in 2010 primarily due to increased net sales of Sprycel, Reyataz,
Baraclude, Orencia and a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, partially offset by decreased net sales of mature brands. In 2009,
net sales decreased primarily due to a 6% unfavorable foreign exchange impact and decreased net sales of certain mature brands,
partially offset by increased net sales of Reyataz, Orencia and Plavix.
Emerging markets are Brazil, Russia, India, China and Turkey. Net sales in Emerging Markets increased in 2010 primarily due to a
4% favorable foreign exchange impact and increased net sales of Baraclude, Sprycel, Abilify and Reyataz. In 2009, net sales
increased primarily due to increased net sales of Baraclude and Sprycel partially offset by an 8% unfavorable foreign exchange
impact.
Other consists primarily of sales from supply agreements for active pharmaceutical ingredients, including temporary supply
agreements to facilitate recent divestitures of manufacturing facilities and continuing supply agreements with alliance partners. Net
sales decreased in 2010 primarily due to the wind-down of temporary supply agreements related to 2009 manufacturing facility
divestitures, the elimination of bulk sales of pharmaceutical ingredients previously manufactured by us in the Latina Italy facility
which was divested in 2010 and reduced sales of irbesartan bulk pharmaceutical ingredients to our alliance partner due to declining
worldwide Avapro/Avalide sales. Net sales increased in 2009 primarily due to temporary supply agreements entered into to
facilitate the divestiture of certain manufacturing facilities in Pakistan, Egypt and Australia.
No single country outside the U.S. contributed more than 10% of our total net sales in 2010, 2009 or 2008.
Expenses
Expenses % Change % of Net Sales
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 2010 2009 2008
Cost of products sold $ 5,277 $ 5,140 $ 5,316 3% (3)% 27.1% 27.3% 30.0%
Marketing, selling and administrative 3,686 3,946 4,140 (7)% (5)% 18.9% 21.0% 23.4%
Advertising and product promotion 977 1,136 1,181 (14)% (4)% 5.0% 6.0% 6.7%
Research and development 3,566 3,647 3,512 (2)% 4% 18.3% 19.4% 19.8%
Acquired in-process research and
development ⎯ ⎯ 32 ⎯ (100)% ⎯ ⎯ 0.2%
Provision for restructuring 113 136 215 (17)% (37)% 0.6% 0.7% 1.2%
Litigation expense, net (19) 132 33 114% ** (0.1)% 0.7% 0.2%
Equity in net income of affiliates (313) (550) (617) (43)% (11)% (1.6)% (2.9)% (3.5)%
Gain on sale of ImClone shares ⎯ ⎯ (895) ⎯ (100)% ⎯ ⎯ (5.1)%
Other (income)/expense 126 (381) 22 (133)% ** 0.6% (2.0)% 0.1%
Total Expenses $ 13,413 $ 13,206 $ 12,939 2% 2% 68.8% 70.2% 73.0%
** Change is in excess of 200%.
Cost of products sold
Cost of products sold consist of material costs, internal labor and overhead of our owned manufacturing sites, third-party processing
costs, other supply chain costs and changes in foreign currency forward contracts that offset manufacturing related assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. Essentially all of these costs are managed primarily through our global manufacturing
organization, referred to as Technical Operations. In addition, discovery royalties attributed to licensed products in connection with
alliances as well as the amortization of milestone payments that occur on or after regulatory approval are also included.
19Bristol-Myers Squibb
Costs as a percentage of net sales can vary between periods as a result of product mix, price, inflation and costs attributed to the
rationalization of manufacturing sites resulting in accelerated depreciation, impairment charges and other stranded costs. In
addition, changes in foreign currency may also provide volatility given a high percentage of total costs are denominated in foreign
currencies.
• The decrease in costs of products sold as a percentage of net sales in 2010 was primarily attributed to a more favorable
product mix, U.S. price increases and favorable foreign exchange which was partially offset by the reduction in our share of
Abilify sales related to the extended commercialization and manufacturing agreement for Abilify and the collaboration fee
paid to Otsuka under the Sprycel and Ixempra Oncology collaboration beginning in 2010, additional Medicare rebates granted
in 2010 from U.S. healthcare reform and international price decreases related to government austerity measures from the
European economic crisis.
• The improvement in cost of products sold as a percentage of net sales in 2009 was driven by favorable foreign exchange,
higher U.S. average net selling prices, a more favorable product mix and realized manufacturing efficiencies from PTI offset
by higher manufacturing costs attributed to inflation. The 2009 costs include manufacturing rationalization charges of $123
million primarily related to the implementation of PTI compared to $249 million of rationalization charges recognized in
2008.
Marketing, selling and administrative
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses consist of employee salary and benefit costs, third-party professional and marketing
fees, outsourcing fees, shipping and handling costs and other expenses that are not attributed to product manufacturing costs or
research and development expenses. Most of these expenses are managed through regional commercialization functions or global
functions such as finance, law, information technology and human resources.
• The decrease in 2010 was primarily attributed to the reduction in sales related activities of certain key products to coincide
with their respective life cycle; prior year impact of a $100 million funding payment made to the BMS foundation; reduction
in our Abilify sales force as Otsuka established it own sales force for promotion of Abilify, Sprycel and Ixempra; reduced
project standardization implementation costs from the 2009 role out of new accounting and human resource related systems;
and overall efficiencies gained from PTI and continuous improvement initiatives.
• The decrease in 2009 resulted from a favorable 2% foreign exchange impact and efficiencies gained from PTI.
Advertising and product promotion
Advertising and product promotion expenses consist of related media, sample and direct to consumer programs.
• The decrease in 2010 was primarily attributed to reduced spending on the promotion of certain key products to coincide with
their product life cycle and Otsuka’s reimbursement of certain Abilify, Sprycel and Ixempra advertising and product
promotion expenses partially offset by increased spending for the Onglyza launch and other pipeline products.
• The decrease in 2009 is attributed to reduced spending on promotion of products nearing patent expirations and a favorable
2% foreign exchange impact, partially offset by increased spending for the Onglyza launch and pipeline products.
Research and development
Research and development expenses consist of internal salary and benefit costs, third-party grants and fees paid to clinical research
organizations, supplies and facility costs. Total research and development expenses include the costs of discovery research,
preclinical development, early- and late-clinical development and drug formulation, as well as clinical trials and medical support of
marketed products, proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs, and other appropriate costs. These expenses also include
third-party licensing fees that are typically paid upfront as well as when regulatory or other contractual milestones are met. Certain
expenses are shared with alliance partners based upon contractual agreements.
Approximately 80% of these expenses are managed by our global research and development organization of which, approximately
75% of the total spend was attributed to development activities with the remainder attributed to preclinical and research activities.
These expenses can vary between periods for a number of reasons, including the timing of upfront licensing and milestone
payments.
• The decrease in 2010 was primarily attributed to the timing of our upfront licensing and milestone payments partially offset by
additional spending to support our maturing pipeline and compounds obtained from our string-of-pearls strategy. Upfront
licensing and milestone payments expensed to research and development were $132 million in 2010 primarily attributed to
Exelixis, Allergan and PDL BioPharma Inc.; $347 million in 2009 primarily attributed to ZymoGenetics, Alder and Nissan;
and $348 million in 2008 primarily attributed to Exelixis, PDL BioPharma, Inc. and KAI Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
• The increase in 2009 was attributed to additional spending to support our maturing pipeline and compounds obtained from our
string-of-pearls strategy, offset by a favorable 1% foreign exchange impact.
202010 Annual Report
Acquired in-process research and development
The charge related to the acquisition of Kosan Biosciences, Inc. (Kosan) in 2008.
Provision for restructuring
The changes in provision for restructuring were primarily attributable to the timing of the implementation of certain PTI and
continuous improvement initiatives.
Litigation expense, net
The 2010 amount includes a $41 million insurance reimbursement from prior litigation partially offset by additional reserves
established for certain average wholesale prices (AWP) litigation.
The 2009 expense was primarily due to a $125 million securities litigation settlement. For further information, see Note 26 “Legal
Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Equity in net income of affiliates
Equity in net income of affiliates was primarily related to our international partnership with sanofi and varies based on international
Plavix net sales included within this partnership.
• The decrease in 2010 and 2009 is attributed to the impact of an alternative salt form of clopidogrel and generic clopidogrel
competition on international Plavix net sales commencing in 2009. For additional information, see Note 2 “Alliances and
Collaborations.”
Gain on sale of ImClone shares
The gain on sale of ImClone shares in 2008 was attributed to our receipt of approximately $1.0 billion in cash for the tendering of
our investment in ImClone. See Note 2 “Alliances and Collaborations” for further detail.
Other (income)/expense
Other (income)/expense include:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Interest expense $ 145 $ 184 $ 310
Interest income (75) (54) (130)
Impairment and loss on sale of manufacturing operations 236 — —
Loss/(Gain) on debt repurchase 6 (7) (57)
ARS impairment — — 305
Net foreign exchange transaction (gains)/losses (6) 2 (78)
Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets (39) (360) (159)
Acquisition related items 10 (10) —
Other income from alliance partners (136) (148) (141)
Pension curtailment and settlement charges 28 43 8
Other (43) (31) (36)
Other (income)/expense $ 126 $ (381) $ 22
• Interest expense decreased year over year primarily due to lower overall interest rates on floating rate debt, amortization
resulting from the termination of interest rate swaps during 2010 and 2009, and less debt outstanding from 2010 and 2009
repurchases.
• Interest income increased in 2010 primarily due to higher average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances
and higher returns from the continued diversification of our investment portfolio. Interest income decreased in 2009 primarily
due to lower interest rates compared to 2008 partially offset by higher average cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities balances.
• Impairment and loss on sale of manufacturing operations was primarily attributed to the disposal of our manufacturing
operations in Latina, Italy. See Note 4 “Restructuring.”
• Auction rate securities (ARS) impairment charge recognized in 2008 was due to the severity and the duration of the decline in
value, the future prospects of the issuers and our ability and intent to hold the securities to recover their value. The value of
ARS at December 31, 2010 was $91 million.
21Bristol-Myers Squibb
• The impact of foreign exchange was mainly due to foreign exchange hedges that were discontinued or did not qualify as cash
flow hedges. The 2010 net foreign exchange transaction loss includes a $17 million charge from the remeasurement of
Venezuelan monetary assets from the devaluation of the Bolivar. The 2008 net foreign exchange gain was primarily due to
the sudden, dramatic strengthening of the U.S. dollar in the second half of 2008, which generated significant gains on foreign
currency denominated transactions. See Note 24 “Financial Instruments.”
• Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets was primarily related to the sale of mature brands, including businesses
within Indonesia and Australia in 2009 and a business in Egypt in 2008.
• Acquisition related items are attributed to the acquisition of ZymoGenetics in 2010 and Medarex in 2009. See Note 5
“Acquisitions.”
• Other income from alliance partners includes income earned from the sanofi partnership and amortization of certain upfront
licensing and milestone receipts related to our alliances.
• Pension settlements/curtailments were primarily attributed to amendments which eliminated the crediting of future benefits
related to service for U.S. pension plan participants. These amendments resulted in a curtailment charge of $6 million and $25
million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. The remainder of the charges resulted from lump sum payments in certain plans
which exceeded the sum of plan interest costs and service costs, resulting in an acceleration of a portion of previously deferred
actuarial losses. Although most of this activity was driven by PTI and certain divestitures, additional charges may be
recognized in the future, particularly with the U.S. pension plans due to a lower threshold resulting from the elimination of
service costs. See Note 21 “Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities” for further detail.
Specified Items
During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the following specified items affected the comparability of results of the periods presented herein.
These items are excluded from the segment results.
Year Ended December 31, 2010
Cost of Marketing, Research Other
products selling and and Provision for Litigation (income)/
Dollars in Millions sold administrative development restructuring expense expense Total
Restructuring Activity:
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations $ — $ — $ — $ 113 $ — $ — $ 113
Impairment and loss on sale of manufacturing
operations ⎯ — — ⎯ — 236 236
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other
shutdown costs 113 — — ⎯ — — 113
Pension curtailment and settlement charges — — — ⎯ — 18 18
Process standardization implementation costs — 35 — — — — 35
Total Restructuring 113 35 — 113 — 254 515
Other:
Litigation charges, net — — — ⎯ (19) — (19)
Upfront licensing, milestone and other payments — — 132 ⎯ ⎯ — 132
IPRD impairment — — 10 ⎯ ⎯ — 10
Acquisition related items — — — ⎯ ⎯ 10 10
Product liability charges — — — — — 17 17
Total $ 113 $ 35 $ 142 $ 113 $ (19) $ 281 665
Income taxes on items above (180)
Out-of-period tax adjustment (59)
Specified tax charge 207
Decrease to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 633
222010 Annual Report
Year Ended December 31, 2009
Cost of Marketing, Research Other
products selling and and Provision for Litigation (income)/
Dollars in Millions sold administrative development restructuring expense expense Total
Restructuring Activity:
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide
operations $ ⎯ $ ⎯ $ ⎯ $ 122 $ ⎯ $ ⎯ $ 122
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and
other shutdown costs 115 ⎯ ⎯ 14 ⎯ ⎯ 129
Pension curtailment and settlement charges ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 36 36
Process standardization implementation costs ⎯ 110 ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 110
Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and
assets ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ (360) (360)
Total Restructuring 115 110 ⎯ 136 ⎯ (324) 37
Other:
Litigation charges ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 132 ⎯ 132
BMS foundation funding initiative ⎯ 100 ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 100
Loss on sale of investments ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 31 31
Upfront licensing and milestone and other
payments ⎯ ⎯ 347 ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 347
Acquisition related items ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ (10) (10)
Debt repurchase ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ (7) (7)
Product liability charges/(insurance recoveries) 8 ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ (5) 3
Total $ 123 $ 210 $ 347 $ 136 $ 132 $ (315) 633
Income taxes on items above (205)
Decrease to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 428
Year Ended December 31, 2008
Acquired in-
Cost of Marketing, Research process research Gain on Other
products selling and and and Provision for Litigation sale of ImClone (income)/
Dollars in Millions sold administrative development development restructuring expense shares expense Total
Restructuring Activity:
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide
operations $ ⎯ $ ⎯ $ ⎯ $ ⎯ $ 186 $ ⎯ $ ⎯ $ ⎯ $ 186
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment
and other shutdown costs 240 ⎯ 13 ⎯ 20 ⎯ ⎯ 8 281
Pension curtailment and settlement charges 9 ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 8 17
Process standardization implementation
costs ⎯ 109 ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 109
Gain on sale and leaseback of properties ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ (9) (9)
Termination of lease contracts ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 9 ⎯ ⎯ 6 15
Gain on sale of product lines and businesses ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ (159) (159)
Total Restructuring 249 109 13 ⎯ 215 ⎯ ⎯ (146) 440
Other:
Litigation settlement ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 33 ⎯ ⎯ 33
Insurance recovery ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ (20) (20)
Product liability ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 18 18
Upfront licensing and milestone payments
and acquired in-process research and
development ⎯ ⎯ 348 32 ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 380
ARS impairment and loss on sale ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 324 324
Debt repurchase ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ (57) (57)
Gain on sale of ImClone shares ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ (895) ⎯ (895)
Total $ 249 $ 109 $ 361 $ 32 $ 215 $ 33 $ (895) $ 119 223
Income taxes on items above 55
Decrease to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 278
23Bristol-Myers Squibb
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and related EPS information, are
adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. This information is intended to enhance an
investor’s overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings
and EPS information is an indication of our baseline performance before items that are considered by us to not be reflective of our
ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators we use as a basis for evaluating performance,
allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not
intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Among the items in GAAP measures but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings and other adjusted measures are:
charges related to implementation of the PTI; gains or losses from the purchase or sale of businesses, product lines or investments;
discontinued operations; restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; asset impairments; charges and
recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront licensing and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have
not achieved regulatory approval that are immediately expensed; IPRD charges prior to 2009; special initiative funding to the
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation; and significant tax events. For a detailed listing of items that are excluded from the non-GAAP
earnings from continuing operations, see “—Specified Items” above. Similar charges or gains for some of these items have been
recognized in prior periods and it is reasonably possible that they will reoccur in future periods.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP follows:
Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009
Specified Specified
Dollars in Millions, except per share data GAAP Items Non-GAAP GAAP Items Non-GAAP
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable to
BMS $ 3,102 $ 633 $ 3,735 $ 3,239 $ 428 $ 3,667
Earnings attributable to unvested restricted shares (12) ⎯ (12) (17) ⎯ (17)
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable to
BMS used for Diluted EPS Calculation $ 3,090 $ 633 $ 3,723 $ 3,222 $ 428 $ 3,650
Average Common Shares Outstanding⎯Diluted 1,727 ⎯ 1,727 1,978 ⎯ 1,978
Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations Attributable to
BMS $ 1.79 $ 0.37 $ 2.16 $ 1.63 $ 0.22 $ 1.85
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before income taxes was 25.7% in 2010, 21.1% in 2009 and
22.8% in 2008. The effective income tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35% due to our decision to permanently
reinvest the earnings for certain of our manufacturing operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and Switzerland offshore and the U.S.
Federal research and development tax credit. We have favorable tax rates in Ireland and Puerto Rico under grants not scheduled to
expire prior to 2023.
The increase in the 2010 effective tax rate from 2009 was primarily due to a $207 million tax charge recognized in the fourth
quarter of 2010, which resulted from additional U.S. taxable income from earnings of foreign subsidiaries previously considered to
be permanently reinvested offshore. For additional information, see Note 10 “Income Taxes.”
Discontinued Operations
On December 23, 2009, we completed a split-off of our remaining interest in Mead Johnson by means of an exchange offer to BMS
shareholders. In August 2008, we completed the divestiture of our ConvaTec business to Cidron Healthcare Limited, an affiliate of
Nordic Capital Fund VII and Avista Capital Partners L.P. (Avista). In January 2008, we completed the divestiture of Bristol-Myers
Squibb Medical Imaging (Medical Imaging) to Avista. See Note 7 “Discontinued Operations.”
242010 Annual Report
Noncontrolling Interest
Noncontrolling interest is primarily related to our partnerships with sanofi for the territory covering the Americas related to Plavix
net sales. See Note 2 “Alliances and Collaborations.” The increase in noncontrolling interest corresponds to increased net sales of
Plavix in the U.S. Net earnings from discontinued operations attributable to noncontrolling interest primarily relates to the 16.9%
publicly owned portion of Mead Johnson prior to our complete divestiture from the split-off. A summary of noncontrolling interest
is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
sanofi partnerships $ 2,074 $ 1,717 $ 1,444
Other 20 26 17
Noncontrolling interest⎯pre-tax 2,094 1,743 1,461
Income taxes (683) (562) (472)
Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interest⎯net of taxes 1,411 1,181 989
Net earnings from discontinued operations attributable to noncontrolling interest⎯net of taxes — 69 7
Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest⎯net of taxes $ 1,411 $ 1,250 $ 996
Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources
Net cash position at December 31 was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Cash and cash equivalents $ 5,033 $ 7,683
Marketable securities⎯current 2,268 831
Marketable securities—non-current 2,681 1,369
Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities 9,982 9,883
Short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 117 231
Long-term debt 5,328 6,130
Total debt 5,445 6,361
Net cash position $ 4,537 $ 3,522
We maintain a significant level of working capital, which was approximately $6.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and $7.6 billion at
December 31, 2009. In 2010, we paid $2.2 billion in dividends, reacquired $750 million aggregate principal value of our
outstanding debt for $855 million by means of a tender offer, acquired ZymoGenetics for $829 million, and repurchased $576
million of common stock. In 2011 and future periods, we expect cash generated by our U.S. operations, together with existing cash,
cash equivalents, marketable securities and borrowings from the capital markets, to be sufficient to cover cash needs for working
capital, capital expenditures, strategic alliances and acquisitions, milestone payments, dividends paid in the U.S. and common stock
and debt repurchases. We do not rely on short-term borrowing to meet our liquidity needs.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held outside the U.S. was approximately $1.4 billion and $5.3 billion at December
31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which is either utilized to fund non-U.S. operations or repatriated back to the U.S. where taxes
have been previously provided. Cash repatriations are subject to restrictions in certain jurisdictions and may be subject to
withholding and other taxes. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held in the U.S. was $8.6 billion at December 31,
2010, which represented approximately 85% of our total balance. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held in the U.S.
was $4.6 billion at December 31, 2009. The increase resulted from an internal restructuring of certain legal entities.
We diversified our investment portfolio and acquired non-current marketable securities, including purchases of corporate debt
securities. These investments are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors,
which may impact our results of operations. Our investment policy places limits on these investments and the amount and time to
maturity of investments with any institution. The policy also requires that investments are only made with highly rated corporate
and financial institutions. See Note 12 “Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities.”
We continue to monitor the potential impact of the deteriorating economic conditions in certain European countries further
discussed in “—Geographic Areas” above and the related impact on prescription trends, pricing discounts, creditworthiness of our
customers, and our ability to collect outstanding receivables from such countries. Currently, we believe these conditions will not
have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow, or financial flexibility.
25Bristol-Myers Squibb
We have a $2.0 billion five year revolving credit facility from a syndicate of lenders maturing in December 2011, which is
extendable with the consent of the lenders. The facility contains customary terms and conditions, including a financial covenant
whereby the ratio of consolidated net debt to consolidated capital cannot exceed 50% at the end of each quarter. We have been in
compliance with this covenant since the inception of the facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under the facility at
December 31, 2010 and 2009.
As an additional source of liquidity, we sell trade accounts receivables, principally from non-U.S. governments and hospital
customers primarily in Japan, Italy, Portugal and Spain, to third parties. The receivables are sold on a nonrecourse basis and
approximated $932 million and $660 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our sales agreements do not allow for recourse in the
event of uncollectibility and we do not retain interest to the underlying asset once sold.
Credit Ratings
Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) long-term and short-term credit ratings are currently A2 and Prime-1, respectively, and their
long-term credit outlook remains on stable outlook. Standard & Poor’s (S&P) long-term and short-term credit ratings are currently
A+ and A-1, respectively, and their long-term credit rating remains on stable outlook. Fitch Ratings (Fitch) long-term and short-
term credit ratings are currently A+ and F1, respectively, and their long-term credit rating changed in August 2010 from stable to
negative outlook. Our credit ratings are considered investment grade. These long-term ratings designate that we have a low default
risk but are somewhat susceptible to adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions. These short-term
ratings designate that we have the strongest capacity for timely repayment.
Cash Flows
The following is a discussion of cash flow activities at December 31:
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Cash flow provided by/(used in):
Operating activities $ 4,491 $ 4,065 $ 3,707
Investing activities (3,812) (4,380) 5,079
Financing activities (3,343) (17) (2,582)
Operating Activities
Cash flows from operating activities represent the cash receipts and cash disbursements related to all of our activities other than
investing activities and financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting net earnings for:
• Noncontrolling interest;
• Non-cash operating items such as depreciation and amortization, impairment charges and stock-based compensation
charges;
• Gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities such as gains and losses on the sale of product lines and
businesses; and
• Changes in operating assets and liabilities which reflect timing differences between the receipt and payment of cash
associated with transactions and when they are recognized in results of operations.
The net impact of the changes in operating assets and liabilities aggregated to a net cash outflow of $166 million in 2010 and cash
inflows of $42 million in 2009 and $117 million in 2008. These items included the impact of changes in receivables, inventories,
deferred income, accounts payable, income taxes receivable/payable and other operating assets and liabilities which are discussed in
more detail below.
262010 Annual Report
We continue to maximize our operating cash flows with our working capital initiatives designed to improve working capital items
that are most directly affected by changes in sales volume, such as receivables, inventories and accounts payable. Those
improvements are being driven by several actions including non-recourse factoring of non-US trade receivables, revised contractual
payment terms with customers and vendors, enhanced collection processes and various supply chain initiatives designed to optimize
inventory levels. Progress in this area is monitored each period and is a component of our annual incentive plan. The following
summarizes certain working capital components expressed as a percentage of trailing twelve months’ net sales.
% of Trailing % of Trailing
December 31, Twelve Month December 31, Twelve Month
Dollars in Millions 2010 Net Sales 2009 Net Sales
Net trade receivables $ 1,985 10.2% $ 1,897 10.1%
Inventories 1,204 6.2% 1,413 7.5%
Accounts payable (1,983) (10.2)% (1,711) (9.1)%
Total $ 1,206 6.2% $ 1,599 8.5%
During 2010, changes in operating assets and liabilities aggregated to a net cash outflow of $166 million including:
• Cash outflows from receivables ($270 million) which are primarily attributed to increased sales;
• Cash outflows from other operating assets and liabilities ($248 million) primarily related to pension funding in excess of
current year expense ($370 million), partially offset by increased rebate and sales returns ($238 million) primarily due to the
increase in Medicaid rebates which was effective January 1, 2010 and agencies’ administrative delays in payments to
managed care organizations;
• Cash inflows from accounts payables ($315 million) which are primarily attributed to the timing of vendor and alliance
payments; and
• Cash inflows from inventories ($156 million) primarily related to the work down of inventory balances.
In 2009, changes in operating assets and liabilities aggregated to a net cash inflow of $42 million including:
• Cash inflows from accounts payable ($472 million) primarily attributed to the timing of payments to vendors and alliances,
as well as the impact of the working capital initiative discussed above;
• Cash inflows from receivables ($227 million) primarily attributed to additional factoring of non-U.S. trade receivables in
Japan and Spain;
• Cash inflows from deferred income ($135 million) mainly due to the milestone payments received from Pfizer ($150
million) and AstraZeneca ($150 million), partially offset by amortization; and
• Cash outflows from other operating assets and liabilities ($932 million) primarily related to pension funding in excess of
current year expense ($532 million), and a payment to Otsuka which is amortized as a reduction of net sales through the
extension period ($400 million).
In 2008, changes in operating assets aggregated to a net cash inflow of $117 million including:
• Cash inflows from income tax payable/receivable ($371 million) which includes the impact of the receipt of a $432 million
tax refund, including interest, related to a prior year foreign tax credit carryback claim;
• Cash inflows from accounts payables ($253 million) which are primarily attributed to the timing of vendor and alliance
payments;
• Cash inflows from inventory ($130 million) which is primarily attributed to the utilization of inventories which were built
up in the prior year for new product launches and strategic builds for existing products launches including for new
indications of Abilify;
• Cash inflows from deferred income ($61 million) which are primarily due to receipt of upfront licensing and milestone
payments from alliance partners;
• Cash outflows from accounts receivables ($360 million) which are attributed to increased sales; and
• Cash outflows from other operating assets and liabilities ($338 million) which are primarily due to net litigation related
payments ($190 million) attributed to the settlement of certain pricing and sales litigation accrued in prior periods; pension
funding in excess of current year expense ($120 million); and increase in non-current inventory ($112 million).
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $3.8 billion in 2010 including:
• Net purchases of marketable securities ($2.6 billion);
• Purchase of ZymoGenetics, Inc. ($829 million); and
• Capital expenditures ($424 million).
27Bristol-Myers Squibb
Net cash used in investing activities was $4.4 billion in 2009 including:
• Acquisition of Medarex ($2.2 billion), net of cash acquired ($53 million);
• Net purchases of marketable securities ($1.4 billion);
• Capital expenditures ($730 million);
• Mead Johnson cash included in split-off ($561 million); and
• Proceeds from the sale of businesses and other investments, including businesses within the Asia-Pacific region ($310
million) and Australia ($61 million); and proceeds from the sale of Genmab and Celldex securities ($42 million).
Net cash provided by investing activities was $5.1 billion in 2008 including:
• Proceeds from the divestiture of ConvaTec ($4.1 billion) and Medical Imaging ($483 million);
• Proceeds from the tendering of our shares in ImClone ($1.0 billion);
• Proceeds from the sale and leaseback of the Paris, France facility ($227 million);
• Proceeds from the sale of businesses, including mature brands business in Egypt ($209 million);
• Capital expenditures ($941 million) which included expenditures associated with the construction of our biologic facility in
Devens, Massachusetts; and
• Acquisition of Kosan ($191 million).
Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $3.3 billion in 2010 including:
• Dividend payments ($2.2 billion);
• Debt repurchase by means of a tender offer ($855 million); and
• Common stock repurchase ($576 million);
• Net proceeds from the exercise of stock options ($252 million); and
• Net proceeds from the termination of interest rate swap agreements ($146 million).
Net cash used in financing activities was $17 million in 2009 including:
• Dividend payments ($2.5 billion);
• Repayment of Mead Johnson revolving credit facility ($80 million) and the early extinguishment of certain debt securities
($132 million);
• Net proceeds from the issuance of Mead Johnson Notes ($1.5 billion) and revolving credit facility ($200 million);
• Net proceeds from the Mead Johnson IPO ($782 million);
• Net proceeds from the termination of interest rate swap agreements ($194 million); and
• Net proceeds from the exercise of stock options ($45 million).
Net cash used in financing activities was $2.6 billion in 2008 including:
• Dividend payments ($2.5 billion);
• Redemption of Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2023 ($1.2 billion);
• Repayment of 4.00% Notes due August 2008 ($400 million) and 1.10% Yen Notes due 2008 ($117 million);
• Repurchase of some of our Notes ($228 million);
• Net proceeds from the issuance of 5.45% Notes due 2018 ($600 million) and 6.125% Notes due 2038 ($1.0 billion);
• Net proceeds from the termination of interest rate swap agreements ($211 million); and
• Net proceeds from stock option exercises in 2008 ($5 million) reflects the exercise of fewer stock options in 2008 due to the
decrease in the average stock price when compared to the prior periods.
Dividends declared per common share were $1.29 for 2010, $1.25 for 2009 and $1.24 for 2008. In December 2010, we declared a
quarterly dividend of $0.33 per common share and expect to pay a dividend for the full year of 2011 of $1.32 per share. The
decrease in total dividends, despite the per share increase, is primarily attributed to the 269 million share reduction from the Mead
Johnson split-off. Dividend decisions are made on a quarterly basis by our Board of Directors.
282010 Annual Report
Contractual Obligations
Payments due by period for our contractual obligations at December 31, 2010 were as follows:
Obligations Expiring by Period
Dollars in Millions Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Later Years
Short-term borrowings $ 117 $ 117 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Long-term debt 4,749 ⎯ — 597 — — 4,152
Interest on long-term debt(a) 4,860 155 177 202 205 226 3,895
Operating leases 661 123 113 101 89 77 158
Purchase obligations 2,322 665 486 482 281 157 251
Uncertain tax positions(b) 50 50 — — — — —
Other long-term liabilities 370 ⎯ 36 63 41 35 195
Total(c) $13,129 $ 1,110 $ 812 $ 1,445 $ 616 $ 495 $ 8,651
(a) Includes estimated future interest payments on our short-term and long-term debt securities. Also includes accrued interest payable recognized on our
consolidated balance sheets, which consists primarily of the accrual of interest on short-term and long-term debt as well as the accrual of periodic cash
settlements of derivatives, netted by counterparty.
(b) Due to the uncertainty related to the timing of the reversal of uncertain tax positions, only the short-term uncertain tax benefits have been provided in the
table above. See Note 10 “Income Taxes” for further detail.
(c) The table above excludes future contributions by us to our pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefit plans. Required contributions are
contingent upon numerous factors including minimum regulatory funding requirements and the funded status of each plan. Due to the uncertainty of such
future obligations, they are excluded from the table. Contributions for both U.S. and international plans are expected to be up to $420 million in 2011. See
Note 21 “Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities” for further detail.
In addition to the above, we are committed to approximately $5.4 billion (in the aggregate) of potential future research and
development milestone payments to third parties as part of in-licensing and development programs. Early stage milestones, defined
as milestones achieved through Phase III clinical trials, comprised $1.0 billion of the total committed amount. Late stage
milestones, defined as milestones achieved post Phase III clinical trials, comprised $4.4 billion of the total committed amount.
Payments under these agreements generally are due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental and regulatory
milestones, for which the specific timing cannot be predicted. In addition to certain royalty obligations that are calculated as a
percentage of net sales, some of these agreements also provide for sales-based milestones that aggregate to approximately $1.5
billion that we would be obligated to pay to alliance partners upon achievement of certain sales levels.
For a discussion of contractual obligations, see Note 21 “Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities,” Note 23 “Short-
Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt,” Note 24 “Financial Instruments” and Note 25 “Leases.”
SEC Consent Order
As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, we entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation
concerning certain wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which
was attached as Exhibit 10 to our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.
Under the terms of the Consent, we agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to our direct
customers (including wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and government purchasers) based on expected
demand or on amounts that do not exceed approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a timely public
disclosure of any change in practice. We also agreed in the Consent to certain measures that we have implemented including: (a)
establishing a formal review and certification process of our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC; (b) establishing a
business risk and disclosure group; (c) retaining an outside consultant to comprehensively study and help re-engineer our
accounting and financial reporting processes; (d) publicly disclosing any sales incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose
of inducing them to purchase products in excess of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that our budget process gives appropriate
weight to inputs that come from the bottom to the top, and not just from the top to the bottom, and adequately documenting that
process.
We have established a company-wide policy to limit our sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the Consent.
This policy includes the adoption of various procedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the terms
of the Consent. These procedures include a governance process to escalate to appropriate management levels potential questions or
concerns regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In addition, compliance with
the policy is monitored on a regular basis.
29Bristol-Myers Squibb
We maintain inventory management agreements (IMAs) with our U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which account for nearly 100%
of total gross sales of U.S. biopharmaceuticals products. Under the current terms of the IMAs, our wholesaler customers provide us
with weekly information with respect to months on hand product-level inventories and the amount of out-movement of products.
The three largest wholesalers currently account for approximately 90% of total gross sales of U.S. BioPharmaceuticals products.
The inventory information received from our wholesalers, together with our internal information, is used to estimate months on
hand product level inventories at these wholesalers. We estimate months on hand product inventory levels for our U.S.
BioPharmaceuticals business’s wholesaler customers other than the three largest wholesalers by extrapolating from the months on
hand calculated for the three largest wholesalers. In contrast, for our biopharmaceuticals business outside of the U.S., we have
significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-
movement information and the reliability of third-party demandinformation, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, we rely
on a variety of methods to estimate months on hand product level inventories for these business units.
We believe the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to ensure compliance with the Consent.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
See Note 1 “Accounting Policies” for discussion of the impact related to recently issued accounting standards.
Critical Accounting Policies
We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires the use of estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, including disclosure of contingent assets and contingent
liabilities, at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Our
critical accounting policies are those that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the
most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make
estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. New discounts under the 2010 U.S. healthcare reform law, such
as the Medicare coverage gap, managed Medicaid and expansion of the Public Health Service 340B program require additional
assumptions due to the lack of historical claims experience. In addition, the new pharmaceutical company fee estimate is subject to
external data as well as a calculation based on the Company’s relative share of industry results. Because of the uncertainty of
factors surrounding the estimates or judgments used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, actual results may
vary from these estimates. These accounting policies were discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Revenue Recognition
Our accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on reported results and relies on certain estimates that
require difficult, subjective and complex judgments on the part of management. We recognize revenue when title and substantially
all the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, which generally occurs on the date of shipment (net of the
gross-to-net sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and judgments).
For discussions on revenue recognition, see Note 1 “Accounting Policies—Revenue Recognition” and “⎯Sales Rebate and Return
Accruals.”
Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments
We have the following significant categories of gross-to-net sales adjustments: charge-backs, managed healthcare rebates and other
contractual discounts, Medicaid rebates, cash discounts, sales returns and other adjustments, all of which involve significant
estimates and judgments and require us to use information from external sources. See “—Net Sales” above for a reconciliation of
our gross sales to net sales by each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustment.
Charge-backs related to government programs
Our U.S. businesses participate in programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of
Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties, including covered entities under the 340B Drug Pricing
Program, whereby pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price to participating entities. These entities purchase
products through wholesalers at the lower program price and the wholesalers then charge us the difference between their acquisition
cost and the lower program price. We account for these charge-backs by reducing accounts receivable in an amount equal to our
estimate of charge-back claims attributable to a sale. We determine our estimate of these charge-backs primarily based on historical
experience regarding these programs’ charge-backs and current contract prices under the programs. We consider chargeback
302010 Annual Report
payments, levels of inventory in the distribution channel, and our claim processing time lag and adjust the reduction to accounts
receivable periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
Cash discounts
In the U.S. and certain other countries, we offer cash discounts, generally approximating 2% of the sales price, as an incentive for
prompt payment. We account for cash discounts by reducing accounts receivable by the full amount of the discounts. We consider
payment performance and adjust the accrual to reflect actual experience.
Managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts
We offer rebates and discounts to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. which manage prescription drug programs and
Medicare Advantage prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug benefit in addition to their commercial plans, as
well as globally to other contract counterparties such as hospitals and group purchasing organizations. Beginning in 2011, the
rebates for the Medicare Part D program will include a 50% discount on the Company’s brand-name drugs to patients who fall
within the Medicare Part D coverage gap. In addition, we accrue rebates under U.S. Department of Defense TRICARE Retail
Pharmacy Refund Program. We account for managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts by establishing an accrual in
an amount equal to our estimate of managed healthcare rebates and other contractual discounts attributable to a sale. We determine
our estimate of the managed healthcare rebates and other contractual discounts accrual primarily based on historical experience
regarding these rebates and discounts and current contract prices. We consider the sales performance of products subject to
managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts and levels of inventory in the distribution channel and adjust the accrual
periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
Medicaid rebates
Our U.S. businesses participate in state government Medicaid programs as well as certain other qualifying Federal and state
government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating state and local government entities. Discounts
and rebates provided through these latter programs are included in our Medicaid rebate accrual and are considered Medicaid rebates
for the purposes of this discussion. Retroactive to January 1, 2010, minimum rebates on Medicaid drug sales increased from 15.1%
to 23.1%. Medicaid rebates have also been extended to drugs used in risk-based Medicaid managed care plans beginning in March
2010. We account for Medicaid rebates by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to our estimate of Medicaid rebate claims
attributable to a sale. We determine our estimate of the Medicaid rebates accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding
Medicaid rebates, as well as any expansion on a prospective basis of our participation in the non-mandatory aspects of the
qualifying Federal and state government programs, legal interpretations of applicable laws related to Medicaid and qualifying
Federal and state government programs, and any new information regarding changes in the Medicaid programs’ regulations and
guidelines that would impact the amount of the rebates. We consider outstanding Medicaid claims, Medicaid payments, and levels
of inventory in the distribution channel and adjust the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
Sales returns
We account for sales returns by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to our estimate of sales recognized for which the related
products are expected to be returned. For returns of established products, we determine our estimate of the sales return accrual
primarily based on historical experience regarding sales returns, but also consider other factors that could impact sales returns.
These factors include levels of inventory in the distribution channel, estimated shelf life, product recalls, product discontinuances,
price changes of competitive products, introductions of generic products, introductions of competitive new products and instances
of expected precipitous declines in demand such as following the loss of exclusivity. We consider all of these factors and adjust the
accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
In the event of a product recall or product discontinuance, we consider the reasons for and impact of such actions and adjust the
sales return accrual as appropriate, taking into account historical experience, estimated levels of inventory in the distribution
channel and, for product discontinuances, estimates of continuing demand.
Sales returns accruals from new products are estimated and primarily based on the historical sales returns experience of similar
products, such as those within the same line of product or those within the same or similar therapeutic category. In limited
circumstances, where the new product is not an extension of an existing line of product or where we have no historical experience
with products in a similar therapeutic category, such that we cannot reliably estimate expected returns of the new product, we defer
recognition of revenue until the right of return no longer exists or until we have developed sufficient historical experience to
estimate sales returns. We also consider the shelf life of new products and determine whether an adjustment to the sales return
accrual is appropriate. The shelf life in connection with new products tends to be shorter than the shelf life for more established
31Bristol-Myers Squibb
products because we may still be developing an optimal manufacturing process for the new product that would lengthen its shelf
life. In addition, higher launch quantities may have been manufactured in advance of the launch date to ensure sufficient supply
exists to satisfy market demand. In those cases, we assess the reduced shelf life, together with estimated levels of inventory in the
distribution channel and projected demand, and determine whether an adjustment to the sales return accrual is appropriate.
Pharmaceutical Company Fee (Pharma Fee)
Beginning in 2011, we will pay an annual non-tax-deductible fee to the federal government based on an allocation of our market
share of branded prior year sales to certain government programs including Medicare, Medicaid, Department of Veterans Affairs,
Department of Defense and TRICARE. The 2011 Pharma fee amount will not be finalized until 2012 and preliminary funding in
2011 will be based on information that is on a one-year lag. The Pharma fee is calculated based on market data of the Company as
well as other industry participants for which the Company does not have full visibility. This fee will be classified for financial
reporting purposes as an operating expense.
Other adjustments
In addition to the gross-to-net sales adjustments described above, we make other gross-to-net sales adjustments. For example, we
offer sales discounts, most significantly in non-U.S. businesses, and also offer consumer coupons and rebates in our U.S. business.
In addition, in a number of countries outside the U.S., including certain major European countries, we provide rebates to
government entities. We generally account for these other gross-to-net sales adjustments by establishing an accrual in an amount
equal to our estimate of the adjustments attributable to a sale. We generally determine our estimates of the accruals for these other
gross-to-net sales adjustments primarily based on historical experience, performance on commitments to government entities and
other relevant factors, including estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel, and adjust the accruals periodically
throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
Use of information from external sources
We use information from external sources to estimate gross-to-net sales adjustments. Our estimate of inventory at the wholesalers
are based on the projected prescription demand-based sales for our products and historical inventory experience, as well as our
analysis of third-party information, including written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers with respect to their
inventory levels and sell-through to customers and third-party market research data, and our internal information. The inventory
information received from wholesalers is a product of their recordkeeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to
whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals.
Effective January 1, 2009, we changed our service provider for U.S. prescription data to WK, a supplier of market research audit
data to the pharmaceutical industry, to project the prescription demand-based sales for many U.S. biopharmaceutical products.
Prior to 2009, we used prescription data based on the Next-Generation Prescription Service Version 2.0 of the National Prescription
Audit provided by IMS.
We have also continued the practice of combining retail and mail prescription volume on a retail-equivalent basis. We use this
methodology for internal demand forecasts. We also use information from external sources to identify prescription trends, patient
demand and average selling prices. Our estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party
information, as certain third-party information was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags
between the date as of which third-party information is generated and the date on which we receive third-party information.
Retirement Benefits
Our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are accounted for using actuarial valuations. Our key assumptions used in
calculating the cost of pension benefits are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. In
consultation with our actuaries, we evaluate and select these key assumptions and others used in calculating the cost of pension
benefits, such as salary growth, retirement, turnover, healthcare trends and mortality rates, based on expectations or actual
experience, as appropriate, and determine such assumptions during each remeasurement date including December 31 of each year to
calculate liability information as of that date and pension expense for the following year. Depending on the assumptions used, the
pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings, projected benefit
obligations and future cash funding. Actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and
other factors.
In determining the discount rate, we use the yield on high quality corporate bonds that coincides with the cash flows of the plans’
estimated payouts. The Citigroup Pension Discount curve is used in determining the discount rate for the U.S. plans. The U.S.
322010 Annual Report
plans’ pension expense for 2010 was determined using a 5.74% weighted-average discount rate. The present value of benefit
obligations at December 31, 2010 for the U.S. plans was determined using a 5.25% discount rate. If the discount rate used in
determining the U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2010 had been reduced by 1%, such expense would have increased by
approximately $2 million. If the assumed discount rate used in determining the projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2010
had been reduced by 1%, the projected benefit obligation would have increased by approximately $700 million.
In determining the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we estimate returns for individual asset classes with input from
external advisors. We also consider long-term historical returns including actual performance compared to benchmarks for similar
investments. The U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2010 was determined using an 8.75% expected long-term rate of return on plan
assets. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in determining the U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2010 had
been reduced by 1%, such expense would have increased by $40 million. For a more detailed discussion on retirement benefits, see
Note 21 “Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities.”
Business Combinations
The consolidated financial statements reflect an acquired business after the completion of an acquisition. Assets acquired and
liabilities assumed are recognized at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the
estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill.
When determining the fair value of intangible assets, including IPRD, we typically use the “income method.” This method starts
with a forecast of all of the expected future net cash flows which are risk adjusted based on estimated probabilities of technical and
regulatory success. These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk
factors associated with the cash flow streams. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the income
method or other methods include: the amount and timing of projected future cash flows; the amount and timing of projected costs to
develop the IPRD into commercially viable products; the discount rate selected to measure the risks inherent in the future cash
flows; the assessment of the asset’s life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset, including consideration of any
technical, legal, regulatory, or economic barriers to entry, as well as expected changes in standards of practice for indications
addressed by the asset.
For specific intangible assets the following approaches are utilized:
• IPRD is valued from a market participant view. For those values where we have a pre-existing relationship with the
acquiree, we consider the terms of the respective collaboration arrangement including cost and profit sharing splits. The
project’s unit of account is typically a global view and would consider all potential jurisdictions and indications. As of
January 1, 2009, acquired IPRD projects are initially capitalized and considered indefinite-lived assets subject to annual
impairment reviews or more often upon the occurrence of certain events. For those compounds that reach
commercialization, the assets are amortized over the expected useful lives. Prior to January 1, 2009, amounts allocated to
acquired IPRD were expensed at the date of acquisition.
• Technology related to specific platforms is valued based upon the expected annual number of antibodies achieving an early
candidate nomination status.
• Technology for commercial products is valued utilizing the multi-period excess-earnings method of the income approach
under the premise that the value of the intangible asset is equal to the present value of the after-tax cash flows solely
attributed to the intangible asset.
• Licenses are valued utilizing a discounted cash flow method utilizing estimates of future risk-adjusted milestone and royalty
payments projected to be earned over the respective products estimated economic term.
For compounds under development, significant delays in obtaining marketing approval or the inability to bring the respective
product to market could result in the related intangible assets to be partially or fully impaired. For commercialized products, the
inability to meet sales forecasts could result in the related intangible assets to be partially or fully impaired.
Determining the useful life of an intangible asset is based upon the period over which it is expected to contribute to future cash
flows. All pertinent matters associated with the asset and the environment for which it operates are considered, including, legal,
regulatory or contractual provisions as well as the effects of any obsolescence, demand, competition, and other economic factors.
The amortization periods of intangible assets typically are as follows:
IPRD – Upon commercialization, over the patent life of respective product
Licenses – Over the term of the respective license arrangement
Technology – Over the estimated life of technology
33Bristol-Myers Squibb
ZymoGenetics, Inc. Acquisition
On October 12, 2010, we acquired ZymoGenetics, Inc. for an aggregate purchase price of $885 million, or $829 million net of cash
acquired. See Note 5 “Acquisitions.” The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets was $678 million and included:
• $448 million to IPRD projects of which $310 million was assigned to pegylated-interferon lambda currently in Phase IIb
development for the treatment of Hepatitis C, $33 million assigned to a Phase II product, $105 million to licenses attributed to
five products under various stages of development. Ultimate realization of the IPRD projects will depend upon successful
regulatory approvals, if received, and market factors relevant to a typical biopharmaceutical product.
• $230 million to technology associated with Recothrom, a wholly-owned, commercialized product that has been developed and
marketed for use as a topical hemostat to control moderate bleeding during surgical procedures, which is being amortized over
a 10 year life.
The projected cash flows utilized in the valuation assumed initial positive cash flows to commence shortly after the receipt of
expected regulatory approvals, subject to trial results among other things, which, we estimated will not occur for a number of years.
The projected cash flows were discounted at 12%. Actual cash flows attributed to the project are likely to be different than those
assumed.
Medarex, Inc. Acquisition
On September 1, 2009, we acquired the remaining outstanding shares of Medarex not already owned by us for approximately $2.3
billion. See Note 5 “Acquisitions.” The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets was $1.9 billion and included:
• $1.5 billion to IPRD of which $1.0 billion was assigned to Yervoy which is a fully human antibody currently in Phase III
development for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. In 2010, the FDA accepted for filing and review the Biologics
License Application for Yervoy in pre-treated advanced melanoma with a stated action date of March 26, 2011. There is also
an ongoing Yervoy Phase II study in lung cancer as well as Phase III studies in adjuvant melanoma and hormone-refractory
prostate cancer. Ultimate realization of Yervoy’s asset value will depend upon successful regulatory approvals, if received,
and market factors of a typical biopharmaceutical product.
The remaining IPRD was assigned to four other projects that were in Phase II development and 13 other projects at various
stages of development that were generated from Medarex technology and are being developed through licensing partners that
may generate milestone payments and royalties upon commercialization.
• $120 million to technologies attributed to technology platforms that produce high affinity, fully human antibodies for use in a
broad range of therapeutic areas, including immunology and oncology. Developed technology will be amortized over the
expected useful lives 10 years.
• $315 million to licenses attributed to three separate license arrangements that have received regulatory approval. Licenses
will be amortized over the expected useful lives of 13 years.
The projected cash flows assumed initial positive cash flows to commence shortly after the receipt of expected regulatory
approvals, subject to trial results among other things, which, if approved, could potentially be as early as 2011 or 2012. The
projected cash flows were discounted at 12%. Actual cash flows attributed to the project are likely to be different than assumed.
Impairment
Goodwill
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment using a two-step process. The first step is to identify a potential impairment, and
the second step measures the amount of the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is considered impaired if the carrying amount of a
reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. The BioPharmaceutical segment includes several separate reporting units
based on geography which were aggregated for impairment testing purposes. Based upon our most recent annual impairment test
completed during the first quarter of 2010, the fair value of goodwill is substantially in excess of the related carrying value.
For discussion on goodwill, acquired in-process research and development and other intangible assets, see Note 1 “Accounting
Policies—Goodwill, Acquired In-Process Research and Development and Other Intangible Assets.”
342010 Annual Report
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets, including IPRD
Indefinite-lived intangible assets not subject to amortization are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently, if events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. We consider various factors including the stage of
development, current legal and regulatory environment and the competitive landscape. Considering the industry’s success rate of
bringing developmental compounds to market, IPRD impairment charges may occur in future periods. In 2010, we recognized a
$10 million charge related to a Medarex project that we ceased development on.
Long-Lived Assets
We periodically evaluate whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our depreciable assets to be held
and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows
produced by the long-lived asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether
impairment exists. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset’s fair
value and its carrying value. An estimate of the asset’s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. If
quoted market prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques, including a discounted
value of estimated future cash flows. We report an asset to be disposed of at the lower of its carrying value or its estimated net
realizable value.
The estimates of future cash flows are based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections requiring judgment.
Changes in key assumptions about our businesses and their prospects, or changes in market conditions, could result in impairment
charges.
Impairment charges of long-lived assets were $228 million in 2010, $3 million in 2009 and $63 million in 2008. For discussion on
impairment of long-lived assets, see Note 1 “Accounting Policies—Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.” During 2010, a $200
million asset impairment charge was recognized in connection with the write-down of assets to fair value less cost to sell when the
manufacturing operations in Latina, Italy met the held for sale criteria. An additional $18 million charge was recognized when the
operations were sold. See Note 4 “Restructuring” for additional information. A manufacturing operation was also evaluated for
impairment as a result of lower sales forecasts. The facility is being depreciated over its expected useful life and has a net carrying
value of approximately $300 million at December 31, 2010. The anticipated undiscounted cash flows attributed to the facility
exceeds the net carrying value by a significant amount and as a result, no impairment was recognized during 2010. The expected
cash flows were estimated based on current sales forecasts. These expectations are subject to change based upon the near and long
term production volumes and margins generated by this facility as well as any potential alternative future use which may lead to a
future impairment.
Marketable Securities and Investments in Other Companies
Our marketable securities are classified as “available for sale” and therefore reported at fair value with changes in fair value
reported as accumulated other comprehensive income. Declines in fair value considered other than temporary are charged to
earnings. Fair value is determined based on observable market quotes or valuation models using assessments of counterparty credit
worthiness, credit default risk or underlying security and overall capital market liquidity. When determining if a security is other-
than-temporarily impaired we typically consider the severity and duration of the decline, future prospects of the issuer and our
ability and intent to hold the security to recovery. Declines in fair value determined to be credit related are charged to earnings.
Transfers between fair value levels are recognized at the beginning of the reporting period. An average cost method is used in
determining realized gains and losses on the sale of “available for sale” securities. Realized gains and losses are included in other
(income)/expense.
For level 3 investments, including FRS and ARS, we utilize valuation models including those that are based on expected cash flow
streams and collateral values, including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying the security, discount
rates and overall capital market liquidity. The valuation is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict and utilize a
considerable amount of judgment and estimation. Factors that may impact our valuation include changes to credit ratings of the
securities as well as to the underlying assets supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying
collateral value, discount rates, counterparty risk and ongoing strength and quality of market credit and liquidity.
For discussions on current and non-current marketable securities, FRS and ARS, see Note 11 “Fair Value Measurement” and Note
12 “Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities.”
35Bristol-Myers Squibb
We account for 50% or less owned companies over which we have the ability to exercise significant influence using the equity
method of accounting. Our share of net income or losses of equity investments is included in equity in net income of affiliates in
the consolidated statements of earnings. For investments whose fair market value falls below its carrying value we assess if the
decline is other than temporary and consider our intent and ability to hold investments, the market price and market price
fluctuations of the investment’s publicly traded shares and inability of the investee to sustain an earnings capacity. Impairment
losses are recognized in other (income)/expense when a decline in market value is deemed to be other than temporary.
Contingencies
In the normal course of business, we are subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business,
that cover a wide range of matters, including, among others, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and
environmental liability, and tax matters. We recognize accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be
incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are subject to uncertainties that are difficult to
predict and, as such, actual results could vary from these estimates.
For discussions on contingencies, see Note 1 “Accounting Policies—Contingencies,” Note 10 “Income Taxes” and Note 26 “Legal
Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Income Taxes
Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be
realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including the long-
range forecast of future taxable income and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. These judgments are subject to change.
Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made. Our net
deferred tax assets were $1.8 billion and $2.2 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, net of valuation allowances of
$1.9 billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
We recognized deferred tax assets at December 31, 2010 related to a U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforward of $351 million
and a U.S. Federal research and development tax credit carryforward of $243 million. The net operating loss carryforward expires
in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The research and development tax credit carryforwards expire in varying amounts
beginning in 2018. The realization of these carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic-sourced taxable income
prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will
be realized.
We do not provide for taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are expected to be reinvested permanently
offshore. During 2010, the Company completed an internal restructuring of certain legal entities which contributed to a $207
million tax charge recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010. It is possible that U.S. tax authorities could assert additional material
tax liabilities arising from the restructuring. If such assertion were to occur, the Company would vigorously challenge any such
assertion and believes it would prevail; however there can be no assurance of such a result.
Prior to the Mead Johnson split-off the following transactions occurred: (i) an internal spin-off of Mead Johnson shares while still
owned by us; (ii) conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares; and; (iii) conversion of Mead Johnson & Company
to a limited liability company. These transactions as well as the split-off of Mead Johnson through the exchange offer should
qualify as tax-exempt transactions under the Internal Revenue Code based upon a private letter ruling received from the Internal
Revenue Service related to the conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares, and outside legal opinions. We have
relied upon certain assumptions, representations and covenants by Mead Johnson regarding the future conduct of its business and
other matters which could effect the tax treatment of the exchange. For example, the current tax law generally creates a
presumption that the exchange would be taxable to us, if Mead Johnson or its shareholders were to engage in transactions that result
in a 50% or greater change in its stock ownership during a four year period beginning two years before the exchange offer, unless it
is established that the exchange offer were not part of a plan or series of related transactions to effect such a change in ownership.
If the internal spin-off or exchange offer were determined not to qualify as a tax exempt transaction, we could be subject to tax as if
the exchange was a taxable sale by us at market value.
In addition, we had a negative basis or excess loss account (ELA) in our investment in stock of Mead Johnson prior to these
transactions. We received an opinion from outside legal counsel to the effect that it is more likely than not that we eliminated the
ELA as part of these transactions and do not have taxable income with respect to the ELA. The tax law in this area is complex and
it is possible that even if the internal spin-off and the exchange offer is tax exempt under the Internal Revenue Code, the IRS could
assert that we have additional taxable income for the period with respect to the ELA. We could be exposed to additional taxes if
362010 Annual Report
this were to occur. Based upon our understanding of the Internal Revenue Code and opinion from outside legal counsel, a tax
reserve of $244 million was established reducing the gain on disposal of Mead Johnson included in discontinued operations.
We agreed to certain tax related indemnities with Mead Johnson as set forth in the tax sharing agreement. For example, Mead
Johnson has agreed to indemnify us for potential tax effects resulting from the breach of certain representations discussed above as
well as certain transactions related to the acquisition of Mead Johnson’s stock or assets. We have agreed to indemnify Mead
Johnson for certain taxes related to its business prior to the completion of the IPO and created as part of the restructuring to
facilitate the IPO.
We established liabilities for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited
to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for
taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known.
For discussions on income taxes, see Note 1 “Accounting Policies—Income Taxes” and Note 10 “Income Taxes.”
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This annual report and other written and oral statements we make from time to time contain certain “forward-looking” statements
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can
identify these forward-looking statements by the fact they use words such as “should”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “target”,
“may”, “project”, “guidance”, “intend”, “plan”, “believe” and other words and terms of similar meaning and expression in
connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. One can also identify forward-looking statements by
the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements are based on current
expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could
cause actual outcomes to differ materially from current expectations. These statements are likely to relate to, among other things,
our goals, plans and projections regarding our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, market position, product
development, product approvals, sales efforts, expenses, performance or results of current and anticipated products and the outcome
of contingencies such as legal proceedings and financial results, which are based on current expectations that involve inherent risks
and uncertainties, including internal or external factors that could delay, divert or change any of them in the next several years. We
have included important factors in the cautionary statements included in this annual report that we believe could cause actual results
to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.
Although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth
in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which
speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise.
37Bristol-Myers Squibb
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
We are exposed to market risk due to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. As a result, certain derivative financial
instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge our underlying economic exposure. Our primary net foreign
currency translation exposures are the euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, British pound, Australian dollar, Mexican peso and Chinese
renminbi. Foreign currency forward contracts are used to manage these exposures. These instruments generally qualify for cash flow
hedge accounting treatment and are managed on a consolidated basis to efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of any natural
offsets.
Derivative instruments are also used as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. The derivative instruments used are principally
comprised of fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps, which generally qualify for fair-value hedge accounting treatment. In addition, all of
our financial instruments, including derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk which we consider as part of the overall fair value
measurement. Derivative financial instruments are not used for trading purposes.
Foreign Exchange Risk
A significant portion of our revenues, earnings and cash flow is exposed to changes in foreign currency rates. We use foreign currency
forward contracts to manage foreign exchange risk that primarily arises from certain intercompany transactions and designate these
derivative instruments as foreign currency cash flow hedges when appropriate. In addition, we are exposed to foreign exchange
transaction risk that arises from non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities and earnings denominated in non-U.S. dollar
currencies. In order to manage these risks, we use foreign currency forward contracts to offset exposures to certain assets and liabilities
and earnings denominated in certain foreign currencies. These foreign currency forward contracts are not designated as hedges and,
therefore, changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized in earnings in other (income)/expense, as they occur.
We estimate that a 10% appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar at December 31,
2010, with all other variables held constant, would decrease the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts held at December 31,
2010 by $145 million and, if realized, would effect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts.
We are also exposed to translation risk on non-U.S. dollar-denominated net assets. In order to manage this risk we use non-U.S. dollar
borrowings to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates. These non-U.S. dollar borrowings
are designated as hedges of net investments. The effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges is recognized as
part of the foreign currency translation component of accumulated OCI. For additional information, see Note 24 “Financial Instruments”.
Interest Rate Risk
We use interest rate swaps as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. The interest rate swaps used are principally fixed-to-
floating rate swaps, which are designated as fair-value hedges. The swaps are intended to provide us with an appropriate balance of fixed
and floating rate debt. We estimate that an increase of 100 basis points in short-term or long-term interest rates would decrease the fair
value of our interest rate swaps by $302 million, excluding the effects of counterparty credit risk and, if realized, would affect earnings
over the remaining life of the swaps.
Our marketable securities are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors. Our policy is
to invest with highly rated institutions and we place limits on the amount and time to maturity of investments with any individual
institution. We estimate that an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates in general would decrease the fair value of our debt security
portfolio by approximately $55 million.
Credit Risk
We periodically sell non-U.S. trade receivables as a means to reduce collectability risk. Our sales agreements do not provide for recourse
in the event of uncollectibility and we do not retain interest in the underlying asset once sold.
We monitor our investments with counterparties with the objective of minimizing concentrations of credit risk. Our investment policy
places limits on the amount and time to maturity of investments with any individual counterparty. The policy also requires that
investments are made primarily with highly rated corporate, financial, U.S. Government and government supported institutions.
The use of derivative instruments exposes us to credit risk. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is positive, we are
exposed to credit risk if the counterparty fails to perform. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is negative, the
counterparty is exposed to credit risk if we fail to perform our obligation. We are not required to post collateral when a derivative contract
is in a liability position, and we do not require counterparties to post collateral for derivatives in an asset position to us. We seek to
minimize the credit risk in derivative instruments by entering into transactions with reputable financial institutions. We have a policy of
diversifying derivatives with counterparties to mitigate the overall risk of counterparty defaults. For additional information, see Note 11
“Fair Value Measurement,” Note 12 “Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities,” Note 23 “Short-Term Borrowings and Long-
Term Debt” and Note 24 “Financial Instruments.”
382010 Annual Report
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
Dollars and Shares in Millions, Except Per Share Data
Year Ended December 31,
2010 2009 2008
EARNINGS
Net Sales $ 19,484 $ 18,808 $ 17,715
Cost of products sold 5,277 5,140 5,316
Marketing, selling and administrative 3,686 3,946 4,140
Advertising and product promotion 977 1,136 1,181
Research and development 3,566 3,647 3,512
Acquired in-process research and development ⎯ ⎯ 32
Provision for restructuring 113 136 215
Litigation expense, net (19) 132 33
Equity in net income of affiliates (313) (550) (617)
Gain on sale of ImClone shares ⎯ ⎯ (895)
Other (income)/expense 126 (381) 22
Total Expenses 13,413 13,206 12,939
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes 6,071 5,602 4,776
Provision for income taxes 1,558 1,182 1,090
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations 4,513 4,420 3,686
Discontinued Operations:
Earnings, net of taxes ⎯ 285 578
Gain on disposal, net of taxes ⎯ 7,157 1,979
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations ⎯ 7,442 2,557
Net Earnings 4,513 11,862 6,243
Net Earnings Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest 1,411 1,250 996
Net Earnings Attributable to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company $ 3,102 $ 10,612 $ 5,247
Amounts Attributable to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 3,102 $ 3,239 $ 2,697
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations ⎯ 7,373 2,550
Net Earnings Attributable to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company $ 3,102 $ 10,612 $ 5,247
Earnings per Common Share from Continuing Operations Attributable to Bristol-
Myers Squibb Company:
Basic $ 1.80 $ 1.63 $ 1.36
Diluted $ 1.79 $ 1.63 $ 1.35
Earnings per Common Share Attributable to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company:
Basic $ 1.80 $ 5.35 $ 2.64
Diluted $ 1.79 $ 5.34 $ 2.62
Dividends declared per common share $ 1.29 $ 1.25 $ 1.24
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
39Bristol-Myers Squibb
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND RETAINED EARNINGS
Dollars in Millions
Year Ended December 31,
2010 2009 2008
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Net Earnings $ 4,513 $ 11,862 $ 6,243
Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss):
Foreign currency translation 37 159 (123)
Foreign currency translation reclassified to net earnings due to business
divestitures ⎯ (40) (12)
Foreign currency translation on hedge of a net investment 84 (38) 36
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges, net of taxes of $(3) in 2010, $9 in
2009 and $(3) in 2008 15 (19) 9
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges reclassified to net earnings, net of
taxes of $5 in 2010, $5 in 2009 and $(23) in 2008 (5) (27) 42
Derivatives reclassified to net earnings due to business divestitures, net of taxes
of $(1) in 2009 ⎯ 2 ⎯
Pension and postretirement benefits, net of taxes of $66 in 2010, $41 in 2009 and
$697 in 2008 (88) (115) (1,387)
Pension and postretirement benefits reclassified to net earnings, net of taxes of
$(44) in 2010, $(49) in 2009 and $(50) in 2008 83 109 102
Pension and postretirement benefits reclassified to net earnings due to business
divestitures, net of taxes of $(62) in 2009 ⎯ 106 ⎯
Available for sale securities, net of taxes of $(3) in 2010, $(4) in 2009 and $0 in
2008 44 35 (106)
Available for sale securities reclassified to net earnings, net of taxes of $(3) in
2009 and $(6) in 2008 ⎯ 6 181
Total Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) 170 178 (1,258)
Comprehensive Income 4,683 12,040 4,985
Comprehensive Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest 1,411 1,260 996
Comprehensive Income Attributable to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company $ 3,272 $ 10,780 $ 3,989
RETAINED EARNINGS
Retained Earnings at January 1 $ 30,760 $ 22,549 $ 19,762
Net Earnings Attributable to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 3,102 10,612 5,247
Cash dividends declared (2,226) (2,401) (2,460)
Retained Earnings at December 31 $ 31,636 $ 30,760 $ 22,549
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
402010 Annual Report
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Dollars in Millions, Except Share and Per Share Data
December 31,
2010 2009
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 5,033 $ 7,683
Marketable securities 2,268 831
Receivables 3,480 3,164
Inventories 1,204 1,413
Deferred income taxes 1,036 611
Prepaid expenses 252 256
Total Current Assets 13,273 13,958
Property, plant and equipment 4,664 5,055
Goodwill 5,233 5,218
Other intangible assets 3,370 2,865
Deferred income taxes 850 1,636
Marketable securities 2,681 1,369
Other assets 1,005 907
Total Assets $ 31,076 $ 31,008
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Short-term borrowings $ 117 $ 231
Accounts payable 1,983 1,711
Accrued expenses 2,740 2,785
Deferred income 402 237
Accrued rebates and returns 857 622
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 65 175
Dividends payable 575 552
Total Current Liabilities 6,739 6,313
Pension, postretirement and postemployment liabilities 1,297 1,658
Deferred income 895 949
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 755 751
Other liabilities 424 422
Long-term debt 5,328 6,130
Total Liabilities 15,438 16,223
Commitments and contingencies (Note 26)
EQUITY
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Shareholders’ Equity:
Preferred stock, $2 convertible series, par value $1 per share: Authorized 10 million shares; issued and
outstanding 5,269 in 2010 and 5,515 in 2009, liquidation value of $50 per share ⎯ ⎯
Common stock, par value of $0.10 per share: Authorized 4.5 billion shares; 2.2 billion issued in both
2010 and 2009 220 220
Capital in excess of par value of stock 3,682 3,768
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (2,371) (2,541)
Retained earnings 31,636 30,760
Less cost of treasury stock — 501 million common shares in 2010 and 491 million in 2009 (17,454) (17,364)
Total Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Shareholders’ Equity 15,713 14,843
Noncontrolling interest (75) (58)
Total Equity 15,638 14,785
Total Liabilities and Equity $ 31,076 $ 31,008
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
41Bristol-Myers Squibb
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Dollars in Millions
Year Ended December 31,
2010 2009 2008
Cash Flows From Operating Activities:
Net earnings $ 4,513 $ 11,862 $ 6,243
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities:
Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest (1,411) (1,250) (996)
Depreciation 473 469 562
Amortization 271 238 254
Deferred income tax expense 422 163 1,430
Stock-based compensation expense 193 183 181
Acquired in-process research and development — — 32
Impairment charges 228 — 349
Gain related to divestitures of discontinued operations ⎯ (7,275) (3,412)
Gain on sale of ImClone shares ⎯ ⎯ (895)
Other gains (32) (367) (158)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Receivables (270) 227 (360)
Inventories 156 82 130
Accounts payable 315 472 253
Deferred income 117 135 61
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable (236) 58 371
Other (248) (932) (338)
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 4,491 4,065 3,707
Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
Proceeds from sale and maturities of marketable securities 3,197 2,075 560
Purchases of marketable securities (5,823) (3,489) (422)
Additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized software (424) (730) (941)
Proceeds from sale of businesses, property, plant and equipment and other investments 67 557 309
Proceeds from divestitures of discontinued operations ⎯ ⎯ 4,530
Mead Johnson’s cash at split-off ⎯ (561) —
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired (829) (2,232) (191)
Proceeds from sale of ImClone shares — — 1,007
Proceeds from sale and leaseback of properties — — 227
Net Cash (Used in)/Provided by Investing Activities (3,812) (4,380) 5,079
Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
Short-term debt repayments (33) (26) (1,688)
Long-term debt borrowings 6 1,683 1,580
Long-term debt repayments (936) (212) (229)
Interest rate swap terminations 146 194 211
Issuances of common stock and excess tax benefits from share-based arrangements 252 45 5
Common stock repurchases (576) — —
Dividends paid (2,202) (2,483) (2,461)
Proceeds from Mead Johnson initial public offering — 782 —
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities (3,343) (17) (2,582)
Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash and Cash Equivalents 14 39 (29)
(Decrease)/Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents (2,650) (293) 6,175
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 7,683 7,976 1,801
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year $ 5,033 $ 7,683 $ 7,976
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
422010 Annual Report
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements, prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP), include the accounts of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, or the
Company) and all of its controlled majority-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Material subsequent events are evaluated and disclosed through the report issuance date.
Codevelopment, cocommercialization and license arrangements are entered into with other parties for various therapeutic areas,
with terms including upfront licensing and contingent payments. These arrangements are assessed to determine whether the terms
give economic or other control over the entity, which may require consolidation of the entity. Entities that are consolidated because
they are controlled by means other than a majority voting interest are referred to as variable interest entities. Arrangements with
material variable interest entities, including those associated with these codevelopment, cocommercialization and license
arrangements, were determined not to exist.
Reclassifications
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of management estimates and assumptions that are based on complex
judgments. The most significant assumptions are employed in estimates used in determining the fair value of intangible assets,
restructuring charges and accruals, sales rebate and return accruals, including those related to U.S. health care reform, legal
contingencies, tax assets and tax liabilities, stock-based compensation expense, pension and postretirement benefits (including the
actuarial assumptions, see Note 21 “Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities,” fair value of financial instruments
with no direct or observable market quotes, inventory obsolescence, potential impairment of long-lived assets, allowances for bad
debt, as well as in estimates used in applying the revenue recognition policy. New discounts under the 2010 U.S. healthcare reform
law, such as the Medicare coverage gap, managed Medicaid and expansion of the Public Health Service 340B program require
additional assumptions due to the lack of historical claims experience. In addition, the new pharmaceutical company fee estimate is
subject to external data as well as a calculation based on the Company’s relative share of industry results. Actual results may differ
from estimated results.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized when title and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer,
generally at time of shipment. However, certain sales made by non-U.S. businesses are recognized on the date of receipt by the
purchaser. See Note 2 “Alliances and Collaborations” for further discussion of revenue recognition related to alliances. Revenues
are reduced at the time of recognition to reflect expected returns that are estimated based on historical experience and business
trends. Provisions are made at the time of revenue recognition for discounts, rebates and estimated sales allowances based on
historical experience updated for changes in facts and circumstances, including the impact of new legislation such as healthcare
reform, as appropriate. Such provisions are recognized as a reduction of revenue.
In limited circumstances, where a new product is not an extension of an existing line of product or no historical experience with
products in a similar therapeutic category exists, revenue is deferred until the right of return no longer exists or sufficient historical
experience to estimate sales returns is developed.
Sales Rebate and Return Accruals
Sales rebate and return accruals are established when the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction to sales and the
establishment of a liability. An accrual is recognized based on an estimate of the proportion of recognized revenue that will result
in a rebate or return. Charge-back accruals related to government programs and cash discounts, which are established in a similar
manner, are recognized as a reduction to accounts receivable.
Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes. Under this
approach, deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities
43Bristol-Myers Squibb
are recovered or paid. The provision for income taxes represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the change
in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from differences between the financial and tax bases of assets and liabilities
and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce
deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a
valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including the long-range forecast of future taxable income and
the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period
when such assessments are made.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of U.S. Treasury securities, government agency securities, bank deposits, time deposits and
money market funds. Cash equivalents are primarily highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at
the time of purchase and are recognized at cost, which approximates fair value. Cash and cash equivalents maintained in foreign
currencies was $607 million at December 31, 2010 and are subject to currency rate risk.
Marketable Securities and Investments in Other Companies
All marketable securities were classified as “available for sale” on the date of purchase and were reported at fair value at
December 31, 2010 and 2009. Fair value is determined based on observable market quotes or valuation models using assessments
of counterparty credit worthiness, credit default risk or underlying security and overall capital market liquidity. Declines in fair
value considered other than temporary are charged to earnings and those considered temporary are reported as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) in shareholders’ equity. Declines in fair value determined to be credit related are
charged to earnings. An average cost method is used in determining realized gains and losses on the sale of “available for sale”
securities.
Investments in 50% or less owned companies for which the ability to exercise significant influence is maintained are accounted for
using the equity method of accounting. The share of net income or losses of equity investments is included in equity in net income
of affiliates in the consolidated statements of earnings. Equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing if the decline
in market value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary. In making this determination, factors are
evaluated in determining whether a loss in value should be recognized. This includes consideration of the intent and ability to hold
investments, the market price and market price fluctuations of the investment’s publicly traded shares, and inability of the investee
to sustain an earnings capacity, justifying the carrying amount of the investment. Impairment losses are recognized in other
expense when a decline in market value is deemed to be other than temporary.
Inventory Valuation
Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market.
Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation
Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalized at cost. Depreciation is generally computed on a straight-
line method based on the estimated useful lives of the related assets. The estimated useful lives of the major classes of depreciable
assets are as follows:
Buildings 20 – 50 years
Machinery, equipment and fixtures 3 – 20 years
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Current facts or circumstances are periodically evaluated to determine if the carrying value of depreciable assets to be held and used
may not be recoverable. If such circumstances exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows generated by the long-lived
asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists at its
lowest level of identifiable cash flows. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference
between the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. An estimate of the asset’s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active
markets, if available. If quoted market prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques,
including a discounted value of estimated future cash flows. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of its carrying value
or its estimated net realizable value.
442010 Annual Report
Capitalized Software
Certain costs to obtain internal use software for significant systems projects are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful
life of the software. Costs to obtain software for projects that are not significant are expensed as incurred.
Business Combinations
An acquired business is included in the consolidated financial statements upon obtaining control of the acquired. Assets acquired
and liabilities assumed are recognized at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price
over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. For business combinations entered into after
January 1, 2009, legal costs, audit fees, business valuation costs, and all other business acquisition costs are expensed when
incurred.
Goodwill, Acquired In-Process Research and Development and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually using a two-step process. The first step identifies a potential impairment, and the
second step measures the amount of the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is impaired if the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s
goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. The BioPharmaceuticals segment includes several separate reporting units based on
geography which were aggregated for impairment testing purposes. The annual goodwill impairment assessment was completed in
the first quarter of 2010 and subsequently monitored for potential impairment in the remaining quarters of 2010, none of which
indicated an impairment of goodwill.
The fair value of in-process research and development (IPRD) acquired in a business combination is determined based on the
present value of each research project’s projected cash flows using an income approach. Future cash flows are predominately based
on the net income forecast of each project, consistent with historical pricing, margins and expense levels of similar products.
Revenues are estimated based on relevant market size and growth factors, expected industry trends, individual project life cycles
and the life of each research project’s underlying patent. In determining the fair value of each research project, expected revenues
are first adjusted for technical risk of completion. The resulting cash flows are then discounted at a rate approximating the
Company’s weighted-average cost of capital.
IPRD acquired after January 1, 2009 is initially capitalized and considered indefinite-lived assets subject to annual impairment
reviews or more often upon the occurrence of certain events. The review requires the determination of the fair value of the
respective intangible assets. If the fair value of the intangible assets is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized
for the difference. For those compounds that reach commercialization, the assets are amortized over the expected useful lives.
Prior to January 1, 2009, amounts allocated to acquired IPRD were expensed at the date of acquisition.
Patents/trademarks, licenses and technology are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives and are
considered impaired if their net carrying value exceeds their estimated fair value.
Restructuring
Restructuring charges are recognized as a result of actions to streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities.
Judgment is used when estimating the impact of restructuring plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be
incurred when the actions take place. Actual results could vary from these estimates.
Product Liability
Accruals for product liability are established on an undiscounted basis when it is probable that a liability was incurred and the
amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. Accruals are adjusted periodically as assessment
efforts progress or as additional information becomes available. Receivables for related insurance or other third-party recoveries for
product liabilities are recognized on an undiscounted basis when it is probable that a recovery will be realized.
Contingencies
Loss contingencies from legal proceedings and claims may occur from a wide range of matters, including, government
investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability, and tax matters. Accruals are recognized when it is
probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Gain contingencies are not recognized
until realized.
45Bristol-Myers Squibb
Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivative financial instruments are used principally in the management of interest rate and foreign currency exposures and are not
held or issued for trading purposes.
Derivative instruments are recognized at fair value. Changes in a derivative’s fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific
hedge criteria are met. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative and of the
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the
effective portions of changes in the fair value of the derivative are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) and
subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. Cash flows are classified consistent with the
underlying hedged item.
Derivatives are designated and assigned as hedges of forecasted transactions, specific assets or specific liabilities. When hedged
assets or liabilities are sold or extinguished or the forecasted transactions being hedged are no longer probable to occur, a gain or
loss is immediately recognized on the designated hedge in earnings.
Non-derivative instruments are also designated as hedges of net investments in foreign affiliates. These non-derivative instruments
are mainly euro denominated long-term debt. The effective portion of the designated non-derivative instrument is recognized in the
foreign currency translation section of OCI and the ineffective portion is recognized in earnings.
Shipping and Handling Costs
Shipping and handling costs are included in marketing, selling and administrative expenses and were $135 million in 2010, $208
million in 2009 and $262 million in 2008, of which $68 million in 2009 and $103 million in 2008 was included in discontinued
operations.
Advertising and Product Promotion Costs
Advertising and product promotion costs are expensed as incurred.
Foreign Currency Translation
Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are
translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these
subsidiaries at changing rates are recognized in OCI. The net assets of subsidiaries in highly inflationary economies are remeasured
as if the functional currency were the reporting currency. The remeasurement is recognized in earnings.
Research and Development
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Strategic alliances with third parties provide rights to develop,
manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are owned by the other party. Certain research and
development payments to alliance partners are contingent upon the achievement of certain pre-determined criteria. Milestone
payments achieved prior to regulatory approval of the product are expensed as research and development. Milestone payments
made in connection with regulatory approvals are capitalized and amortized to cost of products sold over the remaining useful life
of the asset. Capitalized milestone payments are tested for recoverability periodically or whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Research and development is recognized net of
reimbursements in connection with collaboration agreements.
Upfront licensing and milestone receipts obtained during development are deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the
product in other income. The amortization period of upfront licensing and milestone receipts for each new or materially modified
arrangement after January 1, 2011 will be assessed and determined after considering the terms of such arrangements.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
New accounting standards were adopted on January 1, 2010, none of which had an impact on the consolidated financial statements
upon adoption. Among other items, these standards:
• Provide clarifying criteria in determining when a transferor has surrendered control over transferred financial assets and
removed the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity.
462010 Annual Report
• Require an ongoing reassessment of the primary beneficiary in a variable interest entity; eliminate the quantitative
approach previously required in determining the primary beneficiary; and provide guidance in determining the primary
beneficiary as the entity that has both the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly
impacts the entities economic performance and has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits for events
significant to the variable interest entity.
On January 1, 2011, a new revenue recognition standard will be adopted and applied to new or materially modified revenue
arrangements with upfront licensing fees and contingent milestones relating to research or development deliverables. The guidance:
• Provides principles and application guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the arrangement should be
separated and the consideration allocated;
• Eliminates the residual method of allocating revenue;
• Requires the allocation of consideration received in a bundled revenue arrangement among the separate deliverables by
introducing an estimated selling price method for valuing the elements if vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party
evidence of a selling price is not available; and
• Expands related disclosure requirements.
The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Beginning in 2011, an annual non-tax-deductible fee will be paid to the federal government based on an allocation of the
Company’s market share of branded prior year sales to certain government programs including Medicare, Medicaid, Department of
Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense and TRICARE. This fee will be classified as an operating expense.
Note 2 ALLIANCES AND COLLABORATIONS
sanofi
The Company has agreements with sanofi-aventis (sanofi) for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of Avapro/Avalide
(irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide), an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension and
diabetic nephropathy, and Plavix (clopidogrel bisulfate), a platelet aggregation inhibitor. The worldwide alliance operates under the
framework of two geographic territories; one in the Americas (principally the U.S., Canada, Puerto Rico and Latin American
countries) and Australia and the other in Europe and Asia. Accordingly, two territory partnerships were formed to manage central
expenses, such as marketing, research and development and royalties, and to supply finished product to the individual countries. In
general, at the country level, agreements either to copromote (whereby a partnership was formed between the parties to sell each
brand) or to comarket (whereby the parties operate and sell their brands independently of each other) are in place. The agreements
expire on the later of (i) with respect to Plavix, 2013 and, with respect to Avapro/Avalide, 2012 in the Americas and Australia and
2013 in Europe and Asia, and (ii) the expiration of all patents and other exclusivity rights in the applicable territory.
The Company acts as the operating partner and owns a 50.1% majority controlling interest in the territory covering the Americas
and Australia. Sanofi’s ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. As such, the Company consolidates all country partnership
results for this territory and reflects sanofi’s share of the results as a noncontrolling interest. The Company recognizes net sales in
this territory and in comarketing countries outside this territory (e.g. Germany, Italy for irbesartan only, Spain and Greece).
Discovery royalties owed to sanofi are included in cost of products sold. Cash flows from operating activities of the partnerships in
the territory covering the Americas and Australia are included in other within operating activities in the Company’s consolidated
statements of cash flows. Distributions of partnership profits to sanofi and sanofi’s funding of ongoing partnership operations occur
on a routine basis and are also recognized in other within operating activities.
Sanofi acts as the operating partner and owns a 50.1% majority controlling interest in the territory covering Europe and Asia. The
Company’s ownership interest in this territory is 49.9% and is included in other assets. The Company does not consolidate the
partnership entities in this territory but accounts for them under the equity method and reflects its share of the results in equity in net
income of affiliates. The Company routinely receives distributions of profits and provides funding for the ongoing operations of the
partnerships in the territory covering Europe and Asia, which are reflected as cash provided by operating activities.
The Company and sanofi have a separate partnership governing the copromotion of irbesartan in the U.S. Under this alliance, the
Company recognizes other income related to the amortization of deferred income associated with sanofi’s $350 million payment to
the Company for their acquisition of an interest in the irbesartan license for the U.S. upon formation of the alliance. Deferred
income will continue to be amortized through 2012, which is the expected expiration of the license. Income attributed to certain
supply activities and development and opt-out royalties with sanofi are also reflected net in other income.
47Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following summarized financial information is reflected in the consolidated financial statements:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Territory covering the Americas and Australia:
Net sales $ 7,464 $ 6,912 $ 6,296
Discovery royalty expense 1,348 1,199 1,061
Noncontrolling interest – pre-tax 2,074 1,717 1,444
Profit distributions to sanofi 2,093 1,717 1,444
Territory covering Europe and Asia:
Equity in net income of affiliates 325 558 632
Profit distributions to the Company 313 554 610
Other:
Net sales in Europe comarketing countries and other 378 517 597
Other income – irbesartan license fee 31 32 31
Other income – supply activities and development and opt-out royalties 3 41 71
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Investment in affiliates – territory covering Europe and Asia $ 22 $ 10
Deferred income – irbesartan license fee 60 91
The following is the summarized financial information for interests in the partnerships with sanofi for the territory covering Europe
and Asia, which are not consolidated but are accounted for using the equity method:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Net sales $ 1,879 $ 2,984 $ 3,478
Cost of products sold 1,047 1,510 1,740
Gross profit 832 1,474 1,738
Marketing, selling and administrative 129 219 290
Advertising and product promotion 29 68 93
Research and development 16 61 96
Other (income)/expense (1) ⎯ (7)
Net income $ 659 $ 1,126 $ 1,266
Current assets $ 751 $ 1,305 $ 1,525
Current liabilities 751 1,305 1,525
Cost of products sold includes discovery royalties of $307 million in 2010, $446 million in 2009 and $531 million in 2008, which
are paid directly to sanofi. All other expenses are shared based on the applicable ownership percentages. Current assets and current
liabilities include approximately $567 million in 2010, $1.0 billion in 2009 and $1.1 billion in 2008 related to receivables/payables
attributed to the respective years, net cash distributions to the Company and sanofi as well as intercompany balances between
partnerships within the territory. The remaining current assets and current liabilities consist of third-party trade receivables,
inventories and amounts due to the Company and sanofi for the purchase of inventories, royalties and expense reimbursements.
Otsuka
The Company has a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), to codevelop and
copromote with Otsuka, Abilify (aripiprazole), for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive
disorder, except in Japan, China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan and Egypt.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Company purchases the product from Otsuka and performs finish manufacturing for sale to
third-party customers by the Company or Otsuka. The product is currently copromoted with Otsuka in the U.S., Canada, United
Kingdom (UK), Germany, France and Spain. In the U.S., Germany, France and Spain, where the product is invoiced to third-party
customers by the Company on behalf of Otsuka, the Company recognizes alliance revenue for its contractual share of third-party net
sales, which was reduced in the U.S. starting January 1, 2010 from 65% to 58% for 2010. The Company continues to receive 65%
of third-party net sales in France, Germany and Spain with no expense reimbursement. Beginning on January 1, 2011, the
Company will invoice third-party customers in the UK on behalf of Otsuka, and the Company will receive 65% of net sales with no
482010 Annual Report
expense reimbursement. The Company recognizes this alliance revenue when Abilify is shipped and all risks and rewards of
ownership have transferred to third-party customers. In certain countries where the Company is presently the exclusive distributor
for the product or has an exclusive right to sell Abilify, the Company recognizes 100% of the net sales and related cost of products
sold and expenses.
In April 2009, the Company and Otsuka agreed to extend the U.S. portion of the commercialization and manufacturing agreement
until the expected loss of product exclusivity in April 2015. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company paid Otsuka $400
million, which is amortized as a reduction of net sales through the extension period. The unamortized balance is included in other
assets. Beginning on January 1, 2011, the share of Abilify U.S. net sales that the Company recognizes changed from 58% to 53.5%
and will be further reduced to 51.5% on January 1, 2012. During this period, Otsuka will be responsible for 30% of the U.S.
expenses related to the commercialization of Abilify. Reimbursements are netted principally in advertising and product promotion
and selling, general and administrative expenses.
Beginning January 1, 2013, and through the expected loss of U.S. exclusivity in April 2015, including an expected six month
pediatric extension, the Company will receive the following percentages of U.S. annual net sales:
Share as a % of U.S. Net Sales
$0 to $2.7 billion 50%
$2.7 billion to $3.2 billion 20%
$3.2 billion to $3.7 billion 7%
$3.7 billion to $4.0 billion 2%
$4.0 billion to $4.2 billion 1%
In excess of $4.2 billion 20%
During this period, Otsuka will be responsible for 50% of all U.S. expenses related to the commercialization of Abilify.
In addition, the Company and Otsuka announced that they have entered into an oncology collaboration for Sprycel (dasatinib) and
Ixempra (ixabepilone), which includes the U.S., Japan and European Union (EU) markets (the Oncology Territory). Beginning in
2010 through 2020, the collaboration fees the Company will pay to Otsuka annually are the following percentages of net sales of
Sprycel and Ixempra in the Oncology Territory:
% of Net Sales
2010 - 2012 2013 - 2020
$0 to $400 million 30% 65%
$400 million to $600 million 5% 12%
$600 million to $800 million 3% 3%
$800 million to $1.0 billion 2% 2%
In excess of $1.0 billion 1% 1%
During these periods, Otsuka will contribute (i) 20% of the first $175 million of certain commercial operational expenses relating to
the oncology products, and (ii) 1% of such commercial operational expenses relating to the products in the territory in excess of
$175 million. Starting in 2011, Otsuka will have the right to copromote Sprycel with the Company in the U.S. and Japan and in
2012, in the top five EU markets.
The U.S. extension and the oncology collaboration include a change-of-control provision in the case of an acquisition of the
Company. If the acquiring company does not have a competing product to Abilify, then the new company will assume the Abilify
agreement (as amended) and the oncology collaboration as it exists today. If the acquiring company has a product that competes
with Abilify, Otsuka can elect to request the acquiring company to choose whether to divest Abilify or the competing product. In
the scenario where Abilify is divested, Otsuka would be obligated to acquire the Company’s rights under the Abilify agreement (as
amended). The agreements also provide that in the event of a generic competitor to Abilify after January 1, 2010, the Company has
the option of terminating the Abilify April 2009 amendment (with the agreement as previously amended remaining in force). If the
Company were to exercise such option then either (i) the Company would receive a payment from Otsuka according to a pre-
determined schedule and the oncology collaboration would terminate at the same time or (ii) the oncology collaboration would
continue for a truncated period according to a pre-determined schedule.
For the EU, the agreement remained unchanged and will expire in June 2014. In other countries where the Company has the
exclusive right to sell Abilify, the agreement expires on the later of the 10th anniversary of the first commercial sale in such country
or expiration of the applicable patent in such country.
49Bristol-Myers Squibb
In addition to the $400 million extension payment, total milestone payments made to Otsuka under the agreement through
December 2010 were $217 million, of which $157 million was expensed as IPRD in 1999. The remaining $60 million was
capitalized in other intangible assets and is amortized in cost of products sold over the remaining life of the agreement in the U.S.
The following summarized financial information related to this alliance is reflected in the consolidated financial statements:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Abilify net sales, including amortization of extension payment $ 2,565 $ 2,592 $ 2,153
Oncology Products collaboration fees 128 ⎯ ⎯
Otsuka’s reimbursement – operating expense (101) ⎯ ⎯
Amortization expense – extension payment (66) (49) ⎯
Amortization expense – upfront licensing and milestone payments 6 6 6
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Other assets – extension payment $ 285 $ 351
Other intangible assets – upfront licensing and milestone payments 11 17
In January 2007, the Company granted Otsuka exclusive rights in Japan to develop and commercialize Onglyza. The Company
expects to receive milestone payments based on certain regulatory events, as well as sales-based payments following regulatory
approval of Onglyza in Japan, and retained rights to copromote Onglyza with Otsuka in Japan. Otsuka is responsible for all
development costs in Japan.
Lilly
The Company has an Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) commercialization agreement with Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly)
through Lilly’s November 2008 acquisition of ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone) for the codevelopment and promotion of
Erbitux (cetuximab) and necitumumab (IMC-11F8) in the U.S., which expires as to Erbitux in September 2018. The Company also
has codevelopment and copromotion rights to both products in Canada and Japan. Erbitux is indicated for use in the treatment of
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Under the
EGFR agreement, with respect to Erbitux sales in North America, Lilly receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of net
sales in North America plus reimbursement of certain royalties paid by Lilly, which is included in cost of products sold.
In October 2007, the Company and ImClone amended their codevelopment agreement with Merck KGaA (Merck) to provide for
cocommercialization of Erbitux in Japan. The rights under this agreement expire in 2032; however, Lilly has the ability to
terminate the agreement after 2018 if it determines that it is commercially unreasonable for Lilly to continue. Erbitux received
marketing approval in Japan in July 2008 for the use of Erbitux in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer.
The Company receives 50% of the pre-tax profit from Merck sales of Erbitux in Japan which is further shared equally with Lilly.
The Company’s share of profits from commercialization in Japan is included in other income.
The Company is amortizing $500 million of previously capitalized milestone payments that was accounted for as a license
acquisition through 2018, the remaining term of the agreement. The amortization is classified in costs of products sold.
Upon execution of the initial commercialization agreement, the Company acquired an ownership interest in ImClone which had
been accounted for under the equity method. The Company sold its shares of ImClone for approximately $1,007 million and
recognized a pre-tax gain of $895 million in November 2008.
In January 2010, the Company and Lilly restructured the EGFR commercialization agreement described above between the
Company and ImClone as it relates to necitumumab, a novel targeted cancer therapy currently in Phase III development for non-
small cell lung cancer. As restructured, both companies will share in the cost of developing and potentially commercializing
necitumumab in the U.S., Canada and Japan. Lilly maintains exclusive rights to necitumumab in all other markets. The Company
will fund 55% of development costs for studies that will be used only in the U.S. and will fund 27.5% for global studies. The
Company will pay $250 million to Lilly as a milestone payment upon first approval in the U.S. In the U.S. and Canada, the
Company will recognize all sales and will receive 55% of the profits (and bear 55% of the losses) for necitumumab. Lilly will
provide 50% of the selling effort and the parties will, in general, equally participate in other commercialization efforts. In Japan, the
Company and Lilly will share commercial costs and profits evenly. The agreement as it relates to necitumumab continues beyond
patent expiration until both parties agree to terminate. It may be terminated at any time by the Company with 12 months advance
notice (18 months if prior to launch), by either party for uncured material breach by the other or if both parties agree to terminate.
Lilly will manufacture the bulk requirements and we will assume responsibility for fill/finish of necitumumab beginning in 2011.
502010 Annual Report
The following summarized financial information related to this alliance is reflected in the consolidated financial statements:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Net sales $ 662 $ 683 $ 749
Distribution fees and royalty reimbursements 275 279 307
Amortization expense – milestone payments 37 37 37
Equity in net income of affiliates ⎯ ⎯ (5)
Other income – Japan commercialization fee 39 28 3
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Other intangible assets – upfront licensing and milestone payments $ 286 $ 323
Gilead
The Company and Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) have a joint venture to develop and commercialize Atripla (efavirenz 600 mg/
emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a once-daily single tablet three-drug regimen combining the
Company's Sustiva (efavirenz) and Gilead's Truvada (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), in the U.S., Canada and
Europe. The Company accounts for its participation in the U.S. joint venture under the equity method of accounting and recognizes
its share of the joint venture results in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated statements of earnings.
In the U.S., Canada and most European countries, the Company records revenue for the bulk efavirenz component of Atripla upon
sales of that product to third-party customers. Revenue for the efavirenz component is determined by applying a percentage to
Atripla revenue to approximate revenue for the Sustiva brand. In a limited number of EU countries, the Company recognizes
revenue for Atripla since the product is purchased from Gilead and then distributed to third-party customers.
The following summarized financial information related to this alliance is reflected in the consolidated financial statements:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Net sales $ 1,053 $ 869 $ 582
Equity in net loss of affiliates (12) (10) (9)
AstraZeneca
The Company maintains two worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreements with AstraZeneca PLC
(AstraZeneca). The first is for the worldwide (excluding Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization of Onglyza (saxagliptin), a
DPP-IV inhibitor (Saxagliptin Agreement). The second is for the worldwide (including Japan) codevelopment and
cocommercialization of dapagliflozin, a sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitor (SGLT2 Agreement). Both compounds
are being studied for the treatment of diabetes and were discovered by the Company. Kombiglyze was codeveloped with
AstraZeneca under the Saxagliptin Agreement. Under each agreement, the two companies will jointly develop the clinical and
marketing strategy and share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis (excluding, in the case of
saxagliptin, Japan), and the Company will manufacture both products. The companies will cocommercialize dapagliflozin in Japan
and share profits and losses equally. Under each agreement, the Company has the option to decline involvement in
cocommercialization in a given country and instead receive a royalty. Royalty percentage rates if the Company opts-out of
cocommercialization agreements are tiered based on net sales.
On July 31, 2009, the FDA approved Onglyza as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve blood sugar (glycemic) control in adults
for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus and in August 2009, the Company and AstraZeneca launched Onglyza in the U.S. On
October 1, 2009, Onglyza received a Marketing Authorization for use in the EU to treat adults with type 2 diabetes in combination
with either metformin, a sulfonylurea or a thiazolidinedione, when any of these agents alone, with diet and exercise, do not provide
adequate glycemic control. In December 2010, the FDA approved Kombiglyze, saxagliptin and metformin combination therapy, for
the treatment of type 2 diabetes in adults.
The Company received from AstraZeneca a total of $300 million in upfront licensing and milestone payments related to the
Saxagliptin Agreement and $50 million in upfront licensing payments related to the SGLT2 Agreement as of December 31, 2010,
including $50 million received during 2010. These payments are deferred and are being amortized over the useful life of the
products into other income. Additional milestone payments are expected to be received by the Company upon the successful
51Bristol-Myers Squibb
achievement of various development and regulatory events, as well as sales-based milestones. Under the Saxagliptin Agreement,
the Company could receive up to an additional $50 million if the remaining development and regulatory milestone for saxagliptin is
met and up to an additional $300 million if all sales-based milestones for saxagliptin are met. Under the SGLT2 Agreement, the
Company could receive up to an additional $350 million if all development and regulatory milestones for dapagliflozin are met and
up to an additional $390 million if all sales-based milestones for dapagliflozin are met.
Under each agreement, the Company and AstraZeneca also share in development and commercialization costs. The majority of
development costs under the initial development plans were paid by AstraZeneca (with AstraZeneca bearing all the costs of the
initial agreed upon development plan for dapagliflozin in Japan). Additional development costs will be shared equally. The net
reimbursements to the Company for development costs related to saxagliptin and dapagliflozin are netted in research and
development.
The following summarized financial information related to this alliance is reflected in the consolidated financial statements:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Net sales $ 158 $ 24 $ ⎯
Amortization income – upfront licensing and milestone payments 28 16 9
Research and development reimbursements to/(from) AstraZeneca 19 (38) (139)
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Deferred income – upfront licensing and milestone payments $ 290 $ 268
Pfizer
The Company and Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) maintain a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement for Eliquis
(apixaban), an anticoagulant discovered by the Company being studied for the prevention and treatment of a broad range of venous
and arterial thrombotic conditions.
The Company received $314 million in upfront licensing payments during 2007. In addition, the Company received a $150 million
milestone payment in April 2009 for the commencement of Phase III clinical trials for prevention of major adverse cardiovascular
events in acute coronary syndrome and a $10 million milestone in 2010 for the filing of the marketing authorization application in
the EU. These payments are deferred and amortized over the useful life of the products into other income. Pfizer will fund 60% of
all development costs under the initial development plan effective January 1, 2007 going forward, and the Company will fund 40%.
The net reimbursements to the Company for Eliquis development costs are netted in research and development. The Company may
also receive additional payments from Pfizer of up to an additional $620 million based on achieving development and regulatory
milestones. The companies will jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy, will share commercialization expenses and
profits and losses equally on a global basis, and will manufacture product under this arrangement.
The following summarized financial information related to this alliance is reflected in the consolidated financial statements:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Amortization income – upfront licensing and milestone payments $ 31 $ 28 $ 20
Research and development reimbursements from Pfizer (190) (190) (159)
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Deferred income – upfront licensing and milestone payments $ 382 $ 404
Exelixis
In October 2010, the Company entered into two metabolic collaboration agreements with Exelixis, Inc., one for license of Exelixis’
small-molecule TGR5 agonist program including backups (the TGR5 Agreement) and the second to collaborate, discover, optimize
and characterize small-molecule ROR antagonists (the ROR Agreement). The Company paid Exelixis an initial payment of $40
million, which was expensed in research and development, and could pay additional development and approval milestones of up to
$250 million on the TGR5 Agreement and $255 million on the ROR Agreement. Exelixis is also eligible to receive up to an
additional $150 million in sales–based milestones from each of the TGR5 and ROR programs, and royalties on net sales of products
from each of the TGR5 and ROR programs. The Company received an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize
522010 Annual Report
small molecule TGR5 agonists and ROR antagonists. Under the TGR5 agreement, the Company will have sole responsibility for
research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Under the ROR agreement, the Company is collaborating with
Exelixis on ROR antagonist programs up to a pre-clinical transition point and then the Company will have sole responsibility for the
further research, development, manufacture, and commercialization of any resulting products.
In December 2008, the Company and Exelixis entered into a global codevelopment and cocommercialization arrangement for
XL-184 (a MET/VEG/RET inhibitor), an oral anti-cancer compound, and a license for XL-281 with utility in RAS and RAF mutant
tumors under development by Exelixis. Under the terms of the arrangement, the Company paid Exelixis $195 million in 2008 upon
execution of the agreement and paid an additional $45 million in 2009, all of which was expensed as research and development in
2008. In June 2010, the Company terminated its development collaboration with Exelixis for XL-184 with all rights returning to
Exelixis resulting in a $17 million termination fee which was expensed in research and development. The Company could pay
Exelixis development and regulatory milestones of up to $315 million and up to an additional $150 million of sales-based
milestones related to XL-281.
In addition, the Company and Exelixis have a history of collaborations to identify, develop and promote oncology targets. In
January 2007, the Company and Exelixis entered into an oncology collaboration and license agreement under which Exelixis is
pursing the development of three small molecule INDs for codevelopment and copromotion. Under the terms of this agreement, we
paid Exelixis $100 million of upfront licensing and milestone payments to date. Pursuant to an amendment to the agreement that
was executed in October 2010, Exelixis has opted-out of further codevelopment of XL-139, and the Company made a payment to
Exelixis in the amount of $20 million which was expensed in research and development. As a result, the Company has received an
exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize XL-139 and will have sole responsibility for the further development,
manufacture, and commercialization of the compound. If successful, we will pay Exelixis development and regulatory milestones
up to $170 million and up to an additional $90 million of sales-based milestones, as well as royalties. Royalty percentage rates are
tiered based on net sales.
At December 31, 2010, the Company held an equity investment in Exelixis which represented less than 1% of their outstanding
shares.
Alder
In November 2009, the Company and Alder Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (Alder) entered into a global agreement for the development
and commercialization of ALD518, a novel biologic that has completed Phase IIa development for the treatment of rheumatoid
arthritis. Under the terms of the arrangement, Alder granted the Company worldwide exclusive rights to develop and
commercialize ALD518 for all potential indications except cancer, for which Alder retains rights and has granted the Company an
option to codevelop and have exclusive rights to cocommercialize outside the United States. The Company paid Alder an $85
million upfront licensing payment in 2009, which was expensed as research and development. In addition, the Company could pay
up to $764 million of development-based and regulatory-based milestone payments, potential sales-based milestones which under
certain circumstances may exceed $200 million, and royalties on net sales. If the Company chooses the option to pursue cancer
indications, then the Company could pay up to an additional $185 million of development-based and regulatory-based milestone
payments, the aforementioned sales-based milestones and royalties on net sales. Royalty percentage rates are tiered based on net
sales.
Note 3 BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company operates in one BioPharmaceuticals segment which is engaged in the discovery, development, licensing,
manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. A global
research and development organization and a global supply chain organization are utilized and responsible for the development and
delivery of products to the market. Products are distributed and sold through five regional organizations that serve the United
States; Europe; Latin America, Middle East and Africa; Japan, Asia Pacific and Canada; and Emerging Markets. The business is
also supported by global corporate staff functions. The segment information presented below is consistent with the financial
information regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker for purposes of evaluating performance, allocating resources,
setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting future periods.
53Bristol-Myers Squibb
Products are sold principally to wholesalers, and to a lesser extent, directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals, clinics, government
agencies and pharmacies. Gross sales to the three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of total gross sales
were as follows:
2010 2009 2008
McKesson Corporation 24% 25% 24%
Cardinal Health, Inc. 21% 20% 19%
AmerisourceBergen Corporation 16% 15% 14%
Selected geographic area information was as follows:
Property, Plant and
Net Sales Equipment
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009
United States $ 12,613 $ 11,867 $ 10,565 $ 3,119 $ 3,214
Europe 3,448 3,625 3,750 922 1,169
Japan, Asia Pacific and Canada 1,651 1,522 1,519 20 20
Latin America, Middle East and Africa 856 843 1,047 557 594
Emerging Markets 804 753 725 46 58
Other 112 198 109 (cid:650) (cid:650)
Total $ 19,484 $ 18,808 $ 17,715 $ 4,664 $ 5,055
Net sales of key products were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Plavix $ 6,666 $ 6,146 $ 5,603
Avapro/Avalide 1,176 1,283 1,290
Abilify 2,565 2,592 2,153
Reyataz 1,479 1,401 1,292
Sustiva Franchise (total revenue) 1,368 1,277 1,149
Baraclude 931 734 541
Erbitux 662 683 749
Sprycel 576 421 310
Ixempra 117 109 101
Orencia 733 602 441
Onglyza/Kombiglyze 158 24 (cid:650)
Mature Products and All Other 3,053 3,536 4,086
Total $ 19,484 $ 18,808 $ 17,715
Capital expenditures and depreciation of property, plant and equipment within the BioPharmaceuticals segment were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Capital expenditures $ 424 $ 634 $ 686
Depreciation 380 346 361
542010 Annual Report
Segment income excludes the impact of significant items not indicative of current operating performance or ongoing results, and
earnings attributed to sanofi and other noncontrolling interest. The reconciliation to earnings from continuing operations before
income taxes was as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
BioPharmaceuticals segment income $ 4,642 $ 4,492 $ 3,538
Reconciling items:
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations (113) (122) (186)
Impairment and loss on sale of manufacturing operations (236) ⎯ ⎯
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs (113) (129) (281)
Process standardization implementation costs (35) (110) (109)
Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets ⎯ 360 159
Litigation recovery/(charges) 19 (132) (33)
Upfront licensing, milestone and other payments (132) (347) (348)
Acquired in-process research and development ⎯ ⎯ (32)
ARS impairment and loss on sale ⎯ ⎯ (324)
Gain on sale of ImClone shares ⎯ ⎯ 895
BMS Foundation funding initiative ⎯ (100) ⎯
Other (55) (53) 36
Noncontrolling interest 2,094 1,743 1,461
Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes $ 6,071 $ 5,602 $ 4,776
Note 4 RESTRUCTURING
The productivity transformation initiative (PTI) was designed to fundamentally change the way the business is run to meet the
challenges of a changing business environment and to take advantage of the diverse opportunities in the marketplace as the
transformation into a next-generation biopharmaceutical company continues. In addition to the PTI, a strategic process designed to
achieve a culture of continuous improvement to enhance efficiency, effectiveness and competitiveness and to continue to improve
the cost base has been implemented.
The following PTI, restructuring and other charges were recognized:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Employee termination benefits $ 102 $ 128 $ 171
Other exit costs 11 8 44
Provision for restructuring, net 113 136 215
Impairment and loss on sale of manufacturing operations 236 ⎯ ⎯
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs 113 115 261
Pension curtailment and settlement charges 18 36 17
Process standardization implementation costs 35 110 109
Total cost 515 397 602
Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets ⎯ (360) (162)
Net charges $ 515 $ 37 $ 440
Most of the accelerated depreciation, asset impairment charges and other shutdown costs were included in cost of products sold and
primarily relate to the rationalization of the manufacturing network in the BioPharmaceuticals segment. These assets continue to be
depreciated through the cease use date of the facility. The remaining charges were primarily attributed to process standardization
activities or attributed to pension plan curtailment charges both of which are recognized as incurred.
Restructuring charges included termination benefits for workforce reductions of manufacturing, selling, administrative, and research
and development personnel across all geographic regions of approximately 995 in 2010, 1,350 in 2009 and 2,370 in 2008.
55Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following table represents the activity of employee termination and other exit cost liabilities:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Liability at beginning of year $ 173 $ 209 $ 167
Charges 121 158 214
Change in estimates (8) (22) 1
Provision for restructuring, net 113 136 215
Foreign currency translation (5) (cid:650) (cid:650)
Charges in discontinued operations (cid:650) 15 3
Spending (155) (182) (174)
Mead Johnson split-off ⎯ (5) (cid:650)
ConvaTec divestiture (cid:650) (cid:650) (2)
Liability at end of year $ 126 $ 173 $ 209
In connection with the continued optimization of the manufacturing network, the operations in Latina, Italy were sold to
International Chemical Investors, SE (ICI) on May 31, 2010 resulting in a $218 million loss. The loss consisted of a $200 million
impairment charge recorded in 2010 attributed to the write-down of assets to fair value less cost of sale when the assets met the held
for sale criteria and $18 million of other working capital adjustments and transaction related fees. An €18 million ($22 million) 6%
subordinated promissory note payable in installments by May 2017 was received as consideration. Additional charges may be
required pertaining to the Company’s obligation to fund a portion of ICI’s future restructuring costs up to €19 million ($23 million).
As part of the transaction, a one year supply agreement was entered into with ICI in which the Company will be the non-exclusive
supplier of certain products to ICI. Also, a three year tolling and manufacturing agreement, which can be extended for an additional
two years, was entered into with ICI in which the Company will supply certain raw material products to be processed and finished
at the Latina facility and then distributed by the Company in various markets.
Note 5 ACQUISITIONS
ZymoGenetics, Inc. Acquisition
On October 12, 2010, BMS acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of common stock of ZymoGenetics, Inc. (ZymoGenetics) in
October 2010 for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $885 million. Acquisition related costs were $10 million and
classified as other (income)/expense. ZymoGenetics is focused on developing and commercializing therapeutic protein-based
products for the treatment of human diseases. The companies collaborated on the development of pegylated-interferon lambda, a
novel interferon currently in Phase IIb development for the treatment of Hepatitis C infection. The acquisition provides the
Company with full rights to develop and commercialize pegylated-interferon lambda and also brings proven capabilities with
therapeutic proteins and revenue from Recothrom, an FDA approved specialty surgical biologic. Goodwill generated from the
acquisition was primarily attributed to full ownership rights to pegylated-interferon lambda. Goodwill, IPRD and all other
intangible assets valued in this acquisition are non-deductible for tax purposes.
The purchase price allocation is as follows:
Purchase price: Dollars in Millions
Cash $ 885
Identifiable net assets:
Cash 56
Marketable securities 91
Inventory(1) 98
Other current and long-term assets 29
In-process research and development(2) 448
Intangible assets – Technology(3) 230
Deferred income taxes 9
Other current and long-term liabilities (91)
Total identifiable net assets 870
Goodwill $ 15
(1) Includes $63 million recorded in other long term assets as inventory that is expected to be utilized in excess of one year.
(2) Includes $310 million related to pegylated-interferon lambda.
(3) Attributed to Recothrom which is amortized over 10 years.
562010 Annual Report
The results of ZymoGenetics operations were included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from October 8,
2010. Pro forma supplemental financial information is not provided as the impact of the acquisition was not material to operating
results.
Medarex, Inc. Acquisition
On September 1, 2009, the Company acquired, by means of a tender offer and second-step merger, 100% of the remaining
outstanding shares (and stock equivalents) of Medarex not already owned for a total purchase price of $2,331 million. Acquisition
costs were $11 million and classified as other (income)/expense. Medarex is focused on the discovery, development and
commercialization of fully human antibody-based therapeutic products to address major unmet healthcare needs in the areas of
oncology, inflammation, autoimmune disorders and infectious diseases. As a result of the acquisition, the full rights over Yervoy
(ipilimumab), currently in Phase III development, were received that increases the biologics development pipeline creating a more
balanced portfolio of both small molecules and biologics. Goodwill generated from this acquisition was primarily attributed to the
more balanced portfolio associated with the BioPharma model and potential to optimize the existing Yervoy programs. Goodwill,
IPRD and all other intangible assets valued in this acquisition are non-deductible for tax purposes.
The purchase price allocation is as follows:
Purchase price: Dollars in Millions
Cash $ 2,285
Fair value of the Company’s equity in Medarex held prior to acquisition(1) 46
Total 2,331
Identifiable net assets:
Cash 53
Marketable securities 269
Other current and long-term assets(2) 127
In-process research and development(3) 1,475
Intangible assets - Technology(4) 120
Intangible assets - Licenses(5) 315
Short-term borrowings (92)
Other current and long-term liabilities (92)
Deferred income taxes (352)
Total identifiable net assets 1,823
Goodwill $ 508
(1) Other income of approximately $21 million was recognized from the remeasurement to fair value of the equity interest in Medarex held at the acquisition date.
(2) Includes a 5.1% ownership interest in Genmab ($64 million) and an 18.7% ownership in Celldex Therapeutics, Inc. ($17 million), which have been
subsequently sold as of December 31, 2009 for a loss of $33 million.
(3) Includes approximately $1.0 billion related to Yervoy.
(4) Amortized over 10 years.
(5) Amortized over 13 years.
The results of Medarex operations were included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from August 27, 2009. Pro
forma supplemental financial information is not provided as the impact of the acquisition was not material to operating results.
Kosan Biosciences, Inc. Acquisition
In June 2008, the Company completed the acquisition of Kosan Biosciences, Inc. (Kosan), a cancer therapeutics company with a
library of novel compounds, including Hsp90 inhibitors for cancer and microtubule stabilizers, which may have additional potential
in neurodegenerative diseases, for a net purchase price of approximately $191 million. The transaction was accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting. The purchase price was allocated to acquired-in-process research and development of $32 million,
other net assets of $32 million and goodwill of $127 million.
57Bristol-Myers Squibb
Note 6 MEAD JOHNSON NUTRITION COMPANY INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING
In February 2009, Mead Johnson completed an initial public offering (IPO), in which it sold 34.5 million shares of its Class A
common stock at $24 per share. Net proceeds of $782 million, after deducting $46 million of underwriting discounts, commissions
and offering expenses, were allocated to noncontrolling interest and capital in excess of par value of stock.
Upon completion of the IPO, 42.3 million shares of Mead Johnson Class A common stock and 127.7 million shares of Mead
Johnson Class B common stock were held by the Company, representing an 83.1% interest in Mead Johnson and 97.5% of the
combined voting power of the outstanding common stock. The rights of the holders of the shares of Class A common stock and
Class B common stock were identical, except with regard to voting and conversion. Each share of Class A common stock was
entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock was entitled to ten votes per share and was convertible at any
time at the election of the holder into one share of Class A common stock. The Class B common stock automatically converted into
shares of Class A common stock.
Various agreements related to the separation of Mead Johnson were entered into, including a separation agreement, a transitional
services agreement, a tax matters agreement, a registration rights agreement and an employee matters agreement.
Note 7 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Mead Johnson Nutrition Company Split-off
The split-off of the remaining interest in Mead Johnson was completed on December 23, 2009. The split-off was effected through
the exchange offer of previously held 170 million shares of Mead Johnson, after converting its Class B common stock to Class A
common stock, for 269 million outstanding shares of the Company’s stock resulting in a pre-tax gain of $7,275 million, $7,157
million net of taxes.
The shares received in connection with the exchange were valued using the closing price on December 23, 2009 of $25.70 and
reflected as treasury stock. The gain on the exchange was determined using the sum of the fair value of the shares received plus the
net deficit of Mead Johnson attributable to the Company less taxes and other direct expenses related to the transaction, including a
tax reserve of $244 million which was established.
ConvaTec Disposition
In August 2008, the divestiture of the ConvaTec business to Cidron Healthcare Limited, an affiliate of Nordic Capital Fund VII and
Avista Capital Partners L.P. (Avista), was completed for a gross purchase price of $4,050 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of
$3,387 million, $2,022 million net of taxes.
Medical Imaging Disposition
In January 2008, the divestiture of Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging (Medical Imaging) to Avista was completed for a gross
purchase price of approximately $525 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $25 million and an after-tax loss of $43 million.
Transitional Relationships with Discontinued Operations
Subsequent to the respective dispositions, cash flows and income associated with the Mead Johnson, ConvaTec and the Medical
Imaging businesses continued to be generated relating to activities that are transitional in nature, result from agreements that are
intended to facilitate the orderly transfer of business operations and include, among others, services for accounting, customer
service, distribution and manufacturing. Such activities related to the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses were completed
at December 31, 2010. The amended Mead Johnson agreement expires in September 2012. The income generated from these
transitional activities is included in other (income)/expense and is not expected to be material to the future results of operations or
cash flows.
582010 Annual Report
The following summarized financial information related to the Mead Johnson, ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses are
segregated from continuing operations and reported as discontinued operations through the date of disposition.
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2009 2008
Net sales:
Mead Johnson $ 2,826 $ 2,882
ConvaTec ⎯ 735
Medical Imaging ⎯ 34
Net sales $ 2,826 $ 3,651
Earnings before income taxes:
Mead Johnson $ 674 $ 696
ConvaTec ⎯ 175
Medical Imaging ⎯ 2
Earnings before income taxes 674 873
Provision for income taxes (389) (295)
Earnings, net of taxes 285 578
Gain on disposal:
Mead Johnson 7,275 ⎯
ConvaTec ⎯ 3,387
Medical Imaging ⎯ 25
Gain on disposal 7,275 3,412
Provision for income taxes (118) (1,433)
Gain on disposal, net of taxes 7,157 1,979
Net earnings from discontinued operations 7,442 2,557
Less net earnings from discontinued operations attributable to noncontrolling interest (69) (7)
Net earnings from discontinued operations attributable to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company $ 7,373 $ 2,550
59Bristol-Myers Squibb
Note 8 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Year Ended December 31,
Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data 2010 2009 2008
Basic EPS Calculation:
Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to BMS $ 3,102 $ 3,239 $ 2,697
Earnings attributable to unvested restricted shares (12) (18) (13)
Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to BMS common shareholders 3,090 3,221 2,684
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations Attributable to BMS(1) — 7,331 2,537
EPS Numerator – Basic $ 3,090 $ 10,552 $ 5,221
EPS Denominator – Basic:
Average Common Shares Outstanding 1,713 1,974 1,977
EPS – Basic:
Continuing Operations $ 1.80 $ 1.63 $ 1.36
Discontinued Operations — 3.72 1.28
Net Earnings $ 1.80 $ 5.35 $ 2.64
EPS Numerator – Diluted:
Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to BMS $ 3,102 $ 3,239 $ 2,697
Earnings attributable to unvested restricted shares (12) (17) 3
Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to BMS common shareholders 3,090 3,222 2,700
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations Attributable to BMS(1) — 7,331 2,537
EPS Numerator – Diluted $ 3,090 $ 10,553 $ 5,237
EPS Denominator – Diluted:
Average Common Shares Outstanding 1,713 1,974 1,977
Contingently convertible debt common stock equivalents 1 1 21
Incremental shares attributable to share-based compensation plans 13 3 1
Average Common Shares Outstanding and Common Share Equivalents 1,727 1,978 1,999
EPS – Diluted:
Continuing Operations $ 1.79 $ 1.63 $ 1.35
Discontinued Operations — 3.71 1.27
Net Earnings $ 1.79 $ 5.34 $ 2.62
(1) Net Earnings of Discontinued Operations used for EPS Calculation:
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations Attributable to BMS $ — $ 7,373 $ 2,550
Earnings attributable to unvested restricted shares — (42) (13)
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations Attributable to BMS used for EPS
Calculation $ — $ 7,331 $ 2,537
Anti-dilutive weighted-average equivalent shares:
Stock incentive plans 51 117 139
Total anti-dilutive shares 51 117 139
602010 Annual Report
Note 9 OTHER (INCOME)/EXPENSE
Other (income)/expense includes:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Interest expense $ 145 $ 184 $ 310
Interest income (75) (54) (130)
Impairment and loss on sale of manufacturing operations 236 — —
Loss/(Gain) on debt repurchase 6 (7) (57)
Auction Rate Securities (ARS) impairment — — 305
Net foreign exchange transaction (gains)/losses (6) 2 (78)
Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets (39) (360) (159)
Acquisition related items 10 (10) —
Other income from alliance partners (136) (148) (141)
Pension curtailment and settlement charges 28 43 8
Other (43) (31) (36)
Other (income)/expense $ 126 $ (381) $ 22
Note 10 INCOME TAXES
The components of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes categorized based on the location of the taxing
authorities were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
U.S. $ 3,833 $ 2,705 $ 2,248
Non-U.S. 2,238 2,897 2,528
Total $ 6,071 $ 5,602 $ 4,776
The provision/(benefit) for income taxes attributable to continuing operations consisted of:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Current:
U.S. $ 797 $ 410 $ 282
Non-U.S. 339 646 649
Total Current 1,136 1,056 931
Deferred:
U.S. 438 222 88
Non-U.S. (16) (96) 71
Total Deferred 422 126 159
Total Provision $ 1,558 $ 1,182 $ 1,090
Effective Tax Rate
The reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the U.S. statutory Federal income tax rate was:
% of Earnings Before Income Taxes
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes $ 6,071 $ 5,602 $ 4,776
U.S. statutory rate 2,125 35.0% 1,961 35.0% 1,671 35.0%
Tax effect of foreign subsidiaries’ earnings previously
considered permanently reinvested offshore 207 3.4% ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯
Foreign tax effect of certain operations in Ireland, Puerto
Rico and Switzerland (694) (11.4)% (598) (10.7)% (586) (12.3)%
State and local taxes (net of valuation allowance) 43 0.7% 14 0.3% 1 0.0%
U.S. Federal, state and foreign contingent tax matters (131) (2.1)% (64) (1.1)% (40) (0.8)%
Acquired in-process research and development expense ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 11 0.2%
U.S. Federal research and development tax credit (61) (1.0)% (81) (1.4)% (84) (1.8)%
Impairment of financial instruments ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 51 1.1%
Foreign and other 69 1.1% (50) (1.0)% 66 1.4%
$ 1,558 25.7% $ 1,182 21.1% $ 1,090 22.8%
61Bristol-Myers Squibb
The increase in the 2010 effective tax rate from 2009 was due to:
• A $207 million charge recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010, which resulted primarily from additional U.S. taxable
income from earnings of foreign subsidiaries previously considered to be permanently reinvested offshore;
• A $30 million charge in 2010 from the completion of the 2009 U.S. tax return;
• A $67 million benefit in 2009 from the completion of the 2008 U.S. tax return; and
• An unfavorable earnings mix between high and low tax jurisdictions.
Partially offset by:
• Certain favorable discrete tax adjustments of $131 million in 2010 compared to $64 million benefit in 2009, primarily
resulting from the effective settlements of U.S. and international uncertain tax positions; and
• An out-of-period tax adjustment of $59 million in 2010 related to previously unrecognized net deferred tax assets primarily
attributed to deferred profits for financial reporting purposes related to certain alliances as of December 31, 2009 which is
not material to any current or prior periods.
The decrease in the 2009 effective tax rate from 2008 was primarily due to:
• Higher 2008 pre-tax income in the U.S., including the gain on the sale of ImClone shares;
• An unfavorable earnings mix in 2008 in high tax jurisdictions;
• An unfavorable 2008 tax impact related to IPRD and ARS impairment charges; and
• An additional $67 million benefit in 2009 from the completion of the 2008 U.S. tax return.
Partially offset by:
• A $91 million benefit in 2008 related to the final settlement of the 2002-2003 audit with the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS).
Deferred Taxes and Valuation Allowance
The components of current and non-current deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Foreign net operating loss carryforwards $ 1,600 $ 1,476
Milestone payments and license fees 557 597
Deferred income 554 366
U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards 351 253
Pension and postretirement benefits 348 582
State net operating loss and credit carryforwards 337 324
Intercompany profit and other inventory items 311 263
U.S. Federal research and development tax credit carryforwards 243 266
Other foreign deferred tax assets 167 159
Share-based compensation 131 110
Legal settlements 20 10
Depreciation (52) (56)
Repatriation of foreign earnings (21) (25)
Acquired intangible assets (525) (248)
Tax deductible goodwill (630) (580)
U.S. Federal foreign tax credit carryforwards ⎯ 278
Other 299 224
3,690 3,999
Valuation allowance (1,863) (1,791)
Deferred tax assets $ 1,827 $ 2,208
Recognized as:
Deferred income taxes – current $ 1,036 $ 611
Deferred income taxes – non-current 850 1,636
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable – current (5) (8)
Other liabilities – non-current (54) (31)
Total $ 1,827 $ 2,208
622010 Annual Report
A valuation allowance against deferred tax assets is established when it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will
be realized. At December 31, 2010, a valuation allowance of $1,863 million was established for the following items: $1,493
million for foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, $356 million for state deferred tax assets including net operating
loss and tax credit carryforwards, and $14 million for U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards. Changes in the valuation
allowance were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Balance at beginning of year $ 1,791 $ 1,795 $ 1,950
Provision for valuation allowance 92 17 9
Release of valuation allowance/other (22) (74) (192)
Other comprehensive income (6) (8) 14
Goodwill 8 61 14
Balance at end of year $ 1,863 $ 1,791 $ 1,795
The U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards were acquired as a result of the acquisitions of ZymoGenetics, Medarex, Kosan
Biosciences, Inc. (Kosan) and Adnexus and are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The net
operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The research and development tax credit carryforwards
expire in varying amounts beginning in 2018. The realization of the research and development tax credit carryforwards is
dependent on generating sufficient domestic-sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured,
management believes it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized.
Income tax payments were $672 million in 2010, $885 million in 2009 and $636 million in 2008. The 2008 income tax payments
are net of a $432 million cash refund related to a foreign tax credit carryback claim to 2000 and 2001. The current tax benefit
realized upon the exercise of stock options is credited to capital in excess of par value of stock and was $8 million in 2010 and $5
million in 2009.
At December 31, 2010, U.S. taxes have not been provided on approximately $16.4 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign
subsidiaries as these undistributed earnings have been invested or are expected to be permanently invested offshore. If, in the
future, these earnings are repatriated to the U.S., or if such earnings are determined to be remitted in the foreseeable future,
additional tax provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would have to be made, it
is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that would have to be provided. The Company has favorable tax rates in
Ireland and Puerto Rico under grants not scheduled to expire prior to 2023.
During 2010, the Company completed an internal restructuring of certain legal entities which contributed to a $207 million charge
recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010. It is possible that U.S. tax authorities could assert additional material tax liabilities arising
from the restructuring. If any such assertion were to occur, the Company would vigorously challenge any such assertion and
believes it would prevail; however, there can be no assurance of such a result.
Business is conducted in various countries throughout the world and is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. As a result, a
significant number of tax returns are filed and subject to examination by various Federal, state and local tax authorities. Tax
examinations are often complex, as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of items reported and may require several years
to resolve. Liabilities are established for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but
not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable
provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known. The
effect of changes in estimates related to contingent tax liabilities is included in the effective tax rate reconciliation above.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Balance at beginning of year $ 968 $ 791 $ 1,058
Gross additions to tax positions related to current year 57 335 67
Gross reductions to tax positions related to current year ⎯ (11) (28)
Gross additions to tax positions related to prior years 177 97 238
Gross reductions to tax positions related to prior years (196) (180) (131)
Settlements (153) (37) (17)
Reductions to tax positions related to lapse of statute (7) (29) (378)
Cumulative translation adjustment (1) 2 (18)
Balance at end of year $ 845 $ 968 $ 791
63Bristol-Myers Squibb
Uncertain tax benefits reduce deferred tax assets to the extent the uncertainty directly related to that asset; otherwise, they are
recognized as either current or non-current U.S. and foreign income taxes payable. The unrecognized tax benefits that, if
recognized, would impact the effective tax rate were $818 million, $964 million and $675 million at December 31, 2010, 2009, and
2008, respectively.
Gross additions to tax positions related to the current year for the year ended December 31, 2009 include $287 million in tax
reserves related to both the transfer of various international units to Mead Johnson prior to its IPO and the split-off transaction
which is recognized in discontinued operations. Gross reductions to tax positions related to prior years for the year ended
December 31, 2009 include $10 million in liabilities related to Mead Johnson.
Accrued interest and penalties for unrecognized tax benefits are classified as either current or non-current U.S. and foreign income
taxes payable. Accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits were $51 million, $39 million, and $64 million at December
31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Accrued penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits were $23 million, $19 million, and
$20 million at December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.
Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are classified as income tax expense. The expense/(benefit) related to
interest on unrecognized tax benefits was expense of $12 million in 2010, and benefits of $25 million in 2009 and $17 million in
2008. The expense/(benefit) related to penalties on unrecognized tax benefits was expense of $4 million in 2010, and benefits of $1
million in 2009 and $7 million in 2008.
The Company is currently under examination by a number of tax authorities, including all of the major tax jurisdictions listed in the
table below, which have proposed adjustments to tax for issues such as transfer pricing, certain tax credits and the deductibility of
certain expenses. The Company estimates that it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits at
December 31, 2010 will decrease in the range of approximately $245 million to $275 million in the next twelve months as a result
of the settlement of certain tax audits and other events. The expected change in unrecognized tax benefits, primarily settlement
related, will involve the payment of additional taxes, the adjustment of certain deferred taxes and/or the recognition of tax benefits.
The Company also anticipates that it is reasonably possible that new issues will be raised by tax authorities which may require
increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits; however, an estimate of such increases cannot reasonably be made at this
time. The Company believes that it has adequately provided for all open tax years by tax jurisdiction.
Income tax returns are filed in the U.S. Federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, the
Company is subject to U.S. Federal, state and local, and non-U.S. income tax examinations by tax authorities. The following is a
summary of major tax jurisdictions for which tax authorities may assert additional taxes based upon tax years currently under audit
and subsequent years that will likely be audited:
U.S. 2005 to 2010
Canada 2001 to 2010
France 2008 to 2010
Germany 2007 to 2010
Italy 2006 to 2010
Mexico 2003 to 2010
642010 Annual Report
Note 11 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities are classified in one of the following categories:
Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or
liabilities. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs.
Level 2: Observable prices that are based on inputs not quoted on active markets, but corroborated by market data.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. The fair value hierarchy gives the lowest
priority to Level 3 inputs.
December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009
Quoted Quoted
Prices in Prices in
Active Significant Active Significant
Markets for Other Significant Markets for Other Significant
Identical Observable Unobservable Identical Observable Unobservable
Assets Inputs Inputs Assets Inputs Inputs
Dollars in Millions (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total
Available for Sale:
U.S. Treasury Bills $ 404 $ ⎯ $ ⎯ $ 404 $ ⎯ $ ⎯ $ ⎯ $ ⎯
U.S. Government Agency Securities 376 ⎯ ⎯ 376 225 ⎯ ⎯ 225
Equity Securities 6 ⎯ ⎯ 6 11 ⎯ ⎯ 11
Prime Money Market Funds ⎯ 3,983 ⎯ 3,983 ⎯ 5,807 ⎯ 5,807
Corporate Debt Securities ⎯ 2,011 ⎯ 2,011 ⎯ 837 ⎯ 837
Commercial Paper ⎯ 521 ⎯ 521 ⎯ 518 ⎯ 518
FDIC Insured Debt Securities ⎯ 356 ⎯ 356 ⎯ 252 ⎯ 252
U.S. Treasury Money Market Funds ⎯ 4 ⎯ 4 ⎯ 218 ⎯ 218
U.S. Government Agency Money Market Funds ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 24 ⎯ 24
Auction Rate Securities ⎯ ⎯ 91 91 ⎯ ⎯ 88 88
Floating Rate Securities (FRS) ⎯ ⎯ 19 19 ⎯ ⎯ 91 91
Total available for sale assets 786 6,875 110 7,771 236 7,656 179 8,071
Derivatives:
Interest Rate Swap Derivatives ⎯ 234 ⎯ 234 ⎯ 165 ⎯ 165
Foreign Currency Forward Derivatives ⎯ 26 ⎯ 26 ⎯ 21 ⎯ 21
Total derivative assets ⎯ 260 ⎯ 260 ⎯ 186 ⎯ 186
Total assets at fair value $ 786 $ 7,135 $ 110 $8,031 $ 236 $ 7,842 $ 179 $8,257
Derivatives:
Foreign Currency Forward Derivatives $ — $ 48 $ — $ 48 $ — $ 31 $ — $ 31
Interest Rate Swap Derivatives — — — — — 5 — 5
Natural Gas Contracts — — — — — 1 — 1
Total derivative liabilities — 48 — 48 — 37 — 37
Total liabilities at fair value $ — $ 48 $ — $ 48 $ — $ 37 $ — $ 37
A majority of the ARS, which are private placement securities with long-term nominal maturities, were rated ‘A’ by Standard and
Poor’s, and primarily represent interests in insurance securitizations. Valuation models are utilized that rely exclusively on Level 3
inputs due to the lack of observable market quotes for the ARS portfolio. These inputs are based on expected cash flow streams and
collateral values including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying the security, discount rates and overall
capital market liquidity. The fair value of ARS was determined using internally developed valuations that were based in part on
indicative bids received on the underlying assets of the securities and other evidence of fair value.
65Bristol-Myers Squibb
FRS are long-term debt securities with coupons that reset periodically against a benchmark interest rate. During 2010, $93 million
of principal at par for FRS was received. There were no known reported defaults of the FRS. Due to the current lack of an active
market for FRS and the general lack of transparency into their underlying assets, other qualitative analysis are relied upon to value
FRS including discussion with brokers and fund managers, default risk underlying the security and overall capital market liquidity
(Level 3 inputs). Declines in fair value are reported as a temporary loss in other comprehensive income because there are no
intentions to sell these investments nor is it more likely than not that these investments will be required to be sold before recovery
of their amortized cost basis.
For financial assets and liabilities that utilize Level 1 and Level 2 inputs, both direct and indirect observable price quotes are
utilized, including LIBOR and EURIBOR yield curves, foreign exchange forward prices, NYMEX futures pricing and common
stock price quotes. Below is a summary of valuation techniques for Level 1 and Level 2 financial assets and liabilities:
• U.S. Treasury Bills, U.S. Government Agency Securities and U.S. Government Agency Money Market Funds –
valued at the quoted market price from observable pricing sources at the reporting date.
• Equity Securities – valued using quoted stock prices from New York Stock Exchange or National Association of
Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System at the reporting date.
• Prime Money Market Funds – net asset value of $1 per share.
• Corporate Debt Securities and Commercial Paper – valued at the quoted market price from observable pricing sources
at the reporting date.
• FDIC Insured Debt Securities – valued at the quoted market price from observable pricing sources at the reporting date.
• U.S. Treasury Money Market Funds – valued at the quoted market price from observable pricing sources at the reporting
date.
• Interest rate swap derivative assets and liabilities – valued using LIBOR and EURIBOR yield curves, less credit
valuation adjustments, at the reporting date. Counterparties to these contracts are highly-rated financial institutions, none
of which experienced any significant downgrades during 2010. Valuations may fluctuate considerably from period-to-
period due to volatility in underlying interest rates, driven by market conditions and the duration of the swap. In addition,
credit valuation adjustment volatility may have a significant impact on the valuation of interest rate swaps due to changes
in counterparty credit ratings and credit default swap spreads.
• Foreign currency forward derivative assets and liabilities – valued using quoted forward foreign exchange prices at the
reporting date. Counterparties to these contracts are highly-rated financial institutions, none of which experienced any
significant downgrades during 2010. Valuations may fluctuate considerably from period-to-period due to volatility in the
underlying foreign currencies. A majority of foreign currency forward derivatives mature within two years and
counterparty credit risk is not considered significant.
662010 Annual Report
Note 12 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES
Cash and cash equivalents were $5,033 million at December 31, 2010 and $7,683 million at December 31, 2009 and consisted of
prime money market funds, government agency securities and treasury securities. Cash equivalents primarily consist of highly
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase and are recorded at cost, which
approximates fair value.
The following table summarizes current and non-current marketable securities, accounted for as “available for sale” debt securities
and equity securities:
December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009
Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized
Gain in Loss in Gain in Loss in
Amortized Accumulated Accumulated Amortized Accumulated Accumulated
Dollars in Millions Cost Basis OCI OCI Fair Value Cost Basis OCI OCI Fair Value
Current marketable securities:
Certificates of deposit $ 1,209 $ — $ — $ 1,209 $ 501 $ — $ — $ 501
Corporate debt securities 525 2 — 527 — — — —
Commercial Paper 482 — — 482 205 — — 205
FDIC insured debt securities 50 — — 50 — — — —
U.S. government agency securities ⎯ — — ⎯ 125 — — 125
Total current $ 2,266 $ 2 $ — $ 2,268 $ 831 $ — $ — $ 831
Non-current marketable securities:
Corporate debt securities $ 1,470 $ 24 $ (10) $ 1,484 $ 834 $ 5 $ (2) $ 837
U.S. Treasury Bills 400 4 — 404 — — — —
U.S. government agency securities 375 1 — 376 100 — — 100
FDIC insured debt securities 303 3 — 306 252 — — 252
Auction rate securities 80 11 — 91 80 8 — 88
Floating rate securities(1) 21 — (2) 19 113 — (22) 91
Other 1 — — 1 1 — — 1
Total non-current $ 2,650 $ 43 $ (12) $ 2,681 $ 1,380 $ 13 $ (24) $ 1,369
Other assets:
Equity securities $ 6 $ — $ — $ 6 $ 11 $ — $ — $ 11
(1) All FRS have been in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or more at December 31, 2010.
The following table summarizes the activity for financial assets utilizing Level 3 fair value measurements:
2010 2009
Non-current Current Non-current
Dollars in Millions FRS ARS Total FRS FRS ARS Total
Fair value at January 1 $ 91 $ 88 $ 179 $ 109 $ 94 $ 94 $ 297
Sales and settlements (93) — (93) (115) (26) (14) (155)
Unrealized gains/(losses) 21 3 24 6 23 8 37
Fair value at December 31 $ 19 $ 91 $ 110 $ — $ 91 $ 88 $ 179
At December 31, 2010, $2,510 million of non-current “available for sale” corporate debt securities, U.S. government agency
securities, U.S. Treasury Bills, FDIC insured debt securities and floating rate securities mature within five years and $80 million of
corporate debt securities mature within six to 10 years. All auction rate securities mature beyond 10 years.
67Bristol-Myers Squibb
Note 13 RECEIVABLES
Receivables include:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Trade receivables $ 2,092 $ 2,000
Less allowances 107 103
Net trade receivables 1,985 1,897
Alliance partners receivables 1,076 870
Prepaid and refundable income taxes 223 103
Miscellaneous receivables 196 294
Receivables $ 3,480 $ 3,164
Receivables are netted with deferred income related to alliance partners until recognition of income. As a result, alliance partner
receivables and deferred income were reduced by $734 million and $730 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For
additional information regarding alliance partners, see Note 2 “Alliances and Collaborations.” Non-U.S. receivables sold on a
nonrecourse basis were $932 million and $660 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the aggregate, receivables due from three
pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. represented 51% and 47% of total trade receivables at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.
In the second quarter of 2010, the government of Greece announced that it intends to convert certain past due receivables from
government run hospitals into non-interest bearing notes to be paid over one to three year periods. At December 31, 2010, the notes
were in the process of being issued, and receivables of €39 million ($51 million) are included in other long-term assets. A $10
million charge attributed to the imputed discount on the expected non-interest bearing notes over the expected collection period was
recognized during 2010 in other (income)/expense.
Changes to the allowances were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Balance at beginning of year $ 103 $ 128 $ 180
Provision for bad debt, charge-backs and discounts 864 776 829
Bad debts written-off/payment for charge-backs and discounts (860) (800) (835)
Discontinued operations — (1) (46)
Balance at end of year $ 107 $ 103 $ 128
Note 14 INVENTORIES
Inventories include:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Finished goods $ 397 $ 580
Work in process 608 630
Raw and packaging materials 199 203
Inventories $ 1,204 $ 1,413
Inventories expected to remain on-hand beyond one year were $297 million and $249 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, and are included in non-current other assets. In addition, $44 million of these inventories currently cannot be sold in
the U.S. until the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approves a manufacturing process change. Inventories in non-current
assets include capitalized costs related to production of products for programs in Phase III development subject to final FDA
approval of $59 million and $49 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The status of the regulatory approval
process and the probability of future sales were considered in assessing the recoverability of these costs.
682010 Annual Report
Note 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment includes:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Land $ 133 $ 142
Buildings 4,565 4,350
Machinery, equipment and fixtures 3,423 3,563
Construction in progress 139 840
Gross property, plant and equipment 8,260 8,895
Less accumulated depreciation 3,596 3,840
Property, plant and equipment $ 4,664 $ 5,055
Depreciation expense was $473 million in 2010, $469 million in 2009 and $562 million in 2008, of which $51 million in 2009 and
$50 million in 2008 was included in discontinued operations. Capitalized interest was $8 million in 2010, $13 million in 2009 and
$23 million in 2008.
Note 16 GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment were as follows:
Dollars in Millions BioPharmaceuticals Other Total
Balance at January 1, 2009 $ 4,710 $ 117 $ 4,827
Medarex acquisition 508 ⎯ 508
Mead Johnson split-off — (117) (117)
Balance at December 31, 2009 5,218 — 5,218
ZymoGenetics acquisition 15 ⎯ 15
Balance at December 31, 2010 $ 5,233 $ — $ 5,233
Other intangible assets include:
December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009
Estimated Gross Carrying Accumulated Net Carrying Gross Carrying Accumulated Net Carrying
Dollars in Millions Useful Lives Amount Amortization Amount Amount Amortization Amount
Licenses 2 – 15 years $ 965 $ 368 $ 597 $ 963 $ 299 $ 664
Technology 9 – 15 years 1,562 1,001 561 1,364 905 459
Capitalized software 3 – 10 years 1,140 841 299 1,037 770 267
Total finite-lived intangible assets 3,667 2,210 1,457 3,364 1,974 1,390
In-process research and
development (Note 5) 1,913 — 1,913 1,475 — 1,475
Total other intangible assets $ 5,580 $ 2,210 $ 3,370 $ 4,839 $ 1,974 $ 2,865
Changes in other intangible assets were as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Other intangible assets carrying amount at January 1 $ 2,865 $ 1,151 $ 1,330
Capitalized software and other additions 107 96 138
ZymoGenetics acquisition 678 ⎯ —
Medarex acquisition ⎯ 1,910 —
Mead Johnson split-off ⎯ (50) —
Sale of ConvaTec — — (21)
Amortization – licenses and technology (199) (170) (170)
Amortization – capitalized software (72) (68) (84)
Impairment charges (10) — (40)
Other 1 (4) (2)
Other intangible assets carrying amount at December 31 $ 3,370 $ 2,865 $ 1,151
69Bristol-Myers Squibb
Amortization expense included in discontinued operations was $9 million in 2009 and $12 million in 2008.
Expected future amortization expense of the December 31, 2010 finite-lived other intangible assets is $293 million in 2011, $259
million in 2012, $177 million in 2013, $163 million in 2014 and $130 million in 2015 and $435 million thereafter.
Note 17 ACCRUED EXPENSES
Accrued expenses include:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Employee compensation and benefits $ 718 $ 659
Royalties 576 570
Accrued research and development 411 473
Restructuring⎯current 108 142
Pension and postretirement benefits 47 43
Accrued litigation 54 39
Other 826 859
Total accrued expenses $ 2,740 $ 2,785
Note 18 SALES REBATES AND RETURN ACCRUALS
Reductions to trade receivables and listing of accrued rebates and returns liabilities are as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Charge-backs related to government programs $ 48 $ 42
Cash discounts 29 26
Reductions to trade receivables $ 77 $ 68
Managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts $ 216 $ 199
Medicaid rebates 327 166
Sales returns 187 169
Other adjustments 127 88
Accrued rebates and returns $ 857 $ 622
Note 19 DEFERRED INCOME
Deferred income includes:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Upfront licensing and milestone receipts $ 797 $ 815
Atripla deferred revenue 227 68
Gain on sale-leaseback transactions 147 180
Other 126 123
Total deferred income $ 1,297 $ 1,186
Current portion $ 402 $ 237
Non-current portion 895 949
Upfront licensing and milestone receipts are being amortized over the expected life of the product. See Note 2 “Alliances and
Collaborations” for information pertaining to revenue recognition and other transactions with alliances and collaborations. The
deferred gain on sale-leaseback transactions relates to several sale-leaseback transactions which is being amortized over the
remaining lease terms of the related facilities through 2018 and was $27 million in 2010, $28 million in 2009 and $25 million in
2008. See Note 25 “Leases” for information pertaining to gain on sale-leasebacks transactions.
702010 Annual Report
Note 20 EQUITY
Changes in common shares, treasury stock and capital in excess of par value of stock were as follows:
Cost Capital in Excess
Common Shares Treasury of Treasury of Par Value
Dollars and Shares in Millions Issued Stock Stock of Stock
Balance at January 1, 2008 2,205 226 $ (10,584) $ 2,625
Employee stock compensation plans — — 18 132
Balance at December 31, 2008 2,205 226 (10,566) 2,757
Mead Johnson IPO — — — 942
Adjustments to the Mead Johnson net asset transfer — ⎯ ⎯ (7)
Mead Johnson split-off — 269 (6,921) ⎯
Employee stock compensation plans — (4) 123 76
Balance at December 31, 2009 2,205 491 (17,364) 3,768
Stock repurchase program — 23 (587) ⎯
Employee stock compensation plans — (13) 497 (86)
Balance at December 31, 2010 2,205 501 $ (17,454) $ 3,682
The accumulated balances related to each component of other comprehensive income/(loss) (OCI), net of taxes, were as follows:
Foreign Derivatives Pension and Other Available Accumulated Other
Currency Qualifying as Postretirement for Comprehensive
Dollars in Millions Translation Effective Hedges Benefits Sale Securities Income/(Loss)
Balance at January 1, 2008 $ (325) $ (37) $ (973) $ (126) $ (1,461)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) (99) 51 (1,285) 75 (1,258)
Balance at December 31, 2008 (424) 14 (2,258) (51) (2,719)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 81 (44) 100 41 178
Balance at December 31, 2009 (343) (30) (2,158) (10) (2,541)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 121 10 (5) 44 170
Balance at December 31, 2010 $ (222) $ (20) $ (2,163) $ 34 $ (2,371)
The reconciliation of noncontrolling interest was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Balance at January 1 $ (58) $ (33) $ (27)
Mead Johnson IPO ⎯ (160) ⎯
Adjustments to the Mead Johnson net asset transfer ⎯ 7 ⎯
Mead Johnson split-off ⎯ 105 ⎯
Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest 2,091 1,808 1,468
Other comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interest ⎯ 10 ⎯
Distributions (2,108) (1,795) (1,474)
Balance at December 31 $ (75) $ (58) $ (33)
Noncontrolling interest is primarily related to the partnerships with sanofi for the territory covering the Americas for net sales of
Plavix. Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest are presented net of taxes of $683 million in 2010, $589 million in 2009
and $472 million in 2008, in the consolidated statements of earnings with a corresponding increase to the provision for income
taxes. Distribution of the partnership profits to sanofi and sanofi's funding of ongoing partnership operations occur on a routine
basis and are included within operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. The above activity includes the pre-
tax income and distributions related to these partnerships. Net earnings from noncontrolling interest included in discontinued
operations was $69 million in 2009 and $7 million in 2008.
Treasury stock is recognized at the cost to reacquire the shares. Treasury shares acquired from the Mead Johnson split-off were
recognized at the fair value of the stock as of the split-off date. Shares issued from treasury are recognized utilizing the first-in first-
out method.
71Bristol-Myers Squibb
In May 2010, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of common stock. Repurchases may be made
either in the open market or through private transactions, including under repurchase plans established in accordance with Rule
10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date
but is expected to take place over the next few years. It may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During 2010, the Company
repurchased 23 million shares at the average price of approximately $25.50 per share for an aggregate cost of $587 million which
includes $1 million of transaction fees.
Note 21 PENSION, POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT LIABILITIES
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans and termination
indemnity plans for regular full-time employees. The principal defined benefit pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement
Income Plan, which covers most U.S. employees and which represents approximately 70% of the consolidated pension plan assets
and obligations. The funding policy is to contribute amounts to fund past service liability . Plan benefits are based primarily on the
participant’s years of credited service and final average compensation. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income
securities.
Comprehensive medical and group life benefits are provided for substantially all U.S. retirees who elect to participate in
comprehensive medical and group life plans. The medical plan is contributory. Contributions are adjusted periodically and vary by
date of retirement. The life insurance plan is noncontributory. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income securities.
Similar plans exist for employees in certain countries outside of the U.S.
The net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans includes:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
Service cost — benefits earned during the year $ 44 $ 178 $ 227 $ 6 $ 6 $ 7
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation 347 381 389 30 37 38
Expected return on plan assets (453) (453) (469) (24) (19) (28)
Amortization of prior service cost/(benefit) — 4 10 (3) (3) (3)
Amortization of net actuarial loss 95 94 98 10 10 5
Net periodic benefit cost 33 204 255 19 31 19
Curtailments 5 24 1 — — (2)
Settlements 22 29 36 — — —
Special termination benefits 1 — 14 — — 2
Total net periodic benefit cost $ 61 $ 257 $ 306 $ 19 $ 31 $ 19
Continuing operations $ 61 $ 242 $ 256 $ 19 $ 28 $ 17
Discontinued operations — 15 50 — 3 2
Total net periodic benefit cost $ 61 $ 257 $ 306 $ 19 $ 31 $ 19
The U.S. Retirement Income Plan and several other plans were amended during June 2009. The amendments eliminate the
crediting of future benefits relating to service effective December 31, 2009. Salary increases will continue to be considered for an
additional five-year period in determining the benefit obligation related to prior service. The plan amendments were accounted for
as a curtailment. As a result, the applicable plan assets and obligations were remeasured. The remeasurement resulted in a $455
million reduction to accumulated OCI ($295 million net of taxes) and a corresponding decrease to the unfunded status of the plan
due to the curtailment, updated plan asset valuations and a change in the discount rate from 7.0% to 7.5%. A curtailment charge of
$25 million was also recognized in other (income)/expense during the second quarter of 2009 for the remaining amount of
unrecognized prior service cost. In addition, all participants were reclassified as inactive for benefit plan purposes and actuarial
gains and losses will be amortized over the expected weighted-average remaining lives of plan participants (32 years).
In connection with the plan amendment, contributions to principal defined contribution plans in the U.S. and Puerto Rico increased
effective January 1, 2010. The net impact of the above actions is expected to reduce the future retiree benefit costs, although future
costs will continue to be subject to market conditions and other factors including actual and expected plan asset performance,
interest rate fluctuations and lump-sum benefit payments.
In 2009, certain plan assets and related obligations were transferred from the U.S. Retirement Income Plan and several other plans
to new plans sponsored by Mead Johnson for active Mead Johnson participants resulting in a $170 million reduction to accumulated
OCI ($110 million net of taxes) in the first quarter of 2009 and a corresponding decrease to the unfunded status of the plan due to
updated plan asset valuations and a change in the discount rate from 6.5% to 7.0%.
722010 Annual Report
The net actuarial loss and prior service cost expected to be amortized from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2011
are:
Dollars in Millions Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Amortization of net actuarial loss $ 112 $ 9
Amortization of prior service cost/(benefit) — (2)
$ 112 $ 7
Changes in defined benefit and postretirement benefit plan obligations, assets, funded status and amounts recognized in the
consolidated balance sheets were as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2010 2009
Benefit obligations at beginning of year $ 6,386 $ 6,068 $ 579 $ 569
Service cost—benefits earned during the year 44 178 6 6
Interest cost 347 381 30 37
Plan participants’ contributions 3 3 25 25
Curtailments 2 (153) — —
Settlements (50) (61) — —
Actuarial losses/(gains) 397 685 16 40
Transfer to Mead Johnson — (310) — (21)
Retiree Drug Subsidy — — 10 7
Benefits paid (377) (491) (78) (87)
Special termination benefits 1 — — —
Exchange rate (gains)/losses (49) 86 1 3
Benefit obligations at end of year $ 6,704 $ 6,386 $ 589 $ 579
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year $ 5,103 $ 4,152 $ 278 $ 230
Actual return on plan assets 697 848 37 48
Employer contributions 431 789 43 55
Plan participants’ contributions 3 3 25 25
Settlements (50) (61) — —
Transfer to Mead Johnson — (209) — —
Retiree Drug Subsidy — — 10 7
Benefits paid (377) (491) (78) (87)
Exchange rate losses/(gains) (41) 72 — —
Fair value of plan assets at end of year $ 5,766 $ 5,103 $ 315 $ 278
Funded status $ (938) $ (1,283) $ (274) $ (301)
Assets/Liabilities recognized:
Other assets $ 37 $ 23 $ — $ —
Accrued expenses (33) (30) (13) (13)
Pension and other postretirement liabilities (accrued benefit cost) (942) (1,276) (261) (288)
Funded status $ (938) $ (1,283) $ (274) $ (301)
Recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss:
Net actuarial loss $ 3,150 $ 3,115 $ 151 $ 157
Net obligation at adoption 1 1 — —
Prior service cost/(benefit) — 3 (10) (12)
Total $ 3,151 $ 3,119 $ 141 $ 145
The above table includes activity related to Mead Johnson pension and postretirement plans for 2009. As part of the separation
activities, certain defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets and liabilities were transferred to separate Mead Johnson
sponsored defined benefit pension and postretirement plans, with the final transfers occurring in December 2009. The related plan
assets and liabilities for transferring participants were allocated based on assumptions as set forth in a plan transfer agreement.
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $6,407 million and $5,908 million at December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively.
73Bristol-Myers Squibb
Additional information related to pension plans was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:
Projected benefit obligation $ 6,436 $ 6,269
Fair value of plan assets 5,461 4,963
Pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:
Accumulated benefit obligation $ 6,112 $ 5,605
Fair value of plan assets 5,415 4,756
Actuarial Assumptions
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31 were as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2010 2009 2010 2009
Discount rate 5.19% 5.62% 4.79% 5.53%
Rate of compensation increase 2.39% 3.61% 2.03% 3.50%
Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December 31 were as
follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
Discount rate 5.61% 6.89% 6.47% 5.53% 7.03% 6.46%
Expected long-term return on plan assets 8.26% 8.24% 8.29% 8.75% 8.75% 8.75%
Rate of compensation increase 3.70% 3.58% 3.70% 3.54% 3.49% 3.60%
The yield on high quality corporate bonds that matches the duration of the benefit obligations is used in determining the discount
rate. The Citigroup Pension Discount curve is used in developing the discount rate for the U.S. plans.
Several factors are considered in developing the expected return on plan assets, including long-term historical returns and input
from external advisors. Individual asset class return forecasts were developed based upon market conditions, for example, price-
earnings levels and yields and long-term growth expectations. The expected long-term rate of return is the weighted-average of the
target asset allocation of each individual asset class. Historical long-term actual annualized returns for U.S. pension plans were as
follows:
2010 2009 2008
10 years 4.7% 3.6% 3.4%
15 years 7.9% 8.4% 7.1%
20 years 9.3% 8.4% 8.3%
The expected return on plan assets was determined using the expected rate of return and a calculated value of assets, referred to as
the “market-related value.” The fair value of plan assets exceeds the market-related value by $313 million at December 31, 2010.
The market-related value exceeds the fair value of plan assets by $222 million at December 31, 2009. The change was primarily
driven by asset gains in 2010 and 2009 offset by the full recognition of significant losses incurred on plan assets in 2008.
Differences between the assumed and actual returns are amortized to the market-related value on a straight-line basis over a three-
year period.
Gains and losses have resulted from changes in actuarial assumptions (such as changes in the discount rate) and from differences
between assumed and actual experience (such as differences between actual and assumed returns on plan assets). These gains and
losses (except those differences being amortized to the market-related value) are only amortized to the extent they exceed 10% of
the higher of the market-related value or the projected benefit obligation for each respective plan. As a result, approximately $400
million related to pension benefits is not expected to be amortized during 2011. The majority of the remaining actuarial losses are
amortized over the life expectancy of the plans’ participants for U.S. plans and expected remaining service periods for most other
plans.
742010 Annual Report
Assumed healthcare cost trend rates at December 31 were as follows:
2010 2009 2008
Healthcare cost trend rate assumed for next year 7.90% 8.38% 8.91%
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate) 4.51% 4.51% 4.52%
Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2018 2018 2017
Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have an effect on the amounts reported for the healthcare plans. A one-percentage-point
change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects:
1-Percentage- 1-Percentage-
Dollars in Millions Point Increase Point Decrease
Effect on total of service and interest cost $ 2 $ (1)
Effect on postretirement benefit obligation 47 (23)
Plan Assets
The fair value of pension and postretirement plan assets by asset category at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:
December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009
Dollars in Millions Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Equity Funds $ 237 $ 1,665 $ 7 $ 1,909 $ 215 $ 1,516 $ 8 $ 1,739
Equity Securities 1,752 ⎯ ⎯ 1,752 1,509 ⎯ ⎯ 1,509
Fixed Income Funds 181 367 ⎯ 548 139 322 ⎯ 461
Venture Capital and Limited Partnerships ⎯ ⎯ 415 415 ⎯ ⎯ 391 391
Government Mortgage Backed Securities ⎯ 391 ⎯ 391 ⎯ 285 ⎯ 285
Corporate Debt Securities ⎯ 309 14 323 ⎯ 294 18 312
Short-Term Investment Funds ⎯ 244 ⎯ 244 ⎯ 219 ⎯ 219
U.S. Treasury and Agency Securities 26 112 ⎯ 138 131 9 ⎯ 140
Insurance Contracts ⎯ ⎯ 144 144 ⎯ ⎯ 141 141
Collateralized Mortgage Obligation Bonds ⎯ 87 10 97 ⎯ 79 13 92
Event Driven Hedge Funds ⎯ 86 ⎯ 86 ⎯ 63 ⎯ 63
Asset Backed Securities ⎯ 24 7 31 ⎯ 11 6 17
State and Municipal Bonds ⎯ 24 ⎯ 24 ⎯ 10 ⎯ 10
Real Estate ⎯ 11 ⎯ 11 ⎯ 8 8 16
Cash and Cash Equivalents (32) ⎯ ⎯ (32) (14) ⎯ ⎯ (14)
Total plan assets at fair value $ 2,164 $ 3,320 $ 597 $ 6,081 $ 1,980 $ 2,816 $ 585 $ 5,381
Fair value is determined based on observable market quotes or valuation models using assessments of counterparty credit
worthiness, credit default risk or underlying security and overall capital market liquidity. Transfers between fair value levels are
recognized at the beginning of the reporting period. The investment valuation policies per investment class are as follows:
Equity Funds – Securities classified as Level 1 include publicly traded equities traded on a national securities exchange which
are valued at their last reported sales price at the reporting date. Securities classified as Level 2 are valued at the net asset value
of the shares held at year end, which is based on the fair value of the underlying investments. Level 3 equity funds are valued at
estimated fair value. The estimated fair value is based on the fair value of the underlying investment values or cost plus or minus
accumulated earnings or losses which approximates fair value.
Equity Securities – Securities classified as Level 1 include publicly traded equities traded on a national securities exchange
which are valued at their last reported sales price at the reporting date. Publicly traded equities traded in the over-the-counter
market are valued at the last reported bid price at the reporting date.
Fixed Income Funds – Securities classified as Level 1 include publicly traded equities traded on a national securities exchange
which are valued at their last reported sales price at the reporting date. Securities classified as Level 2 are valued at the net asset
value of the shares held at year end, which is based on the fair value of the underlying investments.
Venture Capital and Limited Partnerships – Interests classified as Level 3 are carried at the estimated fair value. The
estimated fair value is based on the fair value of the underlying investment values or cost plus or minus accumulated earnings or
losses which approximates fair value.
75Bristol-Myers Squibb
Government Mortgage Backed Securities – Securities classified as Level 2 are valued at the quoted market price from broker
or dealer quotations from transparent pricing sources at the reporting date.
Corporate Debt Securities – Securities classified as Level 2 are either valued at quoted market prices from observable pricing
sources at the reporting date or valued based upon comparable securities with similar yields and credit ratings. Securities
classified as Level 3 are valued from estimated bids from brokers or other third party vendor sources that utilize expected cash
flow streams and other data including counterparty credit quality, default risk, discount rates and the overall capital market
liquidity.
Short-Term Investment Funds – Securities classified as Level 2 are valued at the net asset value of the shares held at year end,
which is based on the fair value of the underlying investments. Short term investments are primarily invested in short term
money market instruments.
U.S. Treasury and Agency Securities – Securities classified as Level 1 are valued at quoted market prices from observable
pricing sources at the reporting date. Securities classified as Level 2 are valued at the quoted market price from broker or dealer
quotations from transparent pricing sources at the reporting date.
Insurance Contracts – Interests classified as Level 3 are carried at contract value, which approximates the estimated fair value.
The estimated fair value is based on the fair value of the underlying investment of the insurance company. Insurance contracts
are held by certain non-U.S. pension plans.
Collateralized Mortgage Obligation Bonds – Securities classified as Level 2 are either valued at quoted market prices from
observable pricing sources at the reporting date or valued based upon comparable securities with similar yields, credit ratings
and purpose of the underlying loan. Securities classified as Level 3 are valued from estimated bids from brokers or other third-
party vendor sources that utilize expected cash flow streams and other data including counterparty credit quality, default risk,
discount rates and the overall capital market liquidity.
Event Driven Hedge Funds – Securities classified as Level 2 are valued at the net asset value of the shares held at year end,
which is based on the fair value of the underlying investments. Event driven hedge funds primarily invest in long, short and
relative country positions in various strategies including global fixed income, global currencies, global equities, commodities,
emerging market debt, and inflation-indexed bonds.
Asset Backed Securities – Securities classified as Level 2 are either valued at quoted market prices from observable pricing
sources at the reporting date or valued based upon comparable securities with similar yields, credit ratings and purpose of the
underlying loan. Securities classified as Level 3 are valued from estimated bids from brokers or other third-party vendor sources
that utilize expected cash flow streams and other data including counterparty credit quality, default risk, discount rates and the
overall capital market liquidity.
State and Municipal Bonds – Securities classified as Level 2 are valued at the quoted market price from broker or dealer
quotations from transparent pricing sources at the reporting date.
Real Estate – Interests classified as Level 2 are either valued at quoted market prices from observable pricing sources at the
reporting date or valued based upon comparable investments. Interests classified as Level 3 are valued at the net asset value of
the shares held at year end, which is based on the fair value of the underlying investments.
Cash and Cash Equivalents – Securities classified as Level 1 are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three
months or less at the time of purchase and are recognized at cost, which approximates fair value. Pending trade sales and
purchases are included in cash and cash equivalents until final settlement.
762010 Annual Report
The following summarizes the activity for financial assets utilizing Level 3 fair value measurements:
Collateralized
Corporate Mortgage Asset Venture Capital
Equity Debt Obligation Backed and Limited Insurance
Dollars in Millions Funds Securities Bonds Securities Real Estate Partnerships Contracts Total
Fair value at January 1, 2009 $ 11 $ 16 $ 16 $ 6 $ 13 $ 373 $ 144 $ 579
Purchases, sales, issuances, and
settlements, net (2) (4) (6) (1) ⎯ 1 (7) (19)
Realized (losses)/gains (2) (2) ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 16 2 14
Unrealized gains/(losses) 1 8 3 1 (5) 1 2 11
Fair value at December 31, 2009 8 18 13 6 8 391 141 585
Purchases, sales, issuances, and
settlements, net (1) (6) (5) ⎯ (8) (25) (11) (56)
Realized (losses)/gains ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ (1) (1) 34 ⎯ 32
Unrealized gains ⎯ 2 2 2 1 15 14 36
Fair value at December 31, 2010 $ 7 $ 14 $ 10 $ 7 $ ⎯ $ 415 $ 144 $ 597
The investment strategy emphasizes equities in order to achieve higher expected returns and lower expenses and required cash
contributions over the long-term. A target asset allocation of 70% public equity (58% U.S. and 12% international), 8% private
equity and 22% fixed income is maintained for the U.S. pension plans. Cash contributions and benefit payments are used to
rebalance back to the targets as necessary. Investments are well diversified within each of the three major asset categories.
Approximately 81% of the U.S. pension plans equity investments are actively managed. Venture capital and limited partnerships is
typically valued on a three month lag. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company common stock represents less than 1% of the plan assets at
December 31, 2010 and 2009.
Contributions
Contributions to the U.S. pension plans were $341 million in 2010, $656 million in 2009 (including $27 million by Mead Johnson)
and $250 million in 2008. Contributions to the U.S. pension plans are expected to approximate $330 million during 2011, of which
$300 million was contributed in January 2011.
Contributions to the international pension plans were $90 million in 2010, $133 million in 2009 and $176 million in 2008.
Contributions to the international plans are expected to range from $75 million to $90 million in 2011.
Estimated Future Benefit Payments
Other Benefits
Medicare
Dollars in Millions Pension Benefits Gross Subsidy Net
2011 $ 356 $ 65 $ 10 $ 55
2012 376 63 10 53
2013 384 62 11 51
2014 399 61 12 49
2015 399 59 12 47
Years 2016 – 2020 2,042 262 46 216
Savings Plan
The principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings and Investment Program. The contribution is based on
employee contributions and the level of Company match. The qualified defined contribution plans were amended to allow for
increased matching and additional Company contributions effective in 2010. The expense related to the plan was $188 million in
2010, $50 million in 2009 and $58 million in 2008.
Post Employment Benefit Plan
Post-employment liabilities for long-term disability benefits were $92 million and $93 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. The expense related to these benefits was $18 million in 2010, $21 million in 2009 and $26 million in 2008.
77Bristol-Myers Squibb
Termination Indemnity Plans
Statutory termination obligations in Europe are recognized on an undiscounted basis assuming employee termination at each
measurement date. The liability recognized for these obligations was $25 million at December 31, 2010 and $49 million at
December 31, 2009.
Note 22 EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS
Employee Stock Plans
On May 1, 2007, the shareholders approved the 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the 2007 Plan). The 2007 Plan replaced the
2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2002 Plan) that expired on May 31, 2007. The 2007 Plan provides for 42 million new shares of
common stock reserved for delivery to participants, plus shares remaining available for new grants under the 2002 Plan and shares
recaptured from outstanding awards under the 2002 Plan. Only shares actually delivered to participants in connection with an
award after all restrictions have lapsed will reduce the number of shares reserved. Shares tendered in a prior year to pay the
purchase price of options and shares previously utilized to satisfy withholding tax obligations upon exercise continue to be available
and reserved. Shares of common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to stock plans, options and conversions of preferred stock
were 331 million and 346 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Shares available to be granted for the active plans
were 103 million and 92 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, adjusted for the combination of plans. Shares for the
stock option exercise and share unit vesting are issued from treasury stock.
Under the 2007 Plan and the 2002 Plan, executive officers and key employees may be granted options to purchase common stock at
no less than the market price on the date the option is granted. Options generally become exercisable in installments of 25% per
year on each of the first through the fourth anniversaries of the grant date and have a maximum term of 10 years. Additionally, the
plan provides for the granting of stock appreciation rights whereby the grantee may surrender exercisable rights and receive
common stock and/or cash measured by the excess of the market price of the common stock over the option exercise price.
The 2007 Plan and the 2002 Plan provide for the granting of common stock to key employees, subject to restrictions as to
continuous employment. Restrictions expire over a four year period from date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized over
the restricted period. Restricted stock units have been granted instead of restricted stock since 2007. A stock unit is a right to
receive stock at the end of the specified vesting period but has no voting rights.
Beginning in 2010, market share units were granted to certain executives under the 2007 Plan. Vesting of market share units is
conditioned upon continuous employment until vesting date and the payout factor equals at least 60%. The payout factor is the
share price on vesting date divided by share price on award date, with a maximum of 200%. The share price used in the payout
factor is calculated using an average of the closing prices on the grant or vest date, and the nine trading days immediately preceding
the grant or vest date. Vesting occurs 25% per year over four years.
The 2007 Plan and the 2002 Plan also incorporated long-term performance awards. These awards have a three year cycle and are
delivered in the form of a target number of performance share units. The number of shares ultimately issued is calculated based on
actual performance compared to earnings targets and other performance criteria established at the beginning of the performance
period. The awards have annual goals with a maximum payout of 167.5%. If threshold targets are not met for a performance
period, no payment is made under the plan for that annual period.
Stock-based compensation expense was as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Stock options $ 50 $ 78 $ 79
Restricted stock 83 76 82
Market share units 13 ⎯ ⎯
Long-term performance awards 47 29 20
Total stock-based compensation expense $ 193 $ 183 $ 181
Continuing operations $ 193 $ 165 $ 167
Discontinued operations ⎯ 18 14
Total stock-based compensation expense $ 193 $ 183 $ 181
Deferred tax benefit related to stock-based compensation expense $ 63 $ 60 $ 59
The alternative method to determine the pool of excess tax benefits was elected.
782010 Annual Report
Stock Options
Stock option activities were as follows:
Shares of Common
Stock Issued Weighted-Average
Shares in Millions Under Plan Exercise Price of Shares
Balance at January 1, 2010 132 $ 29.91
Exercised (11) 22.02
Expired or forfeited (16) 41.39
Balance at December 31, 2010 105 29.02
At December 31, 2010, unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options was $39 million and is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 1.8 years. Beginning in 2010, the Company stopped granting stock options as a form of
compensation and now grants additional restricted stock units and market share units.
Additional information related to stock option grants and exercises under both the 2007 Plan and the 2002 Plan are summarized as
follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Amounts in Millions, except per share data 2010 2009 2008
Stock options granted ⎯ 22.8 18.4
Weighted-average grant date fair value (per share) $ ⎯ $ 3.60 $ 4.95
Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised $ 47 $ 6 $ 2
Cash proceeds from exercise of stock options $ 252 $ 45 $ 5
The following table summarizes information concerning stock compensation plans and currently outstanding and exercisable
options:
Number of Securities to be Issued Weighted-Average Exercise
Upon Exercise of Outstanding Price of Outstanding
Shares in Millions Options and Rights Options and Rights
Plan Category
Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders 100 $ 28.86
Equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders (plan terminated –
shares no longer granted) 5 32.14
105 29.02
The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options at December 31, 2010 (amounts in
millions, except per share data):
Options Outstanding Options Exercisable
Weighted- Weighted-
Average Weighted- Average Weighted-
Remaining Average Aggregate Remaining Average Aggregate
Number Contractual Life Exercise Price Intrinsic Value Number Contractual Life Exercise Price Intrinsic Value
Range of Exercise Prices Outstanding (in years) Per Share (in millions) Exercisable (in years) Per Share (in millions)
$1 - $20 19 8.15 $ 17.42 $ 167 6 8.11 $ 17.16 $ 56
$20 - $30 67 4.55 25.22 120 60 4.26 25.43 97
$30 - $40 — 5.02 31.05 — — 4.71 30.97 —
$40 and up 19 0.73 53.26 — 19 0.73 53.26 —
105 4.48 29.02 $ 287 85 3.73 31.19 $ 153
Vested or expected to vest 104 4.46 29.08 $ 283
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on the closing stock price of
$26.48 on December 31, 2010. There were 41 million of in-the-money options exercisable at December 31, 2010. There were 95
million outstanding options exercisable at a weighted-average exercise price of $33.77 at December 31, 2009.
79Bristol-Myers Squibb
The fair value of stock options was estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model for stock options with
a service condition, and a model applying multiple input variables that determine the probability of satisfying market conditions for
options with service and market conditions. The following weighted-average assumptions were used in the valuation:
2009 2008
Expected volatility 35.8% 31.1%
Risk-free interest rate 2.4% 3.3%
Dividend yield 5.7% 4.3%
Expected life 7.0 yrs 6.7 yrs
The expected volatility assumption required in the Black-Scholes model was derived by calculating a 10-year historical volatility
and weighting that equally with the derived implied volatility. The blended historical and implied volatility approach of expected
volatility is believed to be more representative of future stock price trends than using only historical volatility.
The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect on the grant date. The dividend yield
assumption is based on historical and expected dividend payouts.
The expected life of stock options represents the weighted-average period the stock options will remain outstanding and is a derived
output of a lattice-binomial model. The expected life is impacted by all of the underlying assumptions and calibration of the model.
The model assumes that employees’ exercise behavior is a function of the option’s remaining vested life and the extent to which the
option is in-the-money. The model estimates the probability of exercise as a function of these two variables based on historical
exercises and cancellations on prior option grants made.
Expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest and is recognized over the vesting period. Forfeitures are estimated based
on historical experience at the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units
Weighted-Average
Shares in Thousands Number of Shares Grant-Date Fair Value
Nonvested shares at January 1, 2010 10,636 $ 20.44
Granted 3,283 24.80
Vested (3,694) 21.46
Forfeited (882) 20.84
Nonvested shares at December 31, 2010 9,343 21.53
Expected to vest 8,426 21.53
Restricted stock awards and restricted stock units vest ratably over a four year period. At December 31, 2010, unrecognized
compensation cost related to nonvested restricted stock was $141 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of 2.5 years. The fair value of nonvested shares of restricted stock awards and units is determined based on the closing
trading price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date. The total fair value of vested shares is $79 million, $74 million
and $84 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There were 6 million shares granted in 2009 with a weighted average grant
date fair value of $17.77 and 5 million shares granted in 2008 with a weighted average grant date fair value of $22.22.
Market Share Units
Weighted-Average
Shares in Thousands Number of Shares Grant-Date Fair Value
Nonvested shares at January 1, 2010 — $ —
Granted 1,371 24.69
Vested — —
Forfeited (123) 24.67
Nonvested shares at December 31, 2010 1,248 24.69
Expected to vest 1,125 24.69
802010 Annual Report
Market share units vest ratably over a four year period based on share price performance. At December 31, 2010, unrecognized
compensation cost related to nonvested market share units was $19 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-
average period of 3.2 years. The fair value of the market share units was estimated on the date of grant using a model applying
multiple input variables that determine the probability of satisfying market conditions. The model uses the following input
variables:
2010
Expected volatility 24.8%
Risk-free interest rate 1.9%
Dividend yield 5.8%
Expected volatility is based on the four year historical volatility levels on the Company’s common stock and the current implied
volatility. The four-year risk-free interest rate was derived from the Federal Reserve, based on the market share units’ contractual
term. Expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend payments. The fair value of the market share unit is amortized over
the vesting period of the award.
Long-Term Performance Awards
Long-term performance share units are determined based on the achievement of annual performance goals, but are not vested until
the end of the three year period. The fair value of performance awards was based on the closing trading price of common stock on
the grant date. The fair value of performance share units granted in 2010 were not discounted because they participated in
dividends. The fair value of performance share units granted in 2009 and 2008 were discounted using the risk-free interest rate on
the date of grant because they do not participate in dividends.
Performance share units granted were 1.7 million in 2010, 1.4 million in 2009 and 1.2 million in 2008, with a weighted average
grant date fair value of $23.65, $15.59 and $19.12, respectively. Assuming a 100% payout, the share units outstanding were 3.4
million at December 31, 2010 and 2.5 million at December 31, 2009. There were 1.1 million shares issued in 2010. At December
31, 2010, unrecognized compensation cost related to the performance share unit plan was $19 million and is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years. The total fair value of vested shares is $56 million, $21 million and $11
million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Note 23 SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND LONG-TERM DEBT
Short-term borrowings include:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Bank drafts $ 100 $ 83
Principal Value:
1.81% Yen Notes due 2010 ⎯ 38
2.25% Convertible Senior Debentures due 2011 ⎯ 37
Demand Note payable to Mead Johnson ⎯ 30
Other 17 43
Total $ 117 $ 231
As part of the Medarex acquisition, Medarex’s outstanding 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due May 15, 2011 above were
assumed. These Notes were adjusted into the right to receive $1,167 in cash at any time for each $1,000 principal amount
outstanding (the equivalent of $16 per share) at any time prior to maturity and were substantially redeemed during 2010.
81Bristol-Myers Squibb
Long-term debt includes:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Principal Value:
5.875% Notes due 2036 $ 709 $ 959
4.375% Euro Notes due 2016 656 720
4.625% Euro Notes due 2021 656 720
5.45% Notes due 2018 600 600
5.25% Notes due 2013 597 597
6.125% Notes due 2038 500 1,000
6.80% Debentures due 2026 332 332
7.15% Debentures due 2023 304 304
6.88% Debentures due 2097 287 287
0% - 5.75% Other⎯maturing 2023 – 2030 108 103
Subtotal 4,749 5,622
Adjustments to Principal Value:
Fair value of interest rate swaps 234 160
Unamortized basis adjustment from swap terminations 369 377
Unamortized bond discounts (24) (29)
Total $ 5,328 $ 6,130
Included in other debt is the Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2023 which can be redeemed by the holders at par on
September 15, 2013 and 2018, or if a fundamental change in ownership occurs. The Debentures are callable at par at any time by
the Company. The Debentures have a conversion price of $40.42, equal to a conversion rate of 24.7429 shares for each $1,000
principal amount, subject to certain anti-dilutive adjustments. The maximum conversion rate is 38.7597 shares for each $1,000
principal amount. The Debentures pay interest quarterly at an annual rate equal to the three month LIBOR, reset quarterly, minus
0.50% (the yield never to be less than zero).
In February 2009, Mead Johnson & Company as borrower and Mead Johnson as guarantor, both of which were indirect, majority-
owned subsidiaries, entered into a three year syndicated revolving credit facility agreement. In the fourth quarter of 2009, Mead
Johnson borrowed $200 million under the revolving credit facility and issued various Notes totaling $1.5 billion, the proceeds of
which were used to repay certain intercompany debt prior to the split-off.
During 2010, $750 million aggregate principal value of debt was repurchased through a tender offer and $319 million notional
amount of interest rate swaps related to the debt repurchases was terminated. The following table summarizes the activity:
Swap Other, Including Basis
Principal Repurchase Loss on Termination Adjustment for Gain/
Dollars in Millions Value Price Repurchase Proceeds Terminated Swaps (Loss)
5.875% Debentures due 2036 $ 250 $ 278 $ (28) $ 23 $ 41 $ 36
6.125% Notes due 2038 500 577 (77) 25 10 (42)
Total $ 750 $ 855 $ (105) $ 48 $ 51 $ (6)
During 2009, $117 million aggregate principal value of debt was repurchased and $53 million notional amount of interest rate
swaps related to the debt repurchases was terminated. The following table summarizes the activity:
Swap Other, Including Basis
Principal Repurchase Loss on Termination Adjustment for Gain/
Dollars in Millions Value Price Repurchase Proceeds Terminated Swaps (Loss)
7.15% Debentures due 2023 $ 35 $ 44 $ (9) $ 2 $ 4 $ (3)
6.80% Debentures due 2026 18 21 (3) — 1 (2)
5.875% Notes due 2036 64 67 (3) 5 10 12
Total $ 117 $ 132 $ (15) $ 7 $ 15 $ 7
822010 Annual Report
During 2008, $254 million aggregate principal value of debt was repurchased and $241 million notional amount of interest rate
swaps related to the debt repurchases was terminated. The following table summarizes the activity:
Swap Other, Including Basis
Principal Repurchase Gain on Termination Adjustment for Gain/
Dollars in Millions Value Price Repurchase Proceeds Terminated Swaps (Loss)
5.875% Notes due 2036 $ 227 $ 201 $ 26 $ 32 $ (3) $ 55
6.88% Debentures due 2097 13 13 — — — —
7.15% Debentures due 2023 11 11 — 2 — 2
5.25% Notes due 2013 3 3 — — — —
Total $ 254 $ 228 $ 26 $ 34 $ (3) $ 57
For further discussion of interest rate swaps see Note 24 “Financial Instruments.”
Interest payments, net of amounts related to interest rate swaps, were $178 million in 2010, $206 million in 2009 and $303 million
in 2008.
The principal value of long-term debt obligations was $4,749 million at December 31, 2010 of which $597 million is due in 2013,
and the remaining $4,152 million is due later than 2013. The fair value of long-term debt was $5,861 million and $6,258 million at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and was estimated based upon the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt
instruments. The fair value of short-term borrowings approximates the carrying value due to the short maturities of the debt
instruments.
A $2.0 billion five year revolving credit facility from a syndicate of lenders maturing in December 2011 is maintained. The facility
is extendable with the consent of the lenders and contains customary terms and conditions, including a financial covenant whereby
the ratio of consolidated net debt to consolidated capital cannot exceed 50% at the end of each quarter. The Company has been in
compliance with this covenant since the inception of the facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under the facility at
December 31, 2010 and 2009.
At December 31, 2010, $178 million of financial guarantees were provided in the form of stand-by letters of credit and performance
bonds. The stand-by letters of credit are with insurance companies in support of third-party liability programs. The performance
bonds were issued to support a range of ongoing operating activities, including sale of products to hospitals and foreign ministries
of health, bonds for customs, duties and value added tax and guarantees related to miscellaneous legal actions. A significant
majority of the outstanding financial guarantees will expire within the year and are not expected to be funded.
Note 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, receivables, accounts payable, debt instruments and
derivatives. Due to their short term maturity, the carrying amount of receivables and accounts payable approximate fair value.
There is exposure to market risk due to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. As a result, certain derivative
financial instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the underlying economic exposure. These
instruments qualify as cash flow, net investment and fair value hedges upon meeting certain criteria, including effectiveness of
offsetting hedged exposures. Changes in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized in
earnings as they occur. All financial instruments, including derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk which is considered
as part of the overall fair value measurement. Derivative financial instruments are not used for trading purposes.
Foreign currency forward contracts are used to manage cash flow exposures. The primary net foreign currency exposures hedged
are the Euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, British pound, Australian dollar and Mexican peso. Fixed-to-floating interest rate
swaps are used as part of the interest rate risk management strategy. These swaps qualify for fair-value hedge accounting treatment.
Certain net asset changes due to foreign exchange volatility are hedged through non-U.S. dollar borrowings which qualify as a net
investment hedge.
Derivative financial instruments present certain market and counterparty risks; however, concentration of counterparty risk is
mitigated by limiting amounts with any individual counterparty and using banks worldwide with Standard & Poor's and Moody's
long-term debt ratings of A or higher. In addition, only conventional derivative financial instruments are utilized. The consolidated
financial statements would not be materially impacted if any counterparties failed to perform according to the terms of its
agreement. Currently, collateral or any other form of securitization is not required to be furnished by the counterparties to
derivative financial instruments.
83Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following summarizes the fair value of outstanding derivatives:
December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009
Balance Sheet Fair Balance Sheet Fair Fair
Dollars in Millions Location Notional Fair Value Notional Value Location Notional Value Notional Value
Derivatives designated as hedging
instruments:
Interest rate contracts Other assets $ 3,526 $ 234 $ 3,134 $ 165 Accrued expenses $ — $ — $ 597 $ (5)
Foreign currency forward
contracts Other assets 691 26 780 21 Accrued expenses 732 (48) 731 (31)
Hedge of net investments — — — — Long-term debt 710 (710) 1,256 (1,256)
Natural gas contracts — — — — Accrued expenses ⎯ ⎯ * (1)
Total Derivatives $ 260 $ 186 $ (758) $ (1,293)
* The notional value of natural gas contracts was 2 million decatherms at December 31, 2009.
Qualifying Hedges
Cash Flow Hedges
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts ⎯ Foreign currency forward contracts are utilized to hedge forecasted intercompany and
other transactions for certain foreign currencies. These contracts are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges when
appropriate. The notional and fair value amounts of these contracts were $1,423 million and $22 million net liability and $1,511
million and $10 million net liability at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The majority of these contracts qualify as
hedges of probable forecasted cash flows and the effective portion of changes in fair value is temporarily reported in accumulated
OCI and recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings.
The following table summarizes the significant outstanding foreign currency forward contracts at December 31, 2010. The fair
value of these contracts is based on year-end currency rates and should be viewed in relation to the fair value of the underlying
hedged transactions and the overall reduction in exposure to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
Weighted-Average Notional Fair Value
Dollars in Millions, except currency rates Strike Price Amount Asset/(Liability) Maturity
Foreign Currency Forwards:
Euro 1.36 695 13 2011
Euro 1.40 75 4 2012
Japanese yen 89.87 226 (25) 2011
Japanese yen 84.20 116 (6) 2012
Deferred losses on foreign currency forward contracts qualifying for cash flow hedge accounting were $18 million ($11 million net
of taxes) at December 31, 2010 and are expected to be reclassified to earnings within the next 23 months.
Effectiveness is assessed at the inception of the hedge and on a quarterly basis. The assessments determine whether derivatives
designated as qualifying hedges continue to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of hedged items. Any
ineffective portion of the change in fair value is included in current period earnings. The impact of hedge ineffectiveness on
earnings was not significant in 2010, 2009 and 2008. Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when the forecasted transaction
is no longer probable of occurring on the originally forecasted date, or 60 days thereafter, or when the hedge is no longer effective.
Discontinued foreign exchange hedges reported in other (income)/expense were not significant in 2010, 2009 and 2008.
Interest Rate Contracts ⎯ Terminated swaps that qualify as cash flow hedges are recognized in accumulated OCI and amortized to
earnings over the remaining life of the debt when the hedged debt remains outstanding.
842010 Annual Report
The impact on OCI and earnings from foreign currency forward contracts, natural gas contracts, and forward starting swaps that
qualified as cash flow hedges was as follows:
Foreign Currency
Forward Natural Gas Forward Starting
Contracts Contracts Swaps Total Impact
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
Net carrying amount at January 1 $ (11) $ 35 $ (1) $ (2) $ (18) $ (19) $ (30) $ 14
Cash flow hedges deferred in OCI 16 (30) 2 2 ⎯ ⎯ 18 (28)
Cash flow hedges reclassified to cost of products sold/interest
expense (effective portion) (19) (33) ⎯ ⎯ 9 1 (10) (32)
Change in deferred taxes 3 15 (1) (1) ⎯ ⎯ 2 14
Cash flow hedges reclassified to net earnings due to business
divestitures ⎯ 2 ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ 2
Net carrying amount at December 31 $ (11) $ (11) $ ⎯ $ (1) $ (9) $ (18) $ (20) $ (30)
Hedge of Net Investment
Non-U.S. dollar borrowings, primarily the €500 Million Notes due 2016 and the €500 Million Notes due 2021, ($1.3 billion total),
are used to hedge the foreign currency exposures of the net investment in certain foreign affiliates. These borrowings are
designated as a hedge of a net investment. The effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses is recognized in the foreign
currency translation (CTA) component of accumulated OCI. At December 31, 2010, €459 million ($602 million) of the Notes due
2016 have been dedesignated.
The impact on OCI and earnings from non-derivative debt designated as a hedge of net investment was as follows:
Net Investment Hedges
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009
Net carrying amount at January 1 $ (169) $ (131)
Change in spot value of non-derivative debt designated as a hedge 127 (44)
(Gain)/loss recognized in other (income)/expense, net (overhedged portion) (43) 6
Net carrying amount at December 31 $ (85) $ (169)
Fair Value Hedges
Interest Rate Contracts ⎯ Derivative instruments are used as part of an interest rate risk management strategy, principally fixed-to-
floating interest rate swaps that are designated as fair-value hedges. The total notional amounts and fair value of outstanding
interest rate swaps were $3,526 million and $234 million net assets and $3,731 million and $160 million net assets at December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively.
The swaps and underlying debt for the benchmark risk being hedged are recognized at fair value. Swaps are intended to create an
appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt. The basis adjustment to debt with qualifying fair value hedging relationships is
amortized to earnings as an adjustment to interest expense over the remaining life of the debt when the underlying swap is
terminated prior to maturity.
During 2010, fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps were executed to convert the $332 million 6.80% Debentures due 2026, $147
million 7.15% Debentures due 2023 and €500 million 4.375% Notes due 2016 from fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. During
2009, fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps were executed to convert $797 million of 5.45% Notes due 2018 and 5.25% Notes due
2013 from fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. These swaps qualified as a fair value hedge for each debt instrument.
During 2010, fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements of $237 million notional amount and €500 million notional amount
were terminated generating proceeds of $116 million. During 2009, $1,061 million notional amount of fixed-to-floating interest
rate swap agreements were terminated for proceeds of $204 million. During 2008, $550 million notional amount of fixed-to-
floating interest rate swap agreements were terminated for proceeds of $197 million. The proceeds of the swap terminations, less
accrued interest, were deferred and will be amortized to interest expense over the remaining life of the underlying debt.
Additionally, the Company terminated certain interest rate swap agreements in connection with the repurchase of certain debt
obligations, which resulted in net proceeds of $48 million in 2010, $7 million in 2009 and $34 million in 2008. The gain or loss
attributable to the transactions was immediately recognized in other (income)/expense. For further discussion on the Company’s
debt repurchase, see Note 23 “Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt.”
85Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following summarizes the interest rate swaps outstanding at December 31, 2010:
Notional Amount of Variable Rate Year of Fair
Dollars in Millions Underlying Debt Received Transaction Maturity Value
Swaps associated with:
5.25% Notes due 2013 $ 597 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +3.084% 2009 2013 $ 17
5.45% Notes due 2018 400 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +1.065% 2008 2018 41
5.45% Notes due 2018 200 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +1.541% 2009 2018 14
4.375% €500 Million Notes due 2016 656 3 month EUR € EURIBOR +1.737% 2010 2016 2
4.625% €500 Million Notes due 2021 656 3 month EUR € EURIBOR +0.56% 2006 2021 45
7.15% Debentures due 2023 147 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +2.926% 2010 2023 9
5.875% Notes due 2036 338 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +0.62% 2006 2036 62
6.125% Notes due 2038 200 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +1.3255% 2008 2038 24
6.80% Debentures due 2026 332 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +2.432% 2010 2026 20
Total interest rate swaps $ 3,526 $ 234
The impact on interest expense from interest rate swaps that qualified as fair value hedges was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2010 2009 2008
Recognized as a reduction in interest expense $ (128) $ (118) $ (48)
Amortization of basis adjustment from swap terminations recognized as reduction to interest expense (33) (25) (1)
Total $ (161) $ (143) $ (49)
Non-Qualifying Foreign Currency Forward Contracts
Foreign currency forward contracts are also utilized to hedge foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The
primary objective of these contracts is to protect the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and
liabilities from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange rates that might occur prior to their receipt or settlement in U.S. dollars.
These contracts are not designated as hedges and are adjusted to fair value through other (income)/expense as they occur, and
substantially offset the change in fair value of the underlying foreign currency denominated monetary asset or liability. The
notional and fair value amounts of these contracts were not significant at December 31, 2010 and 2009.
Furthermore, foreign currency forward contracts are also used to offset exposure to certain assets and liabilities and earnings
denominated in certain foreign currencies. These contracts are not designated as hedges and are adjusted to fair value through other
(income)/expense as they occur. At December 31, 2010, the Company did not hold any such foreign exchange contracts. These
contracts will mature within the next 12 months. The impact on earnings from non-qualifying foreign currency forward contracts
was not significant for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.
Note 25 LEASES
Minimum rental commitments for non-cancelable operating leases (primarily real estate and motor vehicles) in effect at December
31, 2010, were as follows:
Years Ending December 31, Dollars in Millions
2011 $ 123
2012 113
2013 101
2014 89
2015 77
Later years 158
Total minimum rental commitments $ 661
Operating lease expense was $145 million in 2010, $149 million in 2009 and $179 million in 2008, of which $17 million in 2009
and $12 million in 2008 was included in discontinued operations. Sublease income was not material for the years ended December
31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.
In 2008, a sale-leaseback of an administrative facility in Paris, France was completed for $227 million (€155 million), resulting in a
pre-tax gain of $111 million. Most of the gain was deferred and will reduce future lease costs over the lease period through 2017.
862010 Annual Report
Note 26 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in various lawsuits, claims, government investigations and other legal
proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of the business relating to product liability, patent, commercial, consumer,
environmental and securities matters. The Company recognizes accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability
will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Litigation expense, net included a $41 million insurance
reimbursement from prior litigation offset by additional reserves for certain average wholesale prices (AWP) litigation in 2010, a
$125 million securities litigation settlement in 2009 and $33 million in 2008 related to AWP litigation, net of revised estimates to
previously accrued amounts. Cash payments related to significant litigation were $6 million in 2010, $139 million in 2009 and
$210 million in 2008. The most significant of these matters are described below.
Although the Company believes it has substantial defenses in these matters, there can be no assurance that there will not be an
increase in the scope of pending matters or that any future lawsuits, claims, government investigations or other legal proceedings
will not be material. Unless otherwise noted, the Company is unable to assess the outcome of the respective litigation nor is it able
to provide an estimated range of potential loss. Furthermore, failure to enforce our patent rights would likely result in substantial
decreases in the respective product sales from generic competition.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Plavix Litigation
Plavix is currently the Company’s largest product ranked by net sales. The Plavix patents are subject to a number of challenges in
the U.S., including the litigation with Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (Apotex) described below, and in other less significant markets
for the product. The Company and its product partner, sanofi, (the Companies) intend to vigorously pursue enforcement of their
patent rights in Plavix.
Plavix Litigation – U.S.
Patent Infringement Litigation against Apotex and Related Matters
As previously disclosed, the Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with sanofi is a plaintiff in a pending patent
infringement lawsuit instituted in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (District Court) entitled
Sanofi-Synthelabo, Sanofi-Synthelabo, Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership v. Apotex. The
suit is based on U.S. Patent No. 4,847,265 (the ‘265 Patent), a composition of matter patent, which discloses and claims, among
other things, the hydrogen sulfate salt of clopidogrel, a medicine made available in the U.S. by the Companies as Plavix. Also, as
previously reported, the District Court upheld the validity and enforceability of the ‘265 Patent, maintaining the main patent
protection for Plavix in the U.S. until November 2011. The District Court also ruled that Apotex’s generic clopidogrel bisulfate
product infringed the ‘265 Patent and permanently enjoined Apotex from engaging in any activity that infringes the ‘265 Patent,
including marketing its generic product in the U.S. until after the patent expires.
Apotex appealed the District Court’s decision and on December 12, 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Circuit Court) affirmed the District Court’s ruling sustaining the validity of the ‘265 Patent. Apotex filed a petition with the Circuit
Court for a rehearing en banc, and in March 2009, the Circuit Court denied Apotex’s petition. The case has been remanded to the
District Court for further proceedings relating to damages. In July 2009, Apotex filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the U.S.
Supreme Court requesting the Supreme Court to review the Circuit Court’s decision. In November 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court
denied the petition, declining to review the Circuit Court’s decision. In December 2009, the Company filed a motion in the District
Court for summary judgment on damages, and in January 2010, Apotex filed a motion seeking a stay of the ongoing damages
proceedings pending the outcome of the reexamination of the Plavix patent by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO)
described below. In April 2010, the District Court denied Apotex’s motion to stay the proceedings. In October 2010, the District
Court granted the Companies’ summary judgment motion and awarded $442 million in damages plus costs and interest. Apotex is
appealing the amount of the damages award; however, the validity of the patent claiming clopidogrel bisulfate has been finally
judicially determined in favor of the Companies. It is not possible at this time to determine whether the amount or the damages
award will be upheld on appeal.
As previously disclosed, the Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with sanofi is also a plaintiff in five additional
patent infringement lawsuits against Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc. and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, LTD (Dr. Reddy’s), Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva), Cobalt Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Cobalt), Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Watson Laboratories,
Inc. (Watson) and Sun Pharmaceuticals (Sun). The lawsuits against Dr. Reddy’s, Teva and Cobalt relate to the ‘265 Patent. In May
2009, Dr Reddy’s signed a consent judgment in favor of sanofi and BMS conceding the validity and infringement of the ‘265
87Bristol-Myers Squibb
Patent. As previously reported, the patent infringement actions against Teva and Cobalt were stayed pending resolution of the
Apotex litigation, and the parties to those actions agreed to be bound by the outcome of the litigation against Apotex. Consequently,
on July 12, 2007, the District Court entered judgments against Cobalt and Teva and permanently enjoined Cobalt and Teva from
engaging in any activity that infringes the ‘265 Patent until after the Patent expires. Cobalt and Teva each filed an appeal. In July
2009, the Circuit Court issued a mandate in the Teva appeal binding Teva to the decision in the Apotex litigation. In August 2009,
Cobalt consented to entry of judgment in its appeal agreeing to be bound by Circuit Court’s decision in the Apotex litigation. The
lawsuit against Watson, filed in October 2004, was based on U.S. Patent No. 6,429,210 (the ‘210 Patent), which discloses and
claims a particular crystalline or polymorph form of the hydrogen sulfate salt of clopidogrel, which is marketed as Plavix. In
December 2005, the Court permitted Watson to pursue its declaratory judgment counterclaim with respect to U.S. Patent
No. 6,504,030. In January 2006, the Court approved the parties’ stipulation to stay this case pending the outcome of the trial in the
Apotex matter. On May 1, 2009, BMS and Watson entered into a stipulation to dismiss the case. In April 2007, Pharmastar filed a
request for inter partes reexamination of the ‘210 Patent at the PTO. The PTO granted this request in July of 2007 and in July 2009,
the PTO vacated the reexamination proceeding. The lawsuit against Sun, filed on July 11, 2008, is based on infringement of the
‘265 Patent and the ‘210 Patent. With respect to the ‘265 Patent, Sun has agreed to be bound by the outcome of the Apotex
litigation. Each of Dr. Reddy’s, Teva, Cobalt, Watson and Sun have filed an aNDA with the FDA, and, with respect to Dr. Reddy’s,
Teva, Cobalt and Watson all exclusivity periods and statutory stay periods under the Hatch-Waxman Act have expired.
Accordingly, final approval by the FDA would provide each company authorization to distribute a generic clopidogrel bisulfate
product in the U.S., subject to various legal remedies for which the Companies may apply including injunctive relief and damages.
On June 1, 2009, Apotex filed a request for ex parte reexamination of the ‘265 Patent at the PTO and in August 2009, the PTO
agreed to reexamine the patent. In December 2009, the PTO issued a non-final office action rejecting several claims covering
Plavix including the claim that was previously upheld in the litigation against Apotex referred to above. The PTO has issued an ex
parte Reexamination Certificate withdrawing the rejections in the non-final office action and confirming patentability of all the
claims of the ‘265 Patent. Apotex has filed a second request for ex parte reexamination of the ‘265 Patent and in June 2010, the
PTO denied Apotex’s request to reexamine the patent again.
Additionally, on November 13, 2008, Apotex filed a lawsuit in New Jersey Superior Court entitled, Apotex Inc., et al. v. sanofi-
aventis, et al., seeking payment of $60 million, plus interest, related to the break-up of the March 2006 proposed settlement
agreement. The parties have filed cross-motions for summary judgment, which are pending.
In January 2011, Apotex filed a lawsuit in Florida State Court, Broward County, alleging breach of contract relating to the parties’
May 2006 proposed settlement agreement.
Plavix Litigation – International
Plavix – Australia
As previously disclosed, sanofi was notified that, in August 2007, GenRx Proprietary Limited (GenRx) obtained regulatory
approval of an application for clopidogrel bisulfate 75mg tablets in Australia. GenRx, formerly a subsidiary of Apotex, has since
changed its name to Apotex. In August 2007, Apotex filed an application in the Federal Court of Australia seeking revocation of
sanofi’s Australian Patent No. 597784 (Case No. NSD 1639 of 2007). Sanofi filed counterclaims of infringement and sought an
injunction. On September 21, 2007, the Australian court granted sanofi’s injunction. A subsidiary of the Company was
subsequently added as a party to the proceedings. In February 2008, a second company, Spirit Pharmaceuticals Pty. Ltd., also filed a
revocation suit against the same patent. This case was consolidated with the Apotex case and a trial occurred in April 2008. On
August 12, 2008, the Federal Court of Australia held that claims of Patent No. 597784 covering clopidogrel bisulfate,
hydrochloride, hydrobromide, and taurocholate salts were valid. The Federal Court also held that the process claims, pharmaceutical
composition claims, and claim directed to clopidogrel and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts were invalid. In view of this
decision, it is possible a generic company could develop and seek registration in Australia for an alternate salt form of clopidogrel
(other than bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, or taurocholate). The Company and sanofi filed notices of appeal in the Full
Court of the Federal Court of Australia (Full Court) appealing the holding of invalidity of the claim covering clopidogrel and its
pharmaceutically acceptable salts, process claims, and pharmaceutical composition claims which have stayed the Federal Court’s
ruling. Apotex filed a notice of appeal appealing the holding of validity of the clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide,
and taurocholate claims. A hearing on the appeals occurred in February 2009. On September 29, 2009, the Full Federal Court of
Australia held all of the claims of Patent No. 597784 invalid. In November 2009, the Company and sanofi applied to the High
Court of Australia (High Court) for special leave to appeal the judgment of the Full Court. In March 2010, the High Court denied
the Company and sanofi’s request to hear the appeal of the Full Court decision. The case has been remanded to the Federal Court
for further proceedings related to damages. It is expected the amount of damages will not be material to the Company.
882010 Annual Report
Plavix – EU
As previously disclosed, in 2007, YES Pharmaceutical Development Services GmbH (YES Pharmaceutical) filed an application for
marketing authorization in Germany for an alternate salt form of clopidogrel. This application relied on data from studies that were
originally conducted by sanofi and BMS for Plavix and were still the subject of data protection in the EU. Sanofi and BMS have
filed an action against YES Pharmaceutical and its partners in the administrative court in Cologne objecting to the marketing
authorization. This matter is currently pending, although these specific marketing authorizations now have been withdrawn from the
market.
Plavix – Canada (Apotex, Inc.)
On April 22, 2009, Apotex filed an impeachment action against sanofi in the Federal Court of Canada alleging that sanofi’s
Canadian Patent No. 1,336,777 (the ‘777 Patent) is invalid. The ‘777 Patent covers clopidogrel bisulfate and was the patent at issue
in the prohibition action in Canada previously disclosed in which the Canadian Federal Court of Ottawa rejected Apotex’s challenge
to the ‘777 Patent, held that the asserted claims are novel, not obvious and infringed, and granted sanofi’s application for an order of
prohibition against the Minister of Health and Apotex, precluding approval of Apotex’s Abbreviated New Drug Submission until
the patent expires in 2012, which decision was affirmed on appeal by both the Federal Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court of
Canada. On June 8, 2009, sanofi filed its defense to the impeachment action and filed a suit against Apotex for infringement of the
‘777 Patent. The trial is expected to occur in 2011.
OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LITIGATION
Abilify
As previously disclosed, Otsuka has filed patent infringement actions against Teva, Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Barr), Sandoz Inc.
(Sandoz), Synthon Laboratories, Inc (Synthon), Sun Pharmaceuticals (Sun), Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Zydus), and Apotex
relating to U.S. Patent No. 5,006,528, (‘528 Patent) which covers aripiprazole and expires in April 2015 (including the additional
six-month pediatric exclusivity period). Aripiprazole is comarketed by the Company and Otsuka in the U.S. as Abilify. A non-jury
trial in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey (NJ District Court) against Teva/Barr and Apotex was completed in
August 2010. In November 2010, the NJ District Court upheld the validity and enforceability of the ‘528 Patent, maintaining the
main patent protection for Abilify in the U.S. until April 2015. The NJ District Court also ruled that the defendants’ generic
aripiprazole product infringed the ‘528 Patent and permanently enjoined them from engaging in any activity that infringes the ‘528
Patent, including marketing their generic product in the U.S. until after the patent (including the six-month pediatric extension)
expires. Sandoz, Synthon, Sun and Zydus are also bound by the NJ District Court’s decision. In December 2010, Teva/Barr and
Apotex appealed this decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
It is not possible at this time determine the outcome of any appeal of the NJ District Court’s decision. If Otsuka were not to prevail
in an appeal, generic competition would likely result in substantial decreases in the sales of Abilify in the U.S., which would have a
material adverse effect on the results of operations and cash flows and could be material to financial condition.
Atripla
In April 2009, Teva filed an aNDA to manufacture and market a generic version of Atripla. Atripla is a single tablet three-drug
regimen combining the Company’s Sustiva and Gilead’s Truvada. As of this time, the Company’s U.S. patent rights covering
Sustiva’s composition of matter and method of use have not been challenged. Teva sent Gilead a Paragraph IV certification letter
challenging two of the fifteen Orange Book listed patents for Atripla. Atripla is the product of a joint venture between the Company
and Gilead. In May 2009, Gilead filed a patent infringement action against Teva in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of New York (SDNY). In January 2010, the Company received a notice that Teva has amended its aNDA and is challenging eight
additional Orange Book listed patents for Atripla. In March 2010, the Company and Merck, Sharp & Dohme Corp. filed a patent
infringement action against Teva also in the SDNY relating to two U.S. Patents which claim crystalline or polymorph forms of
efavirenz. In March 2010, Gilead filed two patent infringement actions against Teva in the SDNY relating to six Orange Book listed
patents for Atripla. Discovery in these matters is ongoing. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these
lawsuits or their impact on the Company.
Reyataz
Teva has filed an aNDA to manufacture and market generic versions of all four Reyataz dosage forms (100, 150, 200 and 300 mg).
The Company received a Paragraph IV certification letter from Teva challenging the two Orange Book listed patents for Reyataz. In
December 2009, the Company and Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation (Novartis) filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the U.S.
89Bristol-Myers Squibb
District Court for the District of Delaware (Delaware District Court) against Teva for infringement of the two listed patents
covering Reyataz, which triggered an automatic 30-month stay of approval of Teva’s aNDA. Subsequent patent infringement
lawsuits were filed. Discovery in these matters is ongoing. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these
lawsuits or their impact on the Company.
Baraclude
In August 2010, Teva filed an aNDA to manufacture and market generic versions of Baraclude. The Company received a
Paragraph IV certification letter from Teva challenging the one Orange Book listed patent for Baraclude. In September 2010, the
Company filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the Delaware District Court against Teva for infringement of the listed patent
covering Baraclude, which triggered an automatic 30-month stay of approval of Teva’s aNDA. It is not possible at this time to
reasonably assess the outcome of this lawsuit or its impact on the Company.
Sprycel
In September 2010, Apotex filed an aNDA to manufacture and market generic versions of Sprycel. The Company received a
Paragraph IV certification letter from Apotex challenging the four Orange Book listed patents for Sprycel, including the
composition of matter patent. In November 2010, the Company filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the
District of New Jersey against Apotex for infringement of the four Orange Book listed patents covering Sprycel which triggered an
automatic 30-month stay of approval of Apotex’s aNDA. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this
lawsuit or its impact on the Company.
GENERAL COMMERCIAL LITIGATION
Clayworth Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, was named as a defendant in
an action filed in California State Superior Court in Oakland, James Clayworth et al. v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, et al.,
alleging that the defendants conspired to fix the prices of pharmaceuticals by agreeing to charge more for their drugs in the U.S.
than they charge outside the U.S., particularly Canada, and asserting claims under California’s Cartwright Act and unfair
competition law. The plaintiffs sought trebled monetary damages, injunctive relief and other relief. In December 2006, the Court
granted the Company and the other manufacturers’ motion for summary judgment based on the pass-on defense, and judgment was
then entered in favor of defendants. In July 2008, judgment in favor of defendants was affirmed by the California Court of Appeals.
In July 2010, the California Supreme Court reversed the Court of Appeal’s judgment and the matter has been remanded to the
Superior Court for further proceedings. Defendants’ motion for summary judgment on other grounds remains pending. If the
motion is denied, a trial could be scheduled for as early as the summer. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the
outcome of this lawsuit or its impact on the Company in the event plaintiffs are successful on appeal.
ANTITRUST LITIGATION
As previously disclosed, 18 lawsuits comprised of both individual suits and purported class actions have been filed against the
Company in U.S. District Court, Southern District of Ohio, Western Division, by various plaintiffs, including pharmacy chains
(individually and as assignees, in whole or in part, of certain wholesalers), various health and welfare benefit plans/funds and
individual residents of various states. These lawsuits allege, among other things, that the purported settlement with Apotex of the
patent infringement litigation violated the Sherman Act and related laws. Plaintiffs are seeking, among other things, permanent
injunctive relief barring the Apotex settlement and/or monetary damages. The putative class actions filed on behalf of direct
purchasers have been consolidated under the caption In re: Plavix Direct Purchaser Antitrust Litigation, and the putative class
actions filed on behalf of indirect purchasers have been consolidated under the caption In re: Plavix Indirect Purchaser Antitrust
Litigation. Amended complaints were filed on October 19, 2007. Defendants filed a consolidated motion to dismiss in December
2007. The District Court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss all of the Direct Purchaser claims. No appeal was taken from
that dismissal. In January 2011, the District Court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss with respect to all of the indirect
purchaser claims. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company.
902010 Annual Report
PRICING, SALES AND PROMOTIONAL PRACTICES LITIGATION AND INVESTIGATIONS
Abilify State Attorneys General Investigation
In March 2009, the Company received a letter from the Delaware Attorney General’s Office advising of a multi-state coalition
investigating whether certain Abilify marketing practices violated those respective states’ consumer protection statutes. It is not
possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this investigation or its potential impact on the Company.
AWP Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, has been a defendant in a
number of private class actions as well as suits brought by the attorneys general of various states. In these actions, plaintiffs allege
that defendants caused the Average Wholesale Prices (AWPs) of their products to be inflated, thereby injuring government
programs, entities and persons who reimbursed prescription drugs based on AWPs. The Company is a defendant in five state
attorneys general suits pending in state courts around the country. Beginning in August 2010, the Company was the defendant in a
trial in the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Commonwealth Court), brought by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. In
September 2010, the jury issued a verdict for the Company, finding that the Company was not liable for fraudulent or negligent
misrepresentation; however, the Commonwealth Court Judge issued a decision on a Pennsylvania consumer protection claim that
did not go to the jury, finding the Company liable for $27.6 million and enjoining the Company from contributing to the provision
of inflated AWPs. The Company has moved to vacate the decision and the Commonwealth has moved for a judgment
notwithstanding the verdict or, in the alternative, for a new trial. These motions are currently pending before the Commonwealth
Court.
As previously reported, one set of class actions were consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts (AWP
MDL). In August 2009, the District Court granted preliminary approval of a proposed settlement of the AWP MDL plaintiffs’
claims against the Company for $19 million, plus half the costs of class notice up to a maximum payment of $1 million. A final
approval hearing is scheduled to occur in March 2011.
California 340B Litigation
As previously disclosed, in August 2005, the County of Santa Clara filed a purported class action against the Company and
numerous other pharmaceutical manufacturers on behalf of itself and a putative class of other cities and counties in California, as
well as the covered entities that purchased drugs pursuant to the 340B drug discount program (340B Entities), alleging that
manufacturers did not provide proper discounts to 340B Entities. In May 2009, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California (District Court) denied plaintiff’s motion, without prejudice, to certify the class. In September 2010, the U.S. Supreme
Court granted certiorari on the issue of whether 340B Entities have standing to sue. The District Court had previously dismissed the
case after finding that 340B Entities did not have standing, but the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the District
Court. The District Court has stayed the case pending a decision by the U.S. Supreme Court.
It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this lawsuit, or its potential impact on the Company.
PRODUCT LIABILITY LITIGATION
The Company is a party to various product liability lawsuits. As previously disclosed, in addition to lawsuits, the Company also
faces unfiled claims involving its products.
Plavix
As previously disclosed, the Company and certain affiliates of sanofi are defendants in a number of individual lawsuits claiming
personal injury allegedly sustained after using Plavix, most of which appear before the United States District Court for the District
of New Jersey (NJ District Court). As of December 31, 2010, the companies were defendants in over 20 actions before the NJ
District Court and have executed tolling agreements with respect to unfiled claims by potential additional plaintiffs. It is not
possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or the potential impact on the Company.
Hormone Replacement Therapy
The Company is one of a number of defendants in a mass-tort litigation in which plaintiffs allege, among other things, that various
hormone therapy products, including hormone therapy products formerly manufactured by the Company (Estrace, Estradiol,
Delestrogen and Ovcon) cause breast cancer, stroke, blood clots, cardiac and other injuries in women, that the defendants were
91Bristol-Myers Squibb
aware of these risks and failed to warn consumers. As of December 31, 2010, the Company was a defendant in over 300 lawsuits
filed on behalf of over 450 plaintiffs in federal and state courts throughout the U.S. The Company has entered into two separate
settlements in principle to resolve the claims of approximately 200 plaintiffs. All of the Company’s hormone therapy products were
sold to other companies between January 2000 and August 2001.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS
As previously reported, the Company is a party to several environmental proceedings and other matters, and is responsible under
various state, federal and foreign laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
(CERCLA), for certain costs of investigating and/or remediating contamination resulting from past industrial activity at the
Company’s current or former sites or at waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third-parties.
CERCLA Matters
With respect to CERCLA matters for which the Company is responsible under various state, federal and foreign laws, the Company
typically estimates potential costs based on information obtained from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or counterpart
state or foreign agency and/or studies prepared by independent consultants, including the total estimated costs for the site and the
expected cost-sharing, if any, with other “potentially responsible parties,” and the Company accrues liabilities when they are
probable and reasonably estimable. The Company estimated its share of future costs for these sites to be $68 million at December
31, 2010, which represents the sum of best estimates or, where no best estimate can reasonably be made, estimates of the minimal
probable amount among a range of such costs (without taking into account any potential recoveries from other parties).
New Brunswick Facility – Environmental & Personal Injury Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, in May 2008, over 100 lawsuits were filed against the Company in Superior Court, Middlesex County, NJ,
by or on behalf of current and former residents of New Brunswick, NJ who live or have lived adjacent to the Company’s New
Brunswick facility. The complaints allege various personal injuries and property damage resulting from alleged soil and
groundwater contamination on their property stemming from historical operations at the New Brunswick facility. In October 2008,
the New Jersey Supreme Court granted Mass Tort status to these cases and transferred them to the New Jersey Superior Court in
Atlantic County for centralized case management purposes. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this litigation. It is
not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or the potential impact on the Company.
North Brunswick Township Board of Education
As previously disclosed, in October 2003, the Company was contacted by counsel representing the North Brunswick, NJ Board of
Education (BOE) regarding a site where waste materials from E.R. Squibb and Sons may have been disposed from the 1940’s
through the 1960’s. Fill material containing industrial waste and heavy metals in excess of residential standards was discovered
during an expansion project at the North Brunswick Township High School, as well as at a number of neighboring residential
properties and adjacent public park areas. In January 2004, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) sent
the Company and others an information request letter about possible waste disposal at the site, to which the Company responded in
March 2004. The BOE and the Township, as the current owners of the school property and the park, are conducting and jointly
financing soil remediation work and ground water investigation work under a work plan approved by NJDEP, and have asked the
Company to contribute to the cost. The Company is actively monitoring the clean-up project, including its costs. To date, neither the
school board nor the Township has asserted any claim against the Company. Instead, the Company and the local entities have
negotiated an agreement to attempt to resolve the matter by informal means, and avoid litigation. A central component of the
agreement is the provision by the Company of interim funding to help defray cleanup costs and assure the work is not interrupted.
The Company transmitted interim funding payments in December 2007 and November 2009. The parties commenced mediation in
late 2008; however, those efforts were not successful and the parties have moved to a binding allocation process. In addition, in
September 2009, the Township and BOE filed suits against several other parties alleged to have contributed waste materials to the
site.
922010 Annual Report
OTHER PROCEEDINGS
SEC Germany Investigation
As previously disclosed, in October 2004, the SEC notified the Company that it was conducting an informal inquiry into the
activities of certain of the Company’s German pharmaceutical subsidiaries and its employees and/or agents. In October 2006, the
SEC informed the Company that its inquiry had become formal. The SEC’s inquiry encompasses matters formerly under
investigation by the German prosecutor in Munich, Germany, which have since been resolved. The Company understands the
inquiry concerns potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Company is cooperating with the SEC.
Medarex Shareholder Litigation
On July 22, 2009, the Company and Medarex announced the signing of a merger agreement providing for the acquisition of
Medarex by the Company, through a tender offer, for $16.00 per share in cash. Following that announcement, certain Medarex
shareholders filed similar lawsuits in state and federal court relating to this transaction against Medarex, the members of Medarex’s
board of directors, and the Company.
Following the consolidation of the state court actions, on August 20, 2009, the parties entered into a memorandum of understanding
(MOU), pursuant to which the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle all of the state and federal actions. Pursuant to the
agreements in the MOU, among other things, Medarex made certain supplemental disclosures during the tender offer period. The
parties also agreed to present to the Superior Court of New Jersey, Mercer County (NJ Superior Court) a Stipulation of Settlement
and any other documentation as may be required in order to obtain approval by the court of the settlement and the dismissal of the
actions upon the terms set forth in the MOU. In July 2010, the proposed settlement was approved by the NJ Superior Court.
Several objectors to the settlement filed motions for reconsideration asking the Court to reconsider its approval of the settlement
which were denied in December 2010. In January 2011, the objectors filed notices of appeal.
King Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
In November 2009, King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (King) and affiliated entities filed suit against ZymoGenetics, Inc. (ZymoGenetics),
now a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (see Note 5 “Acquisitions”), in the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Tennessee. King alleges that ZymoGenetics engaged in unfair competition, false advertising, trademark infringement,
and related claims under federal law and Tennessee state law. King seeks various forms of relief, including damages and injunctive
relief precluding the Company from making certain representations regarding King’s products and the Company’s Recothrom
product. King also filed motions with the District Court seeking temporary restraining orders and preliminary injunctive relief. In
December 2009, the judge denied King’s motions for preliminary injunction, but the lawsuit continues. Trial in the case is currently
scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2011. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this lawsuit or the
potential impact on the Company.
93Bristol-Myers Squibb
Note 27 SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
Dollars in Millions, except per share data First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
2010:
Net Sales $ 4,807 $ 4,768 $ 4,798 $ 5,111 $ 19,484
Gross Margin 3,501 3,491 3,518 3,697 14,207
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations 1,101 1,268 1,302 842 4,513
Less Net Earnings from Continuing Operations
Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest 358 341 353 359 1,411
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable
to BMS 743 927 949 483 3,102
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations Attributable
to BMS ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS 743 927 949 483 3,102
EPS Attributable to BMS(1):
Basic:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 0.43 $ 0.54 $ 0.55 $ 0.28 $ 1.80
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯
Net Earnings per Common Share $ 0.43 $ 0.54 $ 0.55 $ 0.28 $ 1.80
Diluted:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 0.43 $ 0.53 $ 0.55 $ 0.28 $ 1.79
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯ ⎯
Net Earnings per Common Share $ 0.43 $ 0.53 $ 0.55 $ 0.28 $ 1.79
Dividends declared per common share $ 0.32 $ 0.32 $ 0.32 $ 0.33 $ 1.29
Cash and cash equivalents $ 5,135 $ 5,918 $ 7,581 $ 5,033 $ 5,033
Marketable securities(2) 4,638 4,331 3,340 4,949 4,949
Dollars in Millions, except per share data First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
2009:
Net Sales $ 4,322 $ 4,665 $ 4,788 $ 5,033 $ 18,808
Gross Margin 3,157 3,440 3,471 3,600 13,668
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations 920 1,169 1,199 1,132 4,420
Less Net Earnings from Continuing Operations
Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest 271 289 307 314 1,181
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable
to BMS 649 880 892 818 3,239
Net Earnings/(Loss) from Discontinued Operations
Attributable to BMS (11) 103 74 7,207 7,373
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS 638 983 966 8,025 10,612
EPS Attributable to BMS (1):
Basic:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 0.33 $ 0.44 $ 0.45 $ 0.42 $ 1.63
Net Earnings/(Loss) from Discontinued Operations (0.01) 0.05 0.04 3.66 3.72
Net Earnings per common share $ 0.32 $ 0.49 $ 0.49 $ 4.08 $ 5.35
Diluted:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 0.33 $ 0.44 $ 0.45 $ 0.41 $ 1.63
Net Earnings/(Loss) from Discontinued Operations (0.01) 0.05 0.03 3.65 3.71
Net Earnings per common share $ 0.32 $ 0.49 $ 0.48 $ 4.06 $ 5.34
Dividends declared per common share $ 0.31 $ 0.31 $ 0.31 $ 0.32 $ 1.25
Cash and cash equivalents $ 7,832 $ 7,507 $ 6,367 $ 7,683 $ 7,683
Marketable securities(2) 1,272 1,596 1,504 2,200 2,200
(1) Earnings per share for the quarters may not add to the amounts for the year, as each period is computed on a discrete basis.
(2) Marketable securities includes current and non-current assets.
942010 Annual Report
The following specified items affected the comparability of results in 2010 and 2009:
2010:
First Second Third Fourth
Dollars in Millions Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year
Restructuring Activity:
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations $ 11 $ 24 $ 15 $ 63 $ 113
Impairment and loss on sale of manufacturing operations 200 15 10 11 236
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs 31 27 27 28 113
Pension curtailment and settlement charges — 5 3 10 18
Process standardization implementation costs 13 6 8 8 35
Total Restructuring 255 77 63 120 515
Other:
Litigation charges, net — — 22 (41) (19)
Upfront licensing, milestone and other payments 55 17 — 60 132
IPRD impairment — — — 10 10
Acquisition related items — — — 10 10
Product liability charges — — 13 4 17
Total 310 94 98 163 665
Income taxes on items above (86) (18) (30) (46) (180)
Out-of-period tax adjustment — (59) — — (59)
Specified tax charge — — — 207 207
Decrease to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 224 $ 17 $ 68 $ 324 $ 633
2009:
First Second Third Fourth
Dollars in Millions Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year
Restructuring Activity:
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations $ 15 $ 17 $ 48 $ 42 $ 122
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs 30 26 33 40 129
Pension curtailment and settlement charges — 25 — 11 36
Process standardization implementation costs 20 25 20 45 110
Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets (44) (11) (17) (288) (360)
Total Restructuring 21 82 84 (150) 37
Other:
Litigation charges 104 28 — — 132
BMS foundation funding initiative — — — 100 100
Loss on sale of investments — — — 31 31
Upfront licensing, milestone and other payments 145 29 — 173 347
Acquisition related items — — (10) — (10)
Debt repurchase and swap terminations — (11) 4 — (7)
Product liability charges/(insurance recoveries) 3 — — — 3
Total 273 128 78 154 633
Income taxes on items above (93) (42) (26) (44) (205)
Decrease to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 180 $ 86 $ 52 $ 110 $ 428
95Bristol-Myers Squibb
REPORTS OF MANAGEMENT
Management’s Responsibility for Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and integrity of the financial information presented in this Annual Report. The
accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States generally accepted
accounting principles, applying certain estimates and judgments as required. In management’s opinion, the consolidated financial
statements present fairly the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors meets regularly with the internal auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP (D&T), the
Company’s independent registered accounting firm, and management to review accounting, internal control structure and financial
reporting matters. The internal auditors and D&T have full and free access to the Audit Committee. As set forth in the Company’s
Standard of Business Conduct and Ethics, the Company is firmly committed to adhering to the highest standards of moral and
ethical behavior in all of its business activities.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the
supervision and with the participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management
assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 based on the framework in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on
that assessment, management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective at December
31, 2010 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s financial statements included
in this Annual Report and has issued its report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting, which appears on page 99 in this Annual Report.
Lamberto Andreotti
Chief Executive Officer
Charles Bancroft
Chief Financial Officer
February 18, 2011
962010 Annual Report
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
As of December 31, 2010, management carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its chief
executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and
procedures as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that
as of December 31, 2010, such disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the
supervision and with the participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management
assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 based on the framework in “Internal
Control—Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on
that assessment, management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective at December
31, 2010 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s financial statements included
in this Annual Report and issued its report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2010, which is included herein.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2010 that
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
OTHER INFORMATION
None.
97Bristtol-Myers Squibbb
REPPORT OF INDDEPENDENT RREGISTEREDD PUBLIC ACCCOUNTINGG FIRM
To thhe Board of Dirrectors and Stocckholders of
Bristtol-Myers Squibbb Company
We have audited the accompannying consoliddated balance sheets of Brisstol-Myers Sqquibb Companyy and subsidiaaries (the
"Commpany") as of DDecember 31, 2010 and 20099, and the relatted consolidateed statements of earnings, commprehensive inncome and
retainned earnings, aand cash flows for each of the three years in the period endeed December 331, 2010. Thesee financial stateements are
the responsibility of the Companyy's managementt. Our responsibbility is to exprress an opinionn on these finanncial statementss based on
our aaudits.
We cconducted our audits in accordance with thhe standards off the Public Coompany Accounnting Oversighht Board (Uniteed States).
Thosse standards reqquire that we pplan and perforrm the audit to obtain reasonaable assurance about whether the financial sstatements
are ffrree of material misstatement. An audit incluudes examining, on a test basiss, evidence suppporting the ammounts and discclosures in
the ffinancial statemments. An auddit also includes assessing thhe accounting principles useed and significcant estimates made by
manaagement, as weell as evaluatinng the overall financial statemment presentatiion. We believve that our auddits provide a rreasonable
basiss for our opinioon.
In ouur opinion, suchh consolidated financial statemments present ffairly, in all maaterial respects, the financial pposition of Brisstol-Myers
Squibbb Company aand subsidiariess as of Decembber 31, 2010 annd 2009, and thhe results of thheir operations and their cash flows for
each of the three yeears in the period ended Deceember 31, 20100, in conformityy with accountiing principles ggenerally acceppted in the
Uniteed States of Ammerica.
As ddiscussed in Noote 1 to the connsolidated finanncial statementss, the Companyy adopted the aaccounting stanndard related too Business
Commbinations, effecctive for busineess combinationns entered into on or after Januuary 1, 2009.
We hhave also auditted, in accordance with the sttandards of thee Public Compaany Accountingg Oversight Booard (United States), the
Commpany's internal control over fiinancial reportiing as of Decemmber 31, 2010, based on the crriteria establishhed in Internal Control—
Integgrated Framewwork issued by the Committeee of Sponsoringg Organizationns of the Treadwway Commissiion and our repport dated
Februuary 18, 2011 eexpressed an unnqualified opinnion on the Commpany's internal control over ffinancial reportiing.
Delooitte & Touche LLP
Parsiippany, New Jeersey
Februuary 18, 2011
982010 Annuual Report
REPPORT OF INDDEPENDENT RREGISTEREDD PUBLIC ACCCOUNTINGG FIRM
To thhe Board of Dirrectors and Stocckholders of
Bristtol-Myers Squibbb Company
We hhave audited thhe internal conttrol over financcial reporting of Bristol-Myers Squibb Comppany and subsidiaries (the "Company")
as off December 31, 2010, based oon criteria estaablished in Inteernal Control —— Integrated FFramework issuued by the Commmittee of
Sponnsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Thee Company's mmanagement is responsible ffoor maintainingg effective
internnal control oveer financial repporting and for its assessmennt of the effecctiveness of intternal control oover financial reporting,
incluuded in the accoompanying Maanagement’s Reeport on Internaal Control Overr Financial Repporting. Our ressponsibility is tto express
an oppinion on the CCompany's interrnal control oveer financial repoorting based onn our audit.
We cconducted our audit in accorrdance with thee standards of the Public Commpany Accounnting Oversightt Board (Uniteed States).
Thosse standards reqquire that we pplan and performm the audit to obtain reasonabble assurance aabout whether eeffective internnal control
over financial reporrting was mainntained in all mmaterial respectss. Our audit included obtaininng an understannding of internnal control
over financial repoorting, assessinng the risk thaat a material wweakness existts, testing andd evaluating thhe design and operating
effecctiveness of inteernal control baased on the asseessed risk, and performing succh other proceddures as we connsidered necesssary in the
circuumstances. We believe that ouur audit providees a reasonable bbasis for our oppinion.
A coompany's internnal control overr financial reporting is a proceess designed byy, or under the supervision of, the company'ss principal
execuutive and princcipal financial oofficers, or perssons performingg similar functiions, and effectted by the comppany's board off directors,
manaagement, and oother personnel to provide reassonable assurannce regarding thhe reliability off financial reporting and the prreparation
of finnancial statemeents for externnal purposes in accordance wwith generally aaccepted accounnting principlees. A company's internal
contrrol over financcial reporting iincludes those policies and pprocedures thaat (1) pertain tto the maintenaance of recordds that, in
reasoonable detail, accurately and ffairly reflect thee transactions aand dispositionss of the assets oof the companyy; (2) provide rreasonable
assurrance that transactions are reecorded as neceessary to permmit preparation of financial staatements in accordance with generally
acceppted accountinng principles, aand that receippts and expendditures of the company are being made oonly in accordaance with
authoorizations of mmanagement andd directors of tthe company; aand (3) providee reasonable asssurance regardiing prevention or timely
detecction of unauthhorized acquisittion, use, or dissposition of thee company's asssets that couldd have a materiaal effect on thee financial
statemments.
Becaause of the inheerent limitationns of internal ccontrol over finnancial reportinng, including thhe possibility oof collusion or improper
manaagement overriide of controls, material missttatements due tto error or fraudd may not be pprevented or deetected on a timmely basis.
Also, projections off any evaluatioon of the effectiiveness of the iinternal controll over financiall reporting to ffuuture periods aare subject
to thhe risk that the controls may bbecome inadeqquate because oof changes in cconditions, or tthat the degreee of compliancee with the
policcies or procedurres may deterioorate.
In our opinion, thhe Company mmaintained, in all material rrespects, effecttive internal ccontrol over fiinancial reportiing as of
Deceember 31, 20100, based on thee criteria estabblished in Interrnal Control —— Integrated Frramework issueed by the Commmittee of
Sponnsoring Organizzations of the TTreadway Commmission.
We hhave also auditted, in accordance with the sttandards of thee Public Compaany Accountingg Oversight Booard (United States), the
consolidated financcial statementss of the Comppany as of annd for the yeaar ended December 31, 20100 and our repport dated
Februuary 18, 2011 eexpressed an unnqualified opinnion on those finnancial statemeents.
Delooitte & Touche LLP
Parsiippany, New Jeersey
Februuary 18, 2011
99Bristol-Myers Squibb
PERFORMANCE GRAPH
The following performance graph compares the performance of Bristol-Myers Squibb for the periods indicated with the
performance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index (S&P 500) and the average performance of a group consisting of our peer
corporations on a line-of-business basis. The corporations making up our New Peer Group are Abbott Laboratories, Amgen Inc.,
AstraZeneca PLC, Biogen Idec Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, Genzyme Corporation, Gilead Sciences, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline,
Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., Inc., Novartis AG, Pfizer, Inc., Roche Holding Ltd., and sanofi-aventis.
For 2010 we revised our Peer Group to include certain biotech companies to be more consistent with our biopharmaceutical focus.
The Old Peer Group consisted of the following companies: Abbott Laboratories, AstraZeneca PLC, Eli Lilly and Company,
GlaxoSmithKline PLC, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., Inc., Novartis AG, Pfizer, Inc. and sanofi-aventis.
Total return indices reflect reinvested dividends and are weighted using beginning-period market capitalization for each of the
reported time periods.
Comparison of Cumulative Five Year Total Return
$200
$150
$100
$50
$0
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Bristol-Myers Squibb S&P 500 Index New Peer Group Old Peer Group
12/31/05 12/31/06 12/31/07 12/31/08 12/31/09 12/31/10
Bristol-Myers Squibb $ 100 $ 120 $ 126 $ 118 $ 136 $ 148
S&P 500 Index $ 100 $ 116 $ 122 $ 77 $ 97 $ 112
New Peer Group $ 100 $ 112 $ 113 $ 98 $ 109 $ 108
Old Peer Group $ 100 $ 113 $ 116 $ 96 $ 110 $ 110
Assumes $100 invested on 12/31/05 in Bristol-Myers Squibb common stock, S&P 500 Index, New Peer Group and Old Peer
Group. Values are as of December 31 of specified year assuming dividends are reinvested.
1002010 Annual Report
Five-Year Financial Summary
Amounts in Millions, except per share data 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Income Statement Data:(a)
Net Sales $ 19,484 $ 18,808 $ 17,715 $ 15,617 $ 13,863
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes 6,071 5,602 4,776 2,523 1,450
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable to
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 3,102 3,239 2,697 1,296 787
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations per Common Share
Attributable to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company:
Basic $ 1.80 $ 1.63 $ 1.36 $ 0.65 $ 0.40
Diluted $ 1.79 $ 1.63 $ 1.35 $ 0.65 $ 0.40
Average common shares outstanding:
Basic 1,713 1,974 1,977 1,970 1,960
Diluted 1,727 1,978 1,999 1,977 1,962
Dividends paid on BMS common and preferred stock $ 2,202 $ 2,466 $ 2,461 $ 2,213 $ 2,199
Dividends declared per common share $ 1.29 $ 1.25 $ 1.24 $ 1.15 $ 1.12
Financial Position Data at December 31:
Total Assets $ 31,076 $ 31,008 $ 29,486 $ 25,867 $ 25,271
Cash and cash equivalents 5,033 7,683 7,976 1,801 2,018
Marketable securities(b) 4,949 2,200 477 843 1,995
Long-term debt 5,328 6,130 6,585 4,381 7,248
Equity 15,638 14,785 12,208 10,535 10,041
(a) We recognized items that affected the comparability of results. For a discussion of these items for the years 2010, 2009 and 2008, see “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Expenses.”
(b) Marketable securities include current and non-current assets.
101Bristol-myers squiBB leadership
Board of Directors
James M. Cornelius Alan J. Lacy
Chairman, Bristol-Myers Squibb Senior Advisor,
Oak Hill Capital Partners (a,b)
Lamberto Andreotti
Chief Executive Officer, Vicki L. Sato, Ph.D.
Bristol-Myers Squibb (d) Professor of Management Practice,
Harvard Business School, and Professor
Lewis B. Campbell of Molecular and Cell Biology,
Retired Chairman, Harvard University (c,d)
Textron Inc. (a,b,c)
Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D.
Louis J. Freeh Executive Vice President,
Senior Managing Partner, Chief Scientific Officer and President,
Freeh Group International, LLC (a,b) Research and Development,
Bristol-Myers Squibb (d)
Laurie H. Glimcher, M.D.
Professor of Immunology, Harvard School Togo D. West, Jr.
of Public Health, and Professor of Medicine, Chairman, TLI Leadership
Harvard Medical School (a,b,d) Group and Noblis, Inc. (b,c)
Michael Grobstein R. Sanders Williams, M.D.
Retired Vice Chairman, President and Robert W. and
Ernst & Young LLP (a,c) Linda L. Mahley Distinguished Professor,
The J. David Gladstone Institutes, and
Leif Johansson Professor of Medicine, University of California,
President, AB Volvo, San Francisco (b,d)
and Chief Executive Officer,
The Volvo Group (a,c)
(a) Audit Committee
(b) Committee on Directors and
Corporate Governance
(c) Compensation and Management
Development Committee
(d) Science and Technology Committee
102 103
510019.Fin 4pg-CS4.indd 2 3/7/11 3:27 PMSenior Management Team
7 2
1 Lamberto Andreotti 10 5
Chief Executive Officer 6
11
4
2 Charles A. Bancroft
3
Chief Financial Officer
8 1
3 Béatrice J. Cazala 9
Senior Vice President,
Commercial Operations,
and President, Global Commercialization,
Europe and Emerging Markets
4 John E. Celentano
Senior Vice President,
Human Resources, Public Affairs
and Philanthropy
5 Francis Cuss, MB BChir, FRCP
Senior Vice President, Research,
Research and Development 9 Sandra Leung
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
6 Brian Daniels, M.D.
Senior Vice President, 10 Jeremy Levin, D.Phil., MB BChir
Global Development and Medical Affairs,
Senior Vice President, Strategy,
Research and Development
Alliances and Transactions
7 Carlo de Notaristefani 11 Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D.
President, Technical Operations
Executive Vice President,
and Global Support Functions
Chief Scientific Officer and President,
Research and Development
8 Anthony C. Hooper
Senior Vice President,
Commercial Operations, and President,
U.S., Japan and Intercontinental
102 103
510019.Fin 4pg-CS4.indd 3 3/7/11 1:05 PMBristol-myers squiBB stockholder information
COMMON STOCK ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Ticker symbol: BMY Information on the following subjects is available at www.bms.com:
New York Stock Exchange
• Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation
• Clinical Trials
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
• Diversity and EEO-1 Statistics
Tuesday, May 3, 2011
• Patient Assistance Programs
10:00 a.m.
• Political Contributions
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
• Sustainability/Environmental Programs
777 Scudders Mill Road, Plainsboro, NJ 08536
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking information
STOCKHOLDER SERVICES AND PROGRAMS within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expec-
All inquiries concerning stockholder accounts and stock transfer
tations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause
matters – including address changes, the elim ination of duplicate
actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expecta-
mailings and the Investor Services Program – should be directed
tions. Please see page 37 in the Financial Review for a discussion and
to the Company's Transfer Agent and Registrar:
description of these risks and uncertainties. The Company undertakes
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
480 Washington Boulevard, Jersey City, NJ 07310-1900
www.bnymellon.com/shareowner/isd
PRODUCT NAMES AND COMPANY PROGRAMS
800-356-2026 (within the U.S.)
Product names and Company programs appearing throughout
201-680-6578 (outside the U.S.) in italic are trademarks of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. Global
products are referred to herein by their registered and approved
TDD telephone service for the hearing impaired:
U.S. trademarks, unless specifically noted otherwise.
800-231-5469 (within the U.S.) Abilify is a trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
201-680-6610 (outside the U.S.)
Alimta and Gemzar are trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company.
INVESTOR SERVICES PROGRAM Atripla is a trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead
The Investor Services Program is designed for long-term investors Sciences, LLC.
who wish to build share ownership in the Company's common
stock over time. You can participate in the program if you are a Avapro, Avalide, Aprovel, Karvea, Iscover, Karvezide,
registered holder of the Company's common stock. If you do not CoAprovel are trademarks of sanofi-aventis.
own the Company's common stock, you can become a participant
by making your initial purchase directly through the program. The Delestrogen is a trademark of JHP Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
program features dividend reinvestment, optional cash purchase,
Duoplavin and Duocover are trademarks of sanofi-aventis.
share safekeeping and share sales and transfers. Bristol-Myers
Squibb has appointed Mellon Bank, N.A., as Administrator for
Eliquis is a trademark of Pfizer, Inc.
the Program. The Program is not sponsored or administered
by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. Erbitux is a trademark of Eli Lilly and Company.
Estrace and Ovcon are trademarks of Warner-Chilcott
FORM 10-K
Company, LLC.
For a free copy of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, contact: Gleevec is a trademark of Novartis AG.
Secretary Plavix is a trademark of sanofi-aventis.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
Prilosec is a trademark of AstraZeneca PLC.
345 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10154-0037
The Form 10-K is also available at www.bms.com/investors. Truvada is a trademark of Gilead Sciences, Inc.
The most recent certifications by the Company’s chief executive
officer and chief financial officer pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to the Company’s
Form 10-K. The Company has also filed with the New York Stock
Exchange the most recent Annual CEO Certification as required
by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed
Company Manual.
104
510019.Fin 4pg-CS4.indd 4 3/7/11 6:47 PMIn 2004, just two weeks before her wedding, Sharon
Belvin learned that what she thought was a bad case
of bronchitis was in fact melanoma. Despite chemo-
therapy, the tumors spread to her lungs, lymph nodes
We stand today as a global
and brain. “I was only 22,” she says, “and it seemed
like my life was over.” But Sharon didn’t give up. She
company deeply committed
enrolled in a clinical trial for ipilimumab, an investi-
gational treatment for metastatic melanoma, now
to a single Mission: to discover,
being developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb as Yervoy.
develop and deliver innovative Since entering the trial, Sharon appears to be doing
well. Now, she and her husband, Rob, live happily
medicines that help patients with their rambunctious 3-year-old, Lillybeth, and
the latest addition to the family, James Michael. “I’m
prevail over serious diseases. exhausted just trying to keep up with the kids,” she
laughs. “Life is good.”
Chief Executive Officer Lamberto Andreotti (front center) with members
of the Senior Management Team. See page 103. BACK COVER
Janice Henn, pictured with her Yorkshire terrier, Killer, was
diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis when she was 35 years
old. That was 28 years ago. “No matter what I did for 25 years
I didn’t find anything to stop it,” she says. Arthritis took its toll
on everything she enjoyed doing: gardening, walking the dog,
family vacations and playing with her grandchildren. “When I
walked, it felt like my bones were frozen, like they were going to
break every step I took,” says Janice. In 2008, at the recommen-
dation of her doctor, Janice entered a clinical trial for Orencia
FRONT COVER
(abatacept) subcutaneous formulation. Since entering the trial,
Jennifer Lowinger is a research scientist in Applied Genomics at Bristol-Myers Squibb. her condition has improved. “I feel like I’m a participant in life
She is part of an R & D team exploring the use of chemical genetics to identify new again, rather than just an observer,” she says. “I’m so grateful.”
disease targets, one of the first steps in drug discovery and development.
Produced by the Bristol-Myers Squibb Public Affairs Department.
Copyright © 2011 Bristol-Myers Squibb. All rights reserved.2010 ANNUAL REPORT
Significant Changes. Significant Results.
OUR BIOPHARMA
TRANSFORMATION
Bristol-Myers Squibb
345 Park Avenue • New York, NY 10154-0037
212-546-4000 • www.bms.com Get the free mobile app at
http://gettag.mobi