2012 Annual ReportOn the COver – Eliquis – the SCientifiC JOurney
The scientific journey that resulted in Eliquis (apixaban), Bristol-Myers Squibb’s
new anticoagulation therapy that works by directly inhibiting Factor Xa, dates
back to 1994 and a group of dedicated researchers at DuPont Pharmaceuticals,
a company Bristol-Myers Squibb acquired in 2001. At that time, Ruth Wexler,
Ph.D., led DuPont’s Cardiovascular Chemistry group. “We strongly believed,
based on preclinical data, that a high quality Factor Xa inhibitor could be a highly
effective anticoagulant with the potential for an improved safety profile,” she
says. By 1996, a cross-functional team helped identify the first inhibitors and
by early 1998, the first of these entered human trials. Still, the team continued
to develop additional Factor Xa inhibitors. Apixaban was synthesized by Michael
Orwat (right), then an associate working in the laboratory of Donald Pinto, Ph.D.
(left). Today, all three are still working in cardiovascular research at Bristol-Myers
Squibb: Pinto, a research fellow in Medicinal Chemistry, and Orwat, a senior
research scientist in Pinto’s lab, are helping develop a next generation of medi-
cines for thrombosis. And Wexler is executive director in Medicinal Chemistry,
leading the group as it develops a new wave of cardiovascular drugs. See a Spe-
cial Report beginning on page 5 to learn more about how our company’s efforts
in cardiovascular research and on other frontiers of drug development may help
patients around the world.
We remain committed to a single overriding mission:
to help more patients prevail in their fight against serious diseases.
The patient stories shared in this Annual Report depict individual patient responses to our medicines or investigational compounds and are not representative
of all patient responses. In addition, there is no guarantee that potential drugs or indications still in development will receive regulatory approval.Bristol-Myers Squibb 2012 Annual Report
tO Our StOCkhOlderS
Message from the Chief Executive Officer
2012 was a year of strategic transition – one that allowed us to deliver meaningful results, while
laying the groundwork for 2013 and beyond – one that further established Bristol-Myers Squibb
as a benchmark BioPharma company.
During the year, we evolved our portfolio. We reaffirmed our leadership in a range of therapeutic
areas. We set the stage for sustained, long-term growth.
Our revenues and earnings declined – due to the expected losses of exclusivity of Plavix and
Avapro/Avalide – but we closed the year in a very good position. Our financials were solid. Our
pipeline robust. Our portfolio strengthened by the addition of new, innovative medicines.
Specifically, our new and in-line product sales grew by 15% in 2012. Among the strongest drivers
with double-digit growth were Yervoy (metastatic melanoma), Onglyza (type 2 diabetes), Orencia
(rheumatoid arthritis), Sprycel (myeloid leukemia) and Baraclude (hepatitis B). We had several key
regulatory successes, including the European approval of Forxiga (type 2 diabetes) and multiple
approvals of Eliquis (atrial fibrillation). And we made some significant clinical advances, particularly
with respect to our immuno-oncology and hepatitis C assets.
Taken together, it was an important year that ended strong.
Our Solid Foundation
Clearly, we did not get to our good position overnight.
Beginning in 2007, our BioPharma Transformation has been comprehensive, impacting all parts of
our organization in all parts of the world. It has been a journey. It has taken vision. And it has taken
a lot of hard work.
• It has also taken a new Mission – one based on helping patients prevail over serious diseases
exclusively through innovative pharmaceutical products.
• It has taken a new strategy – one premised on the three pillars of innovation, continuous
improvement and selective integration.
• It has taken a new approach to the way we do business – one guided and fueled by a more
agile, entrepreneurial and accountable culture.
• A nd it has taken an unwavering commitment to compliance, business ethics and personal integ-
rity – a commitment that has become central to who we are, what we do and how we do it.
Simply stated, our BioPharma Transformation has been built on a solid foundation of realistic expecta-
tions, high aspirations and a commitment to excellence that runs throughout our entire company.Our Diversified Portfolio and diseases, and with it, three mar-
Pipeline keted products, including Byetta
and Bydureon, and a state-of-the-art
This foundation, in turn, made it
manufacturing plant in Ohio. And
possible for us to work through
very importantly, we also expanded
challenges and seize opportunities
our 5-year-old diabetes partnership
in 2012, while positioning ourselves
with AstraZeneca.
for a successful future.
Toward the end of the year, we gained
Most notably, it helped us to manage
European Commission approval for
the losses of exclusivity of Plavix and
Forxiga, a once-daily oral medication
Avapro/Avalide. Having long known
that provides a completely new option
that two of our biggest products were
to improve glycemic control in adult
going off patent in 2012 and that the
patients with type 2 diabetes.
financial impact would be consider-
In light of all of these developments,
able, we planned accordingly and
we are now able to offer three innova- executed successfully. We strength-
tive classes of medicines to help
ened our diversified portfolio with new
address the diverse needs of patients
products and new indications. We
with type 2 diabetes. This is good achieved significant clinical advances.
news for our company and for the
And we renewed our commitment to
patients we serve. Type 2 diabetes
productivity.
is a chronic, progressive disease
Cardiovascular Disease that is growing in prevalence across
In the last weeks of the year, we the globe. According to the World
gained several approvals for Eliquis, Health Organization (WHO), there
a new medication for the prevention are an estimated 346 million people
of stroke and systemic embolism for with diabetes worldwide. By 2030,
adult patients with nonvalvular atrial that number is projected to double.
fibrillation, or NVAF. Specifically, Consequently, there is a real need
2 Eliquis was approved in Europe, for new treatment options.
Canada, Japan and the United States. has been the standard of care for this Immuno-Oncology
patient population.
This was an important development Yervoy continued to get established
for patients. Atrial fibrillation is a Finally, this was a very positive in markets throughout the world.
common heart arrhythmia that affects development for our company and Global sales increased 96% over the
millions of people worldwide. It is a for our alliance with Pfizer, because it previous year, and this breakthrough
condition that significantly increases further underscored the value of our product demonstrated an unprec-
the risk of stroke as well as the bur- partnership and the leadership role edented 5-year survival curve for
den to patients who suffer a stroke. both companies continue to play in melanoma patients.
This was also an important devel- providing innovative medicines for the Our Research and Development team
opment for physicians. Eliquis is treatment of cardiovascular disease. also made progress with two potential
the only anticoagulant with proven Diabetes products – nivolumab, which is in
Phase III trials for lung, renal and skin
superior risk reduction versus war-
In 2012, we continued to expand our
cancers, and elotuzumab, for multiple
farin in the three critical outcomes
Onglyza franchise and delivered a
myeloma.
of stroke prevention, major bleeding
50% increase in year-over-year sales.
and all-cause death in patients with These developments reaffirmed
We also acquired Amylin, a biophar-
NVAF. For nearly 60 years, warfarin Bristol-Myers Squibb’s position as
maceutical company specializing
in diabetes and other metabolic
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
2012 Annual Report
Lamberto Andreotti, Chief Executive Officer
“Simply stated, our
BioPharma Transformation
has been built on
a solid foundation of
realistic expectations,
high aspirations and a
commitment to excellence
that runs throughout our
entire company.”a leader in the field of oncology and Investor Relations) and Samuel Moed ued work with the United Nations
a pioneer in the new, increasingly (Strategic Planning and Analysis). Global Compact and with our own
promising field of immuno-oncology. Recruited to our company were Go Green and Earth Day initiatives.
Frances Heller (Business Develop- These efforts – combined with the
Hepatitis C
ment) and Ann Powell Judge (Human progress made on our Sustainability
With respect to hepatitis C, we
Resources). 2015 Goals – contributed to our top
were disappointed about the need to
Individually and collectively, these designation on the 2012 Corporate
discontinue the BMS-986094 clinical
organizational changes are all Responsibility magazine’s 100 Best
program, but in the interest of patient
designed to help us to do our work Corporate Citizens list.
safety, we acted swiftly to end it.
faster, smarter and better – to deliver
For employees, our commitment was
Despite this situation, our hepatitis
the promise of our portfolio more
clear in the work we did to develop,
C portfolio remains significant. We
effectively and efficiently – and to
enrich and recognize our people.
made important progress on an
impact positively the lives of people
We reaffirmed our longstanding
oral dual-regimen in development in
around the world.
adherence to equal opportunity prin-
Japan, where we plan to file a regula-
Our Steadfast Commitment ciples and rededicated ourselves to
tory submission in 2013, and we
maintaining a work environment that
intensified our focus on the Phase II After all, people are at the center
development of an all-oral triple regi- of everything we do. People who values diversity and that embodies
men, preparing the way for Phase III depend on our innovative medicines. fairness, equity and respect. Once
trials in 2014. People who live in our communities. again, we placed an emphasis on
People who work for our company. maintaining an atmosphere designed
Our Improved Organization
Our commitment is to them and their to promote a good work product and
Central to our transformation and families, and in 2012, this was dem- a good work experience.
a key to our ongoing success has onstrated in compelling ways.
Clearly, we are in a strong position.
been an active focus on continuous
For patients, our commitment includes Our BioPharma Transformation has
improvement, particularly through
our work in the laboratory to discover been a journey during which we have
enhanced productivity and forward-
and develop innovative new medicines worked through many challenges and
looking changes to our organization.
as well as our work in the field to seized many opportunities. We have
In 2012, we began implementing a promote access to them. We there- been finding our way through the
new global structure – one better fore focus a great deal of time and losses of exclusivity. We have been
suited for our increasingly diversified resources also making access a reality adapting to the “new normal” of
portfolio and geographical emphasis. for people living in the most challeng- global economic uncertainty. And we
This included a restructuring of our ing circumstances. In 2012, that meant
have just completed an important year
U.S. and European operations as well expanding our U.S.-based Together of transition – one that underscored
as our approach to global markets. on Diabetes program – which began
the potential of our increasingly
We also launched the Enterprise in 2010 with a $100 million grant – to
diversified portfolio and pipeline of
Services organization, an effort to China and India, two countries with
innovative medicines.
streamline internal operations, and we the largest populations of diabetic
unveiled a new, cutting-edge Plant patients. It also meant completing All of this enables us to bring new
Network Strategy in our manufactur- the first successful phase of our possibilities to patients.
ing organization. five-country collaboration with the
WHO concerning the HIV/tuberculo-
To my Senior Management Team
sis epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa,
I welcomed three new executives in
an initiative that represents an exten-
2012 and one more early in 2013.
sion of our landmark SECurE THE
Promoted from within our company
FuTurE program.
were John Elicker (Public Affairs and
For communities, our commitment
expressed itself through our contin-
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
2012 Annual Report
3
Lamberto Andreotti
Chief Executive Officer
March 11, 2013Message from the Chairman careful planning and smart execution,
of the Board we ended 2012 in a solid position.
For years, we had been talking about Going forward, the foundation estab-
a “patent cliff” – an enormous drop in lished in recent years – coupled with
sales and earnings that would occur our proven ability to deliver under
when two of our biggest products, difficult circumstances – should help
Plavix and Avapro/Avalide, lost their guarantee our continued success.
exclusivity in the United States. We
Since joining our company in 2006,
discussed its likely impact on our
I have had the opportunity to work
organization. We debated its effect
with some extraordinary people during
on our portfolio. Some even wondered
some extraordinary times. As CEO,
whether we could recover.
I was able to launch our BioPharma
Over time, however, that conversation Transformation and help guide the
took a different turn. organization through the early years
In fact, when both products lost their “Going forward, the of this important process. As Chair-
exclusivity in 2012, we did not fall foundation established in man, I have been able to work closely
off a cliff. We remained strong and with CEO Lamberto Andreotti and
just continued doing what we do best: recent years – coupled his team as they take the company
driving sales, launching products, with our proven ability to the next level. In addition, I want
building our future. In the end, the to thank Louis Freeh, who recently
“cliff” turned into more of a “slope,” to deliver under difficult retired from the Board, and R. Sanders
and the conversation refocused on circumstances – should Williams, who will retire on May 7,
our bright future. for their dedicated and outstanding
help guarantee our service to the company.
This is an important story, because it
speaks to the strength, the resiliency continued success.” We have literally transformed Bristol-
and the capacity of Bristol-Myers Myers Squibb into a BioPharma
4 Squibb. leader and are making an important
franchise through a major acquisi- difference in the lives of our patients
Over the past several years, our
tion, a new product approval and the and in the communities in which we
company has changed in significant
strengthening of our alliance with live and work. And as we transition
ways. We have evolved our mission
AstraZeneca. The further develop- to the portfolio of the future with an
and strategy. We have diversified
ment of our exciting work in immuno- organization well positioned to own
our portfolio and geographical focus.
oncology. The much-anticipated
that future, I feel extremely confident
We have repurposed and redirected
approval in several countries of Eliquis
and genuinely proud.
our organization. All in all, we have
for atrial fibrillation.
done a great deal to transform
Bristol-Myers Squibb into a bench- All of this has made it possible to
mark BioPharma company. mitigate the impact of the patent
losses and find our way through an
And last year, the results were impres-
increasingly complex, increasingly
sive. Strong double-digit growth in James M. Cornelius
sales of our new and in-line products. challenging global economic environ- Chairman
ment. Granted, we will continue to
The augmentation of our diabetes March 11, 2013
feel the effect of those losses, but
there is no mistaking it: Through
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
2012 Annual Report
James M. Cornelius, ChairmanFrontiers oF science
Today we stand on the frontiers of extraordinary new possibilities
for addressing significant unmet medical need. And while we have
come a great distance in the past several years to successfully
transform ourselves into a benchmark BioPharma company, there
are great opportunities to do even more. Most importantly, we have
and will continue to attract and retain the best people around the
world. And each day they come to work, they remain committed to
a single overriding mission: to help more patients prevail in their
fight against serious diseases.
As we look to the future, we will need to focus our efforts across
a number of essential areas:
• Extending the Reach of Our Medi- our competitive advantage to deliver
cines – Ensuring that more patients the promise of new medicines.
around the world gain access to
• Developing Innovations on the
our leading medicines will help
Frontiers of Medicine – Cardiovas-
them prevail over their illnesses,
cular disease, immuno-oncology
create value for our shareholders
and diabetes are three leading areas
and develop the resources required
to invest in our future. where we have recently introduced
new medicines and where we are
• Ensuring a Robust R&D Pipeline – In
developing a pipeline of innovative
addition to the diseases for which we
therapies that expand the frontiers
have medicines already available, we
of biomedical research.
continue to diversify and expand our
horizons in areas like hepatitis C, neu- • Committing to Responsible Citizen-
rodegenerative disorders and fibrosis. ship – Acting in a socially respon-
• Creating a Culture of Continuous sible, ethical and sustainable manner
Improvement – Working smarter, is a commitment we must make and
better and faster will help us drive act upon every day.
In this Special Report, we examine each area and introduce you to exam-
ples of how our people continue to transform Bristol-Myers Squibb and
in so doing, help develop new possibilities for patients everywhere.
eht
Bristol-Myers Squibb 2012 Annual Report
Developing New Possibilities for Patients
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
56
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
2012 Annual Report
Medicines That Fuel Our Growth
At Bristol-Myers Squibb, we rely on a supports the efficacy of Orencia. The (wild type) metastatic colorectal
strong lineup of products to acceler- first large head-to-head trial of its kind cancer (mCRC) (about 60 percent of
ate our growth and help fuel research in RA, AMPLE found that Orencia the total mCRC population). Erbitux
for promising future possibilities. Key showed comparable efficacy to a com- was initially approved in 2004 as a
brands today include Orencia (abata- monly prescribed TNF inhibitor. Further second-line or later treatment option
cept) for rheumatoid arthritis (RA); exploring additional uses, Phase III for mCRC. In 2011, Erbitux also
Sprycel (dasatinib) and Erbitux (cetux- trials are beginning in lupus nephritis, received approval as a first-line treat-
imab) for cancer; reyataz (atazanavir), a complex disease with a high unmet ment option in recurrent metastatic
Atripla (efavirenz with emtricitabine need, and in psoriatic arthritis. squamous cell carcinoma of the head
and tenofovir) and Sustiva (efavirenz) and neck. The new indications are
Sprycel and Erbitux
for HIV/AIDS; Baraclude (enteca- important advances in the treatment
Sprycel became a billion-dollar prod-
vir) for hepatitis B; and Onglyza of these two prevalent tumor types,
uct globally for the first time in 2012,
(saxagliptin), and Kombiglyze XR and offering both prolonged survival and
having established itself as an impor-
Komboglyze (saxagliptin and metfor- increased response rates.
tant medicine to treat chronic myeloid
min HCl fixed-dose combinations) for
Reyataz, Atripla and Sustiva
leukemia (CML) in both treatment-
diabetes (also see pages 16-17). Not
naïve and refractory patients. Physi- A long-time leader in HIV treatments,
only is use of many of these therapies
cians appreciate the fast and deep Bristol-Myers Squibb was the first
on the rise for approved indications,
responses to the disease that Sprycel (partnering with Gilead) to bring a
but in many cases, new research is
offers and its ability to achieve early single-tablet regimen to the market
seeking to examine their ability to
response milestones. The approval with Atripla. Despite an increasingly
benefit more patients.
of Sprycel as a first-line therapy has competitive environment, Atripla
Orencia
helped provide additional benefits remains the number-one-prescribed
Orencia crossed $1 billion in annual for patients newly diagnosed with single tablet HIV regimen in the U.S., a
sales in 2012. Additional growth has CML. Also, patients and physicians position built on a foundation of proven
come with the approval of subcutane- increasingly value the demonstrated efficacy and long-term virologic sup-
ous (SC) administration in the U.S., long-term benefit and the simplicity of pression. reyataz, launched in 2003,
Europe and Australia, allowing patients Sprycel’s once-daily dosing regimen. exhibits durable viral control and a
who wish to do so to self-administer the Sprycel was successfully launched strong resistance profile. It is used in
medication. Worldwide, SC formula- in China in mid-2012 for second-line both treatment-naïve and drug-resistant
tions currently represent about 70 per- CML treatment, becoming our compa- patients and plays an important role
cent of the total RA biologics market, ny’s first oncology therapy launched in in the treatment of women, with data
80 percent in Europe alone. With its China in 17 years. To further address supporting its efficacy and safety in this
unique mechanism of action, differ- areas of unmet medical need, ongo- population and with a unique label for
ing from standard anti-tumor necrosis ing studies are examining whether use in pregnant women with HIV/AIDS.
factor (TNF) agents, and a balance of CML patients who have significant
Indeed, we have placed a special
efficacy and safety, Orencia provides responses to Sprycel can eventually
focus on women living with HIV, a
an important biologic alternative to stan- come off therapy and maintain their
vulnerable and growing population.
dard anti-TNF treatments. Also, Orencia responses. Early studies also are
In Europe, for example, where women
is the only biologic agent currently avail- assessing Sprycel in mutation-defined
represent one-third of new HIV
able in both intravenous (IV) and SC lung cancer and in pancreatic cancer.
diagnoses, the company, in partner-
formulations for the treatment of RA.
In 2012, Erbitux was approved for ship with an independent faculty that
New clinical data from the AMPLE use as a first-line treatment option for includes health care providers and
study, presented last year, further patients with KRAS-mutation-negative patient groups, has launched SHE, an2012 Annual Report
Lucja Blesi
A Change for the Better
For the past six years, Lucja Blesi, a 42-year-old
mother of two and book dealer in St. Gallen, Swit-
zerland, has been battling rheumatoid arthritis.
It started as a mysterious joint swelling of a finger,
and then worsened until her hands, feet and other
joints were affected. The pain was constant and
impaired her ability to walk. “I was unable to get up
in the morning,” Blesi recalls. And while a standard
therapy subsequently relieved much of the pain, “It
was difficult to go on vacation. Many acute flareups
still caused severe bouts of pain,” she admits.
In 2011, her rheumatologist, Rüdiger Müller, M.D.,
at the Cantonal Hospital of St. Gallen, prescribed
Orencia IV. Her acute episodes have decreased and
now she is back to taking walks and even skiing.
Recently, Müller switched her to the newly approved
subcutaneous formulation of Orencia so that she can
administer the medication herself. He is enthusiastic
about the broadened options for using Orencia. “This
way,” he says, “we can treat patients with Orencia
according to their preferred mode of administration.”
“When I used to have these terrible episodes,” Blesi
says, “I would think, ‘Why me? Why now?’ But now
I am getting back to doing the things I used to do.”
initiative to improve the quality of life care and encourage best practices. is supported by data demonstrating
for women living with HIV. The program sustained viral load reduction, minimal
Baraclude
seeks to educate health care provid- resistance and a favorable long-term
Baraclude sales were $1.4 billion in
ers about the special needs of women safety profile, along with disease
while also empowering women to get 2012, with over 80 percent of sales
awareness efforts about understanding
the most out of health care services. coming from outside the U.S., including
how the disease affects the liver.
SHE “units,” multidisciplinary teams 35 percent growth in China, its largest
based in clinics and hospitals, have market. About three-quarters of the Looking to the future, studies are
been established at 16 health facilities 350 million people worldwide infected underway of a novel interferon, pegin-
in Europe, with 32 more planned for with hepatitis B virus are in Asia, terferon lambda-1a, both as a poten-
2013. The teams draw on SHE pro- including more than 90 million in China. tial stand-alone hepatitis B treatment
gram medical and peer support mate- The growth of Baraclude as first-line and as part of combination treatment
r
rials and faculty expertise to improve therapy for chronic hepatitis B infection with Baraclude.
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
7Sustaining a robust pipeline of pos-
sible new therapies is critical to our
company’s success.
Fortunately, strategies to sustain suc-
cess have been in place for a number
of years – and are working. Today,
we rank among the pharmaceutical
industry’s leaders in success rates for
compounds getting through discovery
and development as well as for our
average R&D spend for each new
molecular entity approved.
“Our North Star remains significant
unmet medical need,” says Francis
Cuss, senior vice president, Research.
“We guide ourselves and navigate by
it.” That approach allows us to define,
but not necessarily limit ourselves to, a
specific set of disease areas – adjust-
ing based on changes in unmet medi-
cal need, the competitive environment
and evolving science. As a result, we
have added new exploratory disease
8 areas, including fibrosis, heart failure,
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
2012 Annual Report
A Robust Pipeline for Tomorrow
sive lung disease. For heart failure, we sparing patients the difficult-to-tolerate
entered into a discovery collaboration therapies that are components of the
with Ambrx Pharmaceuticals, focusing current standard of care.
on what may be an important biologi-
Leading the way are two internally
cal target to treat the disease (also
discovered oral antivirals - daclatasvir
see page 12).
and asunaprevir - which, in Phase II
These agreements and others reflect a trials, demonstrated a high cure rate in
broader strategy that recognizes that patients infected with the genotype 1b
scientific innovation can and should strain of HCV. A regulatory submis-
come from both internal and external sion is planned in Japan in 2013 seek-
sources. By selectively integrating ing to benefit patients there (some
capabilities in research and develop- 1.5 million) who share this genotype.
ment, we can better leverage new tech- Also, having presented Phase II data
nologies and therapeutic opportunities. in November 2012 on a triple regimen
that adds a third company-discovered
We formalized that process in 2007
antiviral, expectations are to move that
through a String of Pearls business
all-oral triple regimen into Phase III
development strategy that has since
led to about 20 strategic alliances, trials in 2014. Finally, for some patient
partnerships and acquisitions, includ- populations who might benefit, we
ing Amylin Pharmaceuticals, acquired are continuing development of a novel
in 2012, along with its first-in-class peginterferon lambda-1a for both
diabetes therapies, its pipeline and hepatitis B and hepatitis C.
its expertise in metabolic disorders. Efforts continue to recharge thera-
“Over the years, we have treated peutic areas, with new HIV therapies
neurodegenerative disorders such external and internal innovation just the to overcome drug resistance as well
as Parkinson’s disease, and diabetic same,” Cuss adds. “It has become a as new classes like HIV attachment
kidney disease. For instance, for core capability of ours.” and maturation inhibitors; an ongo-
Parkinson’s, we entered into a licens- ing focus on new target inhibition in
Hepatitis C (HCV), which affects 170
ing agreement and collaboration with oncology with, for example, JAK inhibi-
million people worldwide, represents
Vanderbilt University to develop novel tors for certain blood cancers; and
another frontier area where Bristol-
compounds to treat the disease. programs for additional autoimmune
Myers Squibb does not yet have a
diseases, including lupus and inflam-
We jump-started our efforts in fibrotic marketed product, but does have
matory bowel disease.
diseases, caused by the buildup of
multiple candidates based on a mul-
potentially deadly scar tissue in differ- Also being studied is elotuzumab, a
tipronged strategy that offers the real
ent tissues of the body, by acquiring monoclonal antibody in Phase III trials
potential for cure.
Amira Pharmaceuticals in 2011, which for multiple myeloma, an incurable dis-
already had a lead compound in early We believe that the global HCV patient ease with about 50,000 cases in the
clinical development. And we entered population is diverse and therefore U.S. and Europe each year and about
into a translational R&D collaboration will require different treatment types, 100,000 cases worldwide. While
with Duke University to further explore including a variety of combinations. elotuzumab does not work directly
biomarkers, assays and dosages for In fact, our researchers were the first on immune system targets (also see
the lead Amira program for idiopathic to demonstrate the potential for cure pages 14-15), it instead binds to a
pulmonary fibrosis, a chronic progres- with an all-oral regimen, potentially protein that is widely expressed onmultiple myeloma cells, but minimally Pipeline sustainability ultimately that better characterizes both benefit
expressed on normal tissue. It is depends on other parts of our and risk and is willing – and able – to
believed that this mechanism allows approach to R&D, including a strategy challenge the current standards of
care for the benefit of patients.
the immune system to selectively kill of creating backups for compounds in
myeloma cells with minimal effects on development, expertise in key biologic For more information on other pipeline possibili-
ties, see sections in this report on how our current
other cell types. It has shown promise targets and a “follow the science” products are fueling growth and on groundbreaking
efforts in cardiovascular disease, immuno-oncology
in mid-stage trials. philosophy in clinical development and diabetes.
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
2012 Annual Report
Nisha Gupta,M.D.
After a Long Struggle…Forever Grateful
Too many times, it looked like Nisha Gupta’s battle compassionate use program, where physicians can apply
against hepatitis C would end badly. The Detroit-area for early access to experimental compounds for individual
rheumatologist first contracted the chronic infection in patients who have no effective therapeutic alternative.
May 1990 when, as a medical resident, she drew blood Concerned about drug interactions with their compounds,
from an infected patient. Although she wore gloves, the the companies rejected the applications.
needle pricked her skin. Soon she experienced her first
Then the FDA suggested a third experimental therapy
symptoms and eventually was diagnosed with hepatitis C.
from Bristol-Myers Squibb. Its investigational compound
Dr. Gupta received treatments on and off ever since, was daclatasvir, currently in Phase III trials and not yet
first to slow the infection’s advance and then mostly to approved. Bristol-Myers Squibb said yes, and daclatasvir 9
control symptoms like severe itching, fatigue and mental
was given alongside two standard therapies.
confusion. “I worked until September 2009, when I found
out I had liver cancer,” Gupta recalls. “By then I was Eric Hughes, M.D., Ph.D., had just arrived at Bristol-
prepared to die.” Myers Squibb back in 2010. Among his responsibilities
was coordinating virology compassionate use inquiries.
By her first liver transplant, she was suffering from hepatic
“Given Dr. Gupta’s dire straits, we believed the risk/ben-
encephalopathy, a worsening of brain function when the
efit profile of providing early access to daclatasvir was
liver is no longer able to remove toxic substances in the
acceptable,” he says.
blood. Her remissions after two liver transplants were
short-lived, but her family and physician never lost hope. Today, Dr. Gupta is virus free and offers “a very special
Her hepatologist tried to obtain compounds then in clini- thanks to Bristol-Myers Squibb and its compassionate
cal development from two manufacturers under the FDA’s employees. They gave hope back to me and my family.”
rR&D PiPeline
OuR PIPElINE IS ONE OF THE STRONGEST IN THE INDuSTRy.
10
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
2012 Annual Report
exploratory Development Full Development ongoing Development for Approved Medicines**
oncology Anti-Fucosyl GM1 Nivolumab (Anti-PD-1) Yervoy 1st line Metastatic Melanoma
JAK2 Inhibitor Elotuzumab Adjuvant Melanoma
1st line Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung
IL-21 Small Cell Lung
lirilumab (Anti-KIR) Prostate (post hormonal therapy)
Prostate (post chemotherapy)
urelumab (Anti-CD137) Gastric
Notch Inhibitors Ovarian
Anti-CXCR4 Sprycel Pediatric
Pancreatic
Anti-lAG3
Erbitux Esophageal
Metabolic GPR119 Agonist Metreleptin Forxiga* Fixed dose with metformin
Diseases PEG-FGF21 Fixed dose with Onglyza
Pediatric
GPR40 Agonist
Onglyza Pediatric
11βHSD Inhibitor Cardiovascular Outcomes
Bydureon Dual-Chamber Pen
Weekly Suspension
Cardiovascular Outcomes
Pediatric
Byetta Pediatric
cardiovascular LXR Modulators Eliquis Venous Thromboembolism Treatment
PCSK9 Adnectin
IKur Antagonists
PEG-Relaxin
CCR2/5 Antagonists
Factor XIa Inhibitor (Parenteral)
Factor XIa Inhibitor (Oral)
Virology Anti-PD-L1 Peginterferon lambda-1a Baraclude Pediatric
HIV Maturation Inhibitor Daclatasvir (NS5A Inhibitor) Reyataz Pediatric Powder
NS5B Non Nuc Inhibitor Asunaprevir (NS3 Inhibitor) Sustiva Pediatric
HIV Attachment Inhibitor
NRT Inhibitor
neuroscience Microtubule Stabilizer
Triple Reuptake Inhibitors
Gamma Secretase Modulator
a-7 Nicotinic Agonist
Myostatin Adnectin
immunoscience Anti-CD40L Orencia Lupus Nephritis
Anti-CD40 Psoriatic Arthritis
Anti-CD28
Anti-Il31
Il-17/Il-23 biAb
S1P1 Modulator
CCR1 Antagonists
LPA1 Antagonist
Anti-IP10
Clazakizumab (Anti-Il6)
Compounds in Exploratory Development are in preclinical or The Ongoing Development for Approved Medicines table ** Includes Phase II or later
early clinical development. Full Development compounds are includes compounds that have been approved in at least registrational programs
investigational drugs that are in later-stage clinical development one major market and are in development for additional * Forxiga is not approved
or have been submitted to regulatory agencies for approval. indications or formulations that may benefit patients. in the U.S.
Pipeline data as of February 15, 2013Working Smarter
The goal of continuous improvement is doing our jobs facilities and focusing the plants on what they each do
smarter, faster and better. And whether it is creating best. And as part of the Operational Excellence Transfor-
organizational changes or finding new ways to become mation initiative, sites across our network are embedding
more efficient, the ultimate aim of a culture of continuous analytical tools and business processes that optimize
improvement is to ensure effective and efficient opera- operations and build continuous improvement into the way
tions, ones that also help enhance greater collaboration they work. “Our teams are really embracing the continuous
across the entire company. improvement culture,” says Roberta McKee, senior vice
president, Global Manufacturing Science and Technol-
A significant action in 2012 to drive greater efficiency and
ogy. “For example, our active product ingredient plants
effectiveness was the creation of the Enterprise Services
in Ireland as well as our biologics plant in Devens have
organization. “Its mission,” says Paul von Autenried, senior
identified ways to significantly reduce cycle times, which
vice president, Enterprise Services, and chief information
increases capacity to support our growing pipeline.”
officer, “is to make it easier to get work done by delivering
global end-to-end services on which we all depend to per- Efforts to improve processes also have been wide-ranging
form our jobs.” Through the consolidation of teams within and ongoing across every aspect of R&D. Every part of the
R&D organization has an important role to play. For exam-
information technology, finance, human resources, pur-
ple, Research and Pharmaceutical Development scientists
chasing, marketing and contracting, Enterprise Services
are seeking to replace liquid blood samples, which are dif-
is building new capabilities and making improvements
ficult to store and costly to ship, with dry samples. “It’s such
to existing capabilities that enable and accelerate the
a great concept,” says Paul Biondi, senior vice president,
operation of the company. For example, in collaboration
R&D Operations. “It doesn’t only reduce costs, but it also
with Global Manufacturing and Supply, Enterprise Services
allows our people to stay focused on research rather than
completed a three-year project to provide a single global
materials handling.” What’s more, changing how clinical
system that standardizes and controls financial, manufac-
samples are collected, analyzed and stored is expected to
turing, supply chain and order processing records across
save the company more than $70 million a year. Additional
Bristol-Myers Squibb.
improvements under study range from an initiative to obtain
Global Manufacturing and Supply launched two important greater efficiencies in clinical site selection that could
initiatives in 2012 that focus on continuous improvement. enhance clinical trial startups, patient recruitment and reten-
The Plant Network Strategy aims at optimizing our entire tion, to automating certain cell culture feeding processes
manufacturing network by increasing the utilization of our that could enhance multiple drug discovery efforts.
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
2012 Annual Report
Devens
11
rIn late 2012, Bristol-Myers Squibb
received regulatory approvals for
Eliquis (apixaban) in the U.S., EU,
Japan and Canada. Tested in one of
the largest clinical trial programs ever
undertaken, it was approved to reduce
the risk of stroke and systemic embo-
lism in patients with nonvalvular atrial
fibrillation, the most common cardiac
arrhythmia. Without lifelong treat-
ments, these patients are at serious
risk of developing strokes.
Clinical studies comparing Eliquis
(a Factor Xa inhibitor) to warfarin, the
standard of care for almost 60 years,
found that Eliquis was superior in
reducing stroke and systemic embo-
lism, major bleeding and mortality. In
a trial comparing Eliquis to aspirin in
patients who could not take warfarin,
Eliquis showed a substantial reduc-
tion in stroke risk, without a significant
increase in major bleeding compared
to aspirin.
12
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
2012 Annual Report
Cardiovascular Disease
hip and knee replacement surgeries. opment. For example, along with Pfizer,
our development and commercializa-
Beyond VTE prevention in the ortho-
tion partner for Eliquis, Bristol-Myers
pedic setting, the company is studying
Squibb is collaborating with Portola
Eliquis for VTE treatment, with the first
Pharmaceuticals to develop a novel
of two large studies finding that Eliquis
reversal agent for urgent clinical situa-
was superior to placebo in preventing
tions where reversing the anticoagula-
recurrent VTEs in patients who had
tion effects of certain blood thinners,
completed a standard anticoagula-
including Eliquis, is needed.
tion course of therapy. Treatment with
Other R&D efforts are focused on
Eliquis for an additional year reduced
heart failure, for which there are
the risk of the combined endpoint of
few new effective treatments, with
recurrent VTEs and total mortality.
a long-acting version of relaxin, a
Although patients on Eliquis are at risk
naturally occurring peptide that has the
for bleeding, in this study Eliquis did not
potential to improve cardiac function
show an increase in major bleeding. A
and patient survival. Also being studied
second trial is studying whether Eliquis
is a next-generation anticoagulant to
can replace the current standard of
treat strokes as well as a compound
care as an initial course of treatment.
that may be able to normalize the
Eliquis joins other company efforts rhythms of atrial fibrillation. Therapeutic
to reduce potentially debilitating and approaches for atherosclerosis include
sometimes deadly cardiovascular a novel therapy to remove cholesterol
events. After all, even with multiple from plaque and a robust approach to
interventions available, heart dis- lowering LDL (bad) cholesterol that,
“While it took more than a decade to ease remains the leading cause of when combined with statins, poten-
bring Eliquis to patients, it remains death worldwide. That’s why we are tially would allow patients to achieve
the only drug in its class that shows developing both our cardiovascular their cholesterol-lowering goals.
superiority against warfarin in patients and metabolic disease portfolios to
Lawrence believes the attributes that
with atrial fibrillation in all three mea- focus on cardiovascular event reduc-
helped bring Eliquis to market will also
sures: stroke and systemic embolism, tion. Several of our novel diabetes
aid in developing a robust cardiovascu-
major bleeding and mortality,” says agents – Byetta (exenatide), Bydureon
lar pipeline. “Our success with Eliquis
Jack Lawrence, M.D., Eliquis full devel- (exenatide extended-release for
speaks to the successful efforts of our
opment lead. Scientists at DuPont injectable suspension) and Forxiga
global clinical development program
Pharmaceuticals, which we acquired (dapagliflozin) – have demonstrated
that tested Eliquis at 4,000 sites,
in 2001, provided the first clinical reductions in weight and blood pres-
exploring five potential indications con-
proof that direct Factor Xa inhibition sure, two major risk factors for heart
currently in nine large Phase III studies
with a small molecule was an effective disease, while helping to control
involving more than 60,000 patients,”
approach to preventing clots. glucose levels, a third major risk factor.
he says. “And it speaks to the talent
Onglyza (saxagliptin), Bydureon and
In addition to recent approvals for and dedication of biologists, chemists
Forxiga are being studied for their
stroke risk reduction in atrial fibrillation, and clinicians, who were involved in this
potential to be cardio-protective
in 2011 Eliquis received clearance in pioneering Factor Xa program starting
(also see pages 16-17).
the EU to prevent venous thromboem- in 1994 and those who harve stayed
bolic events (VTEs) following elective New approaches are in earlier devel- with this effort to this day.”13
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
2012 Annual Report
Christopher B. Granger,M.D.
Lead Clinical Investigator Discovers Eliquis Benefits Close to Home
When Dr. Christopher Granger’s mother was when treating patients with atrial fibrillation.”
diagnosed with atrial fibrillation five years ago at
Granger has participated in the Eliquis journey
the age of 79, she was prescribed warfarin, the
for about seven years, beginning with the first
standard of care. Now, Granger, a cardiologist,
patients enrolled in ARISTOTLE in early 2006.
clinical researcher and professor of medicine at
“Those of us involved in clinical investigation are
Duke University, is switching her prescription to
constantly surprised and humbled by the results
Eliquis, Bristol-Myers Squibb’s newly approved
of clinical trials. Sometimes we win and some-
therapy to reduce the risk of stroke in patients
times we don’t. With this particular therapy, we
with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
and the patients were very fortunate. The results
His decision for his mother is grounded on a of ARISTOTLE – superiority for efficacy, a lower
unique experience. Granger was the co-principal rate of bleeding as well as a reduction in all-
investigator for ARISTOTLE, the global Phase III cause mortality – were stunning.”
clinical trial that established the safety and effi-
He sees the challenges ahead, especially in
cacy profile of Eliquis versus warfarin, studying
getting some physicians to prescribe newer
more than 18,000 patients at 1,000 sites.
agents like Eliquis instead of warfarin. “I call it
“To study a promising new treatment for reducing warfarin inertia,” he says. “There is a resistance to
stroke in atrial fibrillation was a great opportunity,” change from something familiar, that you know
he says. “After all, we know that the strokes that works well, to something new. But at the end of
occur with fibrillation tend to be larger and more the day, physicians must decide what is best for
disabling than other types of strokes. Reducing the patient. That decision should be driven by
risk of stroke is the dominant consideration outcomes data.”immuno-Oncology
14
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
2012 Annual Report
Over the past several decades, surgery, Commercialization, Oncology. “We are can actually prevent a relapse into meta-
radiation, chemotherapy or targeted now talking about longer-term survival, static melanoma.
agents have represented the existing providing high value for patients and
The next wave of the company’s cancer
pillars of cancer treatment. But, for for society.”
immunotherapy investigational com-
many with advanced cancer, long-term
Indeed, the introduction of Yervoy pounds, Giordano says, begins with
survival accompanied by a positive
in the U.S. and Europe represents nivolumab (BMS-936558, anti-PD-1),
quality of life has remained an elu-
one of the most successful oncology which in 2012 started five Phase III
sive goal. To find new approaches in
launches in the past decade as more registrational studies in difficult-to-treat
treatment and to address this unmet
countries approve Yervoy, creating cancers: lung cancer, melanoma and
medical need, Bristol-Myers Squibb is
more access for patients. renal cell cancer. In earlier studies,
committed to advancing the science of
nivolumab showed durable responses
“We are proud to have established
immuno-oncology and to developing an with acceptable safety data. “As we
immune-based therapies as a new
innovative portfolio of cancer immuno- think about improving patient outcomes,
modality of effective cancer treatment,
therapies in a broad range of tumors. we think a new frontier will be to com-
working with the patient’s own immune
Immuno-oncology is a rapidly evolv- system rather than just on the tumor as bine or sequence different immunothera-
ing innovative treatment modality that occurs with standard approaches,” says pies,” he adds. “That’s where nivolumab
offers the possibility of revolutionizing Michael Giordano, M.D., senior vice could possibly play a role. Initially, if
cancer treatment by directly target- president and head of Development approved, we believe it may be used as
ing the immune system – in effect for Oncology and Immunosciences. a stand-alone therapy, but potentially it
could be given with other treatments or
harnessing the patient’s own immune “Yervoy is the first of what will be a
administered in a sequence.”
system to fight cancer. As researchers portfolio of cancer immunotherapies
learn more about how cancer evades from our company that work in different Nils Lonberg, Ph.D., senior vice president,
the immune system, we recognize parts of the immune system’s biologic Biologics Discovery California, explains
the potential for immuno-oncology pathways to enhance the body’s own how these agents work. “By targeting
drugs to work in multiple tumor types, ability to kill cancer cells. This is unique CTLA-4,” he says, “a protein that normally
change survival expectations and the from the other therapies we use today.” helps keep immune system cells in check,
way patients live with cancer. Yervoy unblocks immune responses to
Our challenge is to increase the
tumor cells to increase the number of
New data continue to emerge on number of people who can benefit from
T-cells that recognize and attack can-
Yervoy (ipilimumab), our company’s Yervoy through dosing optimization,
cers. Nivolumab acts on another nega-
first cancer immunotherapy. Five-year sequencing or combinations. Currently
tive signaling molecule by targeting the
follow-up results from three explor- a study is underway to understand the
PD-1 receptor, which otherwise renders
most efficacious monotherapy dose –
atory studies presented at a scientific
inactive immune system T-cells that could
3 mg/kg (currently approved) or 10 mg/
meeting in September 2012 added to
destroy cancer cells. By blocking PD-1,
kg – to increase patient survival. Yervoy
the growing body of long-term survival
we reactivate these T-cells.” Nivolumab
is also in Phase III trials in prostate
data for Yervoy in metastatic mela-
was discovered at Medarex, which Bristol-
and lung cancers and in earlier trials in
noma. The data confirmed what most
Myers Squibb acquired in 2009. Medarex
gastric and ovarian cancers, alone and
of those working with Yervoy already researchers also found synergies between
in combination with other therapies.
had come to believe. PD-1 and CTLA-4, leading to early stud-
Finally, Yervoy is being investigated in
“Yervoy raised the bar on what it the adjuvant setting, administered after ies combining Yervoy and nivolumab.
Those trials are ongoing.
meant to be successful in treating surgical removal of the melanoma but
metastatic melanoma,” says Robert before the cancer has had a chance to Because Bristol-Myers Squibb is break-
LaCaze, senior vice president, Global spread to other organs, to see if Yervoy ing new ground in immuno-oncology, in2012 Annual Report
Maureen O’Grady Finds a New Reason to Hope
“Before my diagnosis, we were having a great time,” says
Maureen O’Grady, of Milford, Connecticut. “Then I got the
worst news of my life.”
Concerned about a cough that wouldn’t go away, in Janu-
ary 2009, O’Grady had an x-ray and follow-up tests that
confirmed a devastating diagnosis: stage IV lung cancer,
including a large mass in her right lung, and cancer lesions
on her liver and kidney. Her first oncologist thought she
might live another 12-18 months. “I had no hope,” she later
said. “I was given an expiration date.”
Then, a second oncologist, this time at the Smilow Cancer
Hospital at yale university in New Haven, gave her a ray of
hope. She recalls: “He said, ‘you’re not curable, but you are
treatable.’” First came an aggressive chemotherapy regi-
men, then a second oral drug and after that, an investiga-
tional compound. Her cancer continued to spread.
In June 2010, O’Grady was offered a new option, to enter
a clinical trial for a different type of therapy – an investi-
gational immunotherapy called nivolumab (BMS-936558,
anti-PD-1), a compound from Bristol-Myers Squibb still
Maureen O’Grady
in development. “It caught my eye because it was actu-
ally going to improve my immune system to recognize the
cancer and train my cells to attack it,” she says. Today, her
doctors are optimistic: the tumors have all shrunk, and the
cancer has stopped spreading.
“While I’ve been on treatment, I’ve experienced so many
milestones – from college graduations and weddings, to the
birth of my grandsons, my own 40th high school reunion
and my 39th anniversary with my husband,” O’Grady says.
“I couldn’t be here today without the outpouring of love and
care from my family and friends, my faith and the treatments
I have received. I think it’s the trifecta of my success.”
mid-2012, we formed the International Bristol-Myers Squibb. This network value of these new medicines. “Tra-
Immuno-Oncology Network, an inno- allows us to leverage the best science ditional standards of median survival
vative academic research collabora- from around the world while also more do not fully capture the value of the
tion with 10 leading cancer research efficiently conducting clinical experi- long-term survival benefits being seen
centers around the world. ments. The network will help us make in patients,” LaCaze adds.
some important strategic decisions
“The science of immuno-oncology “By focusing so many resources on
and allows us to move science along
is evolving very rapidly, and to stay immuno-oncology, we are going to
much faster.”
at the forefront, we streamlined the fundamentally change the way we
process of engaging academic lead- Bristol-Myers Squibb is also working think about cancer,” he says. “We do
ers,” Lonberg says. “After all, we don’t with payers and other key stakehold- not have time to waste. Every dray is
have a monopoly on science within ers to understand how to assess the important for cancer patients.”
Bristol-Myers
Squibb
1516
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
2012 Annual Report
Diabetes
With the approval of Forxiga (dapagliflozin) in the EU and the company’s
acquisition of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, both in 2012, Bristol-Myers Squibb
solidly enhanced the breadth of our product portfolio and the possibilities
for addressing unmet medical need in diabetes treatment.
And by focusing on the cardiovascular co-morbidities that patients with type 2
diabetes often encounter, including obesity and hypertension, we have contin-
ued to expand our efforts beyond glycemic control to cardiovascular protection.
The result: through our Diabetes Alliance with AstraZeneca, we are offering
physicians more options for making the right choices for individual patients.
“What resonates best with physicians is to talk about treatment objectives,
based on the patient’s characteristics, including their behavior,” says Patrick
Loustau, senior vice president, Global Commercialization, Cardiovascular and
Metabolics. “We believe our major treatments can fit well into different types
A Unique Technology for
of treatment objectives.”
a Novel Medicine
Chris Cann, disease area lead for Metabolics, explains: “After you’re diagnosed,
Company researchers had to create
you have to control your blood sugar, adhere to a much stricter diet, and have innovative technological solutions to
better treatment for hypertension and other cardiovascular conditions and risk produce Bydureon, a novel, sustained-
release, once-weekly formulation of a
factors. It often becomes challenging for a patient with diabetes to manage
twice-daily injectable for type 2 diabetes.
these multiple co-morbidities. Having a range of options gives the physician
“We take the active ingredient – exena-
and patient more choices at any particular time in a patient’s disease.”
tide – and formulate it with a polymer
into what are biodegradable micro-
Forxiga is the first in a new class of drugs called SGLT2 inhibitors. It harnesses
spheres, a unique technology where
the kidneys to help reduce blood sugar by excreting excess sugar into the urine, the microspheres are slowly absorbed,
providing a controlled release of the
thus lowering hemoglobin A1c levels while also providing reductions in weight
active drug over seven days,” explains
and blood pressure. Discussions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administra- Bob MacKay, general manager of the
tion (FDA) have created a likely path forward for the company to resubmit an facility where Bydureon is produced.
“The challenge was to make the micro-
updated Forxiga filing for consideration in the U.S. by the summer of 2013.
spheres of the appropriate size to give
The Amylin acquisition added Byetta (exenatide), a twice-daily injectable, and you the product release profile you
wanted – and to create a polymer with
its once-weekly formulation, Bydureon (exenatide extended-release for inject-
the right composition.”
able suspension). Both mimic the activity of a human hormone, glucagon-like
Another challenge was to build the right
peptide (GLP-1), which stimulates insulin secretion from the pancreas, but only
manufacturing plant, one that could
when blood sugar is high. Doing so effectively regulates glucose metabolism produce the microspheres with the
while better controlling the blood sugar spikes that occur right after eating, and desired qualities – including ensuring
a sterile product – and in the quantities
slows the emptying of the stomach, which can contribute to weight loss.
required. Located on 44 acres in West
Byetta, launched in 2005, was the first GLP-1 agonist. When Bydureon Chester, Ohio, north of Cincinnati, the
highly automated plant was completed
was approved in January 2012, it became the first and only weekly type 2
in 2009 at a cost of about $800 million.
diabetes medication available. We plan to enhance the ease and convenience It became operational in late 2010 and
of Bydureon administration and, over time, to transform the medicine into a currently has 330 full-time employees,
representing key disciplines, including
once-monthly treatment. Symlin (pramlintide), a third therapy developed at
chemical and automation enrgineering,
Amylin, is a first-in-class therapy for patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes
microbiology and chemistry.
whose blood sugar is not properly controlled with mealtime insulin therapy.Bristol-Myers
Squibb
2012 Annual Report
Her Diabetes Helps Her Connect With Patients
For the past six years, 31-year-old Tehesha Jones has spent
much of her time advising patients with diabetes how to man-
age the disease. As a registered nurse with a degree in public
health, Jones knows what to say. But when she was diagnosed
with type 2 diabetes in 2009, she was left speechless.
“It’s one thing to teach your patients about it, but it’s another
when you are dealing with the medical condition yourself.
Having all the book knowledge of what can happen as the
disease progresses can be scary,” Jones says.
She was first prescribed metformin, an oral medication. Then,
she became pregnant and found herself injecting insulin four
times a day to protect herself and her unborn child from gesta-
tional diabetes.
Soon after her daughter Aniyah was born, Jones’s physician
switched her to Byetta, an injectable medication from Bristol-
Myers Squibb taken twice a day before meals. It offered the
potential for reductions in weight, blood sugar control and few
side effects. “While I was glad to lose about 10 pounds while
taking Byetta, I was working 13 hours a day, would sometimes
skip meals and too often miss that second injection.”
Tehesha Jones
When Bydureon, a once-weekly formulation of Byetta, came to
market in 2012, her doctor switched her to Bydureon. Today,
she injects herself weekly, has lost an additional 10 pounds,
and eats a healthier diet. “Bydureon is convenient, even with a
17
busy lifestyle,” Jones adds. “And when patients with diabetes
come to see me, I am able to share so much more with them.”
In addition, metreleptin, under a rolling Biologics License 16,500-patient SAVOR trial, designed to determine whether
Application review by the FDA, is a potential treatment treatment with Onglyza, when added to the patient’s current
option for patients with lipodystrophy, a life-threatening, standard of care, would result in a reduction of cardiovascular
“ultra-orphan” rare disease estimated to impact a few events, including heart attacks and stroke. Large cardiovascu-
thousand people worldwide. There are no approved drugs
lar outcomes studies also are set for Bydureon and Forxiga.
for the underlying cause of the disease, a deficiency in
Even after introducing entirely new approaches to treatment,
leptin, a hormone secreted by fat cells that is important in
regulating metabolism. company researchers continue to seek to broaden the poten-
tial for innovation. For instance, the company in-licensed
Our company’s innovative diabetes portfolio also includes
a PEG-FGF21 peptide from Ambrx Pharmaceuticals, with
Onglyza (saxagliptin), as well as Kombiglyze XR and
its first-in-class potential to reduce both blood sugar and
Komboglyze, its fixed-dose combination products with
cardiovascular risk by improving the lipid dysfunction seen
metformin. Onglyza is a DPP-4 inhibitor, often used alone
in many patients with diabetes. Another approach targets
or with metformin, for patients at the earlier stages in their
disease because of its strong safety and efficacy profile. the inhibition of CCR2/5 receptors and is being tested in
The possibility that Onglyza may have a significant effect on diabetic kidney disease. A third approach, 11βHSD inhibi-
cardiovascular event reduction is the subject of intensive tors, has been shown in smallr studies to have activity in both
study. During 2013, results should become available from the diabetes and atherosclerosis.Reducing Global Health Disparities
r
Bristol-Myers Squibb’s efforts to fulfill our ment, Health, Safety and Sustainability. Chemistry and continuous improvement
commitment to economic, social and envi- “Although some reductions in energy and initiatives, the operations group developed
ronmental sustainability were recognized water use and greenhouse gas emissions a solvent reuse program that has saved
in 2012 as we secured the top ranking are being offset by site growth, more than approximately 13,000 kilos of solvent.
on Corporate Responsibility magazine’s 200 projects have been implemented
Our employees remain committed to the
annual list of the 100 Best Corporate since 2010.”
spirit of sustainability by engaging in on-
Citizens. And in support of the uN Global
Additional approaches are being studied site and community activities. Earth Day
Compact that promotes certain universal
to reduce packaging and other waste. celebrations were held at 51 locations
principles, Bristol-Myers Squibb issued
For example, a project team successfully worldwide in 2012, a 20 percent increase
a new Human Rights Policy for our
eliminated the printed cartons used to over the prior year. One effort involved
global operations.
enclose plastic bottles containing Abilify hundreds of employees in New Orleans,
“We continue to make broad progress (aripiprazole) tablets, thereby reducing our where they provided their “Helping
towards our Sustainability 2015 Goals,” paperboard usage in the u.S. by about 140 Hands” to clean up andr plant flowers
says Susan Voigt, vice president, Environ- tons annually. Also, as part of R&D Green at local sport facilities.
bbiuqS
sreyM-lotsirB
2012 Annual Report
In promoting health equity across the guidance for NGOs working on TB and American Indian Health project that trains
globe, “The Bristol-Myers Foundation helping national TB programs more community health workers as health
seeks to develop and support commu- effectively reach out to civil society. And coaches, assisting Navajo and White
nity-based solutions where the needs in eight African countries, the Founda- Mountain Apache families implement self-
are greatest today, while also extending tion is providing technical assistance to care plans prescribed by their physicians
programs to address developing needs,” explore models of community-based TB and by their own traditions. The diabetes
says John Damonti, its president. activities. The Foundation’s Technical program also expanded to Asia, with mul-
Assistance Program also is expanding tiyear grants awarded in India and China.
For example, in Africa, the Foundation has
efforts to address emerging HIV-related
been working alongside local partners In Central and Eastern Europe, a region
in community-based programs to build health concerns, including female can- that suffers inordinately from higher can-
capacity to help those disproportionately cers, mental health problems and support cer mortality rates than the rest of Europe,
affected by the HIV/AIDS pandemic for teens living with HIV. the Foundation has been active in building
through its groundbreaking SECURE THE In the U.S., the Foundation continues to bridges to better cancer care. An emerg-
FUTURE initiative. Recently, it has also bring its expertise to bear on catalyzing ing area of support has been community-
focused on the spread of tuberculosis community-based solutions in mental based nursing, including establishing
(TB), a disease often found in the same health and well-being for at-risk and regional centers of excellence in nurse
populations and regions. Despite the best underserved populations. For example, training and capacity building.
efforts of existing health systems, one- 2012 represented the third year that the In Asia, the Foundation has focused on
third of TB patients are either not reached Foundation supported programs to help another major health concern – the mil-
for treatment or are not reported. In a communities reintegrate veterans and lions affected by hepatitis B and hepatitis
five-country collaboration with the World their families and to help ensure that C, with programs initiated a decade ago in
Health Organization, the Foundation is mental health resources are appropriate China and five years later in India. Today,
encouraging non-governmental organiza- and sensitive to their experiences. Also its Delivering Hope program encompasses
tions (NGOs) already engaged in other in the u.S., the Foundation’s Together on 42 projects. In 2012, the Foundation began
activities, like HIV prevention and care, to Diabetes program is encouraging clinic- to explore the development of centers of
integrate TB into their community-based community partnerships and team-based, excellence in both countries to work with
efforts. These approaches are beginning patient-centered care. For example, it former grantees to disseminate evidence-
to bear fruit, including new operational supports a Johns Hopkins Center for based practices more broadly.
18
A Commitment to SustainabilityBRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB 2 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Review Financial Condition and Results of Operations
28 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk
29 Consolidated Financial Statements
33 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
74 Reports of Management
75 Controls and Procedures
76 Reports of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm
78 Performance Graph
79 Five-Year Financial Summary
1
230032 cs5.5.indd 21 3/1/13 8:43 PMBristol-Myers Squibb
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, the Company, we, our or us) is a global
biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over
serious diseases. We license, manufacture, market, distribute and sell pharmaceutical products on a global basis.
The following key events and transactions occurred during 2012 as discussed in further detail in the Strategy, Product and Pipeline
Developments and Results of Operations sections of Management’s Discussion and Analysis:
• Our net sales and earnings declined as a result of the loss of exclusivity of Plavix (clopidogrel bisulfate) and Avapro/Avalide
(irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide).
• We received significant regulatory approvals pertaining to Eliquis (apixaban) for stroke prevention in patients with
nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF), Forxiga (dapagliflozin) and the Orencia (abatacept) subcutaneous formulation.
• We acquired Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc (Amylin) and expanded our diabetes alliance arrangement with AstraZeneca PLC
(AstraZeneca) to include Amylin-related products.
• We discontinued the development of BMS-986094 (formerly INX-189), a compound which we acquired as part of our
acquisition of Inhibitex, Inc. (Inhibitex) to treat hepatitis C virus infection, in the interest of patient safety, which resulted in a
$1.8 billion pre-tax impairment charge.
Highlights
The following table is a summary of our financial highlights:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2012 2011 2010
Net Sales $ 17,621 $ 21,244 $ 19,484
Total Expenses 15,281 14,263 13,413
Earnings before Income Taxes 2,340 6,981 6,071
Provision for/(Benefit from) Income Taxes (161) 1,721 1,558
Effective tax/(benefit) rate (6.9)% 24.7 % 25.7 %
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS
GAAP 1,960 3,709 3,102
Non-GAAP 3,364 3,921 3,735
Diluted Earnings Per Share
GAAP 1.16 2.16 1.79
Non-GAAP 1.99 2.28 2.16
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities 6,352 11,642 9,982
Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude specified
items which represent certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other items impacting the comparability of financial results. For a
detailed listing of all specified items and further information and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures see “—Non-GAAP
Financial Measures” below.
Business Environment
The pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry is highly competitive and subject to numerous government regulations. Many competitive
factors may significantly affect sales of our products, including product efficacy, safety, price, demand, competition and cost-
effectiveness; marketing effectiveness; market access; product labeling; quality control and quality assurance of our manufacturing
operations; and research and development of new products. To successfully compete in the healthcare industry, we must demonstrate
that our products offer medical benefits and cost advantages. Our new product introductions often compete with other products
already on the market in the same therapeutic category, in addition to potential competition of new products that competitors may
introduce in the future. We manufacture branded products, which are priced higher than generic products. Generic competition is one
of our leading challenges.
In the pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during its
market exclusivity period. Afterwards, it is no longer protected by a patent and is subject to new competing products in the form of
generic brands. Upon exclusivity loss, we can experience a significant reduction of that product’s sales in a short period of time.
22012 Annual Report
Competitors seeking approval of biological products under a full Biologics License Application (BLA) must file their own safety and
efficacy data and address the challenges of biologics manufacturing, involving more complex processes and costs than those of other
pharmaceutical operations. Under the U.S. healthcare legislation enacted in 2010, there is an abbreviated path for regulatory approval
of generic versions of biological products. This path for approval of biosimilar products under the U.S. healthcare legislation
significantly affects the regulatory data exclusivity for biological products. The legislation provides a regulatory mechanism allowing
for regulatory approval of biologic drugs similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than
required by a full BLA. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the impact of the U.S. biosimilar legislation on the
Company.
Globally, the healthcare industry is subject to various government-imposed regulations authorizing prices or price controls that will
continue to impact our net sales. In March 2010, the U.S. government enacted healthcare reform legislation, signing into law the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (HR 3590) and a reconciliation bill containing a package of changes to the healthcare bill.
We will continue to experience additional financial costs and certain other changes to our business as healthcare law provisions
become effective.
The aggregate financial impact of U.S. healthcare reform over the next few years depends on a number of factors, including but not
limited to pending implementation guidance, potential changes in sales volume eligible for the new rebates, discounts or fees, and the
impact of cost sharing arrangements with certain alliance partners. Our future net sales beginning in 2014 could potentially be
positively impacted from the expected increase in the number of people with healthcare coverage from the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act.
In many markets outside the U.S., we operate in environments of government-mandated, cost-containment programs, or under other
regulatory bodies or groups exerting downward pressure on pricing. For example, pricing freedom is limited in the UK by the
operation of a profit control plan and in Germany by the operation of a reference price system. Many European countries have
continuing fiscal challenges as healthcare payers, including government agencies, have reduced and are expected to continue to reduce
the cost of healthcare through actions that directly or indirectly impose additional price restrictions. Companies also face significant
delays in market access for new products as more than two years can elapse after drug approval before new medicines are available in
some countries.
The growth of Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) in the U.S. significantly impacted competition in the healthcare industry. MCOs
seek to reduce healthcare expenditures for participants through volume purchases and long-term contractual discounts with various
pharmaceutical providers. Because of the market potential created by the large pool of participants, marketing prescription drugs to
MCOs is an important part of our strategy. Companies compete for inclusion in MCO formularies and we generally are successful in
having our key products included. We believe that developments in the managed care industry, including continued consolidation,
continue to have a downward pressure on prices.
Pharmaceutical and biotechnology production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely by product. Shifting or adding
manufacturing capacity is usually a lengthy process requiring significant capital expenditures and regulatory approvals. Biologics
manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. As biologics become a larger
percentage of our product portfolio, we will continue to maintain supply arrangements with third-party manufacturers and incur
substantial investments to increase our internal capacity to produce biologics on a commercial scale. The FDA approved our large
scale multi-product bulk biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts in May 2012.
We maintain a competitive position in the market and strive to uphold this position, depending on our success in discovering,
developing and delivering innovative, cost-effective products to help patients prevail over serious diseases.
We are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time
to reasonably assess the final outcomes of these investigations or litigations. For additional discussion of legal matters, see Note 21
“Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Strategy
Over the past few years, we transformed our Company into a focused biopharmaceutical company. We continue to focus on
sustaining our business and building a foundation for the future by growing our newer key marketed products, advancing our pipeline
portfolio and managing our costs. We expect that our portfolio will become increasingly diversified across products and geographies
over the next few years.
We experienced substantial exclusivity losses this year for Plavix and Avapro/Avalide, which together had more than $8 billion of net
sales in 2011. We had been preparing for this for a number of years. As expected, we experienced a rapid, precipitous, and material
decline in Plavix and Avapro/Avalide net sales and a reduction in net income and operating cash flow. Such events are the norm in the
industry when companies experience the loss of exclusivity of a significant product. We will also face additional exclusivity losses in
3Bristol-Myers Squibb
the coming years. We also face significant challenges with an increasingly complex global and regulatory environment and global
economic uncertainty, particularly in the European Union (EU). We believe our strategy to grow our newer marketed products and
our robust research and development (R&D) pipeline, particularly within the therapeutic areas of immuno-oncology,
cardiovascular/metabolic disease and virology, position us well for the future.
We continue to expand our biologics capabilities. We still rely significantly on small molecules as our strongest, most reliable starting
point for discovering potential new medicines, but large molecules or biologics, derived from recombinant DNA technologies are
becoming increasingly important. Currently, more than 40% of our pipeline compounds are biologics, as are four of our key marketed
products, including Yervoy (ipilimumab).
We also continue to support our pipeline with our licensing and acquisitions strategy, referred to as our “string of pearls.” During the
third quarter of 2012, we acquired Amylin, a biopharmaceutical company dedicated to the discovery, development and
commercialization of innovative medicines for patients with diabetes and other metabolic diseases. Following the completion of our
acquisition of Amylin, we entered into a collaboration with AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
AstraZeneca, which builds upon our existing alliance, further expanding our collaboration strategy. We are currently integrating the
Amylin business into our development, manufacturing and commercial operations. We are also seeking to build relationships with
academic organizations that have innovative programs and capabilities that complement our own internal efforts.
Product and Pipeline Developments
We manage our research and development (R&D) programs on a portfolio basis, investing resources in each stage of research and
development from early discovery through late-stage development. We continually evaluate our portfolio of R&D assets to ensure
that there is an appropriate balance of early-stage and late-stage programs to support future growth. We consider our R&D programs
that have entered into Phase III development to be significant, as these programs constitute our late-stage development pipeline.
These Phase III development programs include both investigational compounds in Phase III development for initial indications and
marketed products that are in Phase III development for additional indications or formulations. Spending on these programs
represents approximately 30-40% of our annual R&D expenses. No individual investigational compound or marketed product
represented 10% or more of our R&D expenses in any of the last three years. While we do not expect all of our late-stage
development programs to make it to market, our late-stage development programs are the R&D programs that could potentially have
an impact on our revenue and earnings within the next few years. The following are the recent significant developments in our
marketed products and our late-stage pipeline:
Eliquis – an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, targeted at stroke prevention in NVAF and the prevention and treatment of venous
thromboembolic (VTE) disorders. Eliquis is part of our strategic alliance with Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer)
• In December 2012, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Eliquis to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic
embolism in patients with NVAF. Eliquis also received regulatory approval for this indication in Japan and Canada in December
2012, in the EU in November 2012, and in South Korea in January 2013.
• In December 2012, the Company announced the results of the Phase III AMPLIFY-EXT trial, which evaluated treatment with
Eliquis compared to placebo over a one year period for the prevention of recurrent VTE in 2,486 patients who had already
completed six to 12 months of anticoagulation treatment for VTE, including deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. In the
trial, extended treatment with Eliquis 2.5 mg and 5 mg twice daily, demonstrated superiority versus placebo in the reduction of
the composite endpoint of symptomatic, recurrent VTE and death from any cause. Eliquis also was superior to placebo for the
predefined secondary efficacy outcome of recurrent VTE and VTE-related death. The rate of the primary safety outcome of major
bleeding was comparable across treatment groups.
• In October 2012, the Company announced in a publication in The Lancet that the reductions in stroke or systemic embolism,
major bleeding and mortality demonstrated with Eliquis compared to warfarin in the ARISTOTLE trial were consistent across a
wide range of stroke and bleeding risk scores in patients with NVAF.
• In March 2012, additional analyses from the ARISTOTLE and AVERROES clinical trials were presented at the American
College of Cardiology’s 61st Annual Scientific Session.
Forxiga – an oral sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor for the treatment of diabetes that is part of our alliance with
AstraZeneca
• In November 2012, the EC approved Forxiga for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in the EU.
• In June 2012, at the 72nd American Diabetes Association Scientific Sessions, the Company and AstraZeneca announced results
from a Phase III clinical study that showed Forxiga 10 mg demonstrated significant reductions in blood sugar levels (glycosylated
hemoglobin levels, or HbA1c) compared with placebo at 24 weeks when either agent was added to existing sitagliptin therapy
(with or without metformin) in adult patients with type 2 diabetes. The results were maintained over a 24-week extension and
similar results were observed when the data were stratified by background therapy. The study also demonstrated significant
reductions in total body weight and fasting plasma glucose levels in patients taking Forxiga added to sitigliptin (with or without
metformin), with results maintained throughout the duration of the study.
42012 Annual Report
• In January 2012, the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter (CRL) regarding the NDA for dapagliflozin. The CRL requests
additional clinical data to allow a better assessment of the benefit-risk profile for dapagliflozin. The companies will continue to
work closely with the FDA to determine the appropriate next steps for the dapagliflozin application, and are in ongoing
discussions with health authorities in other countries as part of the application procedures. The Company has met with the FDA
and now has a path forward for potential approval for Forxiga in the U.S. The Company will provide additional data from
ongoing studies to the FDA and expects to be able to resubmit the NDA for Forxiga in mid-2013. At this time, the Company
expects that the FDA will have a six–month period in which to review the resubmission and will hold an Advisory Committee
meeting.
Hepatitis C Portfolio – (Peginterferon lambda –a novel and potential first-in-class type 3 interferon in development; Daclatasvir – a
NS5A replication complex inhibitor in development; Asunaprevir – a NS3 protease inhibitor in development)
• In November 2012, the Company announced the results of the global, D-LITE Phase IIb study, in which a 24-week regimen
combining the investigational compound peginterferon lambda-1a with the investigational direct-acting antiviral (DAA)
daclatasvir and ribavirin, achieved sustained virologic response 12 weeks post-treatment of treatment-naïve, genotype 1b chronic
hepatitis C virus infection patients who achieved a protocol-defined response
• In November 2012, the Company announced Phase II data demonstrating that the 12-week Triple DAA treatment regime of
daclatasvir, asunaprevir, and BMS-791325 (an NS5B non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor) achieved sustained virologic response
12 weeks post-treatment in 94% of treatment naïve, genotype 1 chronic hepatitis C virus infection patients.
• In November 2012, the Company announced Phase II data demonstrating that the dual regiment of daclatasvir and asunaprevir,
without interferon or ribavarin, achieved high rates of sustained virologic response 12 weeks post-treatment in patients with
genotype 1b hepatitis C virus infections who were prior null responders to alfa interferon and ribavarin.
Elotuzumab – an anti-CS1 antibody under investigation for the treatment of multiple myeloma
• In December 2012, the Company announced the results of a small, randomized Phase II study in patients with previously treated
myeloma. Two doses were tested, 10mg/kg and 20 mg/kg in combination with lenalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone. In
the 10 mg/kg arm, median progression-free survival (PFS), or the time without disease progression or death, was not reached after
20.8 months of follow up (N=36) and the objective response rate (ORR) was 92%. Of patients who received elotuzumab at a
dose of 20 mg/kg, median PFS was 18.6 months (N=37) and ORR was 76%.
Necitumumab – a novel targeted cancer therapy for non-small cell lung cancer
In November 2012, we provided notice of the termination of our global codevelopment and cocommercialization arrangement for
necitumumab (IMC-11F8), a fully human monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anticancer treatment, which was discovered
by ImClone and was part of the alliance between the Company and Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly), with all rights returning to Lilly.
The termination is effective May 2014, though we and Lilly may terminate earlier.
Sustiva (efavirenz) – a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV.
• In February 2013, the Company announced that the FDA has granted an additional six-month period of exclusivity to market
Sustiva. Exclusivity for Sustiva in the U.S. is now scheduled to expire in March 2015.
Baraclude (entecavir) – an oral antiviral agent for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B
• In February 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware invalidated the composition of matter patent covering
Baraclude, which was scheduled to expire in 2015.
• In October 2012, a labeling update for Baraclude was approved by the FDA to include data on African Americans and liver
transplant recipients with chronic hepatitis B infection.
Erbitux (cetuximab) – a monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor, which
is expressed on the surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as normal cells and is currently indicated for use
against colorectal cancer and head and neck cancer. Erbitux is part of our alliance with Lilly.
• In July 2012, the FDA granted full approval of Erbitux in combination with the chemotherapy regimen folfiri (irinotecan, 5-
fluorouracil, leucovorin) for the first-line treatment of patients with KRAS mutation-negative epidermal growth factor receptor-
expressing metastatic colorectal cancer as determined by FDA-approved tests for the use.
• In April 2012, the FDA issued a CRL regarding the supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) in first-line non-small
cell lung cancer which stated that, based on the current data package, the first-line indication for Erbitux in combination with
vinorelbine and cisplatin is not approvable. Lilly and the Company do not plan to resubmit the filing.
5Bristol-Myers Squibb
Yervoy (ipilimumab) – a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable (inoperable) or metastatic melanoma
• In November 2012, the National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) recommended Yervoy, which is approved in
the EU for the treatment for previously, treated metastatic (advanced) melanoma, within the Final Appraisal Determination. This
important recommendation will enable eligible patients in England and Wales to routinely access treatment with Yervoy through
the National Health Services.
• In September 2012, the Company announced at the European Society for Medical Oncology 2012 Congress long-term follow-up
data of the 024 study which evaluated newly-diagnosed patients treated with Yervoy 10mg/kg in combination with dacarbazine
versus dacarbazine alone and five-year follow-up data from the rollover 025 study which evaluated patients with Yervoy 0.3
mg/kg or 10 mg/kg. The survival rates observed in study 024 at years three and four were not only stable but higher in patients
treated with Yervoy plus dacarbazine versus patients who received dacarbazine alone. The estimated survival rates in the 025
study remained unchanged or relatively stable at five years compared to four years in newly-diagnosed patients and previously-
diagnosed patients.
Orencia – a fusion protein indicated for rheumatoid arthritis (RA)
• In October 2012, the EC granted marketing authorization for a subcutaneous formulation of Orencia in combination with
methotrexate for the treatment of moderate to severe active RA in adults.
• In June 2012, at the European League Against Rheumatism Annual European Congress of Rheumatology, the Company
announced that AMPLE, a head-to-head trial of 646 patients comparing the subcutaneous formulation of Orencia vs. Humira
(adalimumab), each on a background of methotrexate (MTX), in biologic naïve patients with moderate to severe RA met its
primary endpoint (as measured by non-inferiority) demonstrating that Orencia plus MTX achieved comparable rates of efficacy
for the American College of Rheumatology criteria of 20 percent (ACR 20) response at one year of 64.8% vs. 63.4% Humira plus
MTX.
• In May 2012, the Company announced that the FDA had approved the Company’s biologics manufacturing facility in Devens,
Massachusetts for commercial production of Orencia.
Nulojix (belatacept) – a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity for the prevention of kidney transplant rejection
• In June 2012, at the 2012 American Transplant Congress, the Company announced new four-year results from the long-term
extensions (LTE) of the BENEFIT and BENEFIT-EXT clinical trials of Nulojix, the first T-cell costimulation blocker indicated
for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in adult Epstein-Barr Virus seropositive patients receiving a kidney transplant, in
combination with basiliximab induction, mycophenolate mofetil, and corticosteroids. Results showed that the safety profile of
Nulojix through year four was consistent compared with results at year three with no new safety signals being identified, and that
the renal function benefit versus cyclosporine was maintained through four years in patients enrolled in the LTE from both the
BENEFIT and BENEFIT-EXT trials.
Onglyza/Kombiglyze (saxagliptin/once daily combination of saxagliptin and metformin hydrochloride extended-release) – a treatment
for type 2 diabetes that is part of our strategic alliance with AstraZeneca
• In July 2012, the Company and AstraZeneca announced at the 17th World Congress on Heart Disease the results of analyses
showing that Onglyza 5mg demonstrated improvements across key measures of blood sugar control (glycosylated hemoglobin
levels, or HbA1c; fasting plasma glucose, or FPG and post-prandial glucose, or PPG) compared to placebo in adult patients with
type 2 diabetes at high risk for cardiovascular disease.
In addition, in August 2012, the Company discontinued development of BMS-986094. This decision was made in the interest of
patient safety. See Note 13 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” for further information.
62012 Annual Report
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Net Sales
The composition of the changes in net sales was as follows:
Year Ended December 31, 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010
Net Sales Analysis of % Change Analysis of % Change
Total Foreign Total Foreign
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010 Change Volume Price Exchange Change Volume Price Exchange
United States(a) $ 10,384 $ 14,039 $ 12,800 (26)% (30)% 4 % - 10 % 3 % 7 % -
Europe(b) 3,706 3,879 3,672 (4)% 6 % (3)% (7)% 6 % 5 % (4)% 5 %
Rest of the World(c) 3,204 3,237 2,900 (1)% 2 % (1)% (2)% 12 % 8 % (2)% 6 %
Other(d) 327 89 112 ** N/A N/A - (21)% N/A N/A -
Total $ 17,621 $ 21,244 $ 19,484 (17)% (17)% 2 % (2)% 9 % 4 % 3 % 2 %
(a) Includes Puerto Rico.
(b) Includes Russia and Turkey.
(c) Includes Japan, China, Canada, Australia and Brazil, among other countries.
(d) Includes royalty-related revenues and sales attributed to supply agreements.
** Change in excess of 100%.
The change in U.S. net sales in 2012 attributed to volume reflects the recent exclusivity losses of Plavix and Avapro/Avalide, partially
offset by increased demand for most key products and the addition of Byetta, Bydureon, and Symlin following the completion of our
acquisition of Amylin ($262 million). The change in U.S. net sales in 2011 attributed to volume reflects the launch of Yervoy and
increased demand for several key products partially offset by decreased prescription demand for Avapro/Avalide and Plavix. The
change in U.S. net sales attributed to price in both periods was a result of higher average net selling prices for Plavix and Abilify
partially offset by the reduction in our contractual share of Abilify net sales from 58% to 53.5% in 2011 and a further reduction to
51.5% in 2012, and higher rebates and discounts resulting from U.S. healthcare reform legislation in 2011. See “—Key Products” for
further discussion of sales by key product.
Net sales in Europe decreased in 2012 primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange and lower sales of certain mature brands from
divestitures and generic competition as well as generic competition for Plavix and Avapro/Avalide partially offset by sales growth of
most key products. Net sales in Europe increased in 2011 as favorable foreign exchange and sales growth of most key products more
than offset the previously mentioned lower sales of certain mature brands and generic competition for Plavix and Avapro/Avalide. Net
sales in both periods were negatively impacted by continuing fiscal challenges in many European countries as healthcare payers,
including government agencies, have reduced and are expected to continue to reduce the cost of healthcare through actions that
directly or indirectly impose additional price reductions. These measures include, but are not limited to, mandatory discounts, rebates,
other price reductions and other restrictive measures.
Net sales in the Rest of the World decreased in 2012 as growth in certain key products in Japan, China, and South Korea was more
than offset by generic competition for Plavix and Avapro/Avalide, the timing of government purchases in certain countries and lower
sales of mature brands from generic competition and divestitures. Net sales in the Rest of the World increased in 2011 primarily due
to growth in certain key products in Japan, China and South Korea and favorable foreign exchange, which were partially offset by
generic competition for Avapro/Avalide and lower sales of mature brands from generic competition and divestitures.
Other net sales increased in 2012 because of enhanced royalty-related revenues and higher sales attributed to active pharmaceutical
ingredients supply agreements resulting from recent divestitures of manufacturing facilities and restructured alliance agreements.
Other net sales are expected to continue to increase in 2013 as a result of higher royalties and alliance revenue attributed to the
restructured Sanofi agreement and new mature/over-the-counter brands collaborative agreements.
No single country outside the U.S. contributed more than 10% of our total net sales in 2012, 2011 or 2010.
In general, our business is not seasonal. For information on U.S. pharmaceutical prescriber demand, reference is made to the table
within “—Estimated End-User Demand” below, which sets forth a comparison of changes in net sales to the estimated total
prescription growth (for both retail and mail order customers) for certain of our key products. U.S. and non-U.S. net sales are
categorized based upon the location of the customer.
7Bristol-Myers Squibb
Revenue is reduced for and presented net of gross-to-net sales adjustments that are further described in “—Critical Accounting
Policies” below.
The reconciliation of gross sales to net sales by each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustments was as follows:
Year Ended December 31, % Change
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010
Gross Sales $ 19,816 $ 24,007 $ 21,681 (17)% 11 %
Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments
Charge-Backs Related to Government Programs (651) (767) (605) (15)% 27 %
Cash Discounts (192) (282) (255) (32)% 11 %
Managed Healthcare Rebates and Other Contract Discounts (284) (752) (499) (62)% 51 %
Medicaid Rebates (386) (536) (453) (28)% 18 %
Sales Returns (248) (76) (88) 226 % (14)%
Other Adjustments (434) (350) (297) 24 % 18 %
Total Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments (2,195) (2,763) (2,197) (21)% 26 %
Net Sales $ 17,621 $ 21,244 $ 19,484 (17)% 9 %
The activities and ending balances of each significant category of gross-to-net sales reserve adjustments were as follows:
Charge-Backs Healthcare
Related to Rebates and
Government Cash Other Contract Medicaid Sales Other
Dollars in Millions Programs Discounts Discounts Rebates Returns Adjustments Total
Balance at January 1, 2011 $ 48 $ 29 $ 216 $ 327 $ 187 $ 127 $ 934
Provision related to sales made in current period 767 282 752 541 120 357 2,819
Provision related to sales made in prior periods - - - (5) (44) (7) (56)
Returns and payments (764) (283) (550) (452) (101) (296) (2,446)
Impact of foreign currency translation - - (1) - (1) - (2)
Balance at December 31, 2011 $ 51 $ 28 $ 417 $ 411 $ 161 $ 181 $ 1,249
Provision related to sales made in current period 651 191 351 423 256 451 2,323
Provision related to sales made in prior periods - 1 (67) (37) (8) (17) (128)
Returns and payments (663) (208) (561) (459) (88) (435) (2,414)
Amylin acquisition 2 1 34 13 23 3 76
Impact of foreign currency translation - - 1 - 1 - 2
Balance at December 31, 2012 $ 41 $ 13 $ 175 $ 351 $ 345 $ 183 $ 1,108
Gross-to-net sales adjustment rates are primarily a function of changes in sales mix and contractual and legislative discounts and
rebates. Gross-to-net sales adjustments decreased in 2012 and increased in 2011 due to:
• All gross-to-net adjustment categories other than sales returns and other adjustments decreased in 2012 as a result of lower
Plavix sales following its loss of exclusivity.
• Managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts also decreased in 2012 due to a $67 million reduction in the
estimated amount of Medicare Part D coverage gap discounts attributable to prior period rebates after receiving actual
invoices and the nonrenewal of Plavix contract discounts in the Medicare Part D program as of January 1, 2012. These
rebates and discounts increased in 2011 due to the 50% discount for patients within the Medicare Part D coverage gap.
• Medicaid rebates also decreased in 2012 due to a $37 million reduction in the estimated amount of managed Medicaid
rebates attributable to prior periods after receiving actual invoices. In 2011, Medicaid rebates increased due to the full year
impact of the expansion of rebates for drugs used in risk-based Medicaid managed care plans, higher average net selling
prices for Plavix and higher Medicaid channel sales.
• The provision for sales returns increased as a result of the loss of exclusivity in the U.S. of Plavix in May 2012 and
Avapro/Avalide in March 2012. The U.S. sales return reserves for these products at December 31, 2012 were $173 million
and determined after considering several factors including estimated inventory levels in the distribution channels. In
accordance with Company policy, these products are eligible to be returned between six months prior to and 12 months after
product expiration. Additional adjustments to these reserves might be required in the future for revised estimates to various
assumptions including actual returns which are generally not expected to occur until 2014. In 2011, sales returns included a
$29 million reduction of a $44 million U.S. return reserve established in 2010 in connection with a recall of certain lots of
Avalide due to lower returns than expected.
• Other adjustments increased in 2012 as a result of co-pay and coupon programs.
• Although not presented as a gross-to-net adjustment in the above tables, our contractual share of Abilify and Atripla gross-to-
net sales adjustments were approximately $1.5 billion in 2012, $1.3 billion in 2011 and $1.0 billion in 2010. These increases
were primarily attributed to additional rebates and discounts required under U.S. healthcare reform.
82012 Annual Report
Key Products
Net sales of key products represented 84% of total net sales in 2012, 86% in 2011 and 84% in 2010. The following table presents U.S. and
international net sales by key product, the percentage change from the prior period and the foreign exchange impact when compared to the prior
period. Commentary detailing the reasons for significant variances for key products is provided below:
% Change
Attributable to
Year Ended December 31, % Change Foreign Exchange
2012 vs. 2011 vs.
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010
Key Products
Plavix (clopidogrel bisulfate) $ 2,547 $ 7,087 $ 6,666 (64)% 6 % - -
U.S. 2,424 6,709 6,236 (64)% 8 % - -
Non-U.S. 123 378 430 (67)% (12)% (1)% 3 %
Avapro/Avalide
(irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide) 503 952 1,176 (47)% (19)% (1)% 2 %
U.S. 155 549 679 (72)% (19)% - -
Non-U.S. 348 403 497 (14)% (19)% (3)% 4 %
Eliquis (apixaban) 2 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
U.S. - N/A N/A N/A N/A - -
Non-U.S. 2 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Abilify (aripiprazole) 2,827 2,758 2,565 3 % 8 % (1)% 2 %
U.S. 2,102 2,052 1,971 2 % 4 % - -
Non-U.S. 725 706 594 3 % 19 % (7)% 6 %
Reyataz (atazanavir sulfate) 1,521 1,569 1,479 (3)% 6 % (3)% 2 %
U.S. 783 771 766 2 % 1 % - -
Non-U.S. 738 798 713 (8)% 12 % (6)% 5 %
Sustiva (efavirenz) Franchise 1,527 1,485 1,368 3 % 9 % (2)% 2 %
U.S. 1,016 950 891 7 % 7 % - -
Non-U.S. 511 535 477 (4)% 12 % (5)% 5 %
Baraclude (entecavir) 1,388 1,196 931 16 % 28 % (2)% 5 %
U.S. 241 208 179 16 % 16 % - -
Non-U.S. 1,147 988 752 16 % 31 % (2)% 6 %
Erbitux (cetuximab) 702 691 662 2 % 4 % - -
U.S. 688 681 654 1 % 4 % - -
Non-U.S. 14 10 8 40 % 25 % (2)% 5 %
Sprycel (dasatinib) 1,019 803 576 27 % 39 % (4)% 3 %
U.S. 404 299 190 35 % 57 % - -
Non-U.S. 615 504 386 22 % 31 % (6)% 6 %
Yervoy (ipilimumab) 706 360 N/A 96 % N/A N/A N/A
U.S. 503 323 N/A 56 % N/A - -
Non-U.S. 203 37 N/A ** N/A N/A N/A
Orencia (abatacept) 1,176 917 733 28 % 25 % (2)% 2 %
U.S. 797 621 552 28 % 13 % - -
Non-U.S. 379 296 181 28 % 64 % (6)% 8 %
Nulojix (belatacept) 11 3 N/A ** N/A N/A N/A
U.S. 9 3 N/A ** N/A - -
Non-U.S. 2 - N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Onglyza/Kombiglyze
(saxagliptin/saxagliptin and metformin) 709 473 158 50 % ** (2)% 3 %
U.S. 516 346 121 49 % ** - -
Non-U.S. 193 127 37 52 % ** (9)% **
** Change in excess of 100%.
9Bristol-Myers Squibb
% Change
Attributable to
Year Ended December 31, % Change Foreign Exchange
2012 vs. 2011 vs.
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010
Key Products (continued)
Byetta (exenatide) $ 149 $ N/A $ N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
U.S. 147 N/A N/A N/A N/A - -
Non-U.S. 2 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Bydureon (exenatide extended-release for injectable
suspension) 78 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
U.S. 75 N/A N/A N/A N/A - -
Non-U.S. 3 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Mature Products and All Other 2,756 2,950 3,170 (7)% (7)% (3)% 4 %
U.S. 524 527 561 (1)% (6)% - -
Non-U.S. 2,232 2,423 2,609 (8)% (7)% (3)% 5 %
** Change in excess of 100%.
Plavix — a platelet aggregation inhibitor that is part of our alliance with Sanofi
• U.S. net sales decreased in 2012 and will continue to decrease in 2013 due to the loss of exclusivity in May 2012. U.S. net sales
increased in 2011 primarily due to higher average net selling prices. Estimated total U.S. prescription demand decreased 60% in
2012 and 5% in 2011.
• International net sales continue to be negatively impacted by generic clopidogrel products in the EU, Canada, and Australia.
Avapro/Avalide (known in the EU as Aprovel/Karvea) — an angiotensin II receptor blocker for the treatment of hypertension and
diabetic nephropathy that is also part of the Sanofi alliance
• U.S. net sales decreased in 2012 due to the loss of exclusivity in March 2012 and decreased in 2011 due to market share losses
subsequent to the Avalide supply shortage in the first quarter of 2011 associated with previously reported recalls. The decrease in
U.S. net sales in 2011 was partially offset by higher average net selling prices and estimated returns. Total estimated U.S.
prescription demand decreased 71% in 2012 and 39% in 2011.
• International net sales decreased in both periods due to lower demand including generic competition in certain EU markets and
Canada.
Eliquis – an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, targeted at stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation and the prevention and treatment of VTE
disorders. Eliquis is part of our strategic alliance with Pfizer.
• Eliquis was approved in the U.S. for prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with NVAF in December 2012.
• Eliquis was approved in the EU for VTE prevention in May 2011 and was launched in a limited number of EU countries
beginning in May 2011. Eliquis was also approved in the EU for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients
with NVAF in November 2012. Eliquis was approved in December 2012 by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare
for the prevention of ischemic stroke and systemic embolism in patients with NVAF.
Abilify — an antipsychotic agent for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder and is part
of our strategic alliance with Otsuka
• U.S. net sales increased in 2012 due to higher average net selling prices and a $62 million reduction in BMS’s share in the
estimated amount of customer rebates and discounts attributable to 2011 based on actual invoices received that were partially
offset by fluctuations in retail buying patterns. U.S. net sales increased in 2011 due to higher overall demand and higher average
net selling prices. U.S. net sales in both periods were negatively impacted by the reduction in our contractual share of net sales
from 58.0% in 2010 to 53.5% in 2011 to 51.5% in 2012 and are expected to continue to be negatively impacted in 2013 as a
result of a further reduction in BMS’s contractual share of Abilify net sales (estimated at approximately 35%). Estimated total
U.S. prescription demand increased 1% in 2012 and 5% in 2011.
• International net sales increased in both periods primarily due to higher demand. International net sales were impacted by
unfavorable foreign exchange in 2012 and favorable foreign exchange in 2011.
102012 Annual Report
Reyataz — a protease inhibitor for the treatment of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
• U.S. net sales increased in 2012 due to higher average net selling prices. Estimated total prescription demand decreased 5% in
2012 and increased 2% in 2011.
• International net sales decreased in 2012 due to unfavorable foreign exchange, the timing of government purchases in certain
countries and lower demand resulting from competing products. International net sales increased in 2011 due to higher demand.
Sustiva Franchise — a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, which includes Sustiva, an
antiretroviral drug, and bulk efavirenz, which is also included in the combination therapy, Atripla (efavirenz 600
mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a product sold through our joint venture with Gilead
• U.S. net sales increased in both periods primarily due to higher demand and higher average net selling prices. Estimated total
U.S. prescription demand decreased 1% in 2012 and increased 7% in 2011.
• International net sales decreased in 2012 due to unfavorable foreign exchange. International net sales in 2011 increased
primarily due to higher demand.
Baraclude — an oral antiviral agent for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B
• Net sales in both periods increased primarily due to higher demand.
• We may experience a rapid and significant decline in U.S. net sales beginning in 2013 due to possible generic competition
following a federal court’s decision in February 2013 invalidating the composition of matter patent.
Erbitux — a monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor, which is expressed
on the surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as normal cells and is currently indicated for use against
colorectal cancer and head and neck cancer. Erbitux is part of our strategic alliance with Lilly.
• Sold by us almost exclusively in the U.S., net sales remained relatively flat in 2012 and increased in 2011 primarily due to higher
demand.
Sprycel — an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinases indicated for the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or
lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including Gleevec (imatinib
meslylate) and first-line treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase.
Sprycel is part of our strategic alliance with Otsuka.
• U.S. net sales in both periods increased primarily due to higher demand and higher average net selling prices. Estimated total
U.S. prescription demand increased 29% in 2012 and 30% in 2011.
• International net sales in both periods increased primarily due to higher demand. International net sales were impacted by
unfavorable foreign exchange in 2012 and favorable foreign exchange in 2011.
• Demand in 2011 was positively impacted by the approval of Sprycel for first-line treatment of adult patients with newly
diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase in the U.S. and the EU in the fourth
quarter of 2010.
Yervoy — a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable (inoperable) or metastatic melanoma
• Yervoy net sales increased from higher demand since its launch in the U.S. in the second quarter of 2011 and continued launches
in a number of international countries since the second quarter of 2011.
Orencia — a fusion protein indicated for adult patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate
response to one or more currently available treatments, such as methotrexate or anti-tumor necrosis factor therapy
• U.S. net sales increased in both periods primarily due to higher demand, including the launch of the Orencia subcutaneous
formulation (SC) in the fourth quarter of 2011, and higher average net selling prices.
• International net sales increased in both periods primarily due to higher demand, including the launch of Orencia SC in certain
European markets beginning in the second quarter of 2012. International net sales were impacted by unfavorable foreign
exchange in 2012 and favorable foreign exchange in 2011.
Nulojix — a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted at prevention of kidney transplant rejection
• Nulojix was approved and launched in the U.S. and EU during 2011.
11Bristol-Myers Squibb
Onglyza/Kombiglyze (known in the EU as Onglyza/Komboglyze) — a once-daily oral tablet for the treatment of type 2 diabetes that is
part of our strategic alliance with AstraZeneca
• U.S. net sales of Onglyza/Kombiglyze increased in both periods primarily due to higher overall demand and higher average net
selling prices in 2012. Kombiglyze was launched in the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2010.
• International net sales increased in both periods primarily due to higher demand, which was partially offset by unfavorable
foreign exchange in 2012.
Byetta — a twice daily glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist for the treatment of type 2 diabetes
• Byetta net sales are included in our results following the completion of our acquisition of Amylin in the third quarter of 2012.
Bydureon — a once-weekly GLP-1 receptor agonist for the treatment of type 2 diabetes
• Bydureon was launched by Amylin in the U.S. in the first quarter of 2012 and in the EU in the second quarter of 2012. Net sales
are included in our results following the completion of our acquisition of Amylin in the third quarter of 2012.
Mature Products and All Other — includes all other products, including those which have lost exclusivity in major markets, over-the-
counter brands and royalty-related revenue
• U.S. net sales continued to decrease in 2012 from generic erosion of certain products which was partially offset by sales of Symlin
following the completion of our Amylin acquisition in the third quarter of 2012.
• International net sales decreased in both periods due to the continued generic erosion of certain brands and unfavorable foreign
exchange in 2012.
The estimated U.S. prescription change data provided throughout this report includes information only from the retail and mail order
channels and does not reflect product demand within other channels such as hospitals, home health care, clinics, federal facilities
including Veterans Administration hospitals, and long-term care, among others. The data is provided by Wolters Kluwer Health
(WK), except for Sprycel, and is based on the Source Prescription Audit. Sprycel demand is based upon information from the Next-
Generation Prescription Service version 2.0 of the National Prescription Audit provided by the IMS Health (IMS). The data is a
product of each respective service providers’ own recordkeeping and projection processes and therefore subject to the inherent
limitations of estimates based on sampling and may include a margin of error.
We continuously seek to improve the quality of our estimates of prescription change amounts and ultimate patient/consumer demand
by reviewing the calculation methodologies employed and analyzing internal and third-party data. We expect to continue to review
and refine our methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and will monitor the quality of our own and third
parties’ data used in such calculations.
We calculated the estimated total U.S. prescription change on a weighted-average basis to reflect the fact that mail order prescriptions
include a greater volume of product supplied, compared to retail prescriptions. Mail order prescriptions typically reflect a 90-day
prescription whereas retail prescriptions typically reflect a 30-day prescription. The calculation is derived by multiplying mail order
prescription data by a factor that approximates three and adding to this the retail prescriptions. We believe that a calculation of
estimated total U.S. prescription change based on this weighted-average approach provides a superior estimate of total prescription
demand in retail and mail order channels. We use this methodology for our internal demand reporting.
122012 Annual Report
Estimated End-User Demand
The following tables set forth for each of our key products sold in the U.S. for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010: (i)
change in reported U.S. net sales for each year; (ii) estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail order channels
calculated by us based on third-party data on a weighted-average basis, and (iii) months of inventory on hand in the wholesale
distribution channel.
Year Ended December 31, At December 31,
Change in U.S. % Change in U.S.
Net Sales Total Prescriptions Months on Hand
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2010
Plavix (64)% 8 % (60)% (5)% 1.3 0.5 0.5
Avapro/Avalide (72)% (19)% (71)% (39)% 1.9 0.6 0.4
Abilify 2 % 4 % 1 % 5 % 0.4 0.5 0.4
Reyataz 2 % 1 % (5)% 2 % 0.5 0.5 0.5
Sustiva Franchise(a) 7 % 7 % (1)% 7 % 0.6 0.6 0.4
Baraclude 16 % 16 % 11 % 9 % 0.5 0.6 0.6
Erbitux(b) 1 % 4 % N/A N/A 0.6 0.6 0.5
Sprycel 35 % 57 % 29 % 30 % 0.7 0.7 0.6
Yervoy(b)(d) 56 % N/A N/A N/A 0.6 0.6 N/A
Orencia(c) 28 % 13 % N/A N/A 0.5 0.5 0.6
Nulojix(b)(d) ** N/A N/A N/A 0.9 3.5 N/A
Onglyza/Kombiglyze 49 % ** 47 % ** 0.5 0.5 0.8
Byetta(e) N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.8 N/A N/A
Bydureon(e) N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.8 N/A N/A
(a) The Sustiva Franchise includes sales of Sustiva, as well as revenue of bulk efavirenz included in the combination therapy Atripla. The months on hand relates
only to Sustiva.
(b) Erbitux, Yervoy and Nulojix are parenterally administered products and do not have prescription-level data as physicians do not write prescriptions for these
products.
(c) Orencia intravenous formulation is a parenterally administered product and does not have prescription-level data as physicians do not write prescriptions for this
product. The Orencia subcutaneous formulation (Orencia SC) is not parenterally administered and was launched in the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Orencia SC sales were $201 million in 2012 and $15 million in 2011.
(d) Yervoy and Nulojix were launched in the U.S. in the second quarter of 2011.
(e) Byetta and Bydureon net sales are included in our results following the completion of our acquisition of Amylin in the third quarter of 2012.
** Change in excess of 100%.
Pursuant to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Consent Order described below under "—SEC Consent Order", we
monitor the level of inventory on hand in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel and outside of the U.S. in the direct customer
distribution channel. We are obligated to disclose products with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected
demand, subject to a de minimis exception. Estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand
for these products were not material as of the dates indicated above. Below are U.S. products that had estimated levels of inventory in
the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand at December 31, 2012, and international products that had estimated levels of
inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand at September 30, 2012.
Plavix had 1.3 months of inventory on hand in the U.S. compared to 0.5 months of inventory on hand at December 31, 2011 due to
the loss of exclusivity in May 2012. We expect a gradual decrease in inventory on hand of Plavix to occur over the next few years
as product in the wholesale distribution channel continues to be worked down or returned. Levels of inventory on hand in the
wholesale and retail distribution channels were considered in assessing the sales return reserves established as of December 31,
2012.
Avapro/Avalide had 1.9 months of inventory on hand in the U.S. compared to 0.6 of inventory on hand at December 31, 2011 due to
the loss of exclusivity in March 2012 and a one-time increase of $3 million of inventory in the wholesale and retail distribution
channels corresponding with the transition of Avapro/Avalide manufacturing to Sanofi pursuant to the restructured agreement.
Levels of inventory on hand in the wholesale and retail distribution channels were considered in assessing the sales return reserves
established as of December 31, 2012.
Dafalgan, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers compared to 1.0
months of inventory on hand at December 31, 2011. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to ordering patterns of
pharmacists in France.
Fervex, a cold and flu product, had 2.9 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct customers compared to 5.3 months of
inventory on hand at December 31, 2011. The level of inventory on hand decreased following the peak of flu season, with the
remaining inventory on hand primarily attributable to ordering patterns of pharmacists in France.
13Bristol-Myers Squibb
Luftal, an antacid product, had 1.5 months of inventory on hand internationally at direct customers compared to 1.9 months of
inventory on hand at December 31, 2011. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to government purchasing patterns in
Brazil.
In the U.S., for all products sold exclusively through wholesalers or through distributors, we generally determined our months on hand
estimates using inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out-movement provided by our three largest wholesalers, which
account for approximately 90% of total gross sales of U.S. products, and provided by our distributors. Factors that may influence our
estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new
product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, these estimates
are calculated using third-party data, which may be impacted by their recordkeeping processes.
For our businesses outside of the U.S., we have significantly more direct customers. Limited information on direct customer product
level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where available,
varies widely. In cases where direct customer product level inventory, ultimate patient/consumer demand or out-movement data does
not exist or is otherwise not available, we have developed a variety of other methodologies to estimate such data, including using such
factors as historical sales made to direct customers and third-party market research data related to prescription trends and end-user
demand. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to estimate direct customer product level inventory and to calculate months on
hand. Factors that may affect our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of
price increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and
expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.
Expenses
% Change
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 2011 vs. 2010
Cost of products sold $ 4,610 $ 5,598 $ 5,277 (18)% 6 %
Marketing, selling and administrative 4,220 4,203 3,686 - % 14 %
Advertising and product promotion 797 957 977 (17)% (2)%
Research and development 3,904 3,839 3,566 2 % 8 %
Impairment charge for BMS-986094 intangible asset 1,830 - - N/A N/A
Other (income)/expense (80) (334) (93) (76)% **
Total Expenses $ 15,281 $ 14,263 $ 13,413 7 % 6 %
** Change is in excess of 100%.
Cost of products sold
Cost of products sold consists of material costs, internal labor and overhead from our owned manufacturing sites, third-party
processing costs, other supply chain costs and the settlement of foreign currency forward contracts that are used to hedge forecasted
intercompany inventory purchase transactions. Essentially all of these costs are managed by our global manufacturing and supply
organization. Cost of products also includes royalties and profit sharing attributed to licensed products and alliances, amortization of
acquired developed technology costs from business combinations and milestone payments that occur on or after regulatory approval.
Cost of products sold can vary between periods as a result of product mix (particularly resulting from royalties and profit sharing
expenses in connection with our alliances), price, inflation and costs attributed to the rationalization of manufacturing sites resulting in
accelerated depreciation, impairment charges and other stranded costs. In addition, changes in foreign currency may also provide
volatility given a high percentage of total costs are denominated in foreign currencies. Cost of products sold as a percentage of net
sales were 26.2% in 2012, 26.4% in 2011, and 27.1% in 2010.
The decrease in cost of products sold in 2012 was primarily attributed to lower sales volume following the loss of exclusivity of Plavix
and Avapro/Avalide which resulted in lower royalties in connection with our Sanofi alliance and favorable foreign exchange partially
offset by impairment charges discussed below and higher amortization costs resulting from the Amylin acquisition (net of the
amortization of the Amylin collaboration proceeds).
Impairment charges of $147 million were recognized in 2012, of which $120 million was related to a partial write-down to fair value
of developed technology costs related to a non-key product (Recothrom) acquired in the acquisition of ZymoGenetics, Inc.
(ZymoGenetics). The developed technology impairment charge resulted from continued competitive pricing pressures and a reduction
in the undiscounted projected cash flows to an amount less than the carrying value of the intangible asset. The impairment charge was
calculated as the difference between the fair value of the asset based on the discounted value of the estimated future cash flows and the
carrying value of the intangible asset. The remaining $27 million impairment charge related to the abandonment of a manufacturing
facility resulting from the outsourcing of a manufacturing process.
The increase in 2011 was primarily attributable to higher sales volume resulting in additional royalties, collaboration fees, and profit
sharing expense, and unfavorable foreign exchange.
142012 Annual Report
Marketing, selling and administrative
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses consist of salary and benefit costs, third-party professional and marketing fees,
outsourcing fees, shipping and handling costs and other expenses that are not attributed to product manufacturing costs or research and
development expenses. These expenses are managed through regional commercialization organizations or global corporate
organizations such as finance, law, information technology and human resources.
• Marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased slightly in 2012 primarily as a result of the Amylin acquisition ($125
million, including $67 million related to the accelerated vesting of stock options and restricted stock units), partially offset by a
reduction in sales-related activities for Plavix and Avapro/Avalide. Marketing, selling and administrative expenses were also
impacted by favorable foreign exchange.
• The increase in 2011 was attributed to the annual pharmaceutical company fee, unfavorable foreign exchange and higher
marketing costs to support new launches and key products and to a lesser extent, higher bad debt expense in the EU, charitable
funding and information technology expenses.
• The annual pharmaceutical company fee was $246 million in 2012 and $220 million in 2011.
Advertising and product promotion
Advertising and product promotion expenses consist of related media, sample and direct to consumer programs.
• The decrease in 2012 was primarily attributed to lower spending on the promotion of Plavix, Avapro/Avalide, Abilify, and certain
mature brands in the U.S. to coincide with their product life cycle.
Research and development
Research and development expenses consist of salary and benefit costs, third-party grants and fees paid to clinical research
organizations, supplies and facility costs. Total research and development expenses include the costs of discovery research,
preclinical development, early- and late-clinical development and drug formulation, as well as clinical trials and medical support of
marketed products, proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs, facilities, information technology, and employee stock
compensation costs, and other appropriate costs. These expenses also include third-party licensing fees that are typically paid upfront
as well as when regulatory or other contractual milestones are met. Certain expenses are shared with alliance partners based upon
contractual agreements.
Most expenses are managed by our global research and development organization of which, approximately $1.9 billion of the total
spend was attributed to development activities with the remainder attributed to preclinical and research activities. These expenses can
vary between periods for a number of reasons, including the timing of upfront, milestone and other licensing payments.
• Research and development expenses increased in 2012 primarily from $60 million of expenses related to the Amylin acquisition
(including $27 million related to the accelerated vesting of Amylin stock options and restricted stock units), partially offset by
favorable foreign exchange and the net impact of upfront, milestone, and other licensing payments and IPRD impairment charges.
Refer to “Specified Items” included in “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for amounts attributed to each period. IPRD
impairment charges relate to projects previously acquired in the Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) acquisition and Inhibitex acquisition
(including $45 million in 2012 related to FV-100, a nucleoside inhibitor for the reduction of shingles-associated pain) resulting
from unfavorable clinical trial results and decisions to cease further development.
• The increase in 2011 was attributed to higher upfront, milestone and other licensing payments, unfavorable foreign exchange, and
additional development costs resulting from the acquisition of ZymoGenetics. Upfront, milestone and other licensing payments
were $207 million in 2011, including an $88 million payment associated with an amendment of an intellectual property license
agreement for Yervoy prior to its FDA approval and payments for exclusive licenses to develop and commercialize certain
programs and compounds.
Impairment charge for BMS-986094 intangible asset
A $1.8 billion impairment charge was recognized when the development of BMS-986094 (formerly INX-189), a compound which we
acquired as part of our acquisition of Inhibitex to treat hepatitis C virus infection, was discontinued in the interest of patient safety.
See Note 13 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” for further information.
15Bristol-Myers Squibb
Other (income)/expense
Other (income)/expense include:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Interest expense $ 182 $ 145 $ 145
Investment income (106) (91) (75)
Provision for restructuring 174 116 113
Litigation charges/(recoveries) (45) 6 (2)
Equity in net income of affiliates (183) (281) (313)
Impairment and loss on sale of manufacturing operations - - 236
Out-licensed intangible asset impairment 38 - -
Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets (53) (37) (39)
Other income received from alliance partners, net (312) (140) (137)
Pension curtailments and settlements 158 10 28
Other 67 (62) (49)
Other (income)/expense $ (80) $ (334) $ (93)
• Interest expense increased due to the termination of interest rate swap contracts in 2011 and higher borrowings in 2012.
• Investment income included a $10 million gain from the sale of auction rate securities in 2012.
• Provision for restructuring was primarily attributable to employee termination benefits for continuous improvement initiatives.
Additional employee termination costs of approximately $300 million are expected to be incurred in 2013 as a result of
workforce reductions in several European countries. The majority of the costs will not be recognized until the completion of
discussions with local workers council, subject to local regulations. The expected employee reductions are primarily attributed
to sales force personnel resulting from restructuring of the Sanofi and Otsuka agreements and streamlining of the operations due
to challenging market conditions in Europe.
• Litigation charges/(recoveries) in 2012 included $172 million for our share of the Apotex damages award concerning Plavix,
partially offset by increases in reserves for product liability, pricing, sales and promotional matters.
• Equity in net income of affiliates is primarily related to our international partnership with Sanofi which decreased in 2012 as a
result of the continued impact of generic competition on international Plavix net sales, conversion of certain territories to opt-out
markets and the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange.
• Impairment and loss on sale of manufacturing operations in 2010 was primarily attributed to the disposal of our manufacturing
operations in Latina, Italy.
• Out-licensed intangible asset impairment charges are related to assets acquired in the Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) and
ZymoGenetics acquisitions and resulted from unfavorable clinical trial results and/or abandonment of the programs. Similar
charges of $15 million were included in research and development in 2011.
• Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets was primarily related to the sale of a building in Mexico in 2012 and the sale
of mature brands in 2011 and 2010.
• Other income from alliance partners includes income earned from the Sanofi partnership and amortization of certain upfront,
milestone and other licensing payments related to other alliances. The decrease in U.S. Plavix net sales resulted in lower
development royalties owed to Sanofi in 2012.
• A pension settlement charge was recognized in 2012 for the primary U.S. pension plan as a result of annual lump sum payments
exceeding interest and service costs during the fourth quarter. The charge included the acceleration of a portion of unrecognized
actuarial losses. Similar charges might occur in the future. See Note 18 “Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment
Liabilities” for further detail.
• The change in Other is primarily related to higher acquisition costs and losses on debt repurchases in 2012 and sales tax
reimbursements, gains on debt repurchases, and higher upfront, milestone and licensing receipts in 2011.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude certain costs,
expenses, gains and losses and other specified items that due to their significant and/or unusual nature are evaluated on an individual
basis. Similar charges or gains for some of these items have been recognized in prior periods and it is reasonably possible that they
could reoccur in future periods. Non-GAAP information is intended to portray the results of our baseline performance which include
the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical products on a global basis
and to enhance an investor’s overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-
GAAP earnings and EPS information is an indication of our baseline performance before items that are considered by us to not be
reflective of our ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators we use as a basis for evaluating
performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting for future periods. This
information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted EPS prepared in accordance with
GAAP.
162012 Annual Report
Specified items were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs $ 147 $ 75 $ 113
Amortization of acquired Amylin intangible assets 229 - -
Amortization of Amylin collaboration proceeds (114) - -
Amortization of Amylin inventory adjustment 23 - -
Cost of products sold 285 75 113
Stock compensation from accelerated vesting of Amylin awards 67 - -
Process standardization implementation costs 18 29 35
Marketing, selling and administrative 85 29 35
Stock compensation from accelerated vesting of Amylin awards 27 - -
Upfront, milestone and other licensing payments 47 207 132
IPRD impairment 142 28 10
Research and development 216 235 142
Impairment charge for BMS-986094 intangible asset 1,830 - -
Provision for restructuring 174 116 113
Impairment and loss on sale of manufacturing operations - - 236
Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets (51) (12) -
Pension curtailments and settlements 151 13 18
Acquisition related items 43 - 10
Litigation charges/(recoveries) (45) 9 (2)
Upfront, milestone and other licensing receipts (10) (20) -
Out-licensed intangible asset impairment 38 - -
Loss on debt repurchases 27 - -
Other (income)/expense 327 106 375
Decrease to pretax income 2,743 445 665
Income tax on items above (947) (136) (180)
Out-of period tax adjustment - - (59)
Specified tax (benefit)/charge* (392) (97) 207
Income taxes (1,339) (233) (32)
Decrease to net earnings $ 1,404 $ 212 $ 633
* The 2012 specified tax benefit relates to a capital loss deduction. The 2011 specified tax benefit relates to releases of tax reserves that were specified in prior periods. The
2010 specified tax charge relates to a tax charge from additional U.S. taxable income from earnings of foreign subsidiaries previously considered to be indefinitely reinvested
offshore.
The reconciliations from GAAP to Non-GAAP were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2012 2011 2010
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS - GAAP $ 1,960 $ 3,709 $ 3,102
Earnings attributable to unvested restricted shares (1) (8) (12)
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS used for Diluted EPS Calculation - GAAP $ 1,959 $ 3,701 $ 3,090
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS - GAAP $ 1,960 $ 3,709 $ 3,102
Less Specified Items 1,404 212 633
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS - Non-GAAP 3,364 3,921 3,735
Earnings attributable to unvested restricted shares (1) (8) (12)
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS used for Diluted EPS Calculation - Non-GAAP $ 3,363 $ 3,913 $ 3,723
Average Common Shares Outstanding - Diluted 1,688 1,717 1,727
Diluted EPS Attributable to BMS - GAAP $ 1.16 $ 2.16 $ 1.79
Diluted EPS Attributable to Specified Items 0.83 0.12 0.37
Diluted EPS Attributable to BMS - Non-GAAP $ 1.99 $ 2.28 $ 2.16
17Bristol-Myers Squibb
Income Taxes
The $161 million income tax benefit in 2012 was attributable to a $392 million capital loss deduction resulting from the tax
insolvency of Inhibitex. The impact of this deduction reduced the effective tax rate by 16.7 percentage points. In addition to this
impact, the effective tax rate in 2012 was substantially lower than 24.7% in 2011 and 25.7% in 2010 resulting primarily from
favorable earnings mix between high and low tax jurisdictions. The change in earnings mix was primarily attributed to lower Plavix
sales and a $1,830 million impairment charge for BMS-986094 intangible asset in the U.S and to a lesser extent, an internal transfer of
intellectual property. The transfer of selected intellectual property rights outside the U.S. (for existing and new products) is part of our
strategy to place key assets closer to where manufacturing, distribution, and other operational decisions are made. The favorable
earnings mix between high and low tax jurisdictions is expected to continue at least through 2013 (excluding the impact of the
impairment charge).
Historically, the effective income tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35% due to our decision to indefinitely reinvest the
earnings for certain of our manufacturing operations in Ireland and Puerto Rico. We have favorable tax rates in Ireland and Puerto
Rico under grants not scheduled to expire prior to 2023.
The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (the Act) was signed into law on January 2, 2013. The provisions of the Act included the
retroactive reinstatement of the R&D tax credit and look through exception for 2012 and 2013. As a result, the 2012 R&D tax credit
and look through exception benefit will be recognized in the first quarter of 2013. For a more detailed discussion of income taxes and
changes in the effective tax rates, refer to Note 7 “Income Taxes.”
Noncontrolling Interest
Noncontrolling interest is primarily related to our Plavix and Avapro/Avalide partnerships with Sanofi for the territory covering the
Americas. See Note 3 “Alliances and Collaborations.” The decrease in noncontrolling interest in 2012 resulted from the exclusivity
loss in the U.S. of Avapro/Avalide in March 2012 and Plavix in May 2012. The increase in noncontrolling interest in 2011
corresponds to increased net sales of Plavix in the U.S. A summary of noncontrolling interest is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Sanofi partnerships $ 844 $ 2,323 $ 2,074
Other 14 20 20
Noncontrolling interest-pre-tax 858 2,343 2,094
Income taxes (317) (792) (683)
Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest-net of taxes $ 541 $ 1,551 $ 1,411
Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our net cash/(debt) position was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,656 $ 5,776
Marketable securities—current 1,173 2,957
Marketable securities—non-current 3,523 2,909
Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities 6,352 11,642
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt (826) (115)
Long-term debt (6,568) (5,376)
Net cash/(debt) position $ (1,042) $ 6,151
Working capital $ 1,242 $ 7,538
The current net debt position and reduction in working capital during 2012 resulted primarily from net cash used in connection with
the acquisitions of Amylin and Inhibitex. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held in the U.S. were approximately $1.3
billion at December 31, 2012. Most of the remaining $5.1 billion is held primarily in low-tax jurisdictions and is attributable to
earnings that are expected to be indefinitely reinvested offshore. Cash repatriations are subject to restrictions in certain jurisdictions
and may be subject to withholding and additional U.S. income taxes. We started issuing commercial paper to meet near-term
domestic liquidity requirements in preparation for the Amylin acquisition during the third quarter of 2012. The average amount of
commercial paper outstanding was $224 million at a weighted-average interest rate of 0.16% during 2012. The maximum
month-end amount of commercial paper outstanding was $700 million with no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2012. We
will likely continue to issue commercial paper to meet domestic liquidity requirements as needed.
182012 Annual Report
Our investment portfolio includes non-current marketable securities which are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest
rate fluctuations and other market factors, which may impact our results of operations. Our investment policy places limits on these
investments and the amount and time to maturity of investments with any institution. The policy also requires that investments are
only entered into with corporate and financial institutions that meet high credit quality standards. See Note 9 “Financial Instruments.”
We currently have two separate $1.5 billion five-year revolving credit facilities from a syndicate of lenders, including a new facility
entered into in July 2012. The facilities provide for customary terms and conditions with no financial covenants and are extendable on
any anniversary date with the consent of the lenders. No borrowings were outstanding under either revolving credit facility at
December 31, 2012 or 2011.
In connection with the 2012 Amylin acquisition, BMS issued $2.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in a registered public offering
consisting of $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.875% Notes due 2017, $750 million in aggregate principal amount of
2.000% Notes due 2022 and $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.250% Notes due 2042.
BMS completed its acquisition of Amylin for an aggregate purchase price of $5.3 billion in 2012. BMS also assumed Amylin’s net
debt and a contractual payment obligation to Lilly, together totaling $2.0 billion (substantially all of which was repaid during 2012).
The acquisition was financed through the use of existing cash balances, the issuance of commercial paper and long-term debt
borrowings described above.
Additional regulations in the U.S. could be passed in the future which could further reduce our results of operations, operating cash
flow, liquidity and financial flexibility. We also continue to monitor the potential impact of the economic conditions in certain
European countries and the related impact on prescription trends, pricing discounts, creditworthiness of our customers, and our ability
to collect outstanding receivables from our direct customers. Currently, we believe these economic conditions in the EU will not have
a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow or financial flexibility.
As a mechanism to limit our overall credit exposures, and an additional source of liquidity, we sell trade receivables to third parties,
principally from wholesalers in Japan and certain government-backed entities in Italy, Portugal, and Spain. Sales of trade receivables
in Italy, Portugal and Spain were $322 million in 2012, $484 million in 2011 and $476 million in 2010. Sales of receivables in Japan
were $634 million in 2012, $593 million in 2011 and $456 million in 2010. Our sales agreements do not allow for recourse in the
event of uncollectibility and we do not retain interest to the underlying assets once sold.
We continue to manage our operating cash flows with initiatives designed to improve working capital items that are most directly
affected by changes in sales volume, such as receivables, inventories, and accounts payable. During 2012, the following changes in
receivables, inventories and accounts payable resulted primarily from the rapid reduction of Plavix sales, the acquisition of Amylin
and timing of expenditures in the ordinary course of business.
% of Trailing % of Trailing
December 31, Twelve Month December 31, Twelve Month
Dollars in Millions 2012 Net Sales 2011 Net Sales
Net trade receivables $ 1,708 9.7 % $ 2,250 10.6 %
Inventories 1,657 9.4 % 1,384 6.5 %
Accounts payable (2,202) (12.5)% (2,603) (12.2)%
Total $ 1,163 6.6 % $ 1,031 4.9 %
Credit Ratings
Moody’s Investors Service long-term and short-term credit ratings are currently A2 and Prime-1, respectively, and their long-term
credit outlook remains stable. Standard & Poor’s (S&P) long-term and short-term credit ratings are currently A+ and A-1+,
respectively, and their long-term credit outlook remains stable. S&P upgraded our short-term credit rating from A-1 to A-1+ in May
2012. Fitch Ratings (Fitch) long-term and short-term credit ratings are currently A and F1, respectively, and their long-term credit
outlook remains negative. Fitch lowered our long-term credit rating from A+ to A in July 2012. Our credit ratings are considered
investment grade. Our long-term ratings designate that we have a low default risk but are somewhat susceptible to adverse effects of
changes in circumstances and economic conditions. Our short-term ratings designate that we have the strongest capacity for timely
repayment.
19Bristol-Myers Squibb
Cash Flows
The following is a discussion of cash flow activities:
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Cash flow provided by/(used in):
Operating activities $ 6,941 $ 4,840 $ 4,491
Investing activities (6,727) (1,437) (3,812)
Financing activities (4,333) (2,657) (3,343)
Operating Activities
Cash flow from operating activities represents the cash receipts and cash disbursements from all of our activities other than investing
activities and financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting net earnings for noncontrolling interest, non-cash
operating items, gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities and changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting
from timing differences between the receipts and payments of cash and when the transactions are recognized in our results of
operations. As a result, changes in cash from operating activities reflect the timing of cash collections from customers and alliance
partners; payments to suppliers, alliance partners and employees; pension contributions and tax payments in the ordinary course of
business.
The $2.1 billion increase in operating cash flow in 2012 was primarily attributable to preliminary proceeds of $3.6 billion received
from AstraZeneca as consideration for entering into the Amylin collaboration partially offset by lower operating cash flows attributed
to Plavix and Avapro/Avalide sales reductions following the exclusivity loss of these products.
Investing Activities
• Cash was used to fund the acquisitions of Amylin ($5.0 billion) and Inhibitex ($2.5 billion) in 2012, Amira ($360 million,
including a $50 million contingent payment) in 2011 and ZymoGenetics ($829 million) in 2010.
• Net sales and maturities of marketable securities of $1.3 billion in 2012 were primarily attributed to the funding of the
Amylin acquisition. Net purchases of marketable securities of $859 million in 2011 and $2.6 billion in 2010 were primarily
attributed to the timing of investments in time deposits and corporate debt securities with maturities greater than 90 days.
• Other investing activities included litigation recoveries of $102 million in 2011.
Financing Activities
• Dividend payments were $2.3 billion in 2012, $2.3 billion in 2011 and $2.2 billion in 2010. Dividends declared per common
share were $1.37 in 2012, $1.33 in 2011 and $1.29 in 2010. In December 2012, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.35
per common share and expect to pay a dividend for the full year of 2013 of $1.40 per share. Dividend decisions are made on
a quarterly basis by our Board of Directors.
• Proceeds received from the issuance of senior unsecured notes and repayments of debt assumed in the Amylin acquisition
were $2.0 billion each in 2012.
• Management periodically evaluates potential opportunities to repurchase certain debt securities and terminate certain interest
rate swap contracts prior to their maturity. Cash outflows related to the repurchase of debt were $109 million in 2012, $78
million in 2011 and $855 million in 2010. Proceeds from the termination of interest rate swap contracts were $2 million in
2012, $296 million in 2011 and $146 million in 2010.
• The Board of Directors increased its authorization for the repurchase of common stock by $3.0 billion in June 2012. The
common stock repurchase capacity remaining was $1.8 billion at December 31, 2012. Cash used to repurchase common
stock was $2.4 billion in 2012, $1.2 billion in 2011 and $576 million in 2010.
• Proceeds from stock option exercises were $463 million (including $71 million of cash retained from excess tax benefits) in
2012, $601 million (including $47 million of cash retained from excess tax benefits) in 2011 and $252 million in 2010. The
amount of proceeds vary each period based upon fluctuations in the market value of our stock relative to the exercise price of
the stock options and other factors.
202012 Annual Report
Contractual Obligations
Payments due by period for our contractual obligations at December 31, 2012 were as follows:
Obligations Expiring by Period
Dollars in Millions Total 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Later Years
Short-term borrowings $ 162 $ 162 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ -
Long-term debt 6,631 648 27 - 659 750 4,547
Interest on long-term debt(a) 4,814 217 237 237 240 215 3,668
Operating leases 756 167 152 130 123 76 108
Purchase obligations 2,089 874 506 336 198 128 47
Uncertain tax positions(b) 83 83 - - - - -
Other long-term liabilities 475 - 101 58 41 44 231
Total(c) $ 15,010 $ 2,151 $ 1,023 $ 761 $ 1,261 $ 1,213 $ 8,601
(a) Includes estimated future interest payments on our short-term and long-term debt securities. Also includes accrued interest payable recognized on our
consolidated balance sheets, which consists primarily of accrued interest on short-term and long-term debt as well as accrued periodic cash settlements of
derivatives.
(b) Due to the uncertainty related to the timing of the reversal of uncertain tax positions, only the short-term uncertain tax benefits have been provided in the table
above. See Note 7 “Income Taxes” for further detail.
(c) The table above excludes future contributions by us to our pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefit plans. Required contributions are contingent
upon numerous factors including minimum regulatory funding requirements and the funded status of each plan. Due to the uncertainty of such future
obligations, they are excluded from the table. Contributions for both U.S. and international plans are expected to be $100 million in 2013. See Note 18
“Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities” for further detail.
In addition to the above, we are committed to $6.0 billion (in the aggregate) of potential future research and development milestone
payments to third parties as part of in-licensing and development programs. Early stage milestones, defined as milestones achieved
through Phase III clinical trials, comprised $1.1 billion of the total committed amount. Late stage milestones, defined as milestones
achieved post Phase III clinical trials, comprised $4.9 billion of the total committed amount. Payments under these agreements
generally are due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental and regulatory milestones, for which the specific
timing cannot be predicted. In addition to certain royalty obligations that are calculated as a percentage of net sales, some of these
agreements also provide for sales-based milestones aggregating $2.1 billion that we would be obligated to pay to alliance partners
upon achievement of certain sales levels. We also have certain manufacturing, development, and commercialization obligations in
connection with alliance arrangements. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of these obligations. See Note 3 “Alliances and
Collaborations” for further information regarding our alliances.
For a discussion of contractual obligations, see Note 18 “Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities,” Note 9 “Financial
Instruments” and Note 20 “Leases.”
SEC Consent Order
As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, we entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning
certain wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which was attached as
Exhibit 10 to our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.
Under the terms of the Consent, we agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to our direct
customers (including wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and government purchasers) based on expected
demand or on amounts that do not exceed approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a timely public disclosure
of any change in practice. We also agreed in the Consent to certain measures that we have implemented including: (a) establishing a
formal review and certification process of our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC; (b) establishing a business risk and
disclosure group; (c) retaining an outside consultant to comprehensively study and help re-engineer our accounting and financial
reporting processes; (d) publicly disclosing any sales incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose of inducing them to
purchase products in excess of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that our budget process gives appropriate weight to inputs that
come from the bottom to the top, and not just from the top to the bottom, and adequately documenting that process.
We have established a company-wide policy to limit our sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the Consent.
This policy includes the adoption of various procedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the terms of
the Consent. These procedures include a governance process to escalate to appropriate management levels potential questions or
concerns regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In addition, compliance with the
policy is monitored on a regular basis.
21Bristol-Myers Squibb
We maintain inventory management agreements (IMAs) with our U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which account for nearly 100% of
our gross U.S. sales. Under the current terms of the IMAs, our wholesaler customers provide us with weekly information with respect
to months on hand product-level inventories and the amount of out-movement of products. The three largest wholesalers currently
account for approximately 90% of our gross U.S. sales. The inventory information received from our wholesalers, together with our
internal information, is used to estimate months on hand product level inventories at these wholesalers. We estimate months on hand
product inventory levels for our U.S. business’s wholesaler customers other than the three largest wholesalers by extrapolating from
the months on hand calculated for the three largest wholesalers. In contrast, our non-U.S. business has significantly more direct
customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the
reliability of third-party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to
estimate months on hand product level inventories for these business units.
We believe the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to ensure compliance with the Consent.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
None applicable.
Critical Accounting Policies
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. Our critical accounting policies are those that significantly impact our
financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the
need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of this uncertainty, actual results may vary
from these estimates. These accounting policies were discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Revenue Recognition
Our accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on reported results and relies on certain estimates. We
recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the sales price is fixed and determinable, collectability is
reasonably assured and title and substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred, which is generally at time of
shipment. Revenue is also reduced for gross-to-net sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and
judgment after considering legal interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, historical experience, payer channel mix (e.g.
Medicare or Medicaid), current contract prices under applicable programs, unbilled claims and processing time lags and inventory
levels in the distribution channel. Estimates are assessed each period and adjusted as required to revised information or actual
experience. In addition, See “—Net Sales” above for further discussion and analysis of each significant category of gross-to-net sales
adjustments.
Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments
The following categories of gross-to-net sales adjustments involve significant estimates, judgments and information obtained from
external sources. See “—Net Sales” above for further discussion and analysis of each significant category of gross-to-net sales
adjustments.
Charge-backs related to government programs
Our U.S. business participates in programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of
Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties, including covered entities under the 340B Drug Pricing
Program, whereby pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price to participating entities. These entities purchase
products through wholesalers at the lower program price and the wholesalers then charge us the difference between their acquisition
cost and the lower program price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of un-processed charge-back claims
attributable to a sale (typically within a two to four week time lag).
Cash discounts
In the U.S. and certain other countries, cash discounts are offered as an incentive for prompt payment, generally approximating 2% of
the sales price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of un-processed cash discounts (typically within a 1 month
time lag).
222012 Annual Report
Managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts
Rebates and discounts are offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. managing prescription drug programs and Medicare
Advantage prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug benefit in addition to their commercial plans, as well as other
contract counterparties such as hospitals and group purchasing organizations globally. Beginning in 2011, the rebates for the
Medicare Part D program included a 50% discount on the Company’s brand-name drugs to patients who fall within the Medicare Part
D coverage gap. Rebates are also required under the U.S. Department of Defense TRICARE Retail Pharmacy Refund Program. The
estimated amount for these unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts are presented as a liability. A $67 million reversal for the
estimated amount of 2011 Medicare Part D coverage gap discounts occurred in 2012 after receipt of the actual invoices.
Medicaid rebates
Our U.S. businesses participates in state government Medicaid programs and other qualifying Federal and state government programs
requiring discounts and rebates to participating state and local government entities. All discounts and rebates provided through these
programs are included in our Medicaid rebate accrual. Retroactive to January 1, 2010, minimum rebates on Medicaid drug sales
increased from 15.1% to 23.1%. Medicaid rebates have also been extended to drugs used in managed Medicaid plans beginning in
March 2010. The estimated amount for these unpaid or unbilled rebates is presented as a liability. A $37 million reversal for the
estimated amount of 2010 and 2011 Managed Medicaid discounts occurred in 2012 after receipt of the actual invoices.
Sales returns
Products are typically eligible to be returned between six months prior to and twelve months after product expiration, in accordance
with our policy. Estimated returns for established products are determined after considering historical experience and other factors
including levels of inventory in the distribution channel, estimated shelf life, product recalls, product discontinuances, price changes
of competitive products, introductions of generic products, introductions of competitive new products and instances of expected
precipitous declines in demand following the loss of exclusivity. The estimated amount for product returns is presented as a liability.
Reserves of $173 million were established for Plavix and Avapro/Avalide at December 31, 2012 after considering the relevant factors
as well as estimated future retail and wholesale inventory work down that would occur after the loss of exclusivity.
Estimated returns for new products are determined after considering historical sales return experience of similar products, such as
those within the same product line or similar therapeutic category. We defer recognition of revenue until the right of return expires or
until sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns is developed in limited circumstances. This typically occurs when the
new product is not an extension of an existing line of product or when historical experience with products in a similar therapeutic
category is lacking. Estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and projected demand are also considered in estimating
sales returns for new products. Although not reflected as a gross to net adjustment, $27 million of revenue related to Yervoy was
deferred in 2011 as a result of limited returns experience.
Use of information from external sources
Information from external sources is used to estimate gross-to-net sales adjustments. Our estimate of inventory at the wholesalers are
based on the projected prescription demand-based sales for our products and historical inventory experience, as well as our analysis of
third-party information, including written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers with respect to their inventory levels
and sell-through to customers and third-party market research data, and our internal information. The inventory information received
from wholesalers is a product of their recordkeeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as
retailers and hospitals.
We have also continued the practice of combining retail and mail prescription volume on a retail-equivalent basis. We use this
methodology for internal demand forecasts. We also use information from external sources to identify prescription trends, patient
demand and average selling prices. Our estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party information,
as certain third-party information was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags between the date as of
which third-party information is generated and the date on which we receive third-party information.
Retirement Benefits
Accounting for pension and postretirement benefit plans requires actuarial valuations based on significant assumptions for discount
rates and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. In consultation with our actuaries, these significant assumptions and others
such as salary growth, retirement, turnover, healthcare trends and mortality rates are evaluated and selected based on expectations or
actual experience during each remeasurement date. Pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect
on reported earnings, projected benefit obligations and future cash funding. Actual results in any given year may differ from those
estimated because of economic and other factors.
23Bristol-Myers Squibb
The yield on high quality corporate bonds that coincides with the cash flows of the plans’ estimated payouts is used in determining the
discount rate. The Citigroup Pension Discount curve is used for the U.S. plans. The U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2012 was
determined using a 4.25% weighted-average discount rate. The present value of benefit obligations at December 31, 2012 for the U.S.
pension plans was determined using a 3.74% discount rate. If the discount rate used in determining the U.S. plans’ pension expense
for 2012 was reduced by an additional 1%, such expense would increase by approximately $12 million. If the assumed discount rate
used in determining the U.S. pension plans’ projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2012 was reduced by an additional 1%, the
projected benefit obligation would increase by approximately $1.2 billion.
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is estimated considering expected returns for individual asset classes with input
from external advisors. We also consider long-term historical returns including actual performance compared to benchmarks for
similar investments. The U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2012 was determined using an 8.75% expected long-term rate of return on
plan assets. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in determining the U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2012 was
reduced by 1%, such expense would increase by $47 million.
For a more detailed discussion on retirement benefits, see Note 18 “Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities.”
Business Combinations
Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in business combinations, licensing and other transactions were $16.4 billion at
December 31, 2012, representing 46% of total assets.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the
purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. The fair value of intangible assets,
including IPRD, is typically determined using the “income method.” This method starts with a forecast of net cash flows, risk
adjusted for estimated probabilities of technical and regulatory success (for IPRD) and adjusted to present value using an appropriate
discount rate that reflects the risk associated with the cash flow streams. All assets are valued from a market participant view which
might be different than specific BMS views. The valuation process is very complex and requires significant input and judgment using
internal and external sources. Although the valuations are required to be finalized within a one-year period, it must consider all and
only those facts and evidence available at the acquisition date. The most complex and judgmental matters applicable to the valuation
process are summarized below:
• Unit of account - Most intangible assets are valued as single global assets rather than multiple assets for each jurisdiction or
indication after considering the development stage, expected levels of incremental costs to obtain additional approvals, risks
associated with further development, amount and timing of benefits expected to be derived in the future, expected patent lives
in various jurisdictions and the intention to promote the asset as a global brand.
• Estimated useful life - The asset life expected to contribute meaningful cash flows is determined after considering all pertinent
matters associated with the asset, including expected regulatory approval dates (if unapproved), exclusivity periods and other
legal, regulatory or contractual provisions as well as the effects of any obsolescence, demand, competition, and other economic
factors, including barriers to entry.
• Probability of Technical and Regulatory Success (PTRS) Rate – PTRS rates are determined based upon industry averages
considering the respective programs development stage and disease indication and adjusted for specific information or data
known at the acquisition date. Subsequent clinical results or other internal or external data obtained could alter the PTRS rate
and materially impact the estimated fair value of the intangible asset in subsequent periods leading to impairment charges.
• Projections – Future revenues are estimated after considering many factors such as initial market opportunity, pricing, sales
trajectories to peak sales levels, competitive environment and product evolution. Future costs and expenses are estimated after
considering historical market trends, market participant synergies and the timing and level of additional development costs to
obtain the initial or additional regulatory approvals, maintain or further enhance the product. We generally assume initial
positive cash flows to commence shortly after the receipt of expected regulatory approvals which typically may not occur for a
number of years. Actual cash flows attributed to the project are likely to be different than those assumed since projections are
subjected to multiple factors including trial results and regulatory matters which could materially change the ultimate
commercial success of the asset as well as significantly alter the costs to develop the respective asset into commercially viable
products.
• Tax rates – The expected future income is tax effected using a market participant tax rate. Our recent valuations typically use a
U.S. tax rate (and applicable state taxes) after considering the jurisdiction in which the intellectual property is held and location
of research and manufacturing infrastructure. We also considered that any earnings repatriation would likely have U.S. tax
consequences.
• Discount rate – Discount rates are selected after considering the risks inherent in the future cash flows; the assessment of the
asset’s life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset, including consideration of any technical, legal, regulatory, or
economic barriers to entry, as well as expected changes in standards of practice for indications addressed by the asset.
242012 Annual Report
See Note 4 “Acquisitions” for specific details and values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our acquisitions of
Amylin and Inhibitex in 2012, Amira in 2011 and ZymoGenetics in 2010. Significant estimates utilized at the time of the valuations
to support the fair values of the lead compounds within the acquisitions include:
Estimated Phase of PTRS Year of first
Discount useful life Development as Rate projected positive
Dollars in Millions Fair value rate utilized (in years) of acquisition date utilized cash flow
Commercialized products:
Bydureon $ 5,260 11.1% 13 N/A N/A N/A
Byetta 770 10.0% 7 N/A N/A N/A
Symlin 310 10.0% 9 N/A N/A N/A
Recothrom 230 11.0% 10 N/A N/A N/A
IPRD:
BMS-986094 (formerly INX-189) 1,830 12.0% N/A Phase II 38.0% 2017
Metreleptin 120 12.0% N/A Phase III 75.0% 2017
AM152 160 12.5% N/A Phase I 12.5% 2021
Peginterferon lambda 310 13.5% N/A Phase IIB 47.6% 2014
Impairment
Goodwill
Goodwill was $7.6 billion at December 31, 2012. Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment on an enterprise level by
assessing qualitative factors or performing a quantitative analysis in determining whether it is more likely than not that its fair value
exceeds the carrying value. Examples of qualitative factors assessed in the current year included our share price, our financial
performance compared to budgets, long-term financial plans, macroeconomic, industry and market conditions as well as the
substantial excess of fair value over the carrying value of net assets from the annual impairment test performed in the prior year.
Positive and negative influences of each relevant factor were assessed both individually and in the aggregate and as a result it was
concluded that no additional quantitative testing was required.
For discussion on goodwill, acquired in-process research and development and other intangible assets, see Note 1 “Accounting
Policies—Goodwill, Acquired In-Process Research and Development and Other Intangible Assets.”
Other Intangible Assets, including IPRD
Other intangible assets were $8.8 billion at December 31, 2012, including licenses ($626 million), developed technology rights ($7.2
billion), capitalized software ($261 million) and IPRD ($668 million). Intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever current
facts or circumstances warrant a review, although IPRD is required to be tested at least annually. Intangible assets are highly
vulnerable to impairment charges, particularly newly acquired assets for recently launched products or IPRD. These assets are
initially measured at fair value and therefore any reduction in expectations used in the valuations could potentially lead to impairment.
Some of the more common potential risks leading to impairment include competition, earlier than expected loss of exclusivity,
pricing pressures, adverse regulatory changes or clinical trial results, delay or failure to obtain regulatory approval and additional
development costs, inability to achieve expected synergies, higher operating costs, changes in tax laws and other macro-economic
changes. The complexity in estimating the fair value of intangible assets in connection with an impairment test is similar to the initial
valuation.
Considering the high risk nature of research and development and the industry’s success rate of bringing developmental compounds to
market, IPRD impairment charges are likely to occur in future periods. We recognized charges of $2.1 billion in 2012 including a
$1.8 billion charge resulting from the discontinued development of BMS-986094 and for other projects previously acquired in the
Medarex, Inc and Inhibitex acquisition resulting from unfavorable clinical trial results, additional development costs, extended
development periods and decisions to cease further development. We also recognized charges of $30 million in 2011 and $10 million
in 2010 related to three Medarex projects for which development has ceased. IPRD is closely monitored and assessed each period for
impairment.
In addition to IPRD, commercial assets are also subject to impairment. For example, an impairment charge of $120 million was
recognized in 2012 related to a non-key product (Recothrom) acquired in the acquisition of ZymoGenetics after continuing
competitive pricing pressures. The preliminary estimated fair value of developed technology rights resulting from the acquisition of
Amylin was $6.3 billion, including $5.3 billion allocated to a recently-launched single asset, Bydureon. These assets are monitored
for changes in expectations from those used in the initial valuation, including revenue trends and operating synergies.
25Bristol-Myers Squibb
Contingencies
In the normal course of business, we are subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business,
that cover a wide range of matters, including, among others, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and
environmental liability, contractual claims and tax matters. We recognize accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a
liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are subject to uncertainties that are
difficult to predict and, as such, actual results could vary from these estimates.
For discussions on contingencies, see Note 1 “Accounting Policies—Contingencies,” Note 7 “Income Taxes” and Note 21 “Legal
Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Income Taxes
Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized.
The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including long-range forecasts
of future taxable income and evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to
earnings in the period when such assessments are made. Our deferred tax assets were $5.1 billion, net of valuation allowances of $4.4
billion at December 31, 2012 and $3.2 billion, net of valuation allowances of $3.9 billion at December 31, 2011.
Deferred tax assets related to a U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforward of $170 million and a U.S. Federal tax credit carryforward
of $31 million were recognized at December 31, 2012. The net operating loss carryforward expires in varying amounts beginning in
2022. The U.S. Federal tax credit carryforward expires in varying amounts beginning in 2017. The realization of these carryforwards
is dependent on generating sufficient domestic-sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured,
we believe it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized.
In addition, a deferred tax asset related to a U.S. Federal and state capital loss of $794 million was recognized at December 31, 2012
that can be carried back three years and carried forward five years. The realization of this carryforward is dependent upon generating
sufficient capital gains prior to its expiration. A $411 million valuation allowance was established for this item at December 31, 2012.
Taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries expected to be reinvested indefinitely offshore. During 2010,
the Company completed an internal reorganization of certain legal entities which contributed to a $207 million tax charge recognized
in the fourth quarter of 2010. It is possible that U.S. tax authorities could assert additional material tax liabilities arising from the
reorganization. If such assertion were to occur, the Company would vigorously challenge any such assertion and believes it would
prevail; however there can be no assurance of such a result.
Prior to the Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (Mead Johnson) split-off in 2009, the following transactions occurred: (i) an internal
spin-off of Mead Johnson shares while still owned by us; (ii) conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares; and; (iii)
conversion of Mead Johnson & Company to a limited liability company. These transactions as well as the split-off of Mead Johnson
through the exchange offer should qualify as tax-exempt transactions under the Internal Revenue Code based upon a private letter
ruling received from the Internal Revenue Service related to the conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares, and
outside legal opinions. Certain assumptions, representations and covenants by Mead Johnson were relied upon regarding the future
conduct of its business and other matters which could affect the tax treatment of the exchange. For example, the current tax law
generally creates a presumption that the exchange would be taxable to us, if Mead Johnson or its shareholders were to engage in
transactions that result in a 50% or greater change in its stock ownership during a four year period beginning two years before the
exchange offer, unless it is established that the exchange offer were not part of a plan or series of related transactions to effect such a
change in ownership. If the internal spin-off or exchange offer were determined not to qualify as a tax exempt transaction, the
transaction could be subject to tax as if the exchange was a taxable sale by us at market value.
In addition, a negative basis or excess loss account (ELA) existed in our investment in stock of Mead Johnson prior to these
transactions. We received an opinion from outside legal counsel to the effect that it is more likely than not that we eliminated the
ELA as part of these transactions and do not have taxable income with respect to the ELA. The tax law in this area is complex and it
is possible that even if the internal spin-off and the exchange offer is tax exempt under the Internal Revenue Code, the IRS could
assert that we have additional taxable income for the period with respect to the ELA. We could be exposed to additional taxes if this
were to occur. Based upon our understanding of the Internal Revenue Code and opinion from outside legal counsel, a tax reserve of
$244 million was established reducing the gain on disposal of Mead Johnson included in discontinued operations in 2009.
We agreed to certain tax related indemnities with Mead Johnson as set forth in the tax sharing agreement. For example, Mead
Johnson has agreed to indemnify us for potential tax effects resulting from the breach of certain representations discussed above as
well as certain transactions related to the acquisition of Mead Johnson’s stock or assets. We have agreed to indemnify Mead Johnson
for certain taxes related to its business prior to the completion of the IPO and created as part of the restructuring to facilitate the IPO.
262012 Annual Report
We established liabilities for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to,
transfer pricing matters, tax credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes
ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known.
For discussions on income taxes, see Note 1 “Accounting Policies—Income Taxes” and Note 7 “Income Taxes.”
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This annual report and other written and oral statements we make from time to time contain certain “forward-looking” statements
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can
identify these forward-looking statements by the fact they use words such as “should”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “target”,
“may”, “project”, “guidance”, “intend”, “plan”, “believe” and other words and terms of similar meaning and expression in connection
with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. One can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that
they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve
inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes to
differ materially from current expectations. These statements are likely to relate to, among other things, our goals, plans and
projections regarding our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, market position, product development, product
approvals, sales efforts, expenses, performance or results of current and anticipated products and the outcome of contingencies such as
legal proceedings and financial results, which are based on current expectations that involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including
internal or external factors that could delay, divert or change any of them in the next several years. We have included important
factors in the cautionary statements included in this annual report that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from
any forward-looking statement.
Although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in
forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak
only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of
new information, future events or otherwise.
27Bristol-Myers Squibb
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
We are exposed to market risk resulting from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Certain derivative financial
instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge our underlying economic exposure. All of our financial
instruments, including derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk considered as part of the overall fair value measurement.
Derivative financial instruments are not used for trading purposes.
Foreign Exchange Risk
Significant amounts of our revenues, earnings and cash flow is exposed to changes in foreign currency rates. Our primary net foreign
currency translation exposures are the euro, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi, Canadian dollar and British pound. Foreign currency
forward contracts are used to manage foreign exchange risk that primarily arises from certain intercompany purchase transactions and
are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges when appropriate. In addition, we are exposed to foreign exchange transaction
risk that arises from non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities and earnings denominated in non-U.S. dollar
currencies. Foreign currency forward contracts are used to offset a portion of these exposures and are not designated as hedges.
Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized in earnings as incurred.
We estimate that a 10% appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar (with all other
variables held constant) would decrease the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts by $162 million at December 31, 2012.
If realized, this appreciation would negatively affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts.
We are also exposed to translation risk on non-U.S. dollar-denominated net assets. Non-U.S. dollar borrowings are used to hedge the
foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates and are designated as hedges of net investments. The
effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges is recognized as part of the foreign currency translation
component of accumulated OCI. If our net investment were to fall below the equivalent value of the non-U.S. debt borrowings, the
change in the remeasurement basis of the debt would be subject to recognition in income as changes occur. For additional
information, see Note 9 “Financial Instruments.”
Interest Rate Risk
Fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts are used and designated as fair-value hedges as part of our interest rate risk management
strategy. These contracts are intended to provide us with an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt. We estimate that an
increase of 100 basis points in short-term or long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of our interest rate swap contracts
by $66 million, excluding the effects of our counterparty and our own credit risk. If realized, the fair value reduction would affect
earnings over the remaining life of the contracts.
We estimate that an increase of 100 basis points in long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of long-term debt by $621
million. Our marketable securities are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors.
Our policy is to invest only in institutions that meet high credit quality standards. We estimate that an increase of 100 basis points in
interest rates in general would decrease the fair value of our debt security portfolio by approximately $95 million.
Credit Risk
Although not material, certain European government-backed entities with a higher risk of default were identified by monitoring
economic factors including credit ratings, credit-default swap rates and debt-to-gross domestic product ratios in addition to entity
specific factors. Historically, our exposure was limited by factoring receivables and deferring revenues until the collection of cash.
However, during 2012, counterparties in our factoring arrangements suspended factoring of receivables from Spanish and Portuguese
government-backed entities and limited factoring of receivables from certain Italian government-backed entities. Our credit exposures
in Europe may increase in the future due to further reductions in our factoring arrangements and the ongoing sovereign debt crisis.
Our credit exposure to government-backed trade receivables in Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain were approximately $252 million at
December 31, 2012, of which approximately 75% is from government-backed entities.
We monitor our investments with counterparties with the objective of minimizing concentrations of credit risk. Our investment policy
places limits on the amount and time to maturity of investments with any individual counterparty. The policy also requires that
investments are made primarily with highly rated corporate, financial, U.S. government and government supported institutions.
The use of derivative instruments exposes us to credit risk. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is positive, we are
exposed to credit risk if the counterparty fails to perform. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is negative, the
counterparty is exposed to credit risk if we fail to perform our obligation. Under the terms of the agreements, posting of collateral is
not required by any party whether derivatives are in an asset or liability position. We have a policy of diversifying derivatives with
counterparties to mitigate the overall risk of counterparty defaults. For additional information, see Note 9 “Financial Instruments.”
282012 Annual Report
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
Dollars and Shares in Millions, Except Per Share Data
Year Ended December 31,
EARNINGS 2012 2011 2010
Net Sales $ 17,621 $ 21,244 $ 19,484
Cost of products sold 4,610 5,598 5,277
Marketing, selling and administrative 4,220 4,203 3,686
Advertising and product promotion 797 957 977
Research and development 3,904 3,839 3,566
Impairment charge for BMS-986094 intangible asset 1,830 - -
Other (income)/expense (80) (334) (93)
Total Expenses 15,281 14,263 13,413
Earnings Before Income Taxes 2,340 6,981 6,071
Provision for/(Benefit from) Income Taxes (161) 1,721 1,558
Net Earnings 2,501 5,260 4,513
Net Earnings Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest 541 1,551 1,411
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS $ 1,960 $ 3,709 $ 3,102
Earnings per Common Share
Basic $ 1.17 $ 2.18 $ 1.80
Diluted $ 1.16 $ 2.16 $ 1.79
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.37 $ 1.33 $ 1.29
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
29Bristol-Myers Squibb
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Dollars in Millions
Year Ended December 31,
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 2012 2011 2010
Net Earnings $ 2,501 $ 5,260 $ 4,513
Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss), net of taxes:
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges:
Unrealized gains 9 24 15
Realized gains (36) 32 (5)
Pension and postretirement benefits:
Actuarial losses (311) (830) (88)
Amortization 90 81 67
Settlements and curtailments 103 7 16
Available for sale securities:
Unrealized gains 12 28 44
Realized gains (9) - -
Foreign currency translation (7) (27) 37
Foreign currency translation on net investment hedges (8) 11 84
Total Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss), net of taxes (157) (674) 170
Comprehensive Income 2,344 4,586 4,683
Comprehensive Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest 535 1,558 1,411
Comprehensive Income Attributable to BMS $ 1,809 $ 3,028 $ 3,272
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
302012 Annual Report
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Dollars in Millions, Except Share and Per Share Data
December 31,
ASSETS 2012 2011
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,656 $ 5,776
Marketable securities 1,173 2,957
Receivables 3,083 3,743
Inventories 1,657 1,384
Deferred income taxes 1,597 1,200
Prepaid expenses and other 355 258
Total Current Assets 9,521 15,318
Property, plant and equipment 5,333 4,521
Goodwill 7,635 5,586
Other intangible assets 8,778 3,124
Deferred income taxes 203 688
Marketable securities 3,523 2,909
Other assets 904 824
Total Assets $ 35,897 $ 32,970
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt $ 826 $ 115
Accounts payable 2,202 2,603
Accrued expenses 2,573 2,791
Deferred income 825 337
Accrued rebates and returns 1,054 1,170
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 193 167
Dividends payable 606 597
Total Current Liabilities 8,279 7,780
Pension, postretirement and postemployment liabilities 1,882 2,017
Deferred income 4,024 866
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 648 573
Deferred income taxes 383 107
Other liabilities 475 384
Long-term debt 6,568 5,376
Total Liabilities 22,259 17,103
Commitments and contingencies (Note 21)
EQUITY
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Shareholders’ Equity:
Preferred stock, $2 convertible series, par value $1 per share: Authorized 10 million shares; issued and
outstanding 5,117 in 2012 and 5,268 in 2011, liquidation value of $50 per share - -
Common stock, par value of $0.10 per share: Authorized 4.5 billion shares; 2.2 billion issued in both
2012 and 2011 221 220
Capital in excess of par value of stock 2,694 3,114
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (3,202) (3,045)
Retained earnings 32,733 33,069
Less cost of treasury stock — 570 million common shares in 2012 and 515 million in 2011 (18,823) (17,402)
Total Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Shareholders’ Equity 13,623 15,956
Noncontrolling interest 15 (89)
Total Equity 13,638 15,867
Total Liabilities and Equity $ 35,897 $ 32,970
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
31Bristol-Myers Squibb
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Dollars in Millions
Year Ended December 31,
2012 2011 2010
Cash Flows From Operating Activities:
Net earnings $ 2,501 $ 5,260 $ 4,513
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities:
Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest (541) (1,551) (1,411)
Depreciation and amortization, net 681 628 607
Deferred income taxes (1,230) 415 422
Stock-based compensation 154 161 193
Impairment charges 2,180 28 228
Proceeds from Amylin diabetes collaboration 3,570 - -
Other (35) (147) (32)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Receivables 648 (220) (270)
Inventories (103) (193) 156
Accounts payable (232) 593 315
Other deferred income 295 58 254
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable (50) (134) (236)
Other (897) (58) (248)
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 6,941 4,840 4,491
Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
Proceeds from sale and maturities of marketable securities 4,890 5,960 3,197
Purchases of marketable securities (3,607) (6,819) (5,823)
Additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized software (548) (367) (424)
Proceeds from sale of businesses and other investing activities 68 149 67
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired (7,530) (360) (829)
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (6,727) (1,437) (3,812)
Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
Short-term debt borrowings/(repayments) 49 (1) (33)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 1,950 - 6
Long-term debt repayments (2,108) (78) (936)
Interest rate swap terminations 2 296 146
Issuances of common stock 463 601 252
Common stock repurchases (2,403) (1,221) (576)
Dividends paid (2,286) (2,254) (2,202)
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities (4,333) (2,657) (3,343)
Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash and Cash Equivalents (1) (3) 14
Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (4,120) 743 (2,650)
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 5,776 5,033 7,683
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year $ 1,656 $ 5,776 $ 5,033
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
322012 Annual Report
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP), including the accounts of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, or the
Company) and all of its controlled majority-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. Material
subsequent events are evaluated and disclosed through the report issuance date.
Codevelopment, cocommercialization and license arrangements are assessed to determine whether the terms provide economic or
other control over the entity requiring consolidation of an entity. Entities controlled by means other than a majority voting interest are
referred to as variable interest entities. There were no arrangements with material variable interest entities during any of the periods
presented.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of management estimates and assumptions. The most significant assumptions
are employed in estimates used in determining the fair value and potential impairment of intangible assets; sales rebate and return
accruals; legal contingencies; income taxes; and pension and postretirement benefits. Actual results may differ from estimated results.
Reclassifications
Certain prior period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. The presentation of depreciation and
amortization in the consolidated statements of cash flows includes the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, the amortization
of intangible assets and deferred income. The provision for restructuring, equity in net income of affiliates, and litigation expense,
net, previously presented separately on the consolidated statements of earnings are currently presented as components of other
(income)/expense.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the sales price is fixed and determinable, collectability is
reasonably assured and title and substantially all risks and rewards of ownership is transferred, generally at time of shipment.
However, certain sales of non-U.S. businesses are recognized on the date of receipt by the purchaser. See Note 3 “Alliances and
Collaborations” for further discussion of revenue recognition related to alliances. Provisions are made at the time of revenue
recognition for expected sales returns, discounts, rebates and estimated sales allowances based on historical experience updated for
changes in facts and circumstances including the impact of applicable healthcare legislation. Such provisions are recognized as a
reduction of revenue.
Revenue is deferred until the right of return no longer exists or sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns is developed
when a new product is not an extension of an existing line of product or there is no historical experience with products in a similar
therapeutic category.
Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes includes income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the change in deferred taxes during the
year. Deferred taxes result from differences between the financial and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in
tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more
likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often
requires significant judgment including the long-range forecast of future taxable income and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives.
Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made.
We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on
examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit recognized in the financial
statements for a particular tax position is based on the largest benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include U.S. Treasury securities, government agency securities, bank deposits, time deposits and money
market funds. Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of
purchase and are recognized at cost, which approximates fair value.
33Bristol-Myers Squibb
Marketable Securities and Investments in Other Companies
Marketable securities are classified as “available-for-sale” on the date of purchase and reported at fair value. Fair value is determined
based on observable market quotes or valuation models using assessments of counterparty credit worthiness, credit default risk or
underlying security and overall capital market liquidity.
Investments in 50% or less owned companies are accounted for using the equity method of accounting when the ability to exercise
significant influence is maintained. The share of net income or losses of equity investments is included in equity in net income of
affiliates in other (income)/expense. Equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing if the decline in market value of
the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary, which considers the intent and ability to retain the investment, the
length of time and extent that the market value has been less than cost, and the financial condition of the investee.
Inventory Valuation
Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market.
Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation
Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalized at cost. Depreciation is computed on a straight-line method
based on the estimated useful lives of the related assets. The estimated useful lives of depreciable assets range from 20 to 50 years for
buildings and 3 to 20 years for machinery, equipment, and fixtures.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Current facts or circumstances are periodically evaluated to determine if the carrying value of depreciable assets to be held and used
may not be recoverable. If such circumstances exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows generated by the long-lived asset,
or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists at its lowest level
of identifiable cash flows. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset’s
fair value and its carrying value. An estimate of the asset’s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available.
If quoted market prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques using Level 3 fair value
inputs, including a discounted value of estimated future cash flows. Long-lived assets held for sale are reported at the lower of its
carrying value or its estimated net realizable value.
Capitalized Software
Eligible costs to obtain internal use software for significant systems projects are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful
life of the software. Insignificant costs to obtain software for projects are expensed as incurred.
Business Combinations
Businesses acquired are consolidated upon obtaining control of the acquiree. The fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed
are recognized at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is
recognized as goodwill. Legal, audit, business valuation, and all other business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred.
Goodwill, Acquired In-Process Research and Development and Other Intangible Assets
The fair value of intangible assets is typically determined using the “income method” which utilizes Level 3 fair value inputs. The
market participant valuations assume a global view considering all potential jurisdictions and indications based on discounted after-tax
cash flow projections, risk adjusted for estimated probability of technical and regulatory success (for IPRD).
Finite-lived intangible assets, including licenses, developed technology rights and IPRD projects that reach commercialization are
amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life. Estimated useful lives are determined considering the period in
which the assets are expected to contribute to future cash flows.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment by assessing qualitative factors or performing a quantitative analysis in
determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of net assets are below their carrying amounts. Examples of
qualitative factors assessed in 2012 include our share price, our financial performance compared to budgets, long-term financial plans,
macroeconomic, industry and market conditions as well as the substantial excess of fair value over the carrying value of net assets
from the annual impairment test performed in the prior year. Each relevant factor is assessed both individually and in the aggregate.
IPRD is tested for impairment on an annual basis and more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate a
potential reduction in the fair values of the assets below their carrying value. If the carrying value of IPRD is determined to exceed
the fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference.
342012 Annual Report
Finite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of the asset may
not be recoverable. If the carrying value exceeds the projected undiscounted pre-tax cash flows of the intangible asset, an impairment
loss equal to the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value (discounted after-tax cash flows) is recognized.
Restructuring
Restructuring charges are recognized as a result of actions to streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities. Judgment
is used when estimating the impact of restructuring plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred
when the actions take place. Actual results could vary from these estimates.
Contingencies
Loss contingencies from legal proceedings and claims may occur from a wide range of matters, including, government investigations,
shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability, contractual claims and tax matters. Accruals are recognized when it is
probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Gain contingencies are not recognized
until realized. Legal fees are expensed as incurred.
Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivatives are used principally in the management of interest rate and foreign currency exposures and are not held or used for trading
purposes.
Derivatives are recognized at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings unless specific hedge criteria are met. If the
derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, changes in fair value of the derivative and of the hedged item attributable to the hedged
risk are recognized in earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portions of changes in the fair value
of the derivative are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) and subsequently recognized in earnings when the
hedged item affects earnings. Cash flows are classified consistent with the underlying hedged item.
Derivatives are designated and assigned as hedges of forecasted transactions, specific assets or specific liabilities. When hedged
assets or liabilities are sold or extinguished or the forecasted transactions being hedged are no longer probable to occur, a gain or loss
is immediately recognized in earnings.
Non-derivative instruments, primarily euro denominated long-term debt, are also designated as hedges of net investments in foreign
affiliates. The effective portion of the designated non-derivative instrument is recognized in the foreign currency translation section of
OCI and the ineffective portion is recognized in earnings.
Shipping and Handling Costs
Shipping and handling costs are included in marketing, selling and administrative expenses and were $125 million in 2012, $139
million in 2011 and $135 million in 2010.
Advertising and Product Promotion Costs
Advertising and product promotion costs are expensed as incurred.
Foreign Currency Translation
Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are
translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these
subsidiaries at changing rates are recognized in OCI.
Research and Development
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical study costs are accrued over the service periods specified in the
contracts and adjusted as necessary based upon an ongoing review of the level of effort and costs actually incurred. Strategic alliances
with third parties provide rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are owned by
the other party. Certain research and development payments to alliance partners are contingent upon the achievement of certain pre-
determined criteria. Milestone payments achieved prior to regulatory approval of the product are expensed as research and
development. Milestone payments made in connection with regulatory approvals are capitalized and amortized to cost of products
sold over the remaining useful life of the asset. Capitalized milestone payments are tested for recoverability periodically or whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Research and development is
recognized net of reimbursements in connection with collaboration agreements.
35Bristol-Myers Squibb
Upfront, pre-approval milestone and other licensing receipts obtained during development are deferred and amortized over the
estimated life of the product in other income. If the Company has no future obligation for development, upfront milestone and other
licensing receipts are recognized immediately in other income. The amortization period of upfront, licensing and milestone receipts is
assessed and determined after considering terms of the arrangements.
Note 2 BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
BMS operates in a single segment engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale
of innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. A global research and development organization and supply
chain organization are utilized and responsible for the development and delivery of products to the market. Regional commercial
organizations are used to distribute and sell the product. The business is also supported by global corporate staff functions. Segment
information is consistent with the financial information regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, the chief executive
officer, for purposes of evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and
forecasting future periods.
Products are sold principally to wholesalers, and to a lesser extent, directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals, clinics, government
agencies and pharmacies. Gross sales to the three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of global gross sales
were as follows:
2012 2011 2010
McKesson Corporation 23 % 26 % 24 %
Cardinal Health, Inc. 19 % 21 % 21 %
AmerisourceBergen Corporation 14 % 16 % 16 %
Selected geographic area information was as follows:
Net Sales Property, Plant and Equipment
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011
United States(a) $ 10,384 $ 14,039 $ 12,800 $ 4,464 $ 3,538
Europe(b) 3,706 3,879 3,672 740 886
Rest of the World(c) 3,204 3,237 2,900 129 97
Other(d) 327 89 112 - -
Total $ 17,621 $ 21,244 $ 19,484 $ 5,333 $ 4,521
(a) Includes Puerto Rico.
(b) Includes Russia and Turkey.
(c) Includes Japan, China, Canada, Australia and Brazil, among other countries.
(d) Includes royalty-related revenues and sales attributed to supply agreements.
Net sales of key products were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Plavix (clopidogrel bisulfate) $ 2,547 $ 7,087 $ 6,666
Avapro/Avalide (irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide) 503 952 1,176
Eliquis (apixaban) 2 - -
Abilify (aripiprazole) 2,827 2,758 2,565
Reyataz (atazanavir sulfate) 1,521 1,569 1,479
Sustiva (efavirenz) Franchise 1,527 1,485 1,368
Baraclude (entecavir) 1,388 1,196 931
Erbitux (cetuximab) 702 691 662
Sprycel (dasatinib) 1,019 803 576
Yervoy (ipilimumab) 706 360 -
Orencia (abatacept) 1,176 917 733
Nulojix (belatacept) 11 3 -
Onglyza/Kombiglyze (saxagliptin/saxagliptin and metformin) 709 473 158
Byetta (exenatide) 149 N/A N/A
Bydureon(exenatide extended-release for injectable suspension) 78 N/A N/A
Mature Products and All Other 2,756 2,950 3,170
Net Sales $ 17,621 $ 21,244 $ 19,484
362012 Annual Report
Note 3 ALLIANCES AND COLLABORATIONS
Alliances and collaborations are utilized with third parties for the development and commercialization of certain products. These
collaborations can include arrangements for access to intellectual property, research, development, manufacturing and/or commercial
capabilities. The arrangements are often entered into in order to share risks and rewards related to a specific program or product or as
part of a specific divestiture strategy. Unless otherwise noted, operating results associated with the alliances and collaborations are
generally treated as follows: product revenues from BMS sales are included in net sales; royalties, collaboration, profit sharing and
distribution fees are included in cost of goods sold; post-approval milestone payments to partners are deferred and amortized over the
useful life of the related products in cost of products sold; cost sharing reimbursements offset the applicable operating expense;
payments to BMS attributed to upfront, pre-approval based milestone and other licensing payments are deferred and amortized over
the estimated useful life of the related products in other income/expense or as a reduction to cost of products sold for the Amylin
diabetes collaboration; income and expenses attributed to a collaboration’s non-core activities, such as supply and manufacturing
arrangements and compensation for opting-out of commercialization in certain countries, are included in other income/expense;
partnerships and joint ventures are either consolidated or accounted for under the equity method of accounting and related cash
receipts and distributions are treated as operating cash flow.
Sanofi
BMS has agreements with Sanofi for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of Avapro/Avalide, an angiotensin II receptor
antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic nephropathy, and Plavix, a platelet aggregation inhibitor. The
worldwide alliance operates under the framework of two geographic territories; one in the Americas (principally the U.S., Canada,
Puerto Rico and Latin American countries) and Australia and the other in Europe and Asia. Accordingly, territory partnerships were
formed to manage central expenses, such as marketing, research and development and royalties, and to supply finished product to the
individual countries. In general, at the country level, agreements either to copromote (whereby a partnership was formed between the
parties to sell each brand) or to comarket (whereby the parties operate and sell their brands independently of each other) are in place.
BMS acts as the operating partner and owns a 50.1% majority controlling interest in the territory covering the Americas and Australia
and consolidates all country partnership results for this territory with Sanofi’s 49.9% share of the results reflected as a noncontrolling
interest. BMS recognizes net sales in this territory and in comarketing countries outside this territory (e.g. Germany, Italy for
irbesartan only, Spain and Greece). Royalties owed to Sanofi are included in cost of products sold (other than development royalties).
Sanofi acts as the operating partner and owns a 50.1% majority controlling interest in the territory covering Europe and Asia. BMS
has a 49.9% ownership interest in this territory which is included in equity in net income of affiliates. Distributions of profits relating
to the partnerships are included in operating activities.
BMS and Sanofi have a separate partnership governing the copromotion of irbesartan in the U.S. Sanofi paid BMS $350 million for
their acquisition of an interest in the irbesartan license for the U.S. upon formation of the alliance.
Summarized financial information related to this alliance is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Territory covering the Americas and Australia:
Net sales $ 2,766 $ 7,761 $ 7,464
Royalty expense 530 1,583 1,527
Noncontrolling interest – pre-tax 844 2,323 2,074
Distributions to Sanofi 742 2,335 2,093
Territory covering Europe and Asia:
Equity in net income of affiliates 201 298 325
Distributions to BMS 229 283 313
Other:
Net sales in Europe comarketing countries and other 284 279 378
Amortization (income)/expense – irbesartan license fee (29) (31) (31)
Supply activities and development and opt-out royalty (income)/expense (142) 23 (3)
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Investment in affiliates – territory covering Europe and Asia $ 9 $ 37
Deferred income – irbesartan license fee - 29
Noncontrolling interest (30) (131)
37Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following is summarized financial information for interests in the partnerships with Sanofi for the territory covering Europe and
Asia, which are not consolidated but are accounted for using the equity method:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Net sales $ 1,077 $ 1,469 $ 1,879
Cost of products sold 624 811 1,047
Gross profit 453 658 832
Marketing, selling and administrative 47 75 129
Advertising and product promotion 8 15 29
Research and development 2 5 16
Other (income)/expense 2 1 (1)
Net income $ 394 $ 562 $ 659
Current assets $ 417 $ 584 $ 751
Current liabilities 417 584 751
Cost of products sold includes discovery royalties of $133 million in 2012, $184 million in 2011 and $307 million in 2010, which are
paid directly to Sanofi. All other expenses are shared based on the applicable ownership percentages. Current assets and current
liabilities include approximately $293 million in 2012, $400 million in 2011 and $567 million in 2010 related to receivables/payables
attributed to cash distributions to BMS and Sanofi as well as intercompany balances between partnerships within the territory. The
remaining current assets and current liabilities consist of third-party trade receivables, inventories and amounts due to BMS and
Sanofi for the purchase of inventories, royalties and expense reimbursements.
In September 2012, BMS and Sanofi restructured the terms of the codevelopment and cocommercialization agreements discussed
above. Effective as of January 1, 2013, subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals in certain countries, Sanofi will assume the
worldwide operations of the alliance with the exception of Plavix for the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The alliance for Plavix in these two
markets will continue unchanged through December 2019 under the same terms as in the original alliance arrangements. In exchange
for the rights being assumed by Sanofi, BMS will receive quarterly royalties from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2018 and a
terminal payment from Sanofi of $200 million at the end of 2018. All ongoing disputes between the companies have been resolved,
including a one-time payment of $80 million by BMS to Sanofi related to the Avalide supply disruption in the U.S. in 2011 (accrued
for in 2011).
Otsuka
BMS has a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), to codevelop and copromote
Abilify, for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder, excluding certain Asian countries.
The U.S. portion of the amended commercialization and manufacturing agreement expires upon the expected loss of product
exclusivity in April 2015. The contractual share of Abilify net sales recognized by BMS was 58% in 2010 and 53.5% in 2011 and
51.5% in 2012.
In the UK, Germany, France and Spain, BMS receives 65% of third-party net sales. In these countries and the U.S., third-party
customers are invoiced by BMS on behalf of Otsuka and alliance revenue is recognized when Abilify is shipped and all risks and
rewards of ownership have transferred to third party customers. BMS recognizes all of the net sales in certain countries where it is the
exclusive distributor for the product or has an exclusive right to sell Abilify.
BMS purchases the product from Otsuka and performs finish manufacturing for sale to third-party customers by BMS or Otsuka.
Under the terms of the amended agreement, BMS paid Otsuka $400 million, which is amortized as a reduction of net sales through the
expected loss of U.S. exclusivity in April 2015. The unamortized amount is included in other assets. Otsuka receives a royalty based
on 1.5% of total U.S. net sales, which is included in cost of products sold. Otsuka is responsible for 30% of the U.S. expenses related
to the commercialization of Abilify from 2010 through 2012. BMS also receives additional reimbursement from Otsuka for costs
incurred by BMS in excess of the resource requirements specified in the agreement.
Beginning January 1, 2013, BMS will receive the following percentages of U.S. annual net sales. Net sales will be initially recognized
at 35% and adjusted to reflect the actual level of net sales in 2013:
Share as a % of U.S. Net
Sales
$0 to $2.7 billion 50 %
$2.7 billion to $3.2 billion 20 %
$3.2 billion to $3.7 billion 7 %
$3.7 billion to $4.0 billion 2 %
$4.0 billion to $4.2 billion 1 %
In excess of $4.2 billion 20 %
382012 Annual Report
The U.S. commercialization agreement was amended in October 2012 requiring Otsuka to assume full responsibility for providing and
funding all sales force efforts effective January 2013. In consideration, BMS paid Otsuka $27 million in January 2013, and will be
responsible for funding certain operating expenses up to $82 million in 2013, $56 million in 2014 and $8 million in 2015. In the EU,
Otsuka will reimburse BMS for its sales force effort provided through March 31, 2013. Beginning April 1, 2013 Otsuka will assume
responsibility for providing and funding sales force effort.
BMS and Otsuka also entered into an oncology collaboration for Sprycel and Ixempra (ixabepilone) for the U.S., Japan and European
Union (EU) markets (the Oncology Territory). A collaboration fee, classified in cost of products sold, is paid to Otsuka based on the
following percentages of annual net sales of Sprycel and Ixempra in the Oncology Territory:
% of Net Sales
2010 - 2012 2013 - 2020
$0 to $400 million 30 % 65 %
$400 million to $600 million 5 % 12 %
$600 million to $800 million 3 % 3 %
$800 million to $1.0 billion 2 % 2 %
In excess of $1.0 billion 1 % 1 %
During these periods, Otsuka contributes (i) 20% of the first $175 million of certain commercial operational expenses relating to the
oncology products, and (ii) 1% of such commercial operational expenses relating to the products in the territory in excess of $175
million. Beginning in 2011, Otsuka copromotes Sprycel in the U.S. and Japan, and has exercised the right to copromote in the top five
EU markets beginning in January 2012.
The U.S. extension and the oncology collaboration include a change-of-control provision in the case of an acquisition of BMS. If the
acquiring company does not have a competing product to Abilify, then the new company will assume the Abilify agreement (as
amended) and the oncology collaboration as it exists today. If the acquiring company has a product that competes with Abilify, Otsuka
can elect to request the acquiring company to choose whether to divest Abilify or the competing product. In the scenario where Abilify
is divested, Otsuka would be obligated to acquire the rights of BMS under the Abilify agreement (as amended). The agreements also
provide that in the event of a generic competitor to Abilify after January 1, 2010, BMS has the option of terminating the Abilify April
2009 amendment (with the agreement as previously amended remaining in force). If BMS were to exercise such option then either (i)
BMS would receive a payment from Otsuka according to a pre-determined schedule and the oncology collaboration would terminate
at the same time or (ii) the oncology collaboration would continue for a truncated period according to a pre-determined schedule.
The EU agreement remained unchanged and will expire in June 2014. In other countries where BMS has the exclusive right to sell
Abilify, the agreement expires on the later of April 2015 or expiration of the applicable patent or data exclusivity in such country.
In addition to the $400 million extension payment, total milestones paid to Otsuka were $217 million, of which $157 million was
expensed as IPRD in 1999. The remaining $60 million was capitalized in other intangible assets and was amortized to cost of
products sold over the remaining life of the original agreement in the U.S.
Summarized financial information related to this alliance is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Abilify net sales, including amortization of extension payment $ 2,827 $ 2,758 $ 2,565
Oncology Products collaboration fee expense 138 134 128
Royalty expense 78 72 62
Reimbursement of operating expenses to/(from) Otsuka (49) (47) (101)
Amortization (income)/expense – extension payment 66 66 66
Amortization (income)/expense – upfront, milestone and other licensing payments 5 6 6
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Other assets – extension payment $ 153 $ 219
Other intangible assets – upfront, milestone and other licensing payments - 5
Lilly
BMS has an Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) commercialization agreement with Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly) through
Lilly’s 2008 acquisition of ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone) for the codevelopment and promotion of Erbitux and
necitumumab (IMC-11F8) in the U.S., which expires as to Erbitux in September 2018. BMS also has codevelopment and
copromotion rights to both products in Canada and Japan. Erbitux is indicated for use in the treatment of patients with metastatic
colorectal cancer and for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Under the EGFR agreement, with
respect to Erbitux sales in North America, Lilly receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of net sales in North America
plus reimbursement of certain royalties paid by Lilly.
39Bristol-Myers Squibb
In 2007, BMS and ImClone amended their codevelopment agreement with Merck KGaA (Merck) to provide for cocommercialization
of Erbitux in Japan. The rights under this agreement expire in 2032; however, Lilly has the ability to terminate the agreement after
2018 if it determines that it is commercially unreasonable for Lilly to continue. Erbitux received marketing approval in Japan in 2008
for the use of Erbitux in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer. BMS receives 50% of the pre-tax profit from
Merck sales of Erbitux in Japan which is further shared equally with Lilly.
BMS is amortizing $500 million of license acquisition costs in costs of products sold through 2018.
In 2010, BMS and Lilly restructured the EGFR commercialization agreement described above between BMS and ImClone as it relates
to necitumumab, a novel targeted cancer therapy currently in Phase III development for non-small cell lung cancer. Both companies
share in the cost of developing and potentially commercializing necitumumab in the U.S., Canada and Japan. Lilly maintains
exclusive rights to necitumumab in all other markets.
In November 2012, we provided notice of the termination of our global codevelopment and cocommercialization arrangement for
necitumumab (IMC-11F8), a fully human monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anticancer treatment, which was discovered
by ImClone and is part of the alliance between the Company and Lilly, with all rights returning to Lilly. The termination is effective
May 2014, though we and Lilly may terminate earlier.
Summarized financial information related to this alliance is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Net sales $ 702 $ 691 $ 662
Distribution fees and royalty expense 291 287 275
Research and development expense reimbursement to Lilly - necitumumab 14 12 12
Amortization (income)/expense – upfront, milestone and other licensing payments 38 37 37
Commercialization expense reimbursements to/(from) Lilly (20) (18) (16)
Japan commercialization profit sharing (income)/expense, net (37) (34) (39)
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Other intangible assets – upfront, milestone and other licensing payments $ 211 $ 249
BMS acquired Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amylin) on August 8, 2012 (see Note 4 “Acquisitions” for further information).
Amylin had previously entered into a settlement and termination agreement with Lilly regarding their collaboration for the global
development and commercialization of Byetta and Bydureon (exenatide products) under which the parties agreed to transition full
responsibility of these products to Amylin. Although the transition of the U.S. operations was completed, Lilly had not yet transitioned
the non-U.S. operations to Amylin. In September 2012, BMS provided notification to Lilly that BMS will assume essentially all non-
U.S. operations of the exenatide products during the first half of 2013 and therefore terminate Lilly’s exclusive right to non-U.S.
commercialization of the exenatide products, subject to certain regulatory and other conditions. BMS is responsible for any non-U.S.
losses incurred by Lilly during 2012 and 2013 up to a maximum of $60 million and is entitled to tiered royalties until the transition is
complete. Promissory notes assumed in the acquisition of Amylin aggregating $1.4 billion were repaid to Lilly during 2012.
Gilead
BMS and Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) have a joint venture to develop and commercialize Atripla (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine
200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a once-daily single tablet three-drug regimen for the treatment of human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, combining Sustiva, a product of BMS, and Truvada (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate), a product of Gilead, in the U.S., Canada and Europe. BMS accounts for its participation in the U.S. joint venture under the
equity method of accounting.
Net sales of the bulk efavirenz component of Atripla are deferred until the combined product is sold to third-party customers. Net
sales for the efavirenz component are based on the relative ratio of the average respective net selling prices of Truvada and Sustiva.
Summarized financial information related to this alliance is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Net sales $ 1,267 $ 1,204 $ 1,053
Equity in net loss of affiliates (18) (16) (12)
402012 Annual Report
AstraZeneca
In 2012, BMS and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AstraZeneca, entered into a collaboration
regarding the worldwide development and commercialization of Amylin’s portfolio of products (Bydureon, Byetta, Symlin and
metreleptin, which is currently in development). The arrangement is based on the framework of the existing diabetes alliance
agreements discussed further below, including the equal sharing of profits and losses arising from the collaboration. AstraZeneca has
indicated its intent to establish equal governance rights over certain key strategic and financial decisions regarding the collaboration
pending required anti-trust approvals in certain international markets.
BMS received preliminary proceeds of $3.6 billion from AstraZeneca as consideration for entering into the collaboration including
$73 million included in accrued expenses that is expected to be reimbursed back to AstraZeneca in 2013. The remaining $3.5 billion
is accounted for as deferred income and amortized as a reduction to cost of products sold on a pro-rata basis over the estimated useful
lives of the related long-lived assets assigned in the purchase price allocation (primarily intangible assets with a weighted-average
estimated useful life of 12 years and property, plant and equipment with a weighted-average estimated useful life of 15 years). The
net proceeds that BMS will receive from AstraZeneca as consideration for entering into the collaboration are subject to certain other
adjustments including the right to receive an additional $135 million when AstraZeneca exercises its option for equal governance
rights.
BMS and AstraZeneca agreed to share in certain tax attributes related to the Amylin collaboration. The preliminary proceeds of $3.6
billion that BMS received from AstraZeneca included $207 million related to sharing of certain tax attributes.
In addition, BMS continues to maintain two worldwide diabetes codevelopment and cocommercialization agreements with
AstraZeneca for Onglyza, Kombiglyze XR (saxagliptin and metformin hydrochloride extended-release), Komboglyze (saxagliptin and
metformin immediate-release marketed in the EU) and Forxiga (dapagliflozin). The agreements for saxagliptin exclude Japan. In this
document unless specifically noted, we refer to both Kombiglyze and Komboglyze as Kombiglyze. Forxiga was approved in the EU in
November 2012. Onglyza and Forxiga were discovered by BMS. Kombiglyze was codeveloped with AstraZeneca. Both companies
jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy and share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global
basis and also share in development costs, with the exception of Forxiga development costs in Japan, which are borne by
AstraZeneca. BMS manufactures both products. BMS has opted to decline involvement in cocommercialization for both products in
certain countries not in the BMS global commercialization network and instead receives compensation based on net sales recorded by
AstraZeneca in these countries.
BMS received $300 million in upfront, milestone and other licensing payments related to saxagliptin to date and could receive up to
an additional $300 million for sales-based milestones. BMS also received $250 million in upfront, milestone and other licensing
payments related to dapagliflozin to date, including $80 million received in January 2013, and could potentially receive up to an
additional $150 million for development and regulatory milestones and up to an additional $390 million for sales-based milestones.
BMS is entitled to reimbursements for 50% of capital expenditures related to Amylin.
Summarized financial information related to these alliances is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Net sales $ 972 $ 473 $ 158
Profit sharing expense 425 207 67
Commercialization expense reimbursements to/(from) AstraZeneca (141) (40) (33)
Research and development expense reimbursements to/(from) AstraZeneca (18) 40 19
Amortization (income)/expense – upfront, milestone and other licensing payments recognized in:
Cost of products sold (126) - -
Other (income)/expense (38) (38) (28)
Upfront, milestone and other licensing payments received:
Amylin-related products 3,547 - -
Saxagliptin - - 50
Dapagliflozin - 120 -
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Deferred income – upfront, milestone and other licensing payments:
Amylin-related products $ 3,423 $ -
Saxagliptin 208 230
Dapagliflozin 206 142
41Bristol-Myers Squibb
Pfizer
BMS and Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) maintain a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement for Eliquis, an anticoagulant
discovered by BMS for the prevention and treatment of atrial fibrillation and other arterial thrombotic conditions. Eliquis was
approved in the US and Japan in December 2012. Pfizer funds 60% of all development costs under the initial development plan
effective January 1, 2007. The companies jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy and share commercialization expenses
and profits equally on a global basis. In certain countries not in the BMS global commercialization network, Pfizer will
commercialize Eliquis alone and will pay compensation to BMS based on a percentage of net sales. BMS manufactures the product.
BMS received $654 million in upfront, milestone and other licensing payments for Eliquis to date, including $95 million received in
February 2013 and could receive up to an additional $230 million for development and regulatory milestones. These payments are
deferred and amortized over the estimated useful life of the products in other income.
Summarized financial information related to this alliance is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Net sales $ 2 $ - $ -
Commercialization expense reimbursements to/(from) Pfizer (18) (10) (8)
Research and development reimbursements to/(from) Pfizer 7 (65) (190)
Amortization (income)/expense – upfront, milestone and other licensing payments (37) (33) (31)
Upfront, milestone and other licensing payments received 20 65 10
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Deferred income – upfront, milestone and other licensing payments $ 397 $ 434
Valeant
In 2012, BMS and PharmaSwiss SA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (Valeant) entered into a
collaboration for certain mature brand products in Europe. In connection with the collaboration, Valeant is responsible for the
marketing, promotion, distribution and sale of the products and related regulatory matters in the covered territory, and BMS is
responsible for the maintenance of the products’ intellectual property and supply of the products. The collaboration expires
December, 31, 2014 at which time Valeant has the right to purchase the trademarks and intellectual property at a price determined
based on a multiple of sales. If the right is not exercised, all rights transferred to Valeant during the collaboration period revert back to
BMS.
As consideration for entering into the collaboration, BMS received $79 million at the start of the collaboration period which was
allocated to the license and other rights transferred to Valeant ($61 million) and the option to purchase the remaining assets at the end
of the collaboration ($18 million). The allocation was based on the estimated fair value of the option and other elements after
considering various market factors, including an analysis of any estimated excess of the fair value of the mature brands business over
the potential purchase price if the option to purchase the trademarks and intellectual property is exercised at December 31, 2014. The
fair value of the option was recorded as a liability, and changes in the estimated fair value of the option liability will be recognized in
the results of operations. The remaining $61 million will be recognized as alliance revenue throughout the term of the collaboration.
BMS will also recognize revenue during the collaboration period for the supply of the product, and provide certain information
technology, regulatory, order processing, distribution and other transitional services in exchange for a fee during the first six months
of the collaboration.
Note 4 ACQUISITIONS
Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Acquisition
On August 8, 2012, BMS completed its acquisition of the outstanding shares of Amylin, a biopharmaceutical company focused on the
discovery, development and commercialization of innovative medicines to treat diabetes and other metabolic diseases. Acquisition
costs of $29 million were included in other expenses.
422012 Annual Report
BMS obtained full U.S. commercialization rights to Amylin’s two primary commercialized assets, Bydureon, a once-weekly diabetes
treatment and Byetta, a daily diabetes treatment, both of which are glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists approved in
certain countries to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes. BMS also obtained full commercialization rights to
Symlin (pramlintide acetate), an amylinomimetic approved in the U.S. for adjunctive therapy to mealtime insulin to treat diabetes.
Goodwill generated from this acquisition was primarily attributed to the expansion of our diabetes franchise.
IPRD was attributed to metreleptin, an analog of the human hormone leptine being studied and developed for the treatment of diabetes
and/or hypertriglyceridemia in pediatric and adult patients with inherited or acquired lipodystrophy. The estimated useful life and the
cash flows utilized to value metreleptin assumed initial positive cash flows to commence shortly after the expected receipt of
regulatory approvals, subject to trial results.
Inhibitex, Inc. Acquisition
On February 13, 2012, BMS completed its acquisition of the outstanding shares of Inhibitex, Inc. (Inhibitex), a clinical-stage
biopharmaceutical company focused on developing products to prevent and treat serious infectious diseases. Acquisition costs of $12
million were included in other expense.
BMS obtained Inhibitex’s lead asset, INX-189, an oral nucleotide polymerase (NS5B) inhibitor in Phase II development for the
treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus infections. Goodwill generated from this acquisition was primarily attributed to the potential to
offer a full portfolio of therapy choices for hepatitis virus infections as well as to provide additional levels of sustainability to BMS’s
virology pipeline.
IPRD was primarily attributed to INX-189. INX-189 was expected to be most effective when used in combination therapy and it was
assumed all market participants would inherently maintain franchise synergies attributed to maximizing the cash flows of their
existing virology pipeline assets. The cash flows utilized to value INX-189 included such synergies and also assumed initial positive
cash flows to commence shortly after the expected receipt of regulatory approvals, subject to trial results.
In August 2012, the Company discontinued development of INX-189 in the interest of patient safety. As a result, the Company
recognized a non-cash, pre-tax impairment charge of $1.8 billion related to the IPRD intangible asset in the third quarter of 2012. For
further information discussion of the impairment charge, see Note 13 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”
Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Acquisition
On September 7, 2011, BMS completed its acquisition of the outstanding shares of Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amira) for $325
million in cash plus three separate, contingent $50 million payments due upon achievement of certain development and sales-based
milestones. The first contingent payment was made in the fourth quarter of 2011. The purchase price of Amira includes the estimated
fair value of the total contingent consideration of $58 million, which was recorded in other liabilities. Acquisition costs of $1 million
were included in other expense. Amira was a privately-held biotechnology company primarily focused on the discovery and
development of therapeutic products for the treatment of cardiovascular and fibrotic inflammatory diseases. The acquisition provides
BMS with: 1) full rights to develop and commercialize AM152 which has completed Phase I clinical studies and the remainder of the
Amira lysophosphatidic acid 1 receptor antagonist program; 2) researchers with fibrotic expertise; and 3) a pre-clinical autotaxin
program. Goodwill generated from the acquisition was primarily attributed to acquired scientific expertise in fibrotic diseases
allowing for expansion into a new therapeutic class.
The contingent liability was estimated utilizing a model that assessed the probability of achieving each milestone and discounted the
amount of each potential payment based on the expected timing. Estimates used in evaluating the contingent liability were consistent
with those used in evaluating the acquired IPRD. The discount rate for each payment was consistent with market debt yields for the
non-callable, publicly-traded bonds of BMS with similar maturities to each of the estimated potential payment dates. This fair value
measurement was based on significant inputs not observable in the market and therefore represents a Level 3 measurement.
ZymoGenetics, Inc. Acquisition
On October 8, 2010, BMS completed its acquisition of the outstanding shares of common stock of ZymoGenetics, Inc.
(ZymoGenetics) in October 2010. Acquisition costs of $10 million were included in other expense. ZymoGenetics is focused on
developing and commercializing therapeutic protein-based products for the treatment of human diseases. The companies collaborated
on the development of peginterferon lambda, a novel interferon in Phase IIb development at the acquisition date, for the treatment of
hepatitis C virus infection. The acquisition provides the Company with full rights to develop and commercialize peginterferon lambda
and also brings proven capabilities with therapeutic proteins and revenue from Recothrom, an FDA approved specialty surgical
biologic. Goodwill generated from the acquisition was primarily attributed to full ownership rights to peginterferon lambda.
43Bristol-Myers Squibb
The final purchase price allocation for ZymoGenetics, Amira and Inhibitex and the preliminary purchase price allocation (pending
final valuation of intangible assets and deferred income taxes) for Amylin were as follows:
Dollars in Millions Amylin Inhibitex Amira ZymoGenetics
Identifiable net assets:
Cash $ 179 $ 46 $ 15 $ 56
Marketable securities 108 17 - 91
Inventory 173 - - 98
Property, plant and equipment 742 - - -
Developed technology rights 6,340 - - 230
IPRD 120 1,875 160 448
Other assets 136 - - 29
Debt obligations (2,020) (23) - -
Other liabilities (339) (10) (16) (91)
Deferred income taxes (1,057) (579) (41) 9
Total identifiable net assets 4,382 1,326 118 870
Goodwill 836 1,213 265 15
Purchase price to be allocated $ 5,218 $ 2,539 $ 383 $ 885
Cash paid for the acquisition of Amylin included payments of $5,093 million to its outstanding common stockholders and $219
million to holders of its stock options and restricted stock units (including $94 million attributed to accelerated vesting that was
accounted for as stock compensation expense in the third quarter of 2012).
The results of operations from acquired companies are included in the consolidated financial statements as of the acquisition date.
Revisions to goodwill from preliminary estimates at September 30, 2012 for Amylin relate primarily to an adjustment of the
preliminary amount allocated to the fair value of acquired IPRD (decrease of $250 million) based on additional information obtained
related to future cash flow projections, net of the resulting deferred tax adjustment ($99 million).
Pro forma supplemental financial information is not provided as the impacts of the acquisitions were not material to operating results
in the year of acquisition. Goodwill, IPRD and all intangible assets valued in these acquisitions are non-deductible for tax purposes.
Note 5 OTHER (INCOME)/EXPENSE
Other (income)/expense includes:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Interest expense $ 182 $ 145 $ 145
Investment income (106) (91) (75)
Provision for restructuring (See Note 6) 174 116 113
Litigation charges/(recoveries) (45) 6 (2)
Equity in net income of affiliates (183) (281) (313)
Impairment and loss on sale of manufacturing operations - - 236
Out-licensed intangible asset impairment 38 - -
Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets (53) (37) (39)
Other income received from alliance partners, net (312) (140) (137)
Pension curtailments and settlements 158 10 28
Other 67 (62) (49)
Other (income)/expense $ (80) $ (334) $ (93)
Note 6 RESTRUCTURING
The following is the provision for restructuring:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Employee termination benefits $ 145 $ 85 $ 102
Other exit costs 29 31 11
Provision for restructuring $ 174 $ 116 $ 113
442012 Annual Report
Restructuring charges included termination benefits for workforce reductions of manufacturing, selling, administrative, and research
and development personnel across all geographic regions of approximately 1,205 in 2012, 822 in 2011 and 995 in 2010.
The following table represents the activity of employee termination and other exit cost liabilities:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Liability at January 1 $ 77 $ 126 $ 173
Charges 178 128 121
Change in estimates (4) (12) (8)
Provision for restructuring 174 116 113
Foreign currency translation (1) 2 (5)
Amylin acquisition 26 - -
Spending (109) (167) (155)
Liability at December 31 $ 167 $ 77 $ 126
Note 7 INCOME TAXES
The provision/(benefit) for income taxes consisted of:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Current:
U.S. $ 627 $ 864 $ 797
Non-U.S. 442 442 339
Total Current 1,069 1,306 1,136
Deferred:
U.S. (1,164) 406 438
Non-U.S (66) 9 (16)
Total Deferred (1,230) 415 422
Total Provision/(Benefit) $ (161) $ 1,721 $ 1,558
Effective Tax Rate
The reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the U.S. statutory Federal income tax rate was:
% of Earnings Before Income Taxes
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Earnings before income taxes:
U.S. $ (271) $ 4,336 $ 3,833
Non-U.S. 2,611 2,645 2,238
Total $ 2,340 $ 6,981 $ 6,071
U.S. statutory rate 819 35.0 % 2,443 35.0 % 2,125 35.0 %
Non-tax deductible annual pharmaceutical company fee 90 3.8 % 80 1.2 % - -
Tax effect of foreign subsidiaries' earnings previously
considered indefinitely reinvested offshore - - - - 207 3.4 %
Foreign tax effect of certain operations in Ireland, Puerto
Rico and Switzerland (688) (29.4)% (593) (8.5)% (694) (11.4)%
State and local taxes (net of valuation allowance) 20 0.9 % 33 0.5 % 43 0.7 %
U.S. Federal, state and foreign contingent tax matters 66 2.8 % (161) (2.3)% (131) (2.1)%
U.S. Federal research and development tax credit - - (69) (1.0)% (61) (1.0)%
U.S. tax effect of capital losses (392) (16.7)% - - - -
Foreign and other (76) (3.3)% (12) (0.2)% 69 1.1 %
$ (161) (6.9)% $ 1,721 24.7 % $ 1,558 25.7 %
The change in the 2012 effective tax rate from 2011 was due to:
• A tax benefit of $392 million attributable to a capital loss deduction resulting from the tax insolvency of Inhibitex; and
• Favorable earnings mix between high and low tax jurisdictions primarily attributed to lower Plavix sales and a $1,830 million
impairment charge for BMS-986094 intangible asset in the U.S. and to a lesser extent, an internal transfer of intellectual
property.
45Bristol-Myers Squibb
Partially offset by:
• Contingent tax matters which resulted in a $66 million charge in 2012 and $161 million benefit in 2011;
• An unfavorable impact on the current year rate from the delay in the legal enactment of the research and development tax
credit, which was not extended as of December 31, 2012; and
• Changes in prior period estimates upon finalizing U.S. tax returns resulting in a $54 million benefit in 2011.
The change in the 2011 effective tax rate from 2010 was due to:
• A $207 million charge recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010, which resulted primarily from additional U.S. taxable
income from earnings of foreign subsidiaries previously considered to be indefinitely reinvested offshore;
• Changes in prior period estimates upon finalizing U.S. tax returns resulting in a $54 million benefit in 2011 and a $30 million
charge in 2010; and
• Higher tax benefits from contingent tax matters primarily related to the effective settlements and remeasurements of
uncertain tax positions ($161 million in 2011 and $131 million in 2010).
Partially offset by:
• Unfavorable earnings mix between high and low tax jurisdictions compared to the prior year;
• The non-tax deductible annual pharmaceutical company fee effective January 1, 2011 (tax impact of $80 million); and
• An out-of-period tax adjustment of $59 million in 2010 for previously unrecognized net deferred tax assets primarily
attributed to deferred profits related to certain alliances as of December 31, 2009 (not material to any prior periods).
The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (the Act) was signed into law on January 2, 2013. Among the provisions of the Act, was
the retroactive reinstatement of the R&D tax credit and look thru exception for 2012 and 2013. As a result, the 2012 R&D tax credit
and look thru exception benefit will be recognized in the first quarter of 2013.
Deferred Taxes and Valuation Allowance
The components of current and non-current deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Deferred tax assets
Foreign net operating loss carryforwards $ 3,722 $ 3,674
Milestone payments and license fees 550 574
Deferred income 2,083 573
U.S. capital losses 794 -
U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards 170 251
Pension and postretirement benefits 693 755
State net operating loss and credit carryforwards 346 344
Intercompany profit and other inventory items 288 331
U.S. Federal tax credit carryforwards 31 109
Other foreign deferred tax assets 197 112
Share-based compensation 111 111
Legal settlements 45 46
Repatriation of foreign earnings 86 -
Other 344 233
Total deferred tax assets 9,460 7,113
Valuation allowance (4,404) (3,920)
Net deferred tax assets 5,056 3,193
Deferred tax liabilities
Depreciation (147) (118)
Repatriation of foreign earnings - (31)
Acquired intangible assets (2,768) (593)
Other (734) (676)
Total deferred tax liabilities (3,649) (1,418)
Deferred tax assets, net $ 1,407 $ 1,775
Recognized as:
Deferred income taxes – current $ 1,597 $ 1,200
Deferred income taxes – non-current 203 688
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable – current (10) (6)
Deferred income taxes – non-current (383) (107)
Total $ 1,407 $ 1,775
462012 Annual Report
The U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards were $486 million at December 31, 2012. These carryforwards were acquired as a
result of certain acquisitions and are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The net operating loss
carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The U.S. Federal tax credit carryforwards expire in varying amounts
beginning in 2017. The realization of the U.S. Federal tax credit carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic-
sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. The capital loss available of $2,200 million can be carried back to 2009 and carried
forward to 2017. The foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2013 (certain
amounts have unlimited lives).
Management has established a valuation allowance when a deferred tax asset is more likely than not to be realized. At December 31,
2012, a valuation allowance of $4,404 million was established for the following items: $3,659 million primarily for foreign net
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, $338 million for state deferred tax assets including net operating loss and tax credit
carryforwards, $15 million for U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards and $392 million for U.S Federal capital losses.
In 2011, foreign holding companies net operating losses and their corresponding valuation allowances included an increase of $2,027
million as a result of statutory impairment charges that are not required in consolidated net earnings. These foreign holding
companies had a higher asset basis for statutory purposes than the basis used in the consolidated financial statements due to an internal
reorganization of certain legal entities in prior periods.
Changes in the valuation allowance were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Balance at beginning of year $ 3,920 $ 1,863 $ 1,791
Provision 494 2,410 92
Utilization (145) (135) (22)
Foreign currency translation 39 (222) (6)
Acquisitions 96 4 8
Balance at end of year $ 4,404 $ 3,920 $ 1,863
Income tax payments were $676 million in 2012, $597 million in 2011 and $672 million in 2010. The current tax benefit realized as a
result of stock related compensation credited to capital in excess of par value of stock was $71 million in 2012, $47 million in 2011
and $10 million in 2010.
U.S. taxes have not been provided on approximately $21 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as these undistributed
earnings are indefinitely invested offshore at December 31, 2012. Additional tax provisions will be required if these earnings are
repatriated in the future to the U.S. or if such earnings are determined to be remitted in the foreseeable future. Due to complexities in
the tax laws and assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that will have
to be provided. As a result, BMS has favorable tax rates in Ireland and Puerto Rico under grants not scheduled to expire prior to 2023.
An internal reorganization of certain legal entities resulted in a $207 million charge in 2010. It is possible that U.S. tax authorities
could assert additional material tax liabilities arising from the reorganization. BMS would vigorously challenge any such assertion,
were it to occur, and believes it would prevail; however, there can be no assurance of such a result.
Business is conducted in various countries throughout the world and is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. A significant number
of tax returns are filed and subject to examination by various Federal, state and local tax authorities. Tax examinations are often
complex, as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of items reported requiring several years to resolve. Liabilities are
established for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer
pricing matters, tax credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately
expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known. The effect of changes in estimates
related to contingent tax liabilities is included in the effective tax rate reconciliation above.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Balance at beginning of year $ 628 $ 845 $ 968
Gross additions to tax positions related to current year 46 44 46
Gross additions to tax positions related to prior years 66 105 177
Gross additions to tax positions assumed in acquisitions 31 1 11
Gross reductions to tax positions related to prior years (57) (325) (196)
Settlements (54) (30) (153)
Reductions to tax positions related to lapse of statute (19) (7) (7)
Cumulative translation adjustment 1 (5) (1)
Balance at end of year $ 642 $ 628 $ 845
47Bristol-Myers Squibb
Additional information regarding unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Unrecognized tax benefits that if recognized would impact the effective tax rate $ 633 $ 570 $ 818
Accrued interest 59 51 51
Accrued penalties 32 25 23
Interest expense/(benefit) 14 10 (12)
Penalty expense/(benefit) 16 7 (4)
Uncertain tax benefits reduce deferred tax assets to the extent the uncertainty directly related to that asset; otherwise, they are
recognized as either current or non-current U.S. and foreign income taxes payable. Accrued interest and penalties payable for
unrecognized tax benefits are included in either current or non-current U.S. and foreign income taxes payable. Interest and penalties
related to unrecognized tax benefits are included in income tax expense.
BMS is currently under examination by a number of tax authorities, including but not limited to the major tax jurisdictions listed in the
table below, which have proposed adjustments to tax for issues such as transfer pricing, certain tax credits and the deductibility of
certain expenses. BMS estimates that it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31,
2012 will decrease in the range of approximately $370 million to $400 million in the next twelve months as a result of the settlement
of certain tax audits and other events. The expected change in unrecognized tax benefits, primarily settlement related, will involve the
payment of additional taxes, the adjustment of certain deferred taxes and/or the recognition of tax benefits. BMS also anticipates that
it is reasonably possible that new issues will be raised by tax authorities which may require increases to the balance of unrecognized
tax benefits; however, an estimate of such increases cannot reasonably be made at this time. BMS believes that it has adequately
provided for all open tax years by tax jurisdiction.
The following is a summary of major tax jurisdictions for which tax authorities may assert additional taxes based upon tax years
currently under audit and subsequent years that will likely be audited:
U.S. 2008 to 2012
Canada 2005 to 2012
France 2010 to 2012
Germany 2007 to 2012
Italy 2003 to 2012
Mexico 2006 to 2012
Note 8 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Year Ended December 31,
Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data 2012 2011 2010
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS $ 1,960 $ 3,709 $ 3,102
Earnings attributable to unvested restricted shares (1) (8) (12)
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS common shareholders $ 1,959 $ 3,701 $ 3,090
Earnings per share - basic $ 1.17 $ 2.18 $ 1.80
Weighted-average common shares outstanding - basic 1,670 1,700 1,713
Contingently convertible debt common stock equivalents 1 1 1
Incremental shares attributable to share-based compensation plans 17 16 13
Weighted-average common shares outstanding - diluted 1,688 1,717 1,727
Earnings per share - diluted $ 1.16 $ 2.16 $ 1.79
Anti-dilutive weighted-average equivalent shares - stock incentive plans 2 13 51
482012 Annual Report
Note 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable and payable, debt instruments and
derivatives. The carrying amount of receivables and accounts payable approximates fair value due to their short term maturity.
Changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates create exposure to market risk. Certain derivative financial instruments are used
when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the underlying economic exposure. These instruments qualify as cash flow, net
investment and fair value hedges upon meeting certain criteria, including effectiveness of offsetting hedged exposures. Changes in
fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized in earnings as they occur. Derivative financial
instruments are not used for trading purposes.
Financial instruments are subject to counterparty credit risk which is considered as part of the overall fair value measurement.
Counterparty credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis and mitigated by limiting amounts outstanding with any individual
counterparty, utilizing conventional derivative financial instruments and only entering into agreements with counterparties that meet
high credit quality standards. The consolidated financial statements would not be materially impacted if any counterparty failed to
perform according to the terms of its agreement. Collateral is not required by any party whether derivatives are in an asset or liability
position under the terms of the agreements.
Fair Value Measurements − The fair values of financial instruments are classified into one of the following categories:
Level 1 inputs utilize non-binding quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for
identical assets or liabilities. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs. These instruments include U.S.
treasury securities.
Level 2 inputs utilize observable prices for similar instruments, non-binding quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in
markets that are not active, and other observable inputs that can be corroborated by market data for substantially the full term of
the assets or liabilities. These instruments include corporate debt securities, commercial paper, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC) insured debt securities, certificates of deposit, money market funds, foreign currency forward contracts,
interest rate swap contracts, equity funds, fixed income funds and long-term debt. Additionally, certain corporate debt securities
utilize a third-party matrix pricing model that uses significant inputs corroborated by market data for substantially the full term of
the assets. Equity and fixed income funds are primarily invested in publicly traded securities and are valued at the respective net
asset value of the underlying investments. There were no significant unfunded commitments or restrictions on redemptions
related to equity and fixed income funds as of December 31, 2012. Level 2 derivative instruments are valued using London
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR) yield curves, less credit valuation adjustments,
and observable forward foreign exchange rates at the reporting date. Valuations of derivative contracts may fluctuate
considerably from period-to-period due to volatility in underlying foreign currencies and underlying interest rates, which are
driven by market conditions and the duration of the contract. Credit adjustment volatility may have a significant impact on the
valuation of interest rate swaps due to changes in counterparty credit ratings and credit default swap spreads.
Level 3 unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. Valuation models for the Auction Rate Security
(ARS) and Floating Rate Security (FRS) portfolio are based on expected cash flow streams and collateral values including
assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying the security, discount rates and overall capital market liquidity.
The fair value of the ARS was determined using an internally developed valuation which was based in part on indicative bids
received on the underlying assets of the security and other evidence of fair value. The ARS is a private placement security rated
‘BBB-’ by Standard and Poor’s as of December 31, 2012 and represents interests in insurance securitizations. Due to the current
lack of an active market for FRS and the general lack of transparency into their underlying assets, other qualitative analysis is
relied upon to value FRS including discussions with brokers and fund managers, default risk underlying the security and overall
capital markets liquidity.
49Bristol-Myers Squibb
Available-For-Sale Securities and Cash Equivalents
The following table summarizes available-for-sale securities at December 31, 2012 and 2011:
Unrealized Unrealized
Gain in Loss in Gain/(Loss)
Amortized Accumulated Accumulated in Fair Fair Value
Dollars in Millions Cost OCI OCI Income Value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
December 31, 2012
Marketable Securities:
Certificates of Deposit $ 34 $ - $ - $ - $ 34 $ - $ 34 $ -
Corporate Debt Securities 4,305 72 - - 4,377 - 4,377 -
U.S. Treasury Securities 150 - - - 150 150 - -
Equity Funds 52 - - 5 57 - 57 -
Fixed Income Funds 47 - - - 47 - 47 -
ARS 8 3 - - 11 - - 11
FRS 21 - (1) - 20 - - 20
Total Marketable Securities $ 4,617 $ 75 $ (1)$ 5 $ 4,696 $ 150 $ 4,515 $ 31
December 31, 2011
Marketable Securities:
Certificates of Deposit $ 1,051 $ - $ - $ - $ 1,051 $ - $ 1,051 $ -
Corporate Debt Securities 2,908 60 (3) - 2,965 - 2,965 -
Commercial Paper 1,035 - - - 1,035 - 1,035 -
U.S. Treasury Securities 400 2 - - 402 402 - -
FDIC Insured Debt Securities 302 1 - - 303 - 303 -
ARS 80 12 - - 92 - - 92
FRS 21 - (3) - 18 - - 18
Total Marketable Securities $ 5,797 $ 75 $ (6)$ - $ 5,866 $ 402 $ 5,354 $ 110
The following table summarizes the classification of available-for-sale securities in the consolidated balance sheet:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Current Marketable Securities $ 1,173 $ 2,957
Non-current Marketable Securities 3,523 2,909
Total Marketable Securities $ 4,696 $ 5,866
Money market funds and other securities aggregating $1,288 million and $5,469 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively,
were included in cash and cash equivalents and valued using Level 2 inputs. Cash and cash equivalents maintained in foreign
currencies were $493 million at December 31, 2012 and are subject to currency rate risk.
At December 31, 2012, $3,512 million of non-current available for sale corporate debt securities and FRS mature within five years.
All auction rate securities mature beyond 10 years.
The change in fair value for the investments in equity and fixed income funds are recognized in other income/expense and are
designed to offset the changes in fair value of certain employee retirement benefits.
The following table summarizes the activity for financial assets utilizing Level 3 fair value measurements:
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Fair value at January 1 $ 110 $ 110
Sales (81) -
Unrealized gains 2 -
Fair value at December 31 $ 31 $ 110
502012 Annual Report
Qualifying Hedges and Non-Qualifying Derivatives
The following summarizes the fair value of outstanding derivatives:
December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011
Fair Value Fair Value
Dollars in Millions Balance Sheet Location Notional (Level 2) Notional (Level 2)
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:
Interest rate swap contracts Other assets $ 573 $ 146 $ 579 $ 135
Foreign currency forward contracts Other assets 735 59 1,347 88
Foreign currency forward contracts Accrued expenses 916 (30) 480 (29)
Cash Flow Hedges — Foreign currency forward contracts are primarily utilized to hedge forecasted intercompany inventory purchase
transactions in certain foreign currencies. These forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges with the effective portion of
changes in fair value being temporarily reported in accumulated OCI and recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects
earnings. The notional amount of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was primarily attributed to the Euro ($929 million)
and Japanese yen ($413 million) at December 31, 2012.
The net gains on foreign currency forward contracts qualifying for cash flow hedge accounting are expected to be reclassified to cost
of products sold within the next two years, including $25 million of pre-tax gains to be reclassified within the next 12 months. Cash
flow hedge accounting is discontinued when the forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring on the originally forecasted
date, or 60 days thereafter, or when the hedge is no longer effective. Assessments to determine whether derivatives designated as
qualifying hedges are highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of hedged items are performed at inception and on a
quarterly basis. Any ineffective portion of the change in fair value is included in current period earnings. The earnings impact related
to discontinued cash flow hedges and hedge ineffectiveness was not significant during all periods presented.
Net Investment Hedges − Non-U.S. dollar borrowings of €541 million ($714 million) are designated to hedge the foreign currency
exposures of the net investment in certain foreign affiliates. These borrowings are designated as net investment hedges and
recognized in long term debt. The effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on the remeasurement of the debt is
recognized in the foreign currency translation component of accumulated OCI with the related offset in long term debt.
Fair Value Hedges – Fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts are designated as fair value hedges and are used as part of an
interest rate risk management strategy to create an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt. The swaps and underlying debt
for the benchmark risk being hedged are recorded at fair value. The effective interest rate paid on fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps
is one-month LIBOR (0.210% as of December 31, 2012) plus an interest rate spread ranging from 1.3% to 2.9%. When the
underlying swap is terminated prior to maturity, the fair value basis adjustment to the underlying debt instrument is amortized into
earnings as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the debt.
During 2011, fixed-to-floating interest rate swap contracts of $1.6 billion notional amount and €1.0 billion notional amount were
terminated generating total proceeds of $356 million (including accrued interest of $66 million). During 2010, fixed-to-floating
interest rate swap contracts of $237 million notional amount and €500 million notional amount were terminated generating total
proceeds of $116 million (including accrued interest of $18 million).
Non-Qualifying Foreign Exchange Contracts − Foreign currency forward contracts are used to offset exposure to foreign currency-
denominated monetary assets, liabilities and earnings. The primary objective of these contracts is to protect the U.S. dollar value of
foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities and earnings from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange rates that
might occur prior to their receipt or settlement in U.S. dollars. These contracts are not designated as hedges and are adjusted to fair
value through other (income)/expense as they occur, and substantially offset the change in fair value of the underlying foreign
currency denominated monetary asset, liability or earnings. The effect of non-qualifying hedges on earnings was not significant for all
periods presented.
Debt Obligations
Short-term borrowings and the current portion of long-term debt includes:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Bank drafts $ 162 $ 113
Other short-term borrowings - 2
Current portion of long-term debt 664 -
Total $ 826 $ 115
51Bristol-Myers Squibb
Long-term debt and the current portion of long term debt includes:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Principal Value:
0.875% Notes due 2017 $ 750 $ -
2.000% Notes due 2022 750 -
4.375% Euro Notes due 2016 659 652
4.625% Euro Notes due 2021 659 652
5.875% Notes due 2036 625 638
5.25% Notes due 2013 597 597
5.45% Notes due 2018 582 600
3.250% Notes due 2042 500 -
6.125% Notes due 2038 480 500
6.80% Debentures due 2026 330 332
7.15% Debentures due 2023 304 304
6.88% Debentures due 2097 260 287
0% - 5.75% Other - maturing 2013 - 2030 135 107
Subtotal 6,631 4,669
Adjustments to Principal Value:
Fair value of interest rate swaps 146 135
Unamortized basis adjustment from swap terminations 509 594
Unamortized bond discounts (54) (22)
Total $ 7,232 $ 5,376
Current portion of long-term debt $ 664 $ -
Long-term debt 6,568 5,376
Included in the current portion of long-term debt is $50 million of Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2023 which can
be redeemed by the holders at par on September 15, 2013 and 2018, or if a fundamental change in ownership occurs. The Debentures
are callable at par at any time by the Company. The Debentures have a current conversion price of $39.99, equal to a conversion rate
of 25.0047 shares for each $1,000 principal amount, subject to certain anti-dilutive adjustments.
During the third quarter 2012, $2.0 billion of senior unsecured notes were issued: $750 million in aggregate principal amount of
0.875% Notes due 2017, $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.000% Notes due 2022 and $500 million in aggregate
principal amount of 3.250% Notes due 2042 in a registered public offering. Interest on the notes will be paid semi-annually. The
notes rank equally in right of payment with all of BMS’s existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. BMS may redeem the
notes, in whole or in part, at any time at a predetermined redemption price. The net proceeds of the note issuances were $1,950
million, which is net of a discount of $36 million and deferred loan issuance costs of $14 million.
The average amount of commercial paper outstanding was $224 million at a weighted-average interest rate of 0.16% during 2012. The
maximum month end amount of commercial paper outstanding was $700 million with no outstanding borrowings at December 31,
2012.
Substantially all of the $2.0 billion debt obligations assumed in the acquisition of Amylin were repaid during the third quarter of 2012,
including a promissory note with Lilly with respect to a revenue sharing obligation and Amylin senior notes due 2014.
The principal value of long-term debt obligations was $6,631 million at December 31, 2012, of which $648 million is due in 2013,
$27 million is due in 2014, $659 million is due in 2016, $750 million is due in 2017 and the remaining $4,547 million is due in 2018
or thereafter. The fair value of long-term debt was $8,285 million and $6,406 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively,
and was estimated based upon the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt instruments. The fair value of short-term
borrowings approximates the carrying value due to the short maturities of the debt instruments.
Debt repurchase activity was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Principal amount $ 2,052 $ 71 $ 750
Carrying value 2,081 88 849
Repurchase price 2,108 78 855
Notional amount of interest rate swaps terminated 6 34 319
Swap termination proceeds 2 6 48
Total (gain)/loss 27 (10) 6
522012 Annual Report
Interest payments were $241 million in 2012, $171 million in 2011 and $178 million in 2010 net of amounts related to interest rate
swap contracts.
BMS currently has two separate $1.5 billion five-year revolving credit facilities from a syndicate of lenders, including a new facility
received in July 2012. There are no financial covenants under either facility. No borrowings were outstanding under either revolving
credit facility at December 31, 2012 or 2011.
At December 31, 2012, $249 million of financial guarantees were provided in the form of stand-by letters of credit and performance
bonds. The stand-by letters of credit are issued through financial institutions in support of guarantees made by BMS and its affiliates
for various obligations. The performance bonds were issued to support a range of ongoing operating activities, including sale of
products to hospitals and foreign ministries of health, bonds for customs, duties and value added tax and guarantees related to
miscellaneous legal actions. A significant majority of the outstanding financial guarantees will expire within the year and are not
expected to be funded.
Note 10 RECEIVABLES
Receivables include:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Trade receivables $ 1,812 $ 2,397
Less allowances (104) (147)
Net trade receivables 1,708 2,250
Alliance partners receivables 857 1,081
Prepaid and refundable income taxes 319 256
Miscellaneous receivables 199 156
Receivables $ 3,083 $ 3,743
Receivables are netted with deferred income related to alliance partners until recognition of income. As a result, alliance partner
receivables and deferred income were reduced by $1,056 million and $901 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. For
additional information regarding alliance partners, see Note 3 “Alliances and Collaborations.” Non-U.S. receivables sold on a
nonrecourse basis were $956 million in 2012, $1,077 million in 2011, and $932 million in 2010. In the aggregate, receivables from
three pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. represented 37% and 55% of total trade receivables at December 31, 2012 and 2011,
respectively.
Changes to the allowances for bad debt, charge-backs and cash discounts were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Balance at beginning of year $ 147 $ 107 $ 103
Provision 832 1,094 864
Utilization (875) (1,054) (860)
Balance at end of year $ 104 $ 147 $ 107
Note 11 INVENTORIES
Inventories include:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Finished goods $ 572 $ 478
Work in process 814 646
Raw and packaging materials 271 260
Inventories $ 1,657 $ 1,384
Inventories expected to remain on-hand beyond one year were $424 million at December 31, 2012 and $260 million at December 31,
2011 and included in non-current assets.
53Bristol-Myers Squibb
Note 12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment includes:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Land $ 114 $ 137
Buildings 4,963 4,545
Machinery, equipment and fixtures 3,695 3,437
Construction in progress 611 262
Gross property, plant and equipment 9,383 8,381
Less accumulated depreciation (4,050) (3,860)
Property, plant and equipment $ 5,333 $ 4,521
Depreciation expense was $382 million in 2012, $448 million in 2011 and $473 million in 2010.
Note 13 GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Carrying amount of goodwill at January 1 $ 5,586 $ 5,233
Acquisitions:
Amira - 265
Inhibitex 1,213 -
Amylin 836 -
Other - 88
Carrying amount of goodwill at December 31 $ 7,635 $ 5,586
Other includes an out-of-period adjustment to correct the purchase price allocation for the September 2009 Medarex acquisition and a
$24 million contingent milestone payment from a prior acquisition. The Medarex purchase price adjustment decreased other
intangible assets by $98 million and increased deferred tax assets by $34 million and goodwill by $64 million. The effect of this
adjustment was not material for the current or any prior periods.
Other intangible assets include:
December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011
Gross Net Gross Net
Estimated Carrying Accumulated Carrying Carrying Accumulated Carrying
Dollars in Millions Useful Lives Amount Amortization Amount Amount Amortization Amount
Licenses 5 – 15years $ 1,160 $ 534 $ 626 $ 1,218 $ 443 $ 775
Developed technology rights 7 – 15years 8,827 1,604 7,223 2,608 1,194 1,414
Capitalized software 3 – 10years 1,200 939 261 1,147 857 290
Total finite-lived intangible assets 11,187 3,077 8,110 4,973 2,494 2,479
IPRD 668 - 668 645 - 645
Total other intangible assets $ 11,855 $ 3,077 $ 8,778 $ 5,618 $ 2,494 $ 3,124
Changes in other intangible assets were as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Other intangible assets carrying amount at January 1 $ 3,124 $ 3,370 $ 2,865
Capitalized software and other additions 60 75 107
Acquisitions 8,335 160 678
Amortization expense (607) (353) (271)
Impairment charges (2,134) (30) (10)
Other - (98) 1
Other intangible assets, net carrying amount at December 31 $ 8,778 $ 3,124 $ 3,370
Annual amortization expense of other intangible assets is expected to be approximately $850 million in 2013, $850 million in 2014,
$750 million in 2015, $750 million in 2016, $700 million in 2017 and $4,210 million thereafter.
542012 Annual Report
BMS announced the discontinued development of BMS-986094 (formerly known as INX-189), a nucleotide polymerase (NS5B)
inhibitor that was in Phase II development for the treatment of the hepatitis C virus infection on August 23, 2012. The decision was
made in the interest of patient safety, based on a rapid, thorough and ongoing assessment of patients in a Phase II study that was
voluntarily suspended on August 1, 2012. BMS acquired BMS-986094 with its acquisition of Inhibitex in February 2012. As a result
of the termination of this development program, a $1,830 million pre-tax impairment charge was recognized for the IPRD intangible
asset.
An impairment charge of $120 million was recognized in 2012 related to a partial write-down to fair value of developed technology
costs related to a non-key product (Recothrom) acquired in the acquisition of ZymoGenetics. The developed technology impairment
charge resulted from continued competitive pricing pressures.
Note 14 ACCRUED EXPENSES
Accrued expenses include:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Employee compensation and benefits $ 844 $ 783
Royalties 152 571
Accrued research and development 418 450
Restructuring - current 120 58
Pension and postretirement benefits 49 46
Accrued litigation 162 65
Other 828 818
Total accrued expenses $ 2,573 $ 2,791
Note 15 SALES REBATES AND RETURN ACCRUALS
Reductions to trade receivables and accrued rebates and returns liabilities are as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Charge-backs related to government programs $ 41 $ 51
Cash discounts 13 28
Reductions to trade receivables $ 54 $ 79
Managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts $ 175 $ 417
Medicaid rebates 351 411
Sales returns 345 161
Other adjustments 183 181
Accrued rebates and returns $ 1,054 $ 1,170
Note 16 DEFERRED INCOME
Deferred income includes:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Upfront, milestone and other licensing receipts $ 4,346 $ 882
Atripla deferred revenue 339 113
Gain on sale-leaseback transactions 99 120
Other 65 88
Total deferred income $ 4,849 $ 1,203
Current portion $ 825 $ 337
Non-current portion 4,024 866
Upfront, milestone and other licensing receipts are amortized over the expected life of the product. See Note 3 “Alliances and
Collaborations” for information pertaining to revenue recognition and other transactions including $3.5 billion of proceeds received
from AstraZeneca related to the Amylin collaboration during the 2012. Deferred gains on several sale-leaseback transactions are
amortized over the remaining lease terms of the related facilities through 2018. Deferred income amortization was $308 million in
2012, $173 million in 2011 and $137 million in 2010.
55Bristol-Myers Squibb
Note 17 EQUITY
Capital in Excess
Common Stock of Par Value Retained Treasury Stock Non-Controlling
Dollars and Shares in Millions Shares Par Value of Stock Earnings Shares Cost Interest
Balance at January 1, 2010 2,205 $ 220 $ 3,768 $ 30,760 491 $ (17,364) $ (58)
Net earnings - - - 3,102 - - 2,091
Cash dividends declared - - - (2,226) - - -
Stock repurchase program - - - - 23 (587) -
Employee stock compensation plans - - (86) - (13) 497 -
Distributions - - - - - - (2,108)
Balance at December 31, 2010 2,205 220 3,682 31,636 501 (17,454) (75)
Net earnings - - - 3,709 - - 2,333
Cash dividends declared - - - (2,276) - - -
Stock repurchase program - - - - 42 (1,226) -
Employee stock compensation plans - - (568) - (28) 1,278 -
Other comprehensive income attributable to
noncontrolling interest - - - - - - 7
Distributions - - - - - - (2,354)
Balance at December 31, 2011 2,205 220 3,114 33,069 515 (17,402) (89)
Net earnings - - - 1,960 - - 850
Cash dividends declared - - - (2,296) - - -
Stock repurchase program - - - - 73 (2,407) -
Employee stock compensation plans 3 1 (420) - (18) 986 -
Other comprehensive income attributable to
noncontrolling interest - - - - - - (6)
Distributions - - - - - - (740)
Balance at December 31, 2012 2,208 $ 221 $ 2,694 $ 32,733 570 $ (18,823) $ 15
Treasury stock is recognized at the cost to reacquire the shares. Shares issued from treasury are recognized utilizing the first-in first-
out method.
In May 2010, the Board of Directors authorized a repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of common stock and in June 2012 increased its
authorization for the repurchase of common stock by an additional $3.0 billion. Repurchases may be made either in the open market
or through private transactions, including under repurchase plans established in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. The stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended or discontinued at any
time.
Noncontrolling interest is primarily related to the Plavix and Avapro/Avalide partnerships with Sanofi for the territory covering the
Americas. Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest are presented net of taxes of $317 million in 2012, $792 million in 2011
and $683 million in 2010 with a corresponding increase to the provision for income taxes. Distribution of the partnership profits to
Sanofi and Sanofi's funding of ongoing partnership operations occur on a routine basis. The above activity includes the pre-tax
income and distributions related to these partnerships.
562012 Annual Report
The components of other comprehensive income/(loss) (OCI) were as follows:
Dollars in Millions Pretax Tax After Tax
Year ended December 31, 2010
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges:(a)
Unrealized gains $ 18 $ (3) $ 15
Realized gains (10) 5 (5)
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges 8 2 10
Pension and other postretirement benefits:(b)
Actuarial losses (154) 66 (88)
Amortization 102 (35) 67
Settlements and curtailments 25 (9) 16
Pension and other postretirement benefits (27) 22 (5)
Available for sale securities, unrealized gains 47 (3) 44
Foreign currency translation 121 - 121
$ 149 $ 21 $ 170
Year ended December 31, 2011
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges:(a)
Unrealized gains $ 28 $ (4) $ 24
Realized gains 52 (20) 32
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges 80 (24) 56
Pension and other postretirement benefits:(b)
Actuarial losses (1,251) 421 (830)
Amortization 115 (34) 81
Settlements and curtailments 11 (4) 7
Pension and other postretirement benefits (1,125) 383 (742)
Available for sale securities, unrealized gains 35 (7) 28
Foreign currency translation (16) - (16)
$ (1,026) $ 352 $ (674)
Year ended December 31, 2012
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges:(a)
Unrealized gains $ 26 $ (17) $ 9
Realized gains (56) 20 (36)
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges (30) 3 (27)
Pension and other postretirement benefits:(b)
Actuarial losses (432) 121 (311)
Amortization 133 (43) 90
Settlements and curtailments 159 (56) 103
Pension and other postretirement benefits (140) 22 (118)
Available for sale securities:
Unrealized gains 20 (8) 12
Realized gains (11) 2 (9)
Available for sale securities(c) 9 (6) 3
Foreign currency translation (15) - (15)
$ (176) $ 19 $ (157)
(a) Realized (gains)/losses on derivatives qualifying as effective hedges are recognized in costs of products sold.
(b) See Note 18 “Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities” for further detail.
(c) Realized (gains)/losses on available for sale securities are recognized in other (income)/expense.
The accumulated balances related to each component of other comprehensive income/(loss) (OCI), net of taxes, were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges $ 9 $ 36
Pension and other postretirement benefits (3,023) (2,905)
Available for sale securities 65 62
Foreign currency translation (253) (238)
Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) $ (3,202) $ (3,045)
57Bristol-Myers Squibb
Note 18 PENSION, POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT LIABILITIES
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans and termination
indemnity plans for regular full-time employees. The principal defined benefit pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement
Income Plan, which covers most U.S. employees and represents approximately 70% of the consolidated pension plan assets and
obligations. The funding policy is to contribute at least the minimum amount required by the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974 (ERISA). Plan benefits are based primarily on the participant’s years of credited service and final average compensation.
Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income securities.
Comprehensive medical and group life benefits are provided for substantially all U.S. retirees who elect to participate in
comprehensive medical and group life plans. The medical plan is contributory. Contributions are adjusted periodically and vary by
date of retirement. The life insurance plan is noncontributory. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income securities.
Similar plans exist for employees in certain countries outside of the U.S.
The net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans includes:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010
Service cost — benefits earned during the year $ 32 $ 43 $ 44 $ 8 $ 8 $ 6
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation 319 337 347 22 26 30
Expected return on plan assets (508) (464) (453) (25) (26) (24)
Amortization of prior service cost/(benefit) (3) (1) - (2) (3) (3)
Amortization of net actuarial loss 129 112 95 10 7 10
Curtailments (1) (3) 5 - (1) -
Settlements 160 15 22 - - -
Special termination benefits - - 1 - - -
Total net periodic benefit cost $ 128 $ 39 $ 61 $ 13 $ 11 $ 19
A $151 million pension settlement charge was recognized in 2012 for the primary U.S. pension plan as a result of annual lump sum
payments exceeding interest and service costs during the fourth quarter. The charge included the acceleration of a portion of
unrecognized actuarial losses.
Net actuarial loss and prior service cost of $147 million is expected to be amortized from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit
cost for pension and postretirement benefit plans in 2013.
582012 Annual Report
Changes in defined benefit and postretirement benefit plan obligations, assets, funded status and amounts recognized in the
consolidated balance sheets were as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2012 2011
Benefit obligations at beginning of year $ 7,499 $ 6,704 $ 582 $ 589
Service cost—benefits earned during the year 32 43 8 8
Interest cost 319 337 22 26
Plan participants’ contributions 2 3 24 25
Curtailments (19) (3) - (1)
Settlements (260) (41) - (2)
Plan amendments (8) (40) - (1)
Actuarial losses/(gains) 838 876 (107) 6
Retiree Drug Subsidy - - 6 12
Benefits paid (227) (386) (76) (79)
Exchange rate losses/(gains) 24 6 1 (1)
Benefit obligations at end of year $ 8,200 $ 7,499 $ 460 $ 582
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year $ 5,842 $ 5,766 $ 305 $ 315
Actual return on plan assets 761 66 41 10
Employer contributions 396 432 11 24
Plan participants’ contributions 2 3 24 25
Settlements (260) (41) - (2)
Retiree Drug Subsidy - - 6 12
Benefits paid (227) (386) (76) (79)
Exchange rate gains/(losses) 28 2 - -
Fair value of plan assets at end of year $ 6,542 $ 5,842 $ 311 $ 305
Funded status $ (1,658) $ (1,657) $ (149) $ (277)
Assets/Liabilities recognized:
Other assets $ 22 $ 39 $ 12 $ -
Accrued expenses (37) (33) (12) (12)
Pension and other postretirement liabilities (1,643) (1,663) (149) (265)
Funded status $ (1,658) $ (1,657) $ (149) $ (277)
Recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss:
Net actuarial loss $ 4,572 $ 4,297 $ 34 $ 166
Net obligation at adoption 1 1 - -
Prior service cost/(benefit) (44) (39) (6) (8)
Total $ 4,529 $ 4,259 $ 28 $ 158
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $8,068 million and $7,322 million at December 31, 2012
and 2011, respectively.
Additional information related to pension plans was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011
Pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:
Projected benefit obligation $ 8,112 $ 7,236
Fair value of plan assets 6,432 5,540
Pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:
Accumulated benefit obligation $ 7,987 $ 6,867
Fair value of plan assets 6,432 5,327
Actuarial Assumptions
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31 were as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2012 2011 2012 2011
Discount rate 3.7 % 4.4 % 3.0 % 4.1 %
Rate of compensation increase 2.3 % 2.3 % 2.0 % 2.0 %
59Bristol-Myers Squibb
Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December 31 were as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010
Discount rate 4.4 % 5.2 % 5.6 % 4.1 % 4.8 % 5.5 %
Expected long-term return on plan assets 8.2 % 8.3 % 8.3 % 8.8 % 8.8 % 8.8 %
Rate of compensation increase 2.3 % 2.4 % 3.7 % 2.0 % 2.0 % 3.5 %
The yield on high quality corporate bonds that matches the duration of the benefit obligations is used in determining the discount rate.
The Citigroup Pension Discount curve is used in developing the discount rate for the U.S. plans.
Several factors are considered in developing the expected return on plan assets, including long-term historical returns and input from
external advisors. Individual asset class return forecasts were developed based upon market conditions, for example, price-earnings
levels and yields and long-term growth expectations. The expected long-term rate of return is the weighted-average of the target asset
allocation of each individual asset class. Historical long-term actual annualized returns for U.S. pension plans were as follows:
2012 2011 2010
10 years 8.5 % 5.6 % 4.7 %
15 years 6.5 % 7.0 % 7.9 %
20 years 8.5 % 8.1 % 9.3 %
Pension and postretirement liabilities were increased by $459 million at December 31, 2012 with a corresponding charge to other
comprehensive income as a result of actuarial losses attributed to the benefit obligation ($731 million) partially offset by higher than
expected return on plan assets ($272 million). These actuarial losses resulted from prevailing equity and fixed income market
conditions and a reduction in interest rates in 2012.
The expected return on plan assets was determined using the expected rate of return and a calculated value of assets, referred to as the
“market-related value” which approximates the fair value of plan assets at December 31, 2012. Differences between the assumed and
actual returns are amortized to the market-related value on a straight-line basis over a three-year period.
Gains and losses have resulted from changes in actuarial assumptions (such as changes in the discount rate) and from differences
between assumed and actual experience (such as differences between actual and expected return on plan assets). These gains and
losses (except those differences being amortized to the market-related value) are only amortized to the extent they exceed 10% of the
higher of the market-related value or the projected benefit obligation for each respective plan. As a result, approximately $840 million
related to pension benefits is not expected to be amortized during 2013. The majority of the remaining actuarial losses are amortized
over the life expectancy of the plans’ participants for U.S. plans (30 years) and expected remaining service periods for most other
plans into cost of products sold, research and development, and marketing, selling and administrative expenses as appropriate.
Assumed healthcare cost trend rates at December 31 were as follows:
2012 2011 2010
Healthcare cost trend rate assumed for next year 6.8 % 7.4 % 7.9 %
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate) 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.5 %
Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2018 2018 2018
Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have an effect on the amounts reported for the healthcare plans. A one-percentage-point change
in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects:
1-Percentage- 1-Percentage-
Dollars in Millions Point Increase Point Decrease
Effect on total of service and interest cost $ 1 $ (1)
Effect on postretirement benefit obligation 25 (25)
602012 Annual Report
Plan Assets
The fair value of pension and postretirement plan assets by asset category at December 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows:
December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011
Dollars in Millions Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Equity Securities $ 2,196 $ - $ - $ 2,196 $ 1,679 $ - $ - $ 1,679
Equity Funds 410 1,555 - 1,965 236 1,559 4 1,799
Fixed Income Funds 234 401 - 635 203 419 - 622
Corporate Debt Securities - 453 3 456 - 315 10 325
Venture Capital and Limited Partnerships - - 381 381 - - 408 408
Government Mortgage Backed Securities - 350 8 358 - 372 8 380
U.S. Treasury and Agency Securities - 259 - 259 - 304 - 304
Short-Term Investment Funds - 189 - 189 - 306 - 306
Insurance Contracts - - 132 132 - - 125 125
Event Driven Hedge Funds - 92 - 92 - 86 - 86
Collateralized Mortgage Obligation Bonds - 50 6 56 - 63 7 70
State and Municipal Bonds - 44 3 47 - 34 - 34
Asset Backed Securities - 23 3 26 - 17 4 21
Real Estate 3 - - 3 - 12 - 12
Cash and Cash Equivalents 58 - - 58 (24) - - (24)
Total plan assets at fair value $ 2,901 $ 3,416 $ 536 $ 6,853 $ 2,094 $ 3,487 $ 566 $ 6,147
The investment valuation policies per investment class are as follows:
Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical assets
or liabilities. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs. These instruments include equity securities,
equity funds, and fixed income funds publicly traded on a national securities exchange, U.S. treasury and agency securities, and
cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or
less at the time of purchase and are recognized at cost, which approximates fair value. Pending trade sales and purchases are
included in cash and cash equivalents until final settlement.
Level 2 inputs include observable prices for similar instruments, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that
are not active, and other observable inputs that can be corroborated by market data for substantially the full term of the assets or
liabilities. Equity funds, fixed income funds, event driven hedge funds and short-term investment funds classified as Level 2
within the fair value hierarchy are valued at the net asset value of their shares held at year end. There were no significant
unfunded commitments or restrictions on redemptions related to investments valued at NAV as of December 31, 2012. Corporate
debt securities, government mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligation bonds, asset backed securities, U.S.
treasury and agency securities, state and municipal bonds, and real estate interests classified as Level 2 within the fair value
hierarchy are valued utilizing observable prices for similar instruments and quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in
markets that are not active.
Level 3 unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. Equity funds and venture capital and limited
partnership investments classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy are valued at estimated fair value. The estimated fair
value is based on the fair value of the underlying investment values or cost plus or minus accumulated earnings or losses which
approximates fair value. Insurance contract interests are carried at contract value, which approximates the estimated fair value
and is based on the fair value of the underlying investment of the insurance company. Insurance contracts are held by certain
foreign pension plans. Valuation models for corporate debt securities, collateralized mortgage obligation bonds and asset backed
securities classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy are based on estimated bids from brokers or other third-party vendor
sources that utilize expected cash flow streams and collateral values including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default
risk, discount rates and overall capital market liquidity.
61Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following summarizes the activity for financial assets utilizing Level 3 fair value measurements:
Venture Capital
and Limited Insurance
Dollars in Millions Partnerships Contracts Other Total
Fair value at January 1, 2011 $ 415 $ 144 $ 39 $ 598
Purchases 53 8 5 66
Sales (5) (31) (3) (39)
Settlements (48) - (4) (52)
Realized (losses)/gains 56 - 3 59
Unrealized gains/(losses) (63) 4 (7) (66)
Fair value at December 31, 2011 408 125 33 566
Purchases 43 5 - 48
Sales (8) (7) (10) (25)
Settlements (51) - (2) (53)
Realized (losses)/gains 53 - (4) 49
Unrealized gains/(losses) (64) 9 6 (49)
Fair value at December 31, 2012 $ 381 $ 132 $ 23 $ 536
The investment strategy emphasizes equities in order to achieve higher expected returns and lower expenses and required cash
contributions over the long-term. A target asset allocation of 70% public equity (58% U.S. and 12% international), 8% private equity
and 22% fixed income is maintained for the U.S. pension plans. Investments are well diversified within each of the three major asset
categories. Approximately 81% of the U.S. pension plans equity investments are actively managed. Venture capital and limited
partnerships are typically valued on a three month lag. BMS Company common stock represents less than 1% of the plan assets at
December 31, 2012 and 2011.
Contributions
Contributions to the U.S. pension plans were $335 million in 2012, $343 million in 2011 and $341 million in 2010.
Contributions to the international pension plans were $61 million in 2012, $88 million in 2011 and $90 million in 2010. Aggregate
contributions to the U.S. and international plans are expected to be $100 million in 2013.
Estimated Future Benefit Payments
Pension Other
Dollars in Millions Benefits Benefits
2013 $ 385 $ 47
2014 398 44
2015 401 42
2016 415 40
2017 422 37
Years 2018 – 2022 2,109 151
Savings Plan
The principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings and Investment Program. The contribution is based on
employee contributions and the level of Company match. The expense related to the plan was $190 million in 2012, $181 million in
2011 and $188 million in 2010.
Post Employment Benefit Plan
Post-employment liabilities for long-term disability benefits were $90 million and $92 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011,
respectively. The expense related to these benefits was $17 million in 2012 and $18 million in both 2011 and 2010.
Termination Indemnity Plans
Statutory termination obligations are recognized on an undiscounted basis assuming employee termination at each measurement date.
The liability recognized for these obligations was $29 million and $25 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
622012 Annual Report
Note 19 EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS
On May 1, 2012, the shareholders approved the 2012 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the 2012 Plan), which replaced the 2007 Stock
Incentive Plan. Shares of common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to stock plans, options and conversions of preferred stock
were 283 million at December 31, 2012. Shares available to be granted for the active plans, adjusted for the combination of plans,
were 116 million at December 31, 2012. Shares for the stock option exercise and share unit vesting are issued from treasury stock.
Only shares actually delivered to participants in connection with an award after all restrictions have lapsed will reduce the number of
shares reserved. Shares tendered in a prior year to pay the purchase price of options and shares previously utilized to satisfy
withholding tax obligations upon exercise continue to be available and reserved.
Executive officers and key employees may be granted options to purchase common stock at no less than the market price on the date
the option is granted. Options generally become exercisable ratably over 4 years and have a maximum term of 10 years.
Additionally, the plan provides for the granting of stock appreciation rights whereby the grantee may surrender exercisable rights and
receive common stock and/or cash measured by the excess of the market price of the common stock over the option exercise price.
Common stock may be granted to key employees, subject to restrictions as to continuous employment. Restrictions expire over a four
year period from date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period. A stock unit is a right to receive stock at
the end of the specified vesting period but has no voting rights.
Market share units were granted to certain executives beginning in 2010. Vesting is conditioned upon continuous employment until
vesting date and the payout factor equals at least 60%. The payout factor is the share price on vesting date divided by share price on
award date, with a maximum of 200%. The share price used in the payout factor is calculated using an average of the closing prices
on the grant or vest date, and the nine trading days immediately preceding the grant or vest date. Vesting occurs ratably over four
years.
Long-term performance awards have a three year cycle and are delivered in the form of a target number of performance share units.
The number of shares ultimately issued is calculated based on actual performance compared to earnings targets and other performance
criteria established at the beginning of the performance period. The awards have annual goals with a maximum payout of 167.5%. If
threshold targets are not met for a performance period, no payment is made under the plan for that annual period. Vesting occurs at
the end of the three year period.
Stock-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest and is recognized over the vesting period. The
acceleration of unvested stock options and restricted stock units in connection with the acquisition of Amylin resulted in stock-based
compensation expense in 2012. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience at the time of grant and revised in subsequent
periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Stock-based compensation expense was as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2012 2011 2010
Stock options $ 7 $ 27 $ 50
Restricted stock 64 79 83
Market share units 23 23 13
Long-term performance awards 60 32 47
Amylin stock options and restricted stock units (see Note 4) 94 - -
Total stock-based compensation expense $ 248 $ 161 $ 193
Income tax benefit $ 82 $ 56 $ 63
Share-based compensation activities were as follows:
Long-Term
Stock Options Restricted Stock Units Market Share Units Performance Awards
Weighted- Number Weighted- Number Weighted- Number Weighted-
Number of Average of Average of Average of Average
Options Exercise Price Nonvested Grant-Date Nonvested Grant-Date Nonvested Grant-Date
Shares in Thousands Outstanding of Shares Awards Fair Value Awards Fair Value Awards Fair Value
Balance at January 1, 2012 70,224 $ 27.04 8,416 $ 23.10 1,982 $ 25.39 3,411 $ 23.53
Granted - - 3,036 32.71 1,076 31.85 1,717 32.33
Released/Exercised (16,560) 24.18 (3,341) 22.13 (562) 25.29 (1,087) 19.63
Adjustments for actual payout - - - - (166) 25.29 225 32.55
Forfeited/Cancelled (11,699) 44.85 (543) 25.96 (126) 27.38 (170) 28.90
Balance at December 31, 2012 41,965 23.21 7,568 27.18 2,204 28.46 4,096 28.44
Vested or expected to vest 41,875 23.22 6,826 27.18 1,988 28.46 3,694 28.44
63Bristol-Myers Squibb
Total compensation costs related to share-based payment awards not yet recognized and the weighted-average period over which such
awards are expected to be recognized at December 31, 2012 were as follows:
Long-Term
Stock Restricted Market Performance
Dollars in Millions Options Stock Units Share Units Awards
Unrecognized compensation cost $ 2 $ 146 $ 31 $ 32
Expected weighted-average period in years of compensation cost to be recognized 0.2 2.6 2.7 1.4
Additional information related to share-based compensation awards is summarized as follows:
Amounts in Millions, except per share data 2012 2011 2010
Weighted-average grant date fair value (per share):
Restricted stock units 32.71 26.04 24.80
Market share units 31.85 25.83 24.69
Long-term performance awards 32.33 25.30 23.65
Fair value of options or awards that vested during the year:
Stock options $ 23 $ 45 $ 73
Restricted stock units 74 75 79
Market share units 18 8 -
Long-term performance awards 56 21 56
Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the year $ 153 $ 154 $ 47
The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options at December 31, 2012 (amounts in millions,
except per share data):
Options Outstanding Options Exercisable
Weighted- Weighted- Weighted- Weighted-
Average Average Average Average
Number Remaining Exercise Aggregate Remaining Exercise Aggregate
Outstanding Contractual Life Price Intrinsic Number Contractual Life Price Intrinsic
Range of Exercise Prices (in thousands) (in years) Per Share Value Exercisable (in years) Per Share Value
$1 - $20 10,344 6.16 $ 17.51 $ 156 7,184 6.16 $ 17.49 $ 109
$20 - $30 31,606 3.00 25.06 238 31,585 3.00 25.07 238
$30 - $40 15 4.49 31.62 - 15 4.49 31.62 -
41,965 3.78 23.21 $ 394 38,784 3.58 23.67 $ 347
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on the closing stock price of
$32.59 on December 31, 2012.
Fair Value Assumptions
The fair value of restricted stock units and long-term performance awards is determined based on the closing trading price of the
Company’s common stock on the grant date. Beginning in 2010, the fair value of performance share units granted was not discounted
because they participate in dividends. The fair value of performance share units granted prior to 2010 was discounted using the risk-
free interest rate on the date of grant because they do not participate in dividends.
The fair value of the market share units was estimated on the date of grant using a model applying multiple input variables that
determine the probability of satisfying market conditions. The model uses the following input variables:
2012 2011 2010
Expected volatility 24.1 % 24.3 % 24.8 %
Risk-free interest rate 0.6 % 1.8 % 1.9 %
Dividend yield 4.4 % 4.9 % 5.8 %
Expected volatility is based on the four year historical volatility levels on the Company’s common stock and the current implied
volatility. The four-year risk-free interest rate was derived from the Federal Reserve, based on the market share units’ contractual
term. Expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend payments.
642012 Annual Report
Note 20 LEASES
Minimum rental commitments for non-cancelable operating leases (primarily real estate and motor vehicles) in effect at December 31,
2012, were as follows:
Years Ending December 31, Dollars in Millions
2013 $ 167
2014 152
2015 130
2016 123
2017 76
Later years 108
Total minimum rental commitments $ 756
Operating lease expense was $142 million in 2012, $136 million in 2011 and $145 million in 2010. Sublease income was not material
for all periods presented.
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in various lawsuits, claims, government investigations and other legal
proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Company recognizes accruals for such contingencies when it is probable
that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. These matters involve patent infringement,
antitrust, securities, pricing, sales and marketing practices, environmental, commercial, health and safety matters, consumer fraud,
employment matters, product liability and insurance coverage. Legal proceedings that are material or that the Company believes
could become material are described below.
Although the Company believes it has substantial defenses in these matters, there can be no assurance that there will not be an
increase in the scope of pending matters or that any future lawsuits, claims, government investigations or other legal proceedings will
not be material. Unless otherwise noted, the Company is unable to assess the outcome of the respective litigation nor is it able to
provide an estimated range of potential loss. Furthermore, failure to enforce our patent rights would likely result in substantial
decreases in the respective product sales from generic competition.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Plavix – Australia
As previously disclosed, Sanofi was notified that, in August 2007, GenRx Proprietary Limited (GenRx) obtained regulatory approval
of an application for clopidogrel bisulfate 75mg tablets in Australia. GenRx, formerly a subsidiary of Apotex Inc. (Apotex), has since
changed its name to Apotex. In August 2007, Apotex filed an application in the Federal Court of Australia (the Federal Court) seeking
revocation of Sanofi’s Australian Patent No. 597784 (Case No. NSD 1639 of 2007). Sanofi filed counterclaims of infringement and
sought an injunction. On September 21, 2007, the Federal Court granted Sanofi’s injunction. A subsidiary of the Company was
subsequently added as a party to the proceedings. In February 2008, a second company, Spirit Pharmaceuticals Pty. Ltd., also filed a
revocation suit against the same patent. This case was consolidated with the Apotex case and a trial occurred in April 2008. On
August 12, 2008, the Federal Court of Australia held that claims of Patent No. 597784 covering clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride,
hydrobromide, and taurocholate salts were valid. The Federal Court also held that the process claims, pharmaceutical composition
claims, and claim directed to clopidogrel and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts were invalid. The Company and Sanofi filed notices
of appeal in the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia (Full Court) appealing the holding of invalidity of the claim covering
clopidogrel and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts, process claims, and pharmaceutical composition claims which have stayed the
Federal Court’s ruling. Apotex filed a notice of appeal appealing the holding of validity of the clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride,
hydrobromide, and taurocholate claims. A hearing on the appeals occurred in February 2009. On September 29, 2009, the Full Court
held all of the claims of Patent No. 597784 invalid. In November 2009, the Company and Sanofi applied to the High Court of
Australia (High Court) for special leave to appeal the judgment of the Full Court. In March 2010, the High Court denied the Company
and Sanofi’s request to hear the appeal of the Full Court decision. The case has been remanded to the Federal Court for further
proceedings related to damages. It is expected the amount of damages will not be material to the Company.
65Bristol-Myers Squibb
Plavix – EU
As previously disclosed, in 2007, YES Pharmaceutical Development Services GmbH (YES Pharmaceutical) filed an application for
marketing authorization in Germany for an alternate salt form of clopidogrel. This application relied on data from studies that were
originally conducted by Sanofi and BMS for Plavix and were still the subject of data protection in the EU. Sanofi and BMS have filed
an action against YES Pharmaceutical and its partners in the administrative court in Cologne objecting to the marketing authorization.
This matter is currently pending, although these specific marketing authorizations now have been withdrawn from the market. The
resolution of this lawsuit is not expected to have a material impact on the Company.
Plavix – Canada (Apotex, Inc.)
On April 22, 2009, Apotex filed an impeachment action against Sanofi in the Federal Court of Canada alleging that Sanofi’s Canadian
Patent No. 1,336,777 (the ‘777 Patent) is invalid. On June 8, 2009, Sanofi filed its defense to the impeachment action and filed a suit
against Apotex for infringement of the ‘777 Patent. The trial was completed in June 2011 and in December 2011, the Federal Court of
Canada issued a decision that the ‘777 Patent is invalid. Sanofi has appealed this decision though generic companies have since
entered the market and a decision is expected later this year.
Abilify
As previously disclosed, Otsuka has filed patent infringement actions against Teva, Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Barr), Sandoz Inc.
(Sandoz), Synthon Laboratories, Inc (Synthon), Sun Pharmaceuticals (Sun), Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Zydus), and Apotex
relating to U.S. Patent No. 5,006,528, (‘528 Patent) which covers aripiprazole and expires in April 2015 (including the additional six-
month pediatric exclusivity period). Aripiprazole is comarketed by the Company and Otsuka in the U.S. as Abilify. A non-jury trial in
the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey (NJ District Court) against Teva/Barr and Apotex was completed in August
2010. In November 2010, the NJ District Court upheld the validity and enforceability of the ‘528 Patent, maintaining the main patent
protection for Abilify in the U.S. until April 2015. The NJ District Court also ruled that the defendants’ generic aripiprazole product
infringed the ‘528 Patent and permanently enjoined them from engaging in any activity that infringes the ‘528 Patent, including
marketing their generic product in the U.S. until after the patent (including the six-month pediatric extension) expires. Sandoz,
Synthon, Sun and Zydus are also bound by the NJ District Court’s decision. In December 2010, Teva/Barr and Apotex appealed this
decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Federal Circuit). In May 2012, the Federal Circuit affirmed the NJ
District Court’s decision. In June 2012, Apotex filed a petition for rehearing en banc which was denied. In December 2012, the
United States Supreme Court denied Apotex’s Petition for a Writ of Certiorari requesting an appeal of the Federal Circuit decision,
which concluded the matter.
Atripla
In April 2009, Teva filed an abbreviated New Drug Application (aNDA) to manufacture and market a generic version of Atripla.
Atripla is a single tablet three-drug regimen combining the Company’s Sustiva and Gilead’s Truvada. As of this time, the Company’s
U.S. patent rights covering Sustiva’s composition of matter and method of use have not been challenged. Teva sent Gilead a Paragraph
IV certification letter challenging two of the fifteen Orange Book-listed patents for Atripla. Atripla is the product of a joint venture
between the Company and Gilead. In May 2009, Gilead filed a patent infringement action against Teva in the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of New York (SDNY). In January 2010, the Company received a notice that Teva has amended its aNDA and is
challenging eight additional Orange Book-listed patents for Atripla. In March 2010, the Company and Merck, Sharp & Dohme Corp.
(Merck) filed a patent infringement action against Teva also in the SDNY relating to two U.S. Patents which claim crystalline or
polymorph forms of efavirenz. In March 2010, Gilead filed two patent infringement actions against Teva in the SDNY relating to six
Orange Book-listed patents for Atripla. Trial is expected in 2013. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of
these lawsuits or their impact on the Company.
Baraclude
In August 2010, Teva filed an aNDA to manufacture and market generic versions of Baraclude. The Company received a
Paragraph IV certification letter from Teva challenging the one Orange Book-listed patent for Baraclude, U.S. Patent No. 5,206,244
(the ‘244 Patent). In September 2010, the Company filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Delaware (Delaware District Court) against Teva for infringement. In February 2013, the Delaware District Court ruled against the
Company and invalidated the ‘244 Patent. The Company will appeal the Delaware District Court’s decision and is evaluating all other
legal options. Upon final FDA approval of its aNDA, Teva could launch its generic product. There could be a rapid and significant
negative impact on U.S. sales of Baraclude beginning in 2013. U.S. net sales of Baraclude were $241 million in 2012.
In June 2012, the Company filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Sandoz following the receipt of a Paragraph IV certification
letter challenging the same Orange-Book listed patent. In February 2013, the parties filed a stipulation of dismissal and the case has
been dismissed.
662012 Annual Report
Sprycel
In September 2010, Apotex filed an aNDA to manufacture and market generic versions of Sprycel. The Company received a
Paragraph IV certification letter from Apotex challenging the four Orange Book listed patents for Sprycel, including the composition
of matter patent. In November 2010, the Company filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the NJ District Court against Apotex for
infringement of the four Orange Book listed patents covering Sprycel, which triggered an automatic 30-month stay of approval of
Apotex’s aNDA. In October 2011, the Company received a Paragraph IV notice letter from Apotex informing the Company that it is
seeking approval of generic versions of the 80 mg and 140 mg dosage strengths of Sprycel and challenging the same four Orange
Book listed patents. In November 2011, BMS filed a patent infringement suit against Apotex on the 80 mg and 140 mg dosage
strengths in the NJ District Court. This case has been consolidated with the suit filed in November 2010. Trial is currently scheduled
for September 2013. Discovery in this matter is ongoing. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this
lawsuit or its impact on the Company.
Sustiva – EU
In January 2012, Teva obtained a European marketing authorization for Efavirenz Teva 600 mg tablets. In February 2012, the
Company and Merck filed lawsuits and requests for injunctions against Teva in the Netherlands, Germany and the U.K. for
infringement of Merck’s European Patent No. 0582455 and Supplementary Protection Certificates expiring in November 2013. As of
December 2012, requests for injunctions have been granted in the U.K. and denied in the Netherlands and Germany. The Company
and Merck are appealing the denial of the request for injunction in the Netherlands. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess
the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company.
GENERAL COMMERCIAL LITIGATION
Clayworth Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, was named as a defendant in
an action filed in California Superior Court in Oakland, James Clayworth et al. v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, et al., alleging that
the defendants conspired to fix the prices of pharmaceuticals by agreeing to charge more for their drugs in the U.S. than they charge
outside the U.S., particularly Canada, and asserting claims under California’s Cartwright Act and unfair competition law. The
plaintiffs sought trebled monetary damages, injunctive relief and other relief. In December 2006, the Court granted the Company and
the other manufacturers’ motion for summary judgment based on the pass-on defense, and judgment was then entered in favor of
defendants. In July 2008, judgment in favor of defendants was affirmed by the California Court of Appeals. In July 2010, the
California Supreme Court reversed the California Court of Appeal’s judgment and the matter was remanded to the California Superior
Court for further proceedings. In March 2011, the defendants’ motion for summary judgment was granted and judgment was entered
in favor of the defendants. The plaintiffs appealed that decision and the California Court of Appeals affirmed summary judgment for
the defendants. In October 2012, the plaintiffs filed a petition seeking review by the California Supreme Court which was denied in
November 2012.
Remaining Apotex Matters Related to Plavix
As previously disclosed, in November 2008, Apotex filed a lawsuit in New Jersey Superior Court entitled, Apotex Inc., et al. v. sanofi-
aventis, et al., seeking payment of $60 million, plus interest calculated at the rate of 1% per month from the date of the filing of the
lawsuit, until paid, related to the break-up of a March 2006 proposed settlement agreement relating to the-then pending Plavix patent
litigation against Apotex. In April 2011, the New Jersey Superior Court granted the Company’s cross-motion for summary judgment
motion and denied Apotex’s motion for summary judgment. Apotex appealed these decisions and the New Jersey Appellate Division
reversed the grant of summary judgments. The case has been remanded back to the Superior Court for additional proceedings. It is not
possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this lawsuit or its impact on the Company.
In January 2011, Apotex filed a lawsuit in Florida State Court, Broward County, alleging breach of contract relating to the May 2006
proposed settlement agreement with Apotex relating to the then pending Plavix patent litigation. Apotex is seeking damages for the
amount of profits it alleges it would have received from selling its generic clopidogrel bisulfate for somewhere between 8 and 11.5
months had the May 2006 agreement been approved by regulators. Discovery has concluded. The Company moved for summary
judgment which was denied in November 2012. The case is now scheduled for a trial beginning in March 2013. It is not possible at
this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this lawsuit or its impact on the Company.
67Bristol-Myers Squibb
PRICING, SALES AND PROMOTIONAL PRACTICES LITIGATION AND INVESTIGATIONS
Abilify Federal Subpoena
In January 2012, the Company received a subpoena from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York
requesting information related to, among other things, the sales and marketing of Abilify. It is not possible at this time to assess the
outcome of this matter or its potential impact on the Company.
Abilify State Attorneys General Investigation
In March 2009, the Company received a letter from the Delaware Attorney General’s Office advising of a multi-state coalition
investigating whether certain Abilify marketing practices violated those respective states’ consumer protection statutes. It is not
possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this investigation or its potential impact on the Company.
Abilify Co-Pay Assistance Litigation
In March 2012, the Company and its partner Otsuka were named as co-defendants in a putative class action lawsuit filed by union
health and welfare funds in the SDNY. Plaintiffs are challenging the legality of the Abilify co-pay assistance program under the
Federal Antitrust and the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations laws, and seeking damages. The Company and Otsuka
have filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this litigation or its
potential impact on the Company.
AWP Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, has been a defendant in a
number of private class actions as well as suits brought by the attorneys general of various states. In these actions, plaintiffs allege that
defendants caused the Average Wholesale Prices (AWPs) of their products to be inflated, thereby injuring government programs,
entities and persons who reimbursed prescription drugs based on AWPs. The Company remains a defendant in two state attorneys
general suits pending in state courts around the country having settled the lawsuits brought by the Mississippi and Louisiana Attorneys
General. Beginning in August 2010, the Company was the defendant in a trial in the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania
(Commonwealth Court), brought by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. In September 2010, the jury issued a verdict for the
Company, finding that the Company was not liable for fraudulent or negligent misrepresentation; however, the Commonwealth Court
judge issued a decision on a Pennsylvania consumer protection claim that did not go to the jury, finding the Company liable for $28
million and enjoining the Company from contributing to the provision of inflated AWPs. The Company has moved to vacate the
decision and the Commonwealth has moved for a judgment notwithstanding the verdict, which the Commonwealth Court denied. The
Company has appealed the decision to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court.
Qui Tam Litigation
In March 2011, the Company was served with an unsealed qui tam complaint filed by three former sales representatives in California
Superior Court, County of Los Angeles. The California Department of Insurance has elected to intervene in the lawsuit. The complaint
alleges the Company paid kickbacks to California providers and pharmacies in violation of California Insurance Frauds Prevention
Act, Cal. Ins. Code § 1871.7. Discovery is ongoing. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this lawsuit or
its impact on the Company.
PRODUCT LIABILITY LITIGATION
The Company is a party to various product liability lawsuits. As previously disclosed, in addition to lawsuits, the Company also faces
unfiled claims involving its products.
Plavix
As previously disclosed, the Company and certain affiliates of Sanofi are defendants in a number of individual lawsuits in various
state and federal courts claiming personal injury damage allegedly sustained after using Plavix. Currently, more than 2,000 claims are
filed in state and federal courts in various states including California, Illinois, New Jersey, and New York. The defendants terminated
the previously disclosed tolling agreement effective as of September 1, 2012. In February 2013, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
Litigation granted the Company and Sanofi’s motion to establish a multidistrict litigation to coordinate federal pretrial proceedings in
Plavix product liability and related cases. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or the
potential impact on the Company.
682012 Annual Report
Reglan
The Company is one of a number of defendants in numerous lawsuits, on behalf of approximately 2,700 plaintiffs, claiming personal
injury allegedly sustained after using Reglan or another brand of the generic drug metoclopramide, a product indicated for
gastroesophageal reflux and certain other gastrointestinal disorders. The Company, through its generic subsidiary, Apothecon, Inc.,
distributed metoclopramide tablets manufactured by another party between 1996 and 2000. It is not possible at this time to reasonably
assess the outcome of these lawsuits or the potential impact on the Company. The resolution of these pending lawsuits is not expected
to have a material impact on the Company.
Hormone Replacement Therapy
The Company is one of a number of defendants in a mass-tort litigation in which plaintiffs allege, among other things, that various
hormone therapy products, including hormone therapy products formerly manufactured by the Company (Estrace, Estradiol,
Delestrogen and Ovcon) cause breast cancer, stroke, blood clots, cardiac and other injuries in women, that the defendants were aware
of these risks and failed to warn consumers. The Company has agreed to resolve the claims of approximately 400 plaintiffs. As of
February 2013, the Company remains a defendant in approximately 35 actively pending lawsuits in federal and state courts throughout
the U.S. All of the Company’s hormone therapy products were sold to other companies between January 2000 and August 2001. The
resolution of these remaining lawsuits is not expected to have a material impact on the Company.
Byetta and Bydureon
Amylin, now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (see Note 4 “Acquisitions”), and Lilly are co-defendants in product liability
litigation related to Byetta and Bydureon. As of February 2013, there were approximately 120 separate lawsuits pending on behalf of
approximately 575 plaintiffs in various courts in the U.S. The vast majority of these cases have been brought by individuals who
allege personal injury sustained after using Byetta, primarily pancreatitis, and, in some cases, claiming alleged wrongful death. Of
these, the Company has agreed in principle to resolve the claims of over 300 plaintiffs. The majority of cases are pending in
California state court, where the Judicial Council has granted Amylin’s petition for a “coordinated proceeding” for all California state
court cases alleging harm from the alleged use of Byetta. Amylin and Lilly are currently scheduled for trial in one single-plaintiff case
in the second quarter of 2013. We cannot reasonably predict the outcome of any lawsuit, claim or proceeding. However, given that
Amylin has product liability insurance coverage for existing claims and future related claims involving Byetta, it is expected the
amount of damages, if any, will not be material to the Company.
BMS-986094
In August 2012, the Company announced that it had discontinued development of BMS-986094, an investigational compound which
was being tested in clinical trials to treat the hepatitis C virus infection due to the emergence of a serious safety issue. To date, five
lawsuits have been filed against the Company in Texas State Court by plaintiffs, which have been removed to Federal Court, alleging
that they participated in the Phase II study of BMS-986094 and suffered injuries as a result thereof. We have an agreement in
principle to resolve four of the five filed claims and the vast majority of claims that have surfaced to date in this matter. In total,
slightly fewer than 300 patients were administered the compound at various doses and durations as part of the clinical trials. The
resolution of the remaining lawsuit and any other potential future lawsuits is not expected to have a material impact on the Company.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS
As previously reported, the Company is a party to several environmental proceedings and other matters, and is responsible under
various state, federal and foreign laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
(CERCLA), for certain costs of investigating and/or remediating contamination resulting from past industrial activity at the
Company’s current or former sites or at waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third-parties.
CERCLA Matters
With respect to CERCLA matters for which the Company is responsible under various state, federal and foreign laws, the Company
typically estimates potential costs based on information obtained from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or counterpart state
or foreign agency and/or studies prepared by independent consultants, including the total estimated costs for the site and the expected
cost-sharing, if any, with other “potentially responsible parties,” and the Company accrues liabilities when they are probable and
reasonably estimable. The Company estimated its share of future costs for these sites to be $72 million at December 31, 2012, which
represents the sum of best estimates or, where no best estimate can reasonably be made, estimates of the minimal probable amount
among a range of such costs (without taking into account any potential recoveries from other parties).
69Bristol-Myers Squibb
New Brunswick Facility – Environmental & Personal Injury Lawsuits
Since May 2008, over 250 lawsuits have been filed against the Company in New Jersey Superior Court by or on behalf of current and
former residents of New Brunswick, New Jersey who live or have lived adjacent to the Company’s New Brunswick facility. The
complaints either allege various personal injuries damages resulting from alleged soil and groundwater contamination on their
property stemming from historical operations at the New Brunswick facility, or are claims for medical monitoring. A portion of these
complaints also assert claims for alleged property damage. In October 2008, the New Jersey Supreme Court granted Mass Tort status
to these cases and transferred them to the New Jersey Superior Court in Atlantic County for centralized case management purposes.
The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this litigation. Discovery is ongoing. Since October 2011, over 100 additional
cases have been filed in New Jersey Superior Court and removed by the Company to United States District Court, District of New
Jersey. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or the potential impact on the Company.
North Brunswick Township Board of Education
As previously disclosed, in October 2003, the Company was contacted by counsel representing the North Brunswick, NJ Board of
Education (BOE) regarding a site where waste materials from E.R. Squibb and Sons may have been disposed from the 1940’s through
the 1960’s. Fill material containing industrial waste and heavy metals in excess of residential standards was discovered during an
expansion project at the North Brunswick Township High School, as well as at a number of neighboring residential properties and
adjacent public park areas. In January 2004, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) sent the Company and
others an information request letter about possible waste disposal at the site, to which the Company responded in March 2004. The
BOE and the Township, as the current owners of the school property and the park, are conducting and jointly financing soil
remediation work and ground water investigation work under a work plan approved by the NJDEP, and have asked the Company to
contribute to the cost. The Company is actively monitoring the clean-up project, including its costs. To date, neither the school board
nor the Township has asserted any claim against the Company. Instead, the Company and the local entities have negotiated an
agreement to attempt to resolve the matter by informal means, and avoid litigation. A central component of the agreement is the
provision by the Company of interim funding to help defray cleanup costs and assure the work is not interrupted. The Company
transmitted interim funding payments in December 2007 and November 2009. The parties commenced mediation in late 2008;
however, those efforts were not successful and the parties moved to a binding allocation process. The parties are expected to conduct
fact and expert discovery, followed by formal evidentiary hearings and written argument. Hearings likely will be scheduled for mid-
to-late 2013. In addition, in September 2009, the Township and BOE filed suits against several other parties alleged to have
contributed waste materials to the site. The Company does not currently believe that it is responsible for any additional amounts
beyond the two interim payments totaling $4 million already transmitted. Any additional possible loss is not expected to be material.
OTHER PROCEEDINGS
Italy Investigation
In July 2011, the Public Prosecutor in Florence, Italy (Italian Prosecutor) initiated a criminal investigation against the Company’s
subsidiary in Italy (BMS Italy). The allegations against the Company relate to alleged activities of a former employee who left the
Company in the 1990s. The Italian Prosecutor also had requested interim measures that a judicial administrator be appointed to
temporarily run the operations of BMS Italy. In October 2012, the parties reached an agreement to resolve the request for interim
measures which resulted in the Italian Prosecutor withdrawing the request and this request was accepted by the Florence Court. It is
not possible at this time to assess the outcome of the underlying investigation or its potential impact on the Company.
SEC Germany Investigation
In October 2006, the SEC informed the Company that it had begun a formal inquiry into the activities of certain of the Company’s
German pharmaceutical subsidiaries and its employees and/or agents. The SEC’s inquiry encompasses matters formerly under
investigation by the German prosecutor in Munich, Germany, which have since been resolved. The Company understands the inquiry
concerns potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). The Company is cooperating with the SEC.
FCPA Investigation
In March 2012, the Company received a subpoena from the SEC. The subpoena, issued in connection with an investigation under the
FCPA, primarily relates to sales and marketing practices in various countries. The Company is cooperating with the government in its
investigation of these matters.
702012 Annual Report
Note 22 SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
Dollars in Millions, except per share data First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
2012
Net Sales $ 5,251 $ 4,443 $ 3,736 $ 4,191 $ 17,621
Gross Margin 3,948 3,198 2,749 3,116 13,011
Net Earnings/(Loss) 1,482 808 (713) 924 2,501
Net Earnings/(Loss) Attributable to:
Noncontrolling Interest 381 163 (2) (1) 541
BMS 1,101 645 (711) 925 1,960
Earnings/(Loss) per Share - Basic(1) $ 0.65 $ 0.38 $ (0.43) $ 0.56 $ 1.17
Earnings/(Loss) per Share - Diluted(1) $ 0.64 $ 0.38 $ (0.43) $ 0.56 $ 1.16
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.34 $ 0.34 $ 0.34 $ 0.35 $ 1.37
Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,307 $ 2,801 $ 1,503 $ 1,656 $ 1,656
Marketable securities(2) 6,307 5,968 5,125 4,696 4,696
Total Assets 32,408 31,667 36,044 35,897 35,897
Long-term debt(3) 5,270 5,209 7,227 7,232 7,232
Equity 16,246 15,812 13,900 13,638 13,638
Dollars in Millions, except per share data First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
2011
Net Sales $ 5,011 $ 5,434 $ 5,345 $ 5,454 $ 21,244
Gross Margin 3,668 3,953 3,938 4,087 15,646
Net Earnings 1,367 1,307 1,355 1,231 5,260
Net Earnings Attributable to:
Noncontrolling Interest 381 405 386 379 1,551
BMS 986 902 969 852 3,709
Earnings per Share - Basic(1) $ 0.58 $ 0.53 $ 0.57 $ 0.50 $ 2.18
Earnings per Share - Diluted(1) $ 0.57 $ 0.52 $ 0.56 $ 0.50 $ 2.16
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.33 $ 0.33 $ 0.33 $ 0.34 $ 1.33
Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,405 $ 3,665 $ 4,471 $ 5,776 $ 5,776
Marketable securities(2) 6,453 6,739 6,541 5,866 5,866
Total Assets 30,851 31,833 32,014 32,970 32,970
Long-term debt 5,276 5,332 5,437 5,376 5,376
Equity 15,901 16,145 16,436 15,867 15,867
(1) Earnings per share for the quarters may not add to the amounts for the year, as each period is computed on a discrete basis.
(2) Marketable securities includes current and non-current assets.
(3) Also includes the current portion of long-term debt.
71Bristol-Myers Squibb
The following specified items affected the comparability of results in 2012 and 2011:
2012
First Second Third Fourth
Dollars in Millions Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs $ - $ 147 $ - $ - $ 147
Amortization of acquired Amylin intangible assets - - 91 138 229
Amortization of Amylin collaboration proceeds - - (46) (68) (114)
Amortization of Amylin inventory adjustment - - 9 14 23
Stock compensation from accelerated vesting of Amylin awards - - 94 - 94
Process standardization implementation costs 8 5 3 2 18
Upfront, milestone and other licensing payments - - 21 16 37
IPRD impairment 58 45 - 39 142
Impairment charge for BMS-986094 intangible asset - - 1,830 - 1,830
Provision for restructuring 22 20 29 103 174
Pension curtailments and settlements - - - 151 151
Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets - - - (51) (51)
Litigation charges/(recoveries) (172) 22 50 55 (45)
Acquisition-related expenses 12 1 29 1 43
Out-licensed intangible asset impairment 38 - - - 38
Loss on debt repurchases 19 - 8 - 27
Total (15) 240 2,118 400 2,743
Income tax/(tax benefit) on items above 8 (77) (722) (156) (947)
Specified tax benefit* - - - (392) (392)
(Increase)/Decrease to Net Earnings $ (7) $ 163 $ 1,396 $ (148) $ 1,404
2011
First Second Third Fourth
Dollars in Millions Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs $ 23 $ 18 $ 19 $ 15 $ 75
Pension curtailments and settlements - - - 13 13
Process standardization implementation costs 4 10 5 10 29
Provision for restructuring 44 40 8 24 116
Litigation charges/(recoveries) (76) - 10 75 9
Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets - - (12) - (12)
Upfront, milestone and other licensing payments/(receipts) 88 50 69 (20) 187
IPRD impairment 15 - 13 - 28
Total 98 118 112 117 445
Income tax benefit on items above (28) (34) (37) (37) (136)
Specified tax benefit* (56) (15) - (26) (97)
Decrease to Net Earnings $ 14 $ 69 $ 75 $ 54 $ 212
* The 2012 specified tax benefit relates to a capital loss deduction. The 2011 specified tax benefit relates to releases of tax reserves that were specified in prior periods.
Note 23 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
Collaboration with The Medicines Company
In February 2013, BMS and The Medicines Company entered into a global license and two year collaboration regarding Recothrom, a
recombinant thrombin for use as a topical hemostat to control non-arterial bleeding during surgical procedures (previously acquired by
BMS in connection with its acquisition of ZymoGenetics in 2010). Net sales of Recothrom were $67 million in 2012. In connection
with the collaboration, The Medicines Company will be responsible for all sales, distribution, marketing and certain regulatory matters
relating to Recothrom, and BMS will be responsible for the exclusive supply of the product. Certain assets were transferred to The
Medicines Company at the start of the collaboration period, primarily the Recothrom Business License Agreement and other
regulatory assets. BMS retained all other assets related to Recothrom including the patents, trademarks and inventory.
722012 Annual Report
The collaboration expires in February 2015 at which time The Medicines Company has the right to purchase the remaining assets of
the business held by BMS at a price determined based on a multiple of sales (plus the cost of any remaining inventory held by BMS at
that time). If the option is not exercised, all assets previously transferred to The Medicines Company during the collaboration period
revert back to BMS.
BMS received $115 million at the start of the collaboration period, which will be allocated to the license and other rights transferred to
The Medicines Company and the written option, which will be recorded as an option liability at fair value. The allocation will be
based on the estimated fair value of the elements after considering various market factors and the estimated excess of the fair value of
the business over the potential purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised. Changes in the estimated fair value of the option
liability will be recognized in the results of operations. The remaining amount of proceeds received upon entering into the
collaboration will be recognized as alliance revenue throughout the term of the collaboration. BMS will also recognize alliance
revenue during the collaboration period for tiered royalties and supply of product. BMS will provide certain information technology,
regulatory, order processing, distribution and other transitional services in exchange for a fee during a period up to six months
commencing at the start of the collaboration.
Agreement to enter into Collaboration with Reckitt Benckiser Group plc
In February 2013, BMS and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc (RBL) agreed to enter into a license and three year collaboration regarding
several over-the-counter-products sold primarily in Mexico and Brazil. The transaction is expected to close during the first or second
quarter of 2013, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. Net sales of these products were approximately
$100 million in 2012.
In connection with the collaboration, RBL will be responsible for all sales, distribution, marketing and certain regulatory matters and
BMS will be responsible for the exclusive supply of the products. Certain limited assets are expected to be transferred to RBL at the
start of the collaboration period, primarily the market authorization, as well as the employees directly attributed to the business. BMS
will retain all other assets related to the business including the patents, trademarks and inventory during the collaboration period.
Upon expiration of the collaboration, RBL will have the right to purchase the remaining assets of the business held by BMS at a price
determined based on a multiple of sales (plus the cost of any remaining inventory held by BMS at that time). If the option is not
exercised, all assets previously transferred to RBL during the collaboration period revert back to BMS.
BMS is expected to receive proceeds of $482 million at the start of the collaboration period which will be allocated to the license and
other rights transferred to RBL and the written option, which will be recorded as an option liability at fair value. The allocation will
be based on the estimated fair value of the elements after considering various market factors. Changes in the estimated fair value of
the option liability will be recognized in the results of operations. The remaining amount of proceeds received upon entering into the
collaboration will be recognized as alliance revenue throughout the term of the collaboration. BMS will also recognize alliance
revenue during the collaboration period for tiered royalties and supply of product. BMS will also provide certain information
technology, regulatory, order processing, distribution and other transitional services in exchange for a fee during a period up to six
months commencing at the start of the collaboration.
73Bristol-Myers Squibb
REPORTS OF MANAGEMENT
Management’s Responsibility for Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and integrity of the financial information presented in this Annual Report. The
accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting
principles, applying certain estimates and judgments as required. In management’s opinion, the consolidated financial statements
present fairly the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors meets regularly with the internal auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP (D&T), the
Company’s independent registered accounting firm, and management to review accounting, internal control structure and financial
reporting matters. The internal auditors and D&T have full and free access to the Audit Committee. As set forth in the Company’s
Standard of Business Conduct and Ethics, the Company is firmly committed to adhering to the highest standards of moral and ethical
behavior in all of its business activities.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the supervision
and with the participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management assessed the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 based on the framework in Internal Control—
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that
assessment, management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31,
2012 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s financial statements included in
this Annual Report and has issued its report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting, which appears on page 79 in this Annual Report.
Lamberto Andreotti
Chief Executive Officer
Charles Bancroft
Chief Financial Officer
February 15, 2013
742012 Annual Report
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
As of December 31, 2012, management carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its chief
executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures
as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that as of
December 31, 2012, such disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the supervision
and with the participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management assessed the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012 based on the framework in “Internal Control—
Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As permitted by SEC
guidance, we excluded Amylin from management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012.
Amylin’s financial statement amounts constituted 23% of total assets (including $6.2 billion of acquired developed technology rights
and in-process research and development) and 1% of total net sales of the Company’s consolidated financial statement amounts and a
pre-tax loss of $270 million as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012. Based on that assessment, management has concluded
that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2012 to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s financial statements included in
this annual report and issued its report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2012, which is included herein.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
In August 2012, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the Company) completed its acquisition of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amylin)
which represents a material change in the internal control over financial reporting since management’s last assessment of
effectiveness. Amylin’s operations utilize separate information and accounting systems and processes and it was not possible to
complete an evaluation and review of the internal controls over financial reporting since the completion of the acquisition.
Management intends to complete its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting for Amylin within one
year of the acquisition date. There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting in the fourth quarter of 2012 that
have or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
OTHER INFORMATION
None.
75Bristol-Myers Squibb
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the "Company")
as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Bristol-Myers
Squibb Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on the criteria established in Internal Control—
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
February 15, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 15, 2013
762012 Annual Report
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the "Company") as
of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As described in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting, management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial reporting at Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
(“Amylin”), which was acquired on August 8, 2012 and whose financial statement amounts constitute 23% of total assets (including
$6.2 billion of acquired developed technology rights and in-process research and development) and 1% of total net sales of the
Company’s consolidated financial statement amounts and a pre-tax loss of $270 million as of and for the year ended December 31,
2012. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at Amylin. The Company's management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal
executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors,
management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to
the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2012, based on the criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012 of the Company and our report dated February 15,
2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 15, 2013
77Bristol-Myers Squibb
PERFORMANCE GRAPH
The following performance graph compares the performance of Bristol-Myers Squibb for the periods indicated with the performance
of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index (S&P 500) and the average performance of a group consisting of our peer corporations on a
line-of-business basis. The corporations making up our Peer Group are Abbott Laboratories, Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Biogen
Idec Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, Gilead Sciences, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., Inc., Novartis AG,
Pfizer, Inc., Roche Holding Ltd., and Sanofi.
Total return indices reflect reinvested dividends and are weighted using beginning-period market capitalization for each of the
reported time periods.
Comparison of Cumulative Five Year Total Return
$200
$150
$100
$50
$0
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Bristol-Myers Squibb S&P 500 Index Peer Group
12/31/07 12/31/08 12/31/09 12/31/10 12/31/11 12/31/12
Bristol-Myers Squibb $ 100 $ 94 $ 108 $ 118 $ 164 $ 158
S&P 500 Index $ 100 $ 63 $ 80 $ 92 $ 94 $ 109
Peer Group $ 100 $ 86 $ 97 $ 96 $ 111 $ 132
Assumes $100 invested on 12/31/07 in Bristol-Myers Squibb common stock, S&P 500 Index, and Peer Group. Values are as of
December 31 of specified year assuming dividends are reinvested.
782012 Annual Report
Five-Year Financial Summary
Amounts in Millions, except per share data 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Income Statement Data:(a)
Net Sales $ 17,621 $ 21,244 $ 19,484 $ 18,808 $ 17,715
Continuing Operations:
Net Earnings 2,501 5,260 4,513 4,420 3,686
Net Earnings Attributable to:
Noncontrolling Interest 541 1,551 1,411 1,181 989
BMS 1,960 3,709 3,102 3,239 2,697
Net Earnings per Common Share Attributable to BMS:
Basic $ 1.17 $ 2.18 $ 1.80 $ 1.63 $ 1.36
Diluted $ 1.16 $ 2.16 $ 1.79 $ 1.63 $ 1.35
Average common shares outstanding:
Basic 1,670 1,700 1,713 1,974 1,977
Diluted 1,688 1,717 1,727 1,978 1,999
Cash dividends paid on BMS common and preferred stock $ 2,286 $ 2,254 $ 2,202 $ 2,466 $ 2,461
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.37 $ 1.33 $ 1.29 $ 1.25 $ 1.24
Financial Position Data at December 31:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,656 $ 5,776 $ 5,033 $ 7,683 $ 7,976
Marketable securities(b) 4,696 5,866 4,949 2,200 477
Total Assets 35,897 32,970 31,076 31,008 29,486
Long-term debt(c) 7,232 5,376 5,328 6,130 6,585
Equity 13,638 15,867 15,638 14,785 12,208
(a) For a discussion of items that affected the comparability of results for the years 2012, 2011 and 2010, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.”
(b) Marketable securities include current and non-current assets.
(c) Also includes the current portion of long-term debt.
79Bristol-Myers Squibb 2012 Annual Report
Bristol-Myers Squibb Leadership
BoARD of DiRECToRS
James M. Cornelius Vicki L. Sato, Ph.D.
Chairman, Bristol-Myers Squibb Professor of Management Practice,
Harvard Business School, and Professor of
Lamberto Andreotti the Practice of Molecular and Cell Biology,
Chief Executive Officer, Harvard University (c,d)
Bristol-Myers Squibb (d)
Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D.
Lewis B. Campbell Executive Vice President,
Executive Chairman and Chief Scientific Officer and President,
Chief Executive Officer, Research and Development,
Navistar International Corporation (b,c) Bristol-Myers Squibb (d)
Laurie H. Glimcher, M.D. Gerald L. Storch
Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Weill Cornell Medical College, and Cornell Toys“R”Us, Inc. (a,c)
University Provost for Medical Affairs (a,d)
Togo D. West, Jr.
Michael Grobstein Chairman, TLI Leadership
Retired Vice Chairman, Group and Noblis, Inc. (b,c)
Ernst & Young LLP (a,c)
R. Sanders Williams, M.D.
Alan J. Lacy President and Robert W. and
Senior Advisor, Linda L. Mahley Distinguished Professor,
Oak Hill Capital Partners, L.P. (a,b) The J. David Gladstone Institutes,
and Professor of Medicine,
University of California, San Francisco (d)
(a) Audit Committee
(b) Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance
(c) Compensation and Management Development Committee
(d) Science and Technology Committee
80Bristol-Myers Squibb 2012 Annual Report
SEnioR MAnAGEMEnT TEAM
Lamberto Andreotti Ann Powell Judge
Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President,
Human Resources
Charles A. Bancroft
Executive Vice President Sandra Leung
and Chief Financial Officer General Counsel
and Corporate Secretary
Giovanni Caforio, M.D.
President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals Samuel Moed
Senior Vice President,
Béatrice J. Cazala Strategic Planning and Analysis
Executive Vice President,
Commercial Operations Louis S. Schmukler
President,
francis Cuss, MB BChir, fRCP Global Manufacturing and Supply
Senior Vice President, Research,
Research and Development Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D.
Executive Vice President,
Brian Daniels, M.D. Chief Scientific Officer and President,
Senior Vice President, Research and Development
Global Development and Medical Affairs,
Research and Development Paul von Autenried
Senior Vice President,
John Elicker Enterprise Services, and
Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer
Public Affairs and Investor Relations
frances Heller
Senior Vice President,
Business Development
81Bristol-Myers Squibb 2012 Annual Report
Stockholder Information
COMMON STOCK FORM 10-K PRODUCT NAMES AND COMPANY
PROGRAMS
Ticker symbol: BMY For a free copy of the Company’s Annual
New York Stock Exchange Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year Global products and company programs
ended December 31, 2012, contact: appearing throughout in italics are referred
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS to herein by their registered and approved
Secretary
U.S. trademarks, unless specifically noted
Tuesday, May 7, 2013 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
otherwise.
10:00 a.m. 345 Park Avenue
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company New York, NY 10154-0037 Abilify is a trademark of Otsuka
777 Scudders Mill Road Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
The Form 10-K is also available at
Plainsboro, NJ 08536
investor.bms.com. Atripla is a trademark of Bristol-Myers
STOCKHOLDER SERVICES The most recent certifications by the Squibb and Gilead Sciences, LLC.
Company’s chief executive officer and chief
All inquiries concerning stockholder accounts Avapro/Avalide and Plavix are
financial officer pursuant to Section 302 of
and stock transfer matters – including trademarks of Sanofi.
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as
address changes, the elimination of duplicate
exhibits to the Company’s Form 10-K. The Bydureon, Byetta and Symlin are
mailings and the Shareowner Services
Company has also filed with the New York trademarks of Amylin Pharmaceuticals LLC
Plus PlanSM – should be directed to the
Stock Exchange the most recent Annual and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP.
Company’s Transfer Agent and Registrar:
CEO Certification as required by Section
Delestrogen is a trademark of JHP
303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange
Wells Fargo Shareowner Services Pharmaceuticals, LLC.
Listed Company Manual.
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Erbitux is a trademark of ImClone LLC.
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Estrace and Ovcon are trademarks of
www.shareowneronline.com Information on the following subjects is Warner Chilcott Company, LLC.
available at www.bms.com:
Gleevec is a trademark of Novartis AG.
855-598-5485 (within the U.S.) • Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation
651-450-4064 (outside the U.S.) • Clinical Trials Humira is a trademark of AbbVie
A telecommunications relay service should be • Diversity and Workforce Statistics Biotechnology ltd.
used by the hearing impaired when calling the
• Patient Assistance Programs
telephone numbers above. Reglan is a trademark of ANIP
• Political Contributions
Acquisition Company.
SHAREOWNER SERVICES PLUS PLANSM • Sustainability/Environmental Programs
Truvada is a trademark of Gilead
The Shareowner Services Plus Plan is This Annual Report contains certain forward-
Sciences, Inc.
designed for long-term investors who wish looking information within the meaning of the
to build share ownership in the Company’s Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of All other brand names are trademarks
common stock over time. You can participate 1995. These forward-looking statements are of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company or
in the plan if you are a registered holder of based on current expectations and involve one of its subsidiaries.
the Company’s common stock. If you do inherent risks and uncertainties that could
not own the Company’s common stock, you cause actual outcomes and results to differ
can become a participant by making your materially from current expectations. Please
initial purchase through the plan. The plan see page 27 in the Financial Review for a
features dividend reinvestment, optional cash discussion and description of these risks and
purchase, share safekeeping, and share sales uncertainties. The Company undertakes no
and transfers. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company obligation to publicly update any forward-
has appointed Wells Fargo Shareowner looking statement, whether as a result of
Services as Administrator for the plan. The new information, future events or otherwise.
plan is not sponsored or administered by
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
Shareowner Services Plus Plan is a Service
Mark of Wells Fargo Shareowner Services.
82Debbie Hsu
Debbie Hsu is a quality assurance/quality control
laboratory supervisor who, 10 years ago, joined
Medarex, now part of Bristol-Myers Squibb. At the
company’s Redwood City, California, facility, this
“cold room” houses research antibodies to be
distributed to scientists across Bristol-Myers Squibb
to study new targets that may lead to groundbreak-
ing therapies like Yervoy (ipilimumab) to fight
cancer. Researchers in Redwood City produce cell
lines used in developing new monoclonal antibod-
ies, some of which may eventually become clinical
candidates in the company’s growing pipeline of
medicines that help the body’s own immune system
fight tumor cells.
Produced by the Bristol-Myers Squibb Public Affairs Department.
Copyright © 2013 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. All rights reserved.Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
345 Park Avenue • New York, NY 10154-0037
212-546-4000 • www.bms.com