Their will.
Our medicines.
Together we can prevail.
2006 Annual Report
NOPQBristol-Myers Squibb’s
Mission
Our company’s mission is to extend and enhance human life
by providing the highest-quality pharmaceutical and related
health care products.
We pledge—to our patients and customers,to our
employees and partners,to our shareholders and neighbors,
and to the world we serve—to act on our belief that the
priceless ingredient of every product is the honor and
integrity of its maker.
ON THE COVER:
At Bristol-Myers Squibb,we develop medicines and
related health care products to help people live full
and active lives.A few of our patients and customers
are pictured on the cover.These and other patients
are profiled in our Special Report,beginning on page 7.To Our Stockholders
2006 was a challenging transitional year for Bristol-Myers Squibb.
We experienced the significant negative impact of generic
competition in our pharmaceutical business, and made the
difficult decision to change leadership of the company.We also
achieved preliminary settlement of an investigation of drug
pricing, sales and marketing practices that began many years ago.
At the same time, we were successful in launching several
promising new products, expanding key businesses and advancing
our robust pipeline—all in areas of serious unmet medical need.
As a result, Bristol-Myers Squibb is now well positioned to begin
growing sales and earnings, and to build shareholder value.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
In 2006,the company’s net earnings from Sales and earnings were adversely affected In August 2006,the Canadian pharmaceutical
continuing operations on a GAAP (Generally by several developments in the year.First,as company Apotex launched its generic version
Accepted Accounting Principles) basis were expected,we lost exclusivity on Pravachol,our of Plavix in the U.S.,flooding the market for
$1.6 billion,or $0.81 per diluted share,from net cholesterol-lowering medicine,in the U.S.and several weeks until sales were halted by a
sales from continuing operations of $17.9 billion. in several European countries.For many years, court order.This action by Apotex reduced
This compares to earnings of $3.0 billion,or Pravacholwas one of our leading products. our Plavix sales in the range of $1.2 billion to
$1.52 per diluted share,on sales of $19.2 billion More recently,we experienced the negative $1.4 billion in 2006,and was reflected in an
in 2005.On a non-GAAP basis,excluding impact of generic competition with our top- overall 15 percent decline in Plavix sales for
specified items,net earnings from continuing selling product Plavix (clopidogrel bisulfate),an the year.We expect the generic supply in
operations in 2006 were $2.1 billion,or antiplatelet medicine that Bristol-Myers Squibb the market will have a residual impact on
$1.09 per diluted share,compared to $2.8 and sanofi-aventis (Sanofi) are codeveloping 2007 Plavix sales.
billion,or $1.43 per diluted share,in 2005. and co-commercializing around the world.
2006 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb 1PLAVIX SITUATION
Several years ago,Apotex filed a request with Clearly,our Plavix business—and the com- Spryceland Orenciacame from our own
the U.S.Food and Drug Administration (FDA) pany’s financial strength and reputation—were laboratories,and we continue to invest in
to sell its generic clopidogrel product in the seriously damaged by this turn of events.It extensive clinical programs exploring a range
U.S.,despite the existence of patents on Plavix was a major setback that we sincerely regret. of potential uses for these promising medicines
held by Sanofi and Bristol-Myers Squibb in the Bristol-Myers Squibb and Sanofi had entered to help even more patients in the future.We
U.S.and other countries.Believing our patents into negotiations with Apotex in good faith to are pursuing this “pipeline within a product”
to be valid and infringed,we sued Apotex to pursue a workable solution benefiting all parties. approach with other key products as well.
protect our valuable intellectual property rights. The Plavix patent trial concluded on In addition to these launches,we expanded
Bristol-Myers Squibb and Sanofi had invested February 15 of this year,and the court is the reach of our other newer pharmaceuticals:
extensively in Plavix over more than a decade expected to rule in the next few months. • Erbitux,a cancer treatment that we are
to conduct clinical research demonstrating its We are hopeful that the validity of our intel- codeveloping and copromoting with
benefits to patients. lectual property rights will be upheld.In the ImClone Systems Incorporated,continues
Because of the way U.S.law in this area meantime,we are encouraged that demand to grow as a treatment for both advanced
is structured,Apotex was able to apply for for Plavix continues to grow,pointing to a refractory colorectal cancer and,more
and receive permission to market its generic positive future for this therapy in helping even recently,head and neck cancer.
clopidogrel in the U.S.,even though the dispute more patients.And we continue to invest • Abilify,an antipsychotic therapy that we
over the validity of the Plavix patent had not behind the brand. are codeveloping and copromoting with
yet been settled.In early 2006,the FDA Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co.,Ltd.,is benefiting
approved Apotex’s request,enabling that PRODUCT HIGHLIGHTS from additional formulations that were
company to launch its generic product in the In 2006,we launched several noteworthy approved in 2006.
U.S.,although this action could put it at risk pharmaceutical products: • Baraclude,a treatment for chronic hepatitis B,
of legal sanctions. • Orencia is a promising new treatment continues to gain share,including in Asia
With these concerns in mind,the parties option for many patients suffering from where the disease is widespread.We currently
to the dispute entered into discussions and in rheumatoid arthritis,a disfiguring and are launching Baracludein Japan as well as
March 2006 announced a tentative settlement disabling disease that can erode quality in Europe.
of the patent infringement litigation.However, of life and shorten lifespan.Orencia is • The FDA approved a 300 mg single capsule
the government did not approve the proposed gaining share in the U.S.,and we expect formulation of Reyatazin combination
settlement,and in July we announced that the to launch it in Europe later this year. therapy for adults with HIV-1.
patent infringement litigation would resume. • Spryceladdresses a serious and often deadly In 2006,all of our key pharmaceuticals—
Shortly thereafter,Apotex launched its generic form of chronic myelogenous leukemia in with the exception of Plavix—grew at solid
clopidogrel in the U.S.We responded by seeking patients who are resistant to or intolerant double-digit rates.Several additional products
a preliminary injunction from a Federal court to of Gleevec,the current standard of care. approached or surpassed the $1 billion mark in
halt its further distribution.The court granted Sprycelis currently being marketed in the U.S. total revenue or sales including:Abilify,Reyataz
the preliminary injunction on August 31,and and recently has been launched in Europe. and—in our Mead Johnson Nutritionals busi-
it remains in force. • Atripla is a one-tablet,once-daily combination ness—the Enfamilinfant formula line.
of our Sustivamedicine and a treatment Mead Johnson and our other related health
from Gilead Sciences.Atripla joins Sustiva care companies—ConvaTec and Bristol-Myers
and Reyatazin our growing portfolio of Squibb Medical Imaging—continue to provide
innovative therapies for HIV/AIDS. strength and stability for the company,partic-
• EMSAM,licensed from Somerset Pharma- ularly in this transitional time for our pharma-
ceuticals,is a transdermal patch that was ceutical portfolio.Many of our key health care
introduced in the U.S.for treatment of brands have solid additional growth potential,
serious depression in adults. including Mead Johnson in Asia and Latin
America,where market expansion is robust.
2 Bristol-Myers Squibb 2006 Annual ReportJAMES D. ROBINSON III
Chairman of the Board
(left)
and
JAMES M. CORNELIUS
Chief Executive Officer
PIPELINE ACHIEVEMENTS
Our pipeline continued to move forward
in 2006.In addition to the new drug launches
already mentioned,we transitioned one com-
pound—apixaban,potentially for deep vein
thrombosis—to late-stage (Phase III) develop-
ment.We now have six compounds in Phase III,
all addressing areas of significant unmet medical
need.Three of those six—ixabepilone,vinflunine
and ipilimumab—are in oncology,an area of
historical strength for Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Our pipeline productivity is tied to several
factors.First,we have consistently increased
our investments in research and development,
even during the past five years,when exclusivity
losses drained substantial sums from our
revenue base.Second,we restructured and
refocused our R&D organization to improve GROWING IMPORTANCE ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGES
processes,enhance quality of drug candidates OF BIOLOGICS The company made several leadership
and increase efficiency in clinical development. In the fight against serious disease,biologics— changes in 2006.In September,we announced
Finally,in this era of cost and pricing pressures protein-derived therapies—are playing an the departure of Peter R.Dolan as chief
on our industry,we believe it is critically impor- increasingly prominent role.Erbitux and Orencia executive officer and the appointment of
tantto strategically manage our pipeline to are biologics,as are ipilimumab,for cancer,and James M.Cornelius,a member of the Board of
ensure efficient use of resources and effectively belatacept,for solid organ transplant rejection, Directors,as CEO on an interim basis.Peter
manage risk and uncertainty.To that end, in our pipeline.Producing biologics is complex had been the prime architect behind the
Bristol-Myers Squibb has successfully pursued and costly,and we are making significant invest- company’s strategic focus on serious diseases,
a number of strategic partnerships with mentsto build our capabilities in this area. and we are grateful for his many successes in
biotech and other pharmaceutical companies We began several years ago with the executing the strategy and putting Bristol-Myers
to strengthen our product portfolio,enhance conversion of our long-standing manufacturing Squibb on a solid path forward.The search
our technology and sustain the productivity site in Syracuse,New York,to a biologics center for a new CEO is continuing under the lead-
of our pipeline. of excellence.In 2006,we announced nearly ership of Jim Robinson,who is working closely
Earlier this year,we announced a worldwide $1 billion in new commitments to biologics with a Board committee in this effort.
collaboration with AstraZeneca to codevelop manufacturing,including the expansion of an The company also promoted Andrew R.J.
and co-commercialize saxagliptin and existing plant in Puerto Rico and the con- Bonfield,chief financial officer,and Elliott Sigal,
dapagliflozin,two of our diabetes compounds struction of a new state-of-the-art facility in M.D.,Ph.D.,chief scientific officer and president,
in development.We concluded a similar Devens,Massachusetts.We are looking forward Pharmaceutical Research Institute,to executive
agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., to breaking ground at the Devens location vice president.They join Lamberto Andreotti,
Ltd.,for saxagliptin in Japan.Consistent with this year. president,Worldwide Pharmaceuticals,who
our strategy,these collaborations will enable earlier had been named executive vice presi-
us to share costs and risks for these innovative dent.These three executives have played
potential products in an area of significant critical roles in developing and executing our
unmet medical need. strategy,and—together with many other
outstanding leaders across the company—
are committed to our success.
2006 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb 3OUR PHARMACEUTICAL DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE
Bristol-Myers Squibb researchers driving current and future growth Our ability to bring new
are dedicated to discovering and while also undergoing continued products to patients in need and
developing innovative medicines clinical development to determine to find new uses for our current
that address serious unmet medical whether additional indications and products is dependent upon our
needs in key disease areas. Those formulations will benefit patients. demonstrating safety and efficacy
areas, listed in the chart at right, Throughout the Special Report and a favorable benefit-risk rela-
were selected with an emphasis on beginning on page 7, we call tionship via systematic testing
where there remain significant attention to the importance of in patients who volunteer to
patient needs as well as opportuni- our ongoing clinical trials and we participate in our studies.
ties for leadership by the company. highlight responses from some of Like any other scientific
Compounds and research our individual clinical trial patients. endeavor, clinical testing of novel
programs in Discoveryare at While results may be unpredictable compounds is a complex, time-
the earliest stages of research. for any one participant in an consuming, resource-intensive
Compounds in Exploratory individual experimental study, process with no guaranteed results.
Developmentare in preclinical these personal accounts illustrate Bristol-Myers Squibb is committed
or early clinical development. the importance of participation in to pursuing such clinical develop-
Full Developmentcompounds are clinical trials, which are essential ment and, in doing so, helping
investigational drugs that are in to the development of the next patients to prevail.
late-stage clinical development or generation of medical innovation.
have been submitted to regulatory The true test is whether we can
agencies for approval. Life Cycle document a real clinical benefit
Managementcompounds are across a significant number of
among approved medicines that are research participants.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
AND COMPLIANCE
There have been several key developments additional ways to strengthen this commitment. this year.We also are cooperating fully with
in the corporate governance and compliance Intensive employee training on compliance the ongoing investigation by the Antitrust
areas.In 2006,the Board amended the bylaws matters continues,and we were honored to Division of the U.S.Department of Justice
of the company to adopt a majority voting receive a “best practices”award in November relating to the proposed settlement of the
standard for directors,and more recently it 2006 from an organization of compliance Plavix litigation.
adopted a corporate governance guideline professionals,recognizing our U.S.Healthcare As you will recall,the company is operating
requiring a supermajority of independent Law Compliance Field Handbook. under a Deferred Prosecution Agreement
directors to approve the compensation of Late last year,we announced an agreement with the U.S.Attorney in New Jersey.We
the CEO.We believe these measures will in principle with the U.S.Department of continue to work closely with the Monitor
further enhance accountability and transparency, Justice and the U.S.Attorney in Massachusetts appointed by the U.S.Attorney to ensure
and benefit our stockholders as well as our to settle several investigations involving the full compliance with the letter and spirit of
other stakeholders. company’s drug pricing,and sales and marketing the agreement.
Compliance remains a top priority for all activities.These investigations began several
of us at Bristol-Myers Squibb.The compliance years ago.As part of the civil resolution,the
processes and mechanisms that the company company agreed to pay $499 million and enter
put in place over the past several years are into a corporate integrity agreement with the
operating well,and we are always looking for U.S.Department of Health and Human Services.
We hope to conclude that agreement later
4 Bristol-Myers Squibb 2006 Annual ReportEXPLORATORY FULL LIFE CYCLE
DISEASE AREAS OF FOCUS
DISCOVERY DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT
Oncology ••••••••••••• ••••••• ••• ••
Cancer
Cardiovascular •••••••• • ••
Atherosclerosis/
& Metabolic Thrombosis
Diseases
•••••• •••••• •
Diabetes
•••••••• •
Obesity
Neuroscience
••••••••••• ••• ••
Psychiatric
Disorders
••• •
Alzheimer’s Disease
Virology
Hepatitis ••• • •
••• • ••
HIV/AIDS
Immunology
••• ••• •
Rheumatoid Arthritis
•••
••••• •
Solid Organ
Transplant Rejection
• •
Discovered internally In-licensed or discovery alliance program
GOALS FOR 2007 AND BEYOND
Following a productive 2006,we are now solid progress with our productivity initiative, More than ever,science is our company’s
focused on executing our strategy to maximize and are on track to achieve more than $500 foundation,and in many respects our success
shareholder value.Assuming that we are million in cost reductions in 2007 alone. is determined by our focus on scientific
successful in defending the Plavix patent—as These savings are not solely the result of excellence.We see this commitment every day
well as growing our key products and advancing onetime spending cuts but rather reflect a in the outstanding work of our R&D organi-
our pipeline—we expect sales and earnings systematic approach aimed at streamlining zation—and in the efforts of our thousands of
to increase this year.And with few exclusivity processes,simplifying governance and perma- other employees who transform innovative
losses expected in the near term,we are nently removing low-value work.In this respect, research into the products and services that
looking to sustain and build on this growth they are part of a larger—and critical—effort extend and enhance human life.
over the next several years. to transform our company into a more efficient, Excellence in science is also a priority
Still,the overall environment is challenging flexible and dynamic organization for the future. of the Board,and we were pleased last year
for all companies across the pharmaceutical This year we plan to look for additional to welcome two new members who have
industry.Pricing pressures in particular are opportunities to drive efficiencies and reduce strong backgrounds in science and medicine.
growing,including in the U.S.,where the new costs,again largely by scrutinizing the way we Vicki L.Sato,Ph.D.,is professor of management
prescription drug benefit under Medicare is operate as a business.We cannot pretend this practice at Harvard Business School and
having an impact. process will be painless.Across our entire professor of the practice in the Department
To maintain our forward momentum,we industry,companies are facing difficult choices of Molecular and Cell Biology at Harvard
must constantly examine our cost base to as they restructure.For us,it is important to University.R.Sanders Williams,M.D.,is senior
ensure that—to the maximum extent possi- lead this process in a way that builds strength, vice chancellor for academic affairs at Duke
ble—it is supporting investment in growth confidence and commitment to a better University Medical Center and dean of Duke
opportunities.Over the past year,we made future for Bristol-Myers Squibb. University School of Medicine.
2006 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb 5TOGETHER WE CAN PREVAIL
Drs.Sato and Williams serve on the Board’s Ultimately,through our efforts in science, In Africa,our $150 million SECURETHE
Science and Technology Committee,which business and many other areas,we aim to help FUTURE initiative continues to make head-
was established last year.The Committee is patients prevail in their fight against serious way in the fight against HIV/AIDS by providing
chaired by Laurie H.Glimcher,M.D.,Irene Heinz disease.That is the heart of our mission and community-based treatment and care.
Given Professor of Immunology,Harvard the guiding spirit behind our strategy.It inspires We opened our third pediatric AIDS clinic
School of Public Health,and professor of us to succeed as a company and build value in Africa—in Swaziland—and have broken
medicine,Harvard Medical School,who has for our stockholders.Our 43,000 employees ground on similar centers in Burkina Faso
been a member of the Board since 1997. have demonstrated extraordinary commitment and Uganda.These centers,funded by
We believe it is imperative for the Board and resiliency during these challenging times,as Bristol-Myers Squibb,are operating in part-
to be fully involved in developing and over- they stayed focused on our mission and values. nership with Baylor College of Medicine
seeing the company’s R&D strategy,and in We help people prevail with innovative and national governments,and are bringing
assessing the opportunities—and risks—in products that make a difference in their lives. critically needed medical care to thousands
that strategy. We also help by providing free medicines of children and their families living with HIV.
We also want to welcome to the Board to patients in need,and by seeking to reduce In the Special Report that follows,you
Michael Grobstein,who is a distinguished health disparities around the world through the will learn about some remarkable people who
retired vice chairman of Ernst & Young.He work of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation. have prevailed over significant health challenges
will serve on the Board’s Audit Committee. Last year,the company provided free with great courage and determination.We
medications worth more than $400 million are proud that our company could play a
to approximately 570,000 people in the U.S., part in their inspiring stories.As we look
and—together with the Foundation— ahead,we are excited by the prospect of
contributed $87 million to health,education helping to create many more stories of
and community projects around the world. hope and triumph.That vision will continue
to drive us to make Bristol-Myers Squibb
the best it possibly can be.
JAMES D.ROBINSON III
Chairman of the Board
JAMES M.CORNELIUS
Chief Executive Officer
March 7,2007
6 Bristol-Myers Squibb 2006 Annual ReportSPECIAL REPORT
At Bristol-Myers Squibb, our medicines have helped countless
patients prevail over serious diseases such as cancer, HIV/AIDS
and mental illness.We have stood beside patients to help them
battle rheumatoid arthritis and hepatitis, heart disease and
diabetes. Our health care products have enhanced the lives
of millions. And our philanthropic programs have given new
hope to some of the most vulnerable people in the world.
What sets us apart? At Bristol-Myers Squibb,we believe it’s our commitment
to patients with serious diseases,our focus on finding innovative medicines
that combat those diseases,and our dedication to extending and enhancing
human life.
This Special Report describes some of what we have done to change the
course of disease for people everywhere.The stories in this section capture
the determination of just a few of the individuals we have helped.
Their will. Our medicines.
Together we can prevail.
2006 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb 7Cancer
Prevailing over
The year 2006 marked the 35th anniversary head and neck cancer.“The development of “We’re executing a strategy intended to
of the National Cancer Act.With this Act,the Erbitux clearly illustrates our company’s com- provide patients with a broad range of product
U.S.declared “war on cancer.”Although much mitment to patients with cancer,”says Caforio. types:traditional cell-killing chemotherapeutic
progress has been made since then,the war Bristol-Myers Squibb is building on that agents,targeted biologics,signal transduction
is far from won.Worldwide,nearly 11 million commitment.Sprycel(dasatinib),for the treat- inhibitors that prevent tumor growth and
people are diagnosed with cancer annually. ment of patients with chronic myelogenous immunomodulators that use the body’s own
Yet,from the earliest days in that struggle leukemia and Philadelphia chromosome-positive immune system to fight cancer,”says Martin
right up to today,Bristol-Myers Squibb has acute lymphoblastic leukemia who are resistant Birkhofer,M.D.,vice president,Oncology
remained on the front lines. or intolerant to prior therapy,was discovered Global Medical Affairs.
“In the 1970s,when oncology was just a by Bristol-Myers Squibb and developed in Bristol-Myers Squibb’s commitment to
cottage industry,”says Robert Kramer,Ph.D., record time.Sprycelwas approved in the U.S. patients remains the hallmark of its legacy of
vice president,Oncology and Immunology Drug in June 2006 and in Europe in November 2006. innovative cancer treatments.“People always ask
Discovery,“Bristol-Myers Squibb became the Clinical trials are under way to evaluate the if there will be a cure for cancer,”says Renzo
first company to drive research and treatments effectiveness of Sprycel in other hematologic Canetta,M.D.,vice president,Oncology Global
to the point where we were having an impact malignancies and solid tumors. Clinical Research.“With early detection and
on cancer treatment with medicines.” Among our oncology compounds in more-powerful treatments,I see more and
An early company entry was Cytoxan late-stage clinical development are ixabepilone, more patients doing well every day.Increasingly,
(cyclophosphamide),a medicine still in use a compound in a new class of drugs discovered we understand that cancer can be something
today. The1980s saw the approval of several and developed in company labs for the treat- patients live with,not die from.”
additional anticancer therapies—including ment of breast cancer;vinflunine,licensed
cisplatin,carboplatin and etoposide.“There from Pierre Fabre Me´dicament for the treat-
was a time when nearly all patients diagnosed ment of bladder cancer;and ipilimumab,
with cancer died soon after diagnosis,”says licensed from Medarex,Inc.for the treatment
Giovanni Caforio,M.D.,senior vice president, of metastatic melanoma.
U.S.Oncology.“These and other new agents
began to change that.”
In the1990s,Bristol-Myers Squibb took on
a significant challenge—the development of
TAXOL® (paclitaxel).Previously,paclitaxel had
been derived solely from the bark of the Pacific
yew tree,and quantities were severely limited.
Within months,the company devised a method
to dramatically improve the production of
paclitaxel from natural sources.Large-scale
clinical trials supported by the company proved
the efficacy of TAXOLin the treatment of
multiple types of cancer,thereby changing the
course of cancer care for many patients.
In 2001,the company advanced the fight
with more targeted therapies as it entered
into an agreement with ImClone Systems
Incorporated to develop Erbitux (cetuximab).
Approved in the U.S.in February 2004 for
certain patients with metastatic colorectal cancer,
in March 2006 Erbitux became the first drug
approved in 45 years for the treatment of
5When Jan Johnsen of London was diagnosed with chronic myelogenous leukemia,he recalls,“It was the most
shocking day of my life.”When Johnsen’s treatments failed,his doctor suggested he enter a clinical trial with Sprycel.
“It’s almost impossible to describe the joy you feel when you know that you have a treatment that helps fight a
life-threatening illness,”Johnsensays.
8 Bristol-Myers Squibb 2006 Annual ReportSHARON COORDS-BELVIN
Two weeks before her wedding,
Sharon Coords-Belvin,seen here
with her husband,Rob,thought
she had bronchitis.But it was the
diagnosis that left her breathless:
metastatic melanoma.“I literally fell
over backwards,” she says.Despite
chemotherapy,the tumors quickly
spread to her lungs,lymph nodes
and brain.Then,she enrolled in
a clinical trial for ipilimumab,an
investigational biologic.Today,
Sharon appears to be doing well.
“Now, when I talk
with my husband
about our dreams for
the future, it brings
tears to my eyes.”
3Frank Lee,a research fellow in Discovery Biology
at Bristol-Myers Squibb,has spent most of his life
studying cancer to find better treatments.“I’m in
cancer research simply because that is where I
want to be,”he says.“I know that there are people
out there waiting for us to come up with better
medicines,with hope for a cure.It’s what makes
me come to work every day.”
2006 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb 9OPHELIA HAANYAMA
When Ophelia Haanyama,a Swedish
citizen born in Zambia and living in
Stockholm,tested positive for HIV
in 1990,she did not understand
why something as small as a virus
couldn’t be cured.Haanyama was
determined to fight back.She began
treatment,completed her high school
education and then went on to study
microbiology,physiology and public
health.Today,she is a senior adviser for
the Noah’s Ark-Red Cross Foundation
Sweden,an HIV/AIDS education,
information and support program.
As part of her treatment,Haanyama
takes Reyataz.Her hope for the
future is a simple one—
“An AIDS-free
world, a world
more open and
proud of being
healthy.”
10 Bristol-Myers Squibb 2006 Annual ReportHIV Hepatitis
Prevailing over and
HIV/AIDS
When AIDS was first identified about The company is pursuing opportunities in two
25 years ago,there were few treatment options new classes of drugs—attachment inhibitors HEPATITIS
available to patients.Now,while there are still and integrase inhibitors—that attack the AIDS Worldwide,about 400 million people are
no cures,drug treatments—such as Videx EC virus in novel ways.Drug candidates have chronically infected with hepatitis B virus (HBV).
(didanosine),Zerit (stavudine),Sustiva (efavirenz), already been tested in early clinical trials.“If About 75 percent of them are in Asia—
Reyataz (atazanavir sulfate) and Atripla (efavirenz two or three new classes of HIV drugs can 130 million in China alone.
600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil be introduced in addition to existing classes, Baraclude(entecavir) was discovered by
fumarate 300 mg),all of them marketed or doctors should be able to provide patients with Bristol-Myers Squibb scientists and found to
comarketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb—have sufficient options to fight HIV for a long time,” block all three stages of HBV DNA replication.
turned HIV into a treatable disease for many. says Richard Colonno,Ph.D.,vice president, The medication was approved in the U.S.in
Today there are some 2.1 million people Infectious Diseases Drug Discovery. March 2005 and has since become available to
in North America and Western Europe living Unfortunately,outside of North America patients in more than 50 countries and regions,
with HIV/AIDS. and Western Europe,many HIV-positive including China.“Baracludereduces the viral
“For HIV,”says Ann Kolokathis,M.D.,vice individuals,particularly those in southern Africa, load of hepatitis B in those infected and,in
president,Virology,Global Medical Affairs, do not have adequate access to medicines or certain patient populations,studies have shown
“it is important not only to provide patients health care.Through programs such as SECURE Baracludeto reduce viral load to undetectable
with effective treatments but also to simplify THE FUTURE,Bristol-Myers Squibb is helping levels in many patients,”Kolokathis says.
their therapies.That’s what makes a compound address these needs.For more on these Hepatitis C is another serious viral infection
like Atripla so important.”Atripla,the result of groundbreaking efforts,please see page 20. that can result in cirrhosis and liver cancer.
a joint venture between Bristol-Myers Squibb Between 150 million and 200 million people
and Gilead Sciences,was approved for marketing are infected worldwide.Hepatitis C is the
in the U.S.in July 2006.It is the first-ever leading cause of liver transplants in the U.S.
once-daily,single-tablet regimen intended as a The company is hard at work pursuing multiple
stand-alone therapy or as part of combination targets and potential drug combinations to
therapy with other medicines for the treatment achieve an oral regimen—what Colonno calls
of HIV in adults. “the Holy Grail for hepatitis C treatment.”
6Peng Zhaoran likes to learn,spending his free time in libraries and
bookstores in Beijing.But then he learned something that could change
his life forever.A routine blood test revealed he was infected with the
hepatitis B virus.“I did not suffer any pain,”Zhaoran says,“but I was
very worried.”His doctor recommended treatment with Baraclude.
“Now I treasure each day with my family.I feel I am a lucky person.”
5Brian Coppedge,left,Patient and Community Affairs manager at
Bristol-Myers Squibb,with Francisco Valdés,a treatment adherence
counselor for AltaMed Health Services in East Los Angeles.“I’m
HIV-positive myself,”says Coppedge,“so I understand the hurdles
that HIV patients must overcome.While a patient may need to take
only one pill a day,it is still a lifelong regimen that must be carefully
maintained.Staying healthy is an ongoing effort.”
2006 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb 11Autoimmune
Prevailing over
Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune
disease in which the body’s own defense cells
mistakenly attack the joints in the body,leaving
its victims in pain,disabled and sometimes
crippled for life.About 1 percent of the world’s
population is afflicted with rheumatoid arthritis,
including more than 2 million Americans.About
75 percent of those affected are women.
Rheumatoid arthritis often requires long-term
therapy.But because many treatments provide
inadequate relief,many patients still live with
pain,discomfort and a decreased quality of life.
Orencia(abatacept) was discovered and
developed by scientists at Bristol-Myers Squibb.
First approved in the U.S.in December 2005,
Orenciais a novel biologic for adult patients with
moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis
who have not been helped by other medica-
tions.“Orenciaoffers a novel way of treating
rheumatoid arthritis patients,”says Mark Kreston,
vice president,Immunoscience Global Brand
Commercialization.
Orenciaalso represents a pipeline of potential
new indications for other autoimmune disorders.
It is now in investigational trials for lupus, 5Over the years,Barbara Whitehead was finding it more
and more difficult to do the simple things in life,like
Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis.
getting out of a chair or playing with her grandchildren.
Belatacept is an investigational biologic
“I got to the point where I hurt all the time.”Whitehead
engineered by Bristol-Myers Squibb scientists was diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis.After several
to target the immune system for a different unsuccessful courses of treatment,she entered a clinical
purpose:to prevent solid organ transplant trial for Orencia.After three treatments with Orencia,
she says,“I could feel a difference.It felt like hope.”
rejection.It is currently in Phase III clinical
trials in kidney transplant patients.“We hope
that belatacept will ultimately help transform pressure,high cholesterol levels,diabetes and
the practice of transplant medicine,”says kidney toxicity.Transplant patients risk cardio-
Elliott Levy,M.D.,vice president,Immunology vascular disease and premature graft loss.
Global Clinical Research. Says Levy,“If we can meet the standard of
Currently,more than 300,000 patients in the efficacy and improve on the safety profile of
U.S.and Europe live with transplanted organs, current transplant drugs with belatacept,that
and about 50,000 receive new transplants will be a huge advance.”
every year.To prevent rejection,transplant Kreston adds,“With five different disease
recipients require lifelong therapy with potent programs in the clinic—rheumatoid arthritis,
immunosuppressive drugs.“Current drugs are Crohn’s disease,ulcerative colitis,lupus and
very effective at preventing acute rejection, solid organ transplant rejection—plus our
but do so at a heavy cost in terms of side manufacturing commitment to a new biologics
effects,”Levy says.In the long term,immuno- facility being built in Devens,Massachusetts,
suppressive drugs can contribute to high blood you can see a clear commitment to biologics.
And that translates into a great many possi-
bilities for making a real difference for patients.” 5Biologics Process Operator Jill Reinhard and
colleague monitor the 5,000-liter fermentation
bioreactors where cells are grown to produce
Orencia.Each bioreactor contains 25 trillion cells,
which equals one treatment for 1,200 rheumatoid
arthritis patients.It takes about 50 days of exacting
processes to manufacture the bulk product here
at the company's Syracuse,New York,facility.
12 Bristol-Myers Squibb 2006 Annual ReportDisorders
JAMES HARRIS
In July 2006,after being on dialysis
for six years,James Harris got a new
lease on life—a kidney transplant.
“Dialysis took a lot out of me,” he
says.After the transplant,Harris
entered a clinical trial for belatacept,
an investigational treatment designed
to prevent organ transplant rejection.
Since the transplant,Harris has been
spending more time with his family
and more time fishing.
“Now I’m
enjoying life
more.”
2006 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb 13JOSHUA
Joshua never thought he would
be able to control the debilitating
mood swings that were part of the
bipolar disorder that had plagued
him for many years.Now,after
starting treatment with Abilify,
the 30-year-old salesman feels he
has turned a corner.“Emotionally,
I’m feeling healthy,” he says.
“Now I can
get on with
my life.”
14 Bristol-Myers Squibb 2006 Annual Report3Yu-Wen Li,Ph.D.,principal scientist
in Neuroscience Biology,confers
with his colleague,Research Scientist
Kelly Lengyel.“Autoradiographic
images of human brain sections tell
us where our drug target is located,”
he explains.“This technology allows
us to more rapidly and more effec-
tively design the next generation
of drugs to treat serious psychiatric
and neurological disorders,such as
major depressive disorder and
Alzheimer’s disease.”
3Susan Fredriksen is a psychiatrist who
knows only too well the pain of depression.
For years she had been haunted by recurrent
depressive episodes.Then,in 2004,she fell
into a serious depression.In July 2006,
Fredriksen was prescribed EMSAM.“My best
friend told me that I sound like I am doing
better.I told her,‘That’s because I am.’”
Mental Illness
Prevailing over
Many patients with schizophrenia and other recently,Abilify Injection,for agitation associated Abilify and EMSAM are backed by a growing
serious mental illnesses cycle from medicine to with schizophrenia or bipolar mania.Together pipeline of other compounds in development.
medicine and may even discontinue treatment. with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co.,Ltd.,Bristol- A CRF receptor antagonist for depression
“Patients are often unable to tolerate the side Myers Squibb continues to develop clinical is in early clinical development,and other
effects or do not achieve adequate symptom programs for potential expanded uses of Abilify. compounds that focus on novel approaches
control,”says Kevin Trapp,vice president, More than 1.7 million patients have been to treat anxiety and schizophrenia,as well as
Neuroscience Marketing.“Certain side effects, prescribed Abilify to date.“Schizophrenia and compounds to help slow the progression of
such as weight gain and sedation,may influence bipolar disorder are debilitating diseases,”says Alzheimer’s disease,closely follow.The company
a person’s willingness and ability to stay on Adam Lenkowsky,director,Neuroscience also has extended a research alliance with
medication.” Strategy.“Yet when you meet some of the Lexicon Genetics to look at 5,000 different
Studies suggest that Abilify (aripiprazole) may patients who have been treated with Abilify, genes expressed in the brain as potential
work differently from most other antipsychotic and you hear them talk about their lives and novel targets for future psychiatric drugs.
medications,raising levels of certain neuro- how they have changed,it’s truly touching.” “We’ve made great strides in the treatment
transmitters when they are low and reducing But the focus on mental illness for of both psychiatric and neurological illnesses,yet
levels when they are too high.Because of its Bristol-Myers Squibb only begins with Abilify. these remain areas of significant unmet medical
unique profile and benefits for patients,Abilify EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system),a need for many patients,”says Jack Grebb,M.D.,
has enjoyed extraordinary sales growth since transdermal patch for major depressive disorder, vice president,Neuroscience Global Clinical
its introduction in 2002. was approved in February 2006,resulting from Research.“Our hope is that with continuing
While revenues are certainly important,for a partnership with Somerset Pharmaceuticals. advances in genetics,we will identify new
the Abilify team,helping patients is the prime As a transdermal patch,EMSAM is directly and molecular targets in the brain and be able
concern.In just four years,Abilify has been continuously absorbed into the bloodstream. to direct our innovative drugs against them.”
granted five indications:acute and maintenance
treatment of schizophrenia,acute and mainte-
nance treatment of bipolar mania and,most
2006 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb 15Heart Disease
Prevailing over
and
More than 52 million patients have been Diabetes
prescribed Plavix (clopidogrel bisulfate) since
it was first made available to patients in 1997.
Plavix provides a balanced safety and efficacy
profile in a broad range of indicated patients.
It is used to reduce the risk of heart attack in “We have always believed that Plavix has the Diabetes is another area of intensive research.
patients who have had a recent heart attack potential to dramatically improve the standard “Even among those patients being treated
or recent ischemic stroke or who are diagnosed of care for the millions of patients who are at for diabetes,only about half are successfully
with peripheral artery disease.In 2006,Plavix, risk of future atherothrombotic events,”says controlled,”says Chris Cann,vice president,
taken with aspirin,was approved to reduce the Brian Gavin,Ph.D.,executive director,Global Global Brand Commercialization.The company
risk of death from any cause and the risk of Medical Affairs.“That’s why we have spent currently has two novel compounds in later
heart attack,stroke or death in patients who hundreds of millions of dollars exploring new stages of development:saxagliptin and dapagli-
have experienced the most severe form of benefits for patients while also continuing to flozin.In January 2007,Bristol-Myers Squibb and
heart attack.This additional indication expanded improve the current usages.” AstraZeneca agreed to develop and market
the use of Plavix,taken with aspirin,to reduce Behind Plavix,a new generation of oral these two drugs in partnership.In Japan,
the risk of heart attack and stroke across the antithrombotic agents is emerging from the saxagliptin will be developed and commercial-
entire spectrum of acute coronary syndrome. research pipeline,including apixaban,now in ized in partnership with Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Plavix has been exhaustively studied in Phase III clinical trials. Co.,Ltd.
one of the largest clinical trial programs ever Bristol-Myers Squibb’s focus on the patient Obesity is also a growing health issue world-
developed,involving more than100,000 patients extends to many other areas,including hyper- wideand a major contributor to cardiovascular
over many years.Yet,for Bristol-Myers Squibb tension.“Most people with hypertension are disease and diabetes.Currently in Phase II clinical
and its partner sanofi-aventis,the work to not adequately controlling high blood pressure,” trials is a CB1 antagonist targeting receptors
find additional benefits and treatment options says Pablo Lapuerta,M.D.,executive director, that help control appetite.
for patients is far from over. Global Medical Affairs.Together with sanofi- “Our job at Bristol-Myers Squibb is to live
Trials are under way in patients with aventis,Bristol-Myers Squibb is studying our company’s mission to extend and enhance
peripheral bypass grafts,patients with atrial Avapro/Avalide (irbesartan),an advanced human life,”says Sharon Henry,M.D.,vice
fibrillation,and those undergoing angioplasty. antihypertensive,for additional uses,including president,Cardiovasculars and Metabolics Global
Another trial is ongoing in children with first-line treatment of severe hypertension, Medical Affairs.“As scientists and clinicians,
congenital heart disease.More than 20,000 heart failure and atrial fibrillation. we must stay focused on the patient.”
patients will be enrolled worldwide in these
new investigational studies.
4Kim Smith,a
registered
nurse at the
Bristol-Myers
Squibb Clinical
Pharmacology
Unit in
Hamilton,
New Jersey,
takes vital
signs of a
healthy volunteer testing one of the company’s new investigational
compounds for diabetes.Health care professionals at this state-of- 5In June 2005,Richard Harper stepped on some broken glass.He didn’t feel pain and didn’t know
the-art,60-bed facility perform the first clinical assessments on he was injured,but days later his foot became swollen.Harper was diagnosed with diabetic neuropathy,
compounds approved for Phase I clinical trials.Says Smith,“Our which causes peripheral numbness.“I didn’t even know I had diabetes,”he says.Harper entered a
first priority is the safety of the volunteers.” clinical trial for saxagliptin,an investigational new drug for type 2 diabetes.He also made lifestyle
changes,improving his diet and exercising.Now,he says,“I feel better.”
16 Bristol-Myers Squibb 2006 Annual ReportTOM GIBSON
Tom Gibson believed he was just
too busy to have a heart attack.
He made weekly coast-to-coast trips
but rarely had time for exercise,
eating right or relaxing.All that
changed in April 2006,when a
heart attack found time for him.
“
When the doctor told
me, ‘You’re a heartbeat
away from not being
here,’ that woke me up.”
As part of his therapy,Gibson
was prescribed Plavix.Now,he
says,“I’ve learned what’s important.
I take time for myself—I exercise
and eat right—and I take time
for my family.”
2006 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb 17Enhancing Lives
and Prevailing over Health Challenges
Bristol-Myers Squibb’s Health Care Group,
which consists of Mead Johnson Nutritionals,
ConvaTec and Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Throughout 2006,Mead Johnson’s Enfamil
Imaging,plays an important part in the com- infant formulas as well as toddlers’and children’s MEDICAL IMAGING
pany—with over $4 billion in sales in 2006. nutritional products continued to earn the “Helping customers and patients prevail
“The role of the Health Care Group is trust of parents and health care professionals over challenges is literally ‘at the heart’of
in line with Bristol-Myers Squibb’s strategy worldwide.The company’s Intercontinental our medical imaging business,”says Bristol-
by delivering strength and stability in a way business was distinguished by strong sales and Myers Squibb Medical Imaging President
that enhances shareholder value,”says Health growth in all regions,most notably in Asia and Tim Ravenscroft.The business helps physicians
Care Group President John Celentano.“We Latin America.Enfafranchise products,including enhance cardiovascular patient care with
succeeded in that role during 2006,and we Enfapro,Enfagrowand Enfakid,fueled this growth. pioneering cardiovascular imaging agents
are already building on it for 2007.We’re “We are committed to continued growth such as Cardiolite(Kit for the Preparation of
doing what is most important:focusing on in our intensely competitive industry.During Technetium Tc99m Sestamibi for Injection)
our broad and enduring commitment to help 2007,we will remain focused on executing our and DEFINITY Vial for (Perflutren Lipid
our customers.”The Health Care Group’s strategies flawlessly and investing in our key Microsphere) Injectable Suspension.
three businesses help fulfill the company’s growth drivers,”says Mead Johnson President “This commitment will continue to guide
mission to enhance human life through their Stephen W.Golsby. us as we work hard to extend the benefits of
related health care products and services. DEFINITYto patients in Europe and throughout
CONVATEC other parts of the world during 2007,”he adds.
MEAD JOHNSON NUTRITIONALS ConvaTec,Bristol-Myers Squibb’s wound
No matter where they live or what language therapeutics and ostomy care business,
they speak,parents worldwide are united by achieved a landmark $1 billion in sales for the
one desire:They want their children to have first time in 2006.ConvaTec President David
the best start in life.Mead Johnson and its Johnson attributes this milestone perform-
approximately 5,000 employees worldwide ance to the customer-driven focus of the
are dedicated to help in that same proposition. company’s employees.“This milestone is a
And that,says Luanne Flikkema,vice president, reflection of our heritage,passion and vision,”
Mead Johnson Global Marketing Resources, he says.“Ourcustomers know us for our his-
is the driving force behind developing Mead tory of bringingneeded products to market,
Johnson products.“By meeting the needs of for the compassionand integrity with which we
parents around the world,we’re not just serve our patients,and for the innovative tech-
making an effort;we’re making a difference.” nologies and qualityproducts and product-
For example,Mead Johnson is a world related services we provide.”
leader in providing innovative,science-based Among ConvaTec’s industry-leading products
nutritional products for infants and children. are SUR-FIT Naturaand Esteemostomy systems,
The company has pioneered products that the Flexi-SealFMS fecal management system,
help those with inborn metabolic disorders and key brands in wound therapeutics including
grow and develop to their full potential. AQUACELwound dressings and AQUACEL Ag
Mead Johnson’s commitment to healthy infants antimicrobial wound dressings,incorporating
as well as to the small number of families innovative Hydrofibertechnology.
dealing with inborn metabolic disorders reflects
the care and exacting attention the company 4Brothers Alex Lazarus,age13,Brennen Cubic,age 7,
gives to all of its more than 60 brand-name and William Cubic,age 2,don’t share the same DNA.
products available in more than 70 countries. But they do share the same rare,inherited metabolic
disorder—phenylketonuria,or PKU.The boys,who began
life thousands of miles apart,became a family when
Brennen and Will were adopted from Russia by Alex’s
parents,Barbara and John Cubic.The boys’bodies can’t
metabolize phenylalanine,an essential amino acid found
in proteins.“But,”says their mom,“that will never break
their spirit.”Brothers now in more ways than one,they
stick together as they manage their strict,low-protein
diet that includes Mead Johnson’s Phenyl-Free2 and
Phenyl-Free2 HP phenylalanine-free dietary powders.
18 Bristol-Myers Squibb 2006 Annual ReportABBY RYAN
Diagnosed with ulcerative colitis when
only 14 months old,Abby Ryan has
had a lot to overcome.At age 3 her
large intestine was removed.At age
11 she received a full ileostomy.
And at age 20 she was diagnosed
with Crohn’s disease.Ryan is fitted
with a drainable ConvaTec pouching
system.“I once had the fear that
I wouldn’t have a life,” she says.
“Now, I realize there are no
limitations to what I can do
when I set my mind to it.”
Ryan,a senior at the University of
Wisconsin–La Crosse,is on the dean’s
list.She is involved with the Miss
America Pageant and has won the
titles of Miss LaCrosse/Oktoberfest,
Miss Western Wisconsin,Miss Midwest
and Miss Mississippi Valley.What’s
more,Ryan travels as a motivational
speaker,delivering her personal
message of hope for those who suffer
from Crohn’s disease and colitis.
3DEFINITYVial for (Perflutren Lipid Microsphere)
Injectable Suspension,the leading echocardiography
contrast agent in the U.S.,enables physicians to improve
patient care by converting suboptimal images to evaluable
ones.DEFINITYconsists of gas-filled microspheres that,
when exposed to ultrasound waves,“echo”back strong
signals,creating an increased level of contrast.The image on
the right represents a DEFINITY-enhanced echocardiogram.
The suboptimal image on the left was obtained from a
study using echocardiography alone.
2006 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb 19Health
Prevailing over
Disparities
Additionally,Bristol-Myers Squibb makes
its HIV medicines available in sub-Saharan
Africa and a number of other low-income
countries at prices reflecting no profit to the
company.The company also provides its
For millions around the world,when During 2006,the first contingent of 50 North pediatric HIV formulations at a significant
they get sick,treatments are limited or not American pediatricians and family practitioners discount in these countries.
available.All too often,patients are disadvan- arrived at their posts in Africa as part of the In 2006,the company became a founding
taged financially,socially or geographically.And Pediatric AIDS Corps.These doctors are partner in a new pediatric initiative of the
certain groups—including women,children treating HIV-positive children and their families President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.
and minorities—are more likely than others at the Children’s Clinical Centers of Excellence “For the first time,”says Donne Newbury,
to experience barriers to health care. developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb and who coordinates the company’s global HIV
Bristol-Myers Squibb recognizes these health Baylor College of Medicine.Over the next access programs,“a public-private partnership
disparities and seeks to address them.In early five years,physicians of the Pediatric AIDS has been created to address the need for
2007,the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation Corps are expected to treat up to 80,000 pediatric formulations that will help open
announced that it was embarking on a new HIV-infected children and train hundreds of up access to HIV treatments for millions.”
initiative:to help strengthen community-based health care workers. In addition to these efforts,Bristol-Myers
health care worker capacity and integrate The AIDS pandemic has demanded Squibb has consolidated its patient assistance
medical care and community-based supportive innovative partnerships.In February 2006, programs in the U.S.into a single LifeLines
services.The aim:to mobilize communities to Bristol-Myers Squibb announced a landmark of Careinitiative that continues to provide
fight disease and improve health outcomes. agreement with two generic manufacturers assistance for qualifying patients with financial
The Foundation is targeting four specific (in India and South Africa) for full technology hardships.During 2006,approximately 570,000
diseases and regions:hepatitis in Asia,serious transfer and voluntary licenses covering patients in the U.S.benefited,with donated
mental illness in the U.S.,cancer in Europe sub-Saharan Africa for Reyataz,the company’s products valued at more than $418 million
and HIV/AIDS in Africa. advanced protease inhibitor.Bristol-Myers Squibb at wholesale list price.
Although this initiative is just now beginning, has also granted immunity from suit for
the cornerstone has already been laid by the Videxand Zeritto generic manufacturers
work done in Africa through the Bristol-Myers for the benefit of patients in the region.
Squibb SECURE THE FUTUREprogram,
addressing women and children affected by
HIV/AIDS.“Our focus on children in projects 4JoAnna Leyenaar,M.D.,a pediatrician from Ottawa,
Canada,treating an HIV-positive infant at the
like the Pediatric AIDS Corps and the Children’s
Children’s Clinical Center of Excellence in
Clinical Centers of Excellence has helped us
Lesotho.“I joined the Pediatric AIDS Corps
better understand how to build bridges to to help people who really need care,”she says.
better health,”says Foundation President “Pediatric HIV care has lagged behind in too
John Damonti.“And our work with community- many countries.It’s great to see children in
Lesotho receiving care,recovering and thriving.”
based treatment support sites has
given us a new appreciation of the
role that communities can play in
improving health outcomes.”
5Bristol-Myers Squibb and Baylor College of Medicine established
the first medical center in Lesotho dedicated to caring for
HIV/AIDS-infected infants,children and their families.Other
pediatric centers of excellence have been established in
Botswana and Swaziland.Centers in Burkina Faso and
Uganda are scheduled to open in 2007.
20 Bristol-Myers Squibb 2006 Annual ReportFinancialReview
2
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
53
Consolidated Financial Statements
57
Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements
105
Reports of Management
106
Controls and Procedures
107
Reports of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firms
110
Five-Year Financial SummaryBristol-Myers Squibb
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
About the Company
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS, the Company or Bristol-Myers Squibb) is a worldwide pharmaceutical and related
health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life by providing the highest quality pharmaceutical and
related health care products. The Company is engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing,
distribution and sale of pharmaceuticals and related health care products.
The Company has three reportable segments—Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Health Care. The Pharmaceuticals
segment is comprised of the global pharmaceutical and international consumer medicines business and accounted for approximately
77% of the Company’s 2006 net sales. The Nutritionals segment consists of Mead Johnson Nutritionals (Mead Johnson), primarily an
infant formula and children’s nutritionals business, which accounted for approximately 13% of the Company’s 2006 net sales. The
Other Health Care segment consists of the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses, which accounted for approximately 10% of the
Company’s 2006 net sales.
2006 Financial Highlights
The Company has made progress with its long-range strategy, despite some significant challenges that occurred during the year,
including the at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate product by another company, which adversely impacted Plavix sales, the
loss of exclusivity of Pravachol in the United States (U.S.) and in certain European markets, and an increase in litigation reserves. The
Company launched several important products in 2006, including Orencia, Sprycel and, with Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead), Atripla.
Orencia and Sprycel continue to gain market share and, along with double digit sales growth in 2006 for Abilify, Reyataz, Erbitux, the
Sustiva Franchise and Baraclude, are key components of a strong product line for long-term growth.
The Company continues to invest in its late stage compounds and the development of new products. With the growing
importance of biologics, in February 2007, the Company completed the land purchase for its major new biologics facility in Devens,
MA, along with expansion of existing facilities in Syracuse, NY, and Manati, Puerto Rico. Construction on the Devens facility is
scheduled to begin in early 2007.
Worldwide net sales from continuing operations for 2006 decreased 7% to $17.9 billion compared to 2005. Worldwide net sales
of the products that the Company views as growth drivers increased by 6% in 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005.
Excluding Plavix, worldwide net sales of the other growth drivers increased 32% in 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005.
Products that the Company considers to be growth drivers are Plavix, Avapro/Avalide, Abilify, Reyataz and Erbitux.
Net income was $1.6 billion in 2006 compared with $3.0 billion in 2005. The 2006 results include a $353 million increase in
reserves for a pricing and sales litigation settlement and $220 million in early debt retirement costs. The 2005 results included $370
million gain on the sale of the Consumer Medicines business.
Plavix
The Company’s largest product ranked by net sales is Plavix (clopidogrel bisulfate) with U.S. sales of $2.7 billion in 2006, $3.2
billion in 2005 and $2.8 billion in 2004. The composition of matter patent for Plavix, which expires in 2011, is currently the subject of
patent litigation in the U.S. with Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (Apotex) and with other generic companies, as well as in other less
significant jurisdictions. The Company has previously disclosed certain developments in the pending Plavix litigation with Apotex,
including the at-risk launch of a generic product by Apotex in August 2006.
As noted above, Apotex launched a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product that competes with Plavix on August 8, 2006. On
August 31, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the Court) granted a motion by the Company and its
product partner, Sanofi-Aventis (Sanofi), to enjoin further sales of Apotex’s generic clopidogrel bisulfate product, but did not order
Apotex to recall product from its customers. The Court’s grant of a preliminary injunction has been affirmed on appeal. The trial in the
underlying patent litigation ended on February 15, 2007 and the Court is expected to rule following post-trial briefing.
The at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate had a significant adverse effect on net sales of Plavix in 2006, which the
Company estimates to be in a range of $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion. In particular, the launch had a significant adverse effect on sales in
the third quarter, which the Company estimates to be in the range of $525 million to $600 million, as well as in the fourth quarter of
2006, which the Company estimates to be in the range of $700 million to $750 million. In the first, second, third and fourth quarters of
2006, U.S. net sales for Plavix were $850 million, $988 million, $474 million and $343 million, respectively. Estimated total U.S.
prescription demand for clopidogrel bisulfate (branded and generic) increased by 14% in 2006 compared to 2005, while estimated
22006 Annual Report
total U.S. prescription demand for branded Plavix decreased by 18% in the same period. The Company expects generic clopidogrel
bisulfate that was sold into distribution channels following the Apotex at-risk launch in August 2006 will have a residual impact on
Plavix net sales and the Company's overall financial results into 2007. The full impact of Apotex’s launch of its generic clopidogrel
bisulfate product on the Company cannot be reasonably estimated at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including,
among others, the amount of generic product sold by Apotex; whether the Company and Sanofi (the Companies) prevail in the
underlying patent litigation; even if the Companies prevail in the pending patent case, the extent to which the launch by Apotex will
permanently adversely impact the pricing and prescription demand for Plavix, the amount of damages that would be sought and/or
recovered by the Companies, and Apotex’s ability to pay such damages. Loss of market exclusivity of Plavix and/or sustained generic
competition would be material to the Company’s sales of Plavix, results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to the
Company’s financial condition and liquidity.
The Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is also a plaintiff in three additional pending patent
infringement lawsuits against Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc. and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, LTD (Dr. Reddy’s), Teva Pharmaceuticals
USA, Inc. (Teva) and Cobalt Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Cobalt), all related to the U.S. Patent No. 4,847,265 (the ‘265 Patent). A trial date
for the action against Dr. Reddy's has not been set. The patent infringement actions against Teva and Cobalt have been stayed pending
resolution of the Apotex litigation, and the parties to those actions have agreed to be bound by the outcome of the litigation against
Apotex, although Teva and Cobalt can appeal the outcome of the litigation. Each of Dr. Reddy’s and Teva have filed an Abbreviated
New Drug Application (aNDA) with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and all exclusivity periods and statutory stay
periods under the Hatch-Waxman Act have expired, with the exception of the 30-month stay that applies to Teva, which expires on
February 27, 2007. Accordingly, final approval by the FDA would provide each company authorization to distribute a generic
clopidogrel bisulfate product in the U.S., subject to various legal remedies for which the Companies may apply including injunctive
relief and damages.
The Company continues to believe that the Plavix patents are valid and infringed, and with Sanofi, is vigorously pursuing
enforcement of their patent rights in Plavix. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the ultimate outcome of the ongoing
patent litigation with Apotex, or of the other Plavix patent litigations, or the timing of any renewed generic competition for Plavix
from Apotex or additional generic competition for Plavix from other third-party generic pharmaceutical companies. However, if
Apotex were to prevail at trial, the Company would expect to face renewed generic competition for Plavix from Apotex promptly
thereafter.
As previously disclosed, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice is conducting a criminal investigation
regarding the proposed settlement of the pending patent Plavix litigation with Apotex. The Company is cooperating fully with the
investigation. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the investigation or its impact on the Company. It is
also not possible at this time reasonably to assess the impact of the investigation, if any, on the Company’s compliance with the
Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey (USAO). Also as previously
disclosed, the USAO had initiated an investigation, conducted by the Monitor under the DPA (Monitor) and the USAO, into corporate
governance issues relating to the Company’s negotiations of the proposed settlement with Apotex, which included a review of whether
there was any violation of Federal securities laws in connection with the proposed settlement with Apotex under the terms of the
previously disclosed Consent Order the Company entered into with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in August 2004
(Consent or SEC Consent). The Monitor has completed his investigation and submitted his report on the investigation to the USAO.
The Monitor’s report did not find any violation of the Consent or the Federal securities laws in connection with the proposed
settlement. The Monitor concluded that the Company had violated certain paragraphs of the DPA related to governance matters. The
violations cited by the Monitor in his report relate, among other things, to communication failures, including insufficient
communications by the Company’s former Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and former General Counsel with the Board of Directors
(the Board) and with other members of senior management, as well as failure to comply with certain internal Company policies and
procedures. The Monitor did not make any findings with respect to whether the Company knowingly and materially breached the
DPA or make any recommendations. The USAO has advised the Company that he believes the matters cited in the Monitor’s report
have been fully remediated and, accordingly, that he does not intend to take any action under the DPA with respect to the Monitor’s
report.
For additional discussion of legal matters, including the Plavix patent litigation, the Antitrust Division investigation related to
the proposed settlement with Apotex and the terms of the DPA and SEC Consent, see Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies,” “—OUTLOOK” and “—SEC Consent Order and Deferred Prosecution Agreement” below.
3Bristol-Myers Squibb
Business Environment
The Company conducts its business primarily within the pharmaceutical industry, which is highly competitive and subject to
numerous government regulations. Many competitive factors may significantly affect the Company’s sales of its products, including
product efficacy, safety, price and cost-effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, quality control and quality assurance
of its manufacturing operations, and research and development of new products. To successfully compete for business in the health
care industry, the Company must demonstrate that its products offer medical benefits as well as cost advantages. Currently, most of
the Company’s new product introductions compete with other products already on the market in the same therapeutic category, in
addition to potential future competition of new products that competitors may introduce. The Company manufactures branded
products, which are priced higher than generic products. Generic competition is one of the Company’s leading challenges globally.
In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period
that the product has market exclusivity. When a product loses exclusivity, it is no longer protected by a patent and is subject to new
competing products in the form of generic brands. Upon exclusivity loss, the Company can lose a major portion of that product’s
sales in a short period of time.
Both in the U.S. and internationally, the health care industry is subject to various government-imposed regulations that authorize
prices or price controls that have and will continue to have an impact on the Company’s sales. In the U.S., Congress and some state
legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have enacted laws that could effect major changes in the health care system,
either nationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid access and reimbursement restrictions have been
implemented in some states and proposed in many others. In addition, in January 2006, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement
and Modernization Act became effective and provides outpatient prescription drug coverage to senior citizens in the U.S. The
Company is assessing the impact this legislation could have on its business, including a potential negative impact on the U.S.
Pharmaceuticals business due to further legislative and/or regulatory changes that could result in additional pricing pressures or
controls. In many markets outside the U.S., the Company operates in environments of government-mandated, cost-containment
programs, or under other regulatory bodies or groups that can exert downward pressure on pricing. Pricing freedom is limited in the
United Kingdom (UK), for instance, by the operation of a profit control plan, and in Germany by the operation of a reference price
system. Companies also face significant delays in market access for new products. In some national markets, more than two years can
elapse after drug approval before new medicines become available.
The growth of Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) in the U.S. has played a large role in the competition that surrounds the
health care industry. MCOs seek to reduce health care expenditures for participants by making volume purchases and entering into
long-term contracts to negotiate discounts with various pharmaceutical providers. Because of the market potential created by the large
pool of participants, marketing prescription drugs to MCOs has become an important part of the Company’s strategy. Companies
compete for inclusion in a MCO formulary and the Company has generally been successful in having its major products included. The
Company believes that developments in the managed care industry, including continued consolidation, have had and will continue to
have a generally downward pressure on prices.
Pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product. Shifting or
adding manufacturing capacity can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital expenditures and regulatory approvals. Biologics
manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. As biologics become more
important to the Company’s product portfolio, the Company will continue to make arrangements with third-party manufacturers, and
will make substantial investments to increase its internal capacity to produce biologics on a commercial scale, including building a
new state-of-the-art manufacturing facility for the production of biologics in Devens, MA, with construction to commence in early
2007.
The Company has maintained a competitive position in the market and strives to uphold this position, which is dependent on its
success in discovering and developing innovative, cost-effective products that serve unmet medical needs.
The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and
investigations. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management
continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these
and other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the Company’s results of operations and cash
flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. For additional discussion of legal matters, see Note 21 “Legal
Proceedings and Contingencies.”
42006 Annual Report
Strategy
The Company continues to execute its strategy for long-term growth and is currently on track with its strategic transition. This
strategy consists of increasing investments behind growth brands and new specialty products, focusing the Company’s research and
development programs on products in the pharmaceutical pipeline in disease areas that address significant unmet medical needs,
aligning sales and marketing emphasis on specialists and high value primary care prescribers, and implementing initiatives designed to
achieve and maintain a more efficient cost base.
The Company’s pharmaceutical portfolio has continued to transition away from products which have lost exclusivity towards
growth drivers, recently launched and other products, which include Plavix, Abilify (aripiprazole), Avapro/Avalide
(irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide), Reyataz (atazanavir sulfate), the Sustiva (efavirenz) Franchise, Erbitux (cetuximab),
Orencia (abatacept), Baraclude (entecavir) and Sprycel (dasatinib). U.S. net sales of these products accounted for 83% of the
Company’s U.S. pharmaceutical net sales in 2006, compared to 71% in 2005, while worldwide net sales of these products accounted
for 59% of the Company’s worldwide pharmaceutical net sales in 2006 as compared to 49% in 2005. The Company experienced the
last of a series of major anticipated exclusivity losses in 2006, with the market exclusivity expiration of Pravachol (pravastatin
sodium) in the U.S. and certain markets in Europe, and does not expect any significant new exclusivity losses for the next several
years.
In order to support the production of the specialty products in the pharmaceutical portfolio including biologics, during 2006, the
Board of Directors approved capital expenditures of approximately $750 million for a bulk biologics manufacturing facility in the U.S.
In February 2007, the Company completed the land purchase of an 89-acre site to locate its new large-scale, expandable multi-product
bulk biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, MA. Construction is expected to begin in early 2007, and the facility is projected to
be operationally complete in 2009. The Company expects to submit the site for regulatory approval in 2010. Commercial production
of biologic compounds is anticipated to begin by 2011. In addition, the Company will expand its Manati, Puerto Rico facility,
targeted for start-up in 2009. The expansion will add new space and renovate existing space for the filling and finishing of the
Company's sterile products and biologic compounds, including Orencia, and several investigational compounds.
Given the Company’s current limited capacity for commercial volumes of biologic products, the Company also received
approval from the FDA in May 2006 that permits a third-party to manufacture Orencia at an additional facility. This facility, together
with another third-party facility, which is pending submission to and approval from the FDA, will support increased production
capacity necessary to meet expected long-term demand for Orencia and initial requirements for other biologics products if they are
commercialized.
In keeping with its strategy, the Company invested $3.1 billion in research and development in 2006, representing a 12% growth
rate over 2005. Research and development dedicated to pharmaceutical products, including milestone payments for in-licensing and
development programs, was $2.8 billion compared to $2.5 billion in 2005.
As part of its strategy, the Company is re-examining its operating costs to achieve and maintain a more efficient cost base. At
the end of 2005, the Company launched an initiative to identify and realize productivity savings. Through this initiative the Company
has re-examined its operating model to focus resources on high value priorities; simplify and streamline business processes; improve
governance and decision making; and build the capabilities to sustain these cost reductions for the long term. The Company is on plan
to achieve the goal of realizing a minimum of $500 million in productivity savings in 2007 and an incremental $100 million in 2008,
as well as making the Company more productive, efficient and effective.
New Product and Pipeline Developments
In January 2007, the Company and AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca) announced a collaboration to develop and commercialize
two investigational compounds, saxagliptin and dapagliflozin, being studied for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The Company
discovered both compounds. The collaboration on these compounds is worldwide, except for Japan. Separately, the Company also
announced a collaboration with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka) to develop saxagliptin in Japan.
In November 2006, the FDA granted Fast Track designation for ipilimumab used in combination with chemotherapy
(dacarbazine) in previously untreated metastatic melanoma patients. The FDA also granted Fast Track designation for ipilimumab
used as a monotherapy in previously treated metastatic melanoma patients.
In October 2006, the Company moved its investigational anti-thrombosis compound apixaban into Phase III development.
Apixaban is an oral direct factor Xa inhibitor.
In October 2006, the Company received FDA approval of a new once-daily 300 mg single capsule formulation of Reyataz for
the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 infection in adults as part of a combination therapy, which can replace two
5Bristol-Myers Squibb
Reyataz 150 mg capsules in appropriate patients. The Company now has one-pill, once-daily HIV medicine options available in three
drug classes as part of a combination therapy.
The Company and Otsuka received approval from the FDA in September 2006 and the European Medicines Evaluation Agency
(EMEA) in October 2006 for Abilify Injection, the first ready-to-use single-dose vial of an atypical antipsychotic to control agitation
in adults with schizophrenia and bipolar mania.
In August 2006, the Company and Sanofi received approval from both the FDA and the EMEA for an additional indication for
Plavix to reduce the rate of death from any cause and the rate of a combined endpoint of re-infarction, stroke or death in patients with
acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
In July 2006, Atripla, the first-ever once-daily single tablet three-drug regimen for HIV intended as a stand-alone therapy or in
combination with other antiretrovirals, received approval from the FDA. The product combines Sustiva (efavirenz), manufactured by
the Company and Truvada (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), manufactured by Gilead. The Company, Gilead and
Merck & Co., Inc. submitted a Marketing Authorization Approval for Atripla to the EMEA in October 2006. In addition, the
Company and Gilead submitted Atripla for regulatory approval in Canada in September 2006.
In June 2006, the Company received approval for Sprycel (dasatinib) from the FDA for the treatment of adults with chronic,
accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia or Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic
leukemia (Ph+ALL) with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including Gleevec (imatinib mesylate). Sprycel was launched in
the U.S. in July 2006. In November 2006, the Company also received approval of Sprycel from the Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use of the EMEA. The product was launched in Austria, Germany, France, Finland, Sweden and the UK. In
February 2007, the Company received approval for Sprycel, without the Ph+ALL indication, in Switzerland.
In April 2006, the Company launched EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system) in the U.S. EMSAM is the first transdermal
patch for the delivery of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor for the treatment of major depressive disorder in adults. EMSAM was
developed by Somerset Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a joint venture between Mylan Laboratories, Inc. (Mylan) and Watson Pharmaceuticals,
Inc. (Watson). The Company has obtained exclusive distribution rights to commercialize EMSAM in the U.S. and Canada and
markets EMSAM through its existing neuroscience sales force.
In March 2006, the FDA approved Erbitux, which is co-promoted by the Company and ImClone Systems Incorporated
(ImClone), for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Erbitux had previously been indicated for the
treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer.
In February 2006, the Company launched Baraclude, its treatment for hepatitis B, in China. The Company also launched
Baraclude in several new markets during the third quarter of 2006, including Germany, France, the UK and Japan. Baraclude is
approved in more than 50 countries and regions worldwide.
In February 2006, the Company launched Orencia, its treatment for signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, in the U.S. after
receiving approval from the FDA in December 2005. In June 2006, the Company received approval of Orencia in Canada and
launched the product in August 2006.
OUTLOOK
For 2007, the Company expects reductions of net sales for products that have lost exclusivity in previous years to range between
$0.9 billion and $1.0 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion in 2006, and $1.3 billion in 2005. While the Company expects generic
clopidogrel bisulfate inventory in the market to have a continued residual impact on 2007 Plavix net sales, the Company does expect
Plavix net sales and earnings growth in 2007, assuming the absence of renewed or additional generic competition. The Company
expects increased prescription demand for Plavix as well as for other key brands and newly launched products. Compared to 2006,
gross margin is expected to improve due to growth of higher margin products, lower margin erosion related to exclusivity losses, and
improved manufacturing efficiencies. Marketing, selling and administrative expense is expected to remain relatively unchanged as
efficiency savings should largely offset inflationary cost increases, and as the Company continues to focus on high value primary care
and specialist physicians and implements various productivity initiatives. The Company expects to continue to increase investments
to develop additional new compounds and support the introduction of new products.
The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and
investigations including the pending Plavix litigation, described below. There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in
the scope of these matters or that any future lawsuits, claims and proceedings will not be material to the Company. In addition, there
is an increasing trend by foreign governments to scrutinize sales and marketing activities of pharmaceutical companies and there can
be no assurance that any such investigations or any other investigations will not be material. It is not possible at this time reasonably
62006 Annual Report
to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that
during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of the pending Plavix patent litigation, these other litigations
and investigations and other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the Company's results of
operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The Company’s expectations for the next
several years described above do not reflect the potential impact of litigation on the Company’s results of operations.
As previously disclosed, the composition of matter patent for Plavix, which expires in 2011, is subject to litigation in the U.S.
with Apotex. The trial in the underlying patent litigation ended on February 15, 2007 and the Court is expected to rule following post-
trial briefing. If Apotex were to prevail in the trial in the patent litigation, the Company would expect to face renewed generic
competition for Plavix promptly thereafter. There are other pending Plavix patent litigations in the U.S. and in other less significant
markets for the product. In the U.S., the Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is a plaintiff in three
additional pending patent infringement lawsuits against Dr. Reddy’s, Teva and Cobalt, all related to the ‘265 Patent. Each of Dr.
Reddy’s and Teva have filed an aNDA with the FDA, and all exclusivity periods and statutory stay periods under the Hatch-Waxman
Act have expired, with the exception of the 30-month stay that applies to Teva, which expires on February 27, 2007. Accordingly,
final approval by the FDA would provide each company authorization to distribute a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product in the U.S.,
although such a launch at this point in time would be at-risk of an adverse damages award should the Companies prevail in the
underlying patent litigation. The Company continues to believe that the Plavix patents are valid and infringed, and with Sanofi, is
vigorously pursuing these cases.
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the ultimate outcome of the patent litigation with Apotex or of the other Plavix
patent litigations, or the timing of any renewed generic competition for Plavix from Apotex or additional generic competition for
Plavix from other generic pharmaceutical companies. Loss of market exclusivity of Plavix and/or the development of sustained
generic competition would be material to the Company’s sales of Plavix, results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to
the Company’s financial condition and liquidity. Plavix is the Company’s largest product by net sales, and U.S. net sales for Plavix
were $2.7 billion, $3.2 billion and $2.8 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
As previously disclosed, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice is conducting a criminal investigation
regarding the proposed settlement of the pending Plavix patent litigation with Apotex. The Company is cooperating fully with the
investigation. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the investigation or its impact on the Company. It is
also not possible at this time reasonably to assess the impact of the investigation, if any, on the Company’s compliance with the DPA
with the USAO. Also as previously disclosed, the USAO had initiated an investigation conducted by the Monitor under the DPA and
the USAO, into the Company’s negotiations of the proposed settlement with Apotex, which included a review of corporate
governance issues and whether there was any violation of Federal securities laws in connection with the proposed settlement with
Apotex under the terms of the previously disclosed Consent that the Company entered into with the Securities Exchange Commission
(SEC). The Monitor has completed his investigation and submitted his report on the investigation to the USAO. The Monitor’s report
did not find any violation of the Consent or the Federal securities laws in connection with the proposed settlement. The Monitor
concluded that the Company had violated certain paragraphs of the DPA related to governance matters. The violations cited by the
Monitor in his report relate, among other things, to communication failures, including insufficient communications by the Company’s
former CEO and former General Counsel with the Board and with other members of senior management, as well as failure to comply
with certain internal Company policies and procedures. The Monitor did not make any findings with respect to whether the Company
knowingly and materially breached the DPA or make any recommendations. The USAO has advised the Company that he believes
the matters cited in the Monitor’s report have been fully remediated and, accordingly, that he does not intend to take any action under
the DPA with respect to the Monitor’s report.
For additional discussion of legal matters, including the Plavix patent litigation, the Antitrust Division investigation related to
the proposed settlement with Apotex and the terms of the DPA and SEC Consent, see “—Executive Summary—Plavix” above, “—
SEC Consent Order and Deferred Prosecution Agreement” below and Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
7Bristol-Myers Squibb
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussions of the Company’s results of continuing operations exclude the results related to the Oncology
Therapeutics Network (OTN) business, which were previously presented as a separate segment prior to its divestiture in 2005, and
have been segregated from continuing operations and reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See “—
Discontinued Operations” below. The Company’s results of operations were as follows:
% Change
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004 2006 vs. 2005 2005 vs. 2004
Net Sales $ 17,914 $ 19,207 $ 19,380 (7)% (1)%
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before
Minority Interest and Income Taxes $ 2,635 $ 4,516 $ 4,418 (42)% 2%
% of net sales 14.7% 23.5% 22.8%
Provision for Income Taxes $ 610 $ 932 $ 1,519 (35)% (39)%
Effective tax rate 23.2% 20.6% 34.4%
Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 1,585 $ 2,992 $ 2,378 (47)% 26%
% of net sales 8.8% 15.6% 12.3%
Net Sales
Net sales from continuing operations for 2006 decreased 7% to $17.9 billion compared to 2005. U.S. net sales in 2006
decreased 7% to $9.7 billion compared to 2005. International net sales in 2006 decreased 6% to $8.2 billion compared to 2005,
including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact.
In 2005, net sales from continuing operations decreased 1% to $19.2 billion compared to 2004. U.S. net sales in 2005 decreased
1% to $10.5 billion compared to 2004, while international net sales of $8.7 billion remained relatively constant in 2005 as compared to
2004, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact.
The changes in net sales were as follows:
Analysis of % Change
Total Change Volume Price Foreign Exchange
2006 vs. 2005 (7)% (9)% 2% —
2005 vs. 2004 (1)% (2)% — 1%
In general, the Company’s business is not seasonal. For information on U.S. pharmaceutical prescriber demand, reference is
made to the table within Business Segments under the Pharmaceuticals section below, which sets forth a comparison of changes in net
sales to the estimated total prescription growth (for both retail and mail order customers) for certain of the Company’s top 15
pharmaceutical products and products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold within the U.S.
The Company operates in three reportable segments—Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Health Care. In May 2005, the
Company completed the sale of OTN, which was previously presented as a separate segment. As such, the results of operations for
OTN are presented as part of the Company’s results from discontinued operations in accordance with Statement of Financial
Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. Accordingly, OTN results of operations
in prior periods have been reclassified to discontinued operations to conform with current year presentations. The Company’s net sales
by segment were as follows:
Net Sales % Change
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004 2006 vs. 2005 2005 vs. 2004
Pharmaceuticals $ 13,861 $ 15,254 $ 15,564 (9)% (2)%
% of net sales 77% 79% 80%
Nutritionals 2,347 2,205 2,001 6% 10%
% of net sales 13% 12% 10%
Other Health Care 1,706 1,748 1,815 (2)% (4)%
% of net sales 10% 9% 10%
Health Care Group 4,053 3,953 3,816 3% 4%
Total $ 17,914 $ 19,207 $ 19,380 (7)% (1)%
82006 Annual Report
The Company recognizes revenue net of various sales adjustments to arrive at net sales as reported on the Consolidated
Statement of Earnings. These adjustments are referred to as gross-to-net sales adjustments and are further described in “—Critical
Accounting Policies” below. The reconciliations of the Company’s gross sales to net sales by each significant category of gross-to-net
sales adjustments were as follows:
For the Years Ended December 31
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004
Gross Sales $ 20,804 $ 23,003 $ 23,896
Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments
Prime Vendor Charge-Backs (703) (1,090) (1,319)
Women, Infants and Children (WIC) Rebates (872) (843) (846)
Managed Health Care Rebates and Other Contract Discounts (348) (514) (660)
Medicaid Rebates (174) (595) (673)
Cash Discounts (224) (271) (311)
Sales Returns (230) (164) (276)
Other Adjustments (339) (319) (431)
Total Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments (2,890) (3,796) (4,516)
Net Sales $ 17,914 $ 19,207 $ 19,380
The decrease in gross-to-net sales adjustments in 2006 compared to 2005 was affected by a number of factors, including
changes in customer mix and a portfolio shift in each case towards products that required lower rebates, as well as changes in contract
status. The decrease in prime vendor charge-backs was primarily the result of lower Plavix net sales, volume erosion on highly
rebated Paraplatin (carboplatin) and TAXOL® (paclitaxel) due to generic competition, as well as the impact from the discontinued
commercialization of Tequin (gatifloxacin). Managed health care rebates and other contract discounts decreased primarily as a result
of the reversal of reserves related to the TRICARE Retail Pharmacy Refund Program, as well as the exclusivity loss of Pravachol,
which also reduced Medicaid rebates. In addition, lower Plavix net sales and the shift in patient enrollment from Medicaid to
Medicare under Medicare Part D, resulted in a decrease in Medicaid rebates, partially offset by a corresponding increase in managed
health care rebates. The decrease in cash discounts was primarily due to the exclusivity loss of Pravachol and lower Plavix sales
volumes. The increase in sales returns was primarily due to higher return trends for non-exclusive brands as well as from the
discontinued commercialization of Tequin.
In 2005, the decrease from 2004 for prime vendor charge-backs and managed health care rebates was primarily due to lower
relative sales volume in this segment related to product mix. The decrease in sales returns was primarily due to lower returns for
certain products including Tequin, Pravachol and Sustiva. The decrease in other adjustments was due to lower sales discounts and
government rebates in the international businesses.
9Bristol-Myers Squibb
The activities and ending balances of each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustments were as follows:
Managed
Health Care
Women, Infants Rebates and
Prime Vendor and Children Other Contract Medicaid Other
Dollars in Millions Charge-Backs (WIC) Rebates Discounts Rebates Cash Discounts Sales Returns Adjustments Total
Balance at January 1, 2005 $ 106 $ 234 $ 198 $ 372 $ 33 $ 229 $ 176 $ 1,348
Provision related to sales made in
current period 1,096 843 509 558 269 191 351 3,817
Provision related to sales made in
prior periods (6) — 5 37 2 (27) (32) (21)
Returns and payments (1,089) (825) (542) (641) (278) (206) (364) (3,945)
Impact of foreign currency
translation — — (3) — — (2) (7) (12)
Balance at December 31, 2005 107 252 167 326 26 185 124 1,187
Provision related to sales made in
current period 706 867 381 174 221 200 348 2,897
Provision related to sales made in
prior periods (3) 5 (33) — 3 30 (9) (7)
Returns and payments (747) (894) (405) (363) (232) (196) (343) (3,180)
Impact of foreign currency
translation — — 1 — — 2 4 7
Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 63 $ 230 $ 111 $ 137 $ 18 $ 221 $ 124 $ 904
In 2006, the Company recorded gross-to-net sales adjustments related to sales made in prior periods. The significant items
included charges for sales returns of $30 million primarily related to higher than expected return trends for certain non-exclusive
products, as well as from the discontinued commercialization of Tequin; and credits in other contract discounts of $33 million,
primarily due to the reversal of reserves related to the TRICARE Retail Pharmacy Refund Program.
In 2005, the significant items included charges of $37 million for Medicaid rebates, primarily as a result of higher than expected
Medicaid utilization of various products; credits of $32 million for other adjustments, primarily as a result of lower than expected
rebates to foreign governments; and credits of $27 million for sales returns resulting from lower returns for certain products including
Tequin, Avapro/Avalide and Plavix.
No other significant revisions were made to the estimates for gross-to-net sales adjustments in 2006 and 2005.
Pharmaceuticals
The changes in pharmaceutical sales were as follows:
Analysis of % Change
Foreign
Total Change Volume Price Exchange
2006 vs. 2005 (9)% (11)% 2% —
2005 vs. 2004 (2)% (3)% — 1%
In 2006, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals sales decreased 9% to $13,861 million. U.S. Pharmaceuticals sales decreased 9% to
$7,417 million from $8,190 million in 2005, primarily due to lower sales of Plavix resulting from the at-risk launch of generic
clopidogrel bisulfate in August 2006 and loss of exclusivity of Pravachol offset by continued growth of Abilify, Erbitux, Reyataz, the
Sustiva Franchise and Avapro/Avalide, and sales of newer products including Orencia, Baraclude and Sprycel. In aggregate,
estimated U.S. wholesaler inventory levels of the Company’s key pharmaceutical products sold by the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business
at the end of 2006 were approximately two and a half weeks.
International Pharmaceuticals sales decreased 9% to $6,444 million in 2006 from $7,064 million in 2005, primarily due to a
decline in Pravachol and TAXOL® (paclitaxel) sales resulting from increased generic competition in Europe, partially offset by
increased sales of newer products including Reyataz, Abilify and Baraclude.
In 2005, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals sales decreased 2% to $15,254 million. U.S. Pharmaceuticals sales in 2005 decreased 3%
to $8,190 million compared to $8,446 million in 2004, primarily due to the continued impact of exclusivity losses of Paraplatin and
the Glucophage Franchise and increased competition for Pravachol, partially offset by increased sales of growth drivers including
Plavix, Abilify, Erbitux and Reyataz. In aggregate, estimated wholesaler inventory levels of the Company’s key pharmaceutical
102006 Annual Report
products sold by the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business at the end of 2005 were down from the end of 2004 by approximately three-tenths
of a month to approximately two and a half weeks. The decline in inventory levels negatively impacted the sales performance of
certain products in 2005.
International Pharmaceuticals sales in 2005 decreased 1%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact to $7,064 million,
primarily due to increased generic competition for Pravachol and TAXOL® (paclitaxel), partially offset by increased sales of newer
products including Reyataz and Abilify, as well as growth of Plavix.
Key pharmaceutical products and their sales, representing 78%, 77% and 71% of total pharmaceutical sales in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively, were as follows:
% Change
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004 2006 vs. 2005 2005 vs. 2004
Cardiovascular
Plavix $ 3,257 $ 3,823 $ 3,327 (15)% 15%
Pravachol 1,197 2,256 2,635 (47)% (14)%
Avapro/Avalide 1,097 982 930 12% 6%
Coumadin 220 212 255 4% (17)%
Monopril 159 208 274 (24)% (24)%
Virology
Reyataz 931 696 414 34% 68%
Sustiva Franchise (total revenue) 791 680 621 16% 10%
Zerit 155 216 272 (28)% (21)%
Baraclude 83 12 — ** —
Other Infectious Diseases
Cefzil 87 259 270 (66)% (4)%
Oncology
Erbitux 652 413 261 58% 58%
TAXOL® (paclitaxel) 563 747 991 (25)% (25)%
Sprycel 25 — — — —
Affective (Psychiatric) Disorders
Abilify (total revenue) 1,282 912 593 41% 54%
EMSAM 18 — — — —
Immunoscience
Orencia 89 — — — —
Other Pharmaceuticals
Efferalgan 266 283 274 (6)% 3%
** Change is in excess of 200%.
• Sales of Plavix, a platelet aggregation inhibitor that is part of the Company’s alliance with Sanofi, decreased 15% to $3,257
million in 2006 from 2005. Sales of Plavix decreased 18% in the U.S. in 2006 to $2,655 million from 2005, primarily as a result
of the launch of a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product in August 2006. While market exclusivity for Plavix is expected to
expire in 2011 in the U.S. and 2013 in the major European markets, the composition of matter patent for Plavix is the subject of
litigation, including the litigation with Apotex as noted above. The trial in the underlying patent litigation ended on February
15, 2007 and the Court will rule following post-trial briefing. If Apotex were to prevail at trial in the underlying patent litigation
or if there is additional competition for Plavix from other third-party generic pharmaceutical companies, Plavix would face
renewed generic competition. In 2005, sales increased 15%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $3,823
million from $3,327 million in 2004. U.S. sales increased 14% to $3,235 million in 2005 from $2,833 million in 2004,
primarily due to increased demand. For additional information on the Plavix litigations, as well as the generic launch by
Apotex, see “—Executive Summary—Plavix” above and Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
• Sales of Pravachol, an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor, decreased 47%, including a 1% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to
$1,197 million in 2006 from 2005, due to market exclusivity expiration in April 2006 resulting in generic competition for most
product strengths in the U.S. and generic competition in key European markets. Estimated total U.S. prescription demand
decreased approximately 59% compared to 2005. In 2005, sales of Pravachol decreased 14% to $2,256 million from $2,635
million in 2004, primarily due to lower demand resulting from increased competition and the related reduction in wholesaler
inventory levels, partially offset by lower managed health care rebates in 2005. Market exclusivity in the European Union (EU)
ended in 2004, with the exception of Sweden, where expiration occurred in March 2006, Italy, where expiration will occur in
11Bristol-Myers Squibb
January 2008, and France, where generic competition that was not authorized by the Company commenced in July 2006. As
previously disclosed, the Company authorized Watson to distribute pravastatin sodium tablets in the U.S.
• Sales of Avapro/Avalide, an angiotensin II receptor blocker for the treatment of hypertension that is also part of the Sanofi
alliance, increased 12%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $1,097 million in 2006 from 2005. U.S. sales
increased 13% to $647 million in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to higher average net selling prices and higher volume.
Estimated total U.S. prescription demand increased approximately 4% compared to 2005. International sales increased 10%,
including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $450 million compared to 2005. In 2005, sales increased 6%, including a
1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $982 million from $930 million in 2004. U.S. sales increased 2% to $574 million in
2005 compared to $562 million in 2004, while international sales increased 11%, including a 3% favorable foreign exchange
impact, to $408 million from $368 million in 2004, primarily due to increased sales in Canada, France and Germany. Market
exclusivity for Avapro/Avalide (known in the EU as Aprovel/Karvea) is expected to expire in 2012 (including pediatric
extension) in the U.S. and in countries in the EU; Avapro/Avalide is not currently marketed in Japan.
• Sales of Coumadin (warfarin sodium), an oral anti-coagulant used predominantly in patients with atrial fibrillation or deep
venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism, increased 4% to $220 million in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to higher
average net selling prices, partially offset by lower demand driven by continued competition. Estimated total U.S. prescription
demand decreased approximately 21% compared to 2005. Sales in 2005 decreased 17% to $212 million from $255 million in
2004, due to continued competition. Market exclusivity for Coumadin expired in the U.S. in 1997.
• Sales of Monopril, a second generation angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor for the treatment of hypertension, sold almost
exclusively in non-U.S. markets, decreased 24% to $159 million in 2006. Sales in 2005 were $208 million, a decrease of 24%,
including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, from $274 million in 2004. The sales declines in both years were due to
product supply issues in key European markets. Market exclusivity protection for Monopril expired in 2003 in the U.S. and has
expired or is expected to expire between 2001 and 2008 in countries in the EU. Monopril is not currently marketed in Japan.
• Sales of Reyataz, a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, increased 34%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange
impact, to $931 million in 2006, primarily due to increased demand in the U.S., Europe and Latin America. Estimated total U.S.
prescription demand increased approximately 18% compared to 2005. U.S. sales increased 27% to $514 million in 2006 from
$405 million in 2005, primarily due to higher demand and higher average net selling prices. International sales increased 43%,
including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $417 million in 2006 compared to 2005. Sales in 2005 were $696 million
compared to $414 million in 2004, primarily due to increased demand in the U.S. and in Europe, where Reyataz was launched in
the second quarter of 2004. Market exclusivity for Reyataz is expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., in countries in the EU and
Japan.
• Total revenue for the Sustiva Franchise, a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, increased
16%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $791 million in 2006 from 2005 due to higher demand and the
launch of Atripla in the third quarter of 2006. Estimated total U.S. prescription demand for the Sustiva Franchise increased
approximately 11% compared to 2005. In July 2006, the Company and Gilead launched Atripla, a once-daily single tablet three-
drug regimen for HIV intended as a stand-alone therapy or in combination with other antiretrovirals. Total revenue for the
Sustiva Franchise includes sales of Sustiva, as well as revenue from bulk efavirenz included in the combination therapy Atripla.
The Company records revenue for the bulk efavirenz component of Atripla upon sales of Atripla by the Gilead joint venture to
third-party customers. In 2005, Sustiva sales increased 10% to $680 million from $621 million in 2004, primarily due to
increased demand, higher average selling prices and lower sales returns. Market exclusivity for Sustiva is expected to expire in
2013 in the U.S. and in countries in the EU; the Company does not, but others do, market Sustiva in Japan. For additional
information on revenue recognition of the Sustiva Franchise, see Note 2 “Alliances and Investments.”
• Sales of Zerit (stavudine), an antiretroviral agent used in the treatment of HIV, decreased 28% to $155 million in 2006,
primarily as a result of lower demand in both the U.S. and Europe. Estimated total U.S. prescription demand decreased
approximately 30% compared to 2005. In 2005, Zerit sales decreased 21%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact,
to $216 million from $272 million in 2004, primarily as a result of a decrease in demand in the U.S. Market exclusivity
protection for Zerit is expected to expire in 2008 in the U.S., between 2007 and 2011 in countries in the EU and in 2008 in
Japan.
• Sales of Baraclude, an oral antiviral agent for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, increased to $83 million in 2006 compared to
$12 million in 2005. Baraclude was launched in the U.S. in April 2005, in China in February 2006, in the UK and Germany in
July 2006 and in France and Japan in September 2006. The Company has a composition of matter patent that expires in the U.S.
in 2010 and in Germany, France and the UK in 2011.
122006 Annual Report
• Sales of Cefzil, an antibiotic for the treatment of mild to moderately severe bacterial infections, decreased 66% to $87 million in
2006 from 2005, primarily due to generic competition in the U.S. In 2006, estimated total U.S. prescription demand decreased
approximately 91% compared to 2005. In 2005, Cefzil sales decreased 4%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact,
to $259 million from $270 million in 2004, primarily due to lower demand. Market exclusivity expired in December 2005 in the
U.S. and is expected to expire between 2007 and 2009 in the EU.
• Sales of Erbitux, which is sold by the Company almost exclusively in the U.S., increased 58% to $652 million in 2006 from
$413 million in 2005, driven by continued growth related to usage in the treatment of colorectal cancer and for the treatment of
head and neck cancer, a new indication approved by the FDA in March 2006. Sales in 2005 increased to $413 million from $261
million in 2004. Erbitux is marketed by the Company under a distribution and copromotion agreement with ImClone. A use
patent relating to combination therapy with cytotoxic treatments expires in 2017. There is no patent covering monotherapy.
Currently, generic versions of biologic products cannot be approved under U.S. law. However, the law could change in the
future. Even in the absence of new legislation, the FDA is taking steps toward allowing generic versions of certain biologics.
Competitors seeking approval of biologic products must file their own safety and efficacy data, and address the challenges of
biologics manufacturing, which involves more complex processes and are more costly than those of traditional pharmaceutical
operations. The Company’s right to market Erbitux in North America and Japan under its agreement with ImClone expires in
September 2018. The Company does not, but others do, market Erbitux in countries in the EU. As previously disclosed,
ImClone and Yeda Research and Development Company Ltd. (Yeda) have been in litigation over the ownership of the use
patent for combination therapy with cytotoxic treatments relating to Erbitux. In September 2006, the court granted Yeda the
complete ownership of that patent. ImClone has appealed the court’s decision. For further information pertaining to legal
proceedings involving Erbitux, see Note 2 “Alliances and Investments.” And Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
• Sales of TAXOL® (paclitaxel), an anti-cancer agent sold almost exclusively in the non-U.S. markets, were $563 million in 2006
compared to $747 million in 2005. Sales of TAXOL® (paclitaxel) decreased 25%, including a 2% unfavorable foreign exchange
impact, primarily due to increased generic competition in Europe and generic entry in Japan during the third quarter of 2006. In
2005, TAXOL® (paclitaxel) sales decreased 25%, including a 1% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to $747 million from
$991 million in 2004, primarily as a result of increased generic competition in Europe. Market exclusivity protection for
TAXOL® (paclitaxel) expired in 2000 in the U.S. and in 2003 in countries in the EU. Two generic paclitaxel products have
received regulatory approval in Japan, and one generic product has entered the market.
• Sprycel, an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinases for the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or
lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy including Gleevec (imatinib
meslylate), was launched in the U.S. in July 2006 and in certain European markets in the fourth quarter of 2006. Sales for 2006
were $25 million. Market exclusivity for Sprycel is expected to expire in 2020 in the U.S.
• Total revenue for Abilify, an antipsychotic agent for the treatment of schizophrenia, acute bipolar mania and bipolar disorder,
increased 41% to $1,282 million in 2006 from 2005. U.S. sales increased 40% to $1,052 million in 2006 from $750 million in
2005, primarily due to higher demand and higher average net selling prices. Estimated total U.S. prescription demand increased
approximately 21% compared to 2005. In 2005, total revenue for Abilify was $912 million, compared to $593 million in 2004,
primarily due to demand growth in the U.S. and the continued growth in Europe, which achieved sales of $140 million in 2005.
Total revenue for Abilify primarily consists of alliance revenue representing the Company’s 65% share of net sales in countries
where it copromotes with Otsuka and the product is sold by an Otsuka affiliate as a distributor. Otsuka’s market exclusivity
protection for Abilify is expected to expire in 2014 in the U.S. (including the granted patent term extension). Otsuka has
received formal notices from six generic pharmaceutical companies stating that each has filed an aNDA with the FDA for
various dosage forms of aripiprazole, which the Company and Otsuka comarket in the U.S. as Abilify. Each of these notices
further states that its aNDA contains a p(IV) certification directed to U.S. Patent No. 5,006,528 (the ‘528 Patent), which covers
aripiprazole and expires in October 2014. In addition, each of the notices purports to provide Otsuka with the respective p(IV)
certification. These certifications contain various allegations regarding the enforceability of the '528 Patent and/or the validity
and/or infringement of some or all of the claims therein. Otsuka has sole rights to enforce the '528 Patent. The Company also
has the right to copromote Abilify in several European countries (the UK, France, Germany and Spain) and to act as exclusive
distributor for the product in the rest of the EU. A composition of matter patent is in force in Germany, the UK, France, Italy,
the Netherlands, Romania, Sweden, Switzerland, Spain and Denmark. The original expiration date of 2009 has been extended
to 2014 by grant of a supplemental protection certificate in all of the above countries except Romania and Denmark. Data
exclusivity in the EU expires in 2014. The Company’s contractual right to market Abilify expires in November 2012 in the U.S.
and Puerto Rico and, for the countries in the EU where the Company has the exclusive right to market Abilify until June 2014.
For additional information on revenue recognition of Abilify, see Note 2 “Alliances and Investments.”
13Bristol-Myers Squibb
• EMSAM, a transdermal patch for the delivery of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor for the treatment of major depressive disorder
in adults, was launched in the U.S. in April 2006. Sales in 2006 were $18 million. In the third quarter of 2006, as a result of
lower than expected sales for EMSAM, the Company recorded a $27 million impairment charge for EMSAM related assets.
EMSAM was developed by Somerset, a joint venture between Mylan and Watson. The Company has obtained exclusive
distribution rights to commercialize EMSAM in the U.S. and Canada and markets EMSAM in the U.S. through its existing
neuroscience sales force. As a new drug formulation, EMSAM received three years of Hatch-Waxman data exclusivity, which
expires in 2009 in the U.S.
• Orencia, a fusion protein indicated for adult patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate
response to one or more currently available treatments such as methotrexate or anti-tumor necrosis factor therapy, was launched
in the U.S. in February 2006. Sales in 2006 were $89 million, substantially all in the U.S. The Company has a composition of
matter patent that expires in the U.S. in 2016 and the patent may be eligible for patent term restoration, which could possibly
extend the term. As noted above, generic versions of biologic products cannot be approved under U.S. law, but the law could
change in the future.
• Sales of Efferalgan (paracetamol), a formulation of acetaminophen for pain relief sold principally in Europe, decreased 6% to
$266 million in 2006, primarily due to a change in government reimbursement. In 2005, sales increased 3%, including a 1%
favorable foreign exchange impact, to $283 million from $274 million in 2004, primarily due to increased sales in Italy and
Spain as a result of a strong flu season in 2005.
The estimated U.S. prescription change data provided above includes information only from the retail and mail order channels
and does not reflect information from other channels, such as hospitals, institutions and long-term care, among others. The estimated
prescription and prescription change data are based on National Prescription Audit (NPA) data provided by IMS Health (IMS), a
supplier of market research for the pharmaceutical industry, as described below.
In most instances, the basic exclusivity loss date indicated above is the expiration date of the patent that claims the active
ingredient of the drug or the method of using the drug for the approved indication. In some instances, the basic exclusivity loss date
indicated is the expiration date of the data exclusivity period. In situations where there is only data exclusivity without patent
protection, a competitor could seek regulatory approval prior to the expiration of the data exclusivity period by submitting its own
clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval. The Company assesses the market exclusivity period for each of its products on a case-
by-case basis. The length of market exclusivity for any of the Company’s products is difficult to predict with certainty because of the
complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity and other factors. There can be no assurance that a particular
product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that the Company currently anticipates. The estimates of market
exclusivities reported above are for business planning purposes only and are not intended to reflect the Company’s legal opinion
regarding the strength or weakness of any particular patent or other legal position.
142006 Annual Report
Estimated End-User Demand
U.S. Pharmaceuticals
The following tables set forth for each of the Company’s top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2005 annual net sales) and
other products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold by the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, for the years
ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: (a) changes in reported U.S. net sales for the period; and (b) estimated total U.S.
prescription growth for the retail and mail order channels calculated by the Company based on NPA data and Next-Generation
Prescription Services (NGPS) version 1.0 data provided by IMS; and for the months ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
estimated U.S. therapeutic category share of the applicable product, calculated by the Company based on NPA data and NGPS data
provided by IMS.
Year Ended December 31, 2006 Month Ended December 31, 2006
Estimated TRx
% Change in U.S. % Change in U.S. Total Prescriptions Therapeutic Category Share % (d)
Net Sales (a) NPA Data (b) NGPS Data (c) NPA Data (b) NGPS Data (c)
Abilify (total revenue) 40 21 21 12 12
Avapro/Avalide 13 4 2 14 14
Baraclude (e) ** ** ** 25 24
Cefzil (i) (107) (91) (91) — —
Coumadin 2 (21) (22) 16 15
Erbitux (f) 57 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Glucophage Franchise (45) (49) (49) 1 1
Kenalog (g) 29 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Orencia (h) — N/A N/A N/A N/A
Paraplatin (f) (29) N/A N/A N/A N/A
Plavix (18) (18) (20) 34 32
Pravachol (57) (59) (59) 1 1
Reyataz (i) 27 18 17 33 33
Sprycel (j) — — — 5 3
Sustiva Franchise (i) (k) (total revenue) 23 11 11 33 33
Tequin (101) (70) (70) — —
Videx/Videx EC (52) (58) (60) 1 1
Zerit (23) (30) (30) 5 5
Year Ended December 31, 2005 Month Ended December 31, 2005
Estimated TRx
% Change in U.S. % Change in U.S. Total Prescriptions Therapeutic Category Share % (d)
Net Sales (a) NPA Data (b) NGPS Data (c) NPA Data (b) NGPS Data (c)
Abilify (total revenue) 35 42 40 11 11
Avapro/Avalide 2 11 12 15 15
Baraclude (e) — — — 12 11
Cefzil (i) (5) (10) (11) 2 2
Coumadin (20) (19) (20) 21 20
Erbitux (f) 58 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Glucophage Franchise (52) (63) (62) 2 2
Kenalog (g) 14 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Orencia (h) — N/A N/A N/A N/A
Paraplatin (f) (95) N/A N/A N/A N/A
Plavix 14 13 13 86 86
Pravachol (10) (17) (16) 7 7
Reyataz (i) 33 39 37 31 31
Sprycel (j) — — — — —
Sustiva (i) 11 5 8 31 30
Tequin (17) (30) (28) 1 1
Videx/Videx EC (73) (65) (65) 2 2
Zerit (18) (31) (30) 7 6
15Bristol-Myers Squibb
Year Ended December 31, 2004 Month Ended December 31, 2004
Estimated TRx
% Change in U.S. % Change in U.S. Total Prescriptions Therapeutic Category Share % (d)
Net Sales (a) NPA Data (b) NGPS Data (c) NPA Data (b) NGPS Data (c)
Abilify (total revenue) 98 103 103 9 9
Avapro/Avalide 19 15 18 15 15
Baraclude (e) — — — — —
Cefzil (i) (31) (30) (29) 2 2
Coumadin (18) (17) (21) 27 27
Erbitux (f) — N/A N/A N/A N/A
Glucophage Franchise (66) (60) (61) 3 3
Kenalog (g) (3) N/A N/A N/A N/A
Orencia (h) — N/A N/A N/A N/A
Paraplatin (f) (30) N/A N/A N/A N/A
Plavix 36 24 27 85 85
Pravachol (12) (10) (9) 9 9
Reyataz (i) ** ** ** 26 27
Sprycel (j) — — — — —
Sustiva (i) 9 4 11 30 30
Tequin (27) (24) (23) 2 2
Videx/Videx EC (3) (4) 3 9 9
Zerit (32) (29) (27) 9 9
(a) Reflects percentage change in net sales in dollar terms, including change in average selling prices and wholesaler buying patterns.
(b) Based on a simple average of the estimated number of prescriptions in the retail and mail order channels as provided by IMS.
(c) Based on a weighted-average of the estimated number of prescription units (tablets or milliliters) in the retail and mail order channels based on data provided
by IMS.
(d) The therapeutic categories are determined by the Company as those products considered to be in direct competition with the Company’s own products. The
products listed above compete in the following therapeutic categories: Abilify (antipsychotics), Avapro/Avalide (angiotensin receptor blockers), Baraclude
(oral antiviral agents), Cefzil (branded oral solid and liquid antibiotics), Coumadin (warfarin), Erbitux (oncology), Glucophage Franchise (oral antidiabetics),
Kenalog (intra-articular/intramuscular steroids), Orencia (fusion proteins), Paraplatin (carboplatin), Plavix (antiplatelet agents), Pravachol (HMG CoA
reductase inhibitors), Reyataz (protease inhibitors excluding Norvir), Sprycel (TKIs for leukemia), the Sustiva Franchise (antiretrovirals - third agents
excluding Norvir and Trizivir), Tequin (branded oral solid antibiotics), Videx/Videx EC and Zerit (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors).
(e) Baraclude was launched in the U.S. in April 2005.
(f) Erbitux and Paraplatin specifically, and parenterally administered oncology products in general, do not have prescription-level data because physicians do not
write prescriptions for these products. The Company believes therapeutic category share information provided by third-parties for these products may not be
reliable and accordingly, none is presented here.
(g) The Company does not have prescription level data for Kenalog because the product is not dispensed through a retail pharmacy. The Company believes
therapeutic category share information provided by third-parties for this product may not be reliable and accordingly none is presented here.
(h) Orencia was launched in the U.S. in February 2006. The Company does not have prescription level data because the product is not dispensed through retail
pharmacies.
(i) Prior year Estimated TRx Therapeutic Category Share Percentage has been recalculated to conform with current year presentation for the following: Cefzil has
been recalculated as a percentage share based on the combined Oral and Liquid/Suspension markets; Reyataz has been recalculated as a percentage share of the
Protease Inhibitors excluding Norvir; the Sustiva Franchise has been recalculated as a percentage share of Antiretrovirals - Third Agents excluding Norvir and
Trizivir.
(j) Sprycel was launched in the U.S. in July 2006.
(k) Beginning in the third quarter of 2006, the Sustiva Franchise (total revenue) includes sales of Sustiva, as well as revenue of bulk efavirenz included in the
combination therapy, Atripla. The therapeutic category share information and change in U.S. total prescriptions growth for the Sustiva Franchise
(Antiretrovirals – Third Agents excluding Norvir and Trizivir) includes both branded Sustiva and Atripla prescription units.
** Change is in excess of 200%.
The Company has historically reported estimated total U.S. prescription change and estimated therapeutic category share based
on NPA data, which IMS makes available to the public on a subscription basis, and a simple average of the estimated number of
prescriptions in the retail and mail order channels. In the third quarter of 2005, the Company began disclosing estimated total U.S.
prescription change and estimated therapeutic category share based on both NPA and NGPS version 1.0 data. NGPS version 1.0 data
was collected by IMS under a new, revised methodology and was released by IMS on a limited basis through a pilot program. IMS
announced NGPS version 2.0 data is available to the public on a subscription basis starting in January 2007 and legacy NPA and
NGPS version 1.0 will be discontinued. The Company believes that the NGPS data provided by IMS provides a superior estimate of
prescription data for the Company’s products in the retail and mail order channels. The Company has calculated the estimated total
U.S. prescription change and estimated therapeutic category share based on NGPS data on a weighted-average basis to reflect the fact
that mail order prescriptions include a greater volume of product supplied compared with retail prescriptions. The Company believes
that calculation of the estimated total U.S. prescription change and estimated therapeutic category share based on the NGPS data and
162006 Annual Report
the weighted-average approach with respect to the retail and mail order channels provides a superior estimate of total prescription
demand. The Company now uses this methodology for its internal demand forecasts.
The estimated prescription change data and estimated therapeutic category share reported throughout this Annual Report only
include information from the retail and mail order channels and do not reflect information from other channels, such as hospitals,
institutions and long-term care, among others. The data provided by IMS are a product of IMS’ own record-keeping processes and are
themselves estimates based on sampling procedures, subject to the inherent limitations of estimates based on sampling. In addition,
the NGPS version 1.0 data was part of a pilot program that was replaced by IMS and incorporated in the NGPS version 2.0 released in
January 2007.
The Company continuously seeks to improve the quality of its estimates of prescription change amounts, therapeutic category
share percentages and ultimate patient/consumer demand through review of its methodologies and processes for calculation of these
estimates and review and analysis of its own and third-parties' data used in such calculations. The Company expects that it will
continue to review and refine its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and will continue to review and
analyze its own and third-parties' data used in such calculations.
International Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Health Care
The following table sets forth for each of the Company’s key pharmaceutical products and other growth drivers sold by the
Company’s International Pharmaceuticals business, including the top 15 pharmaceutical products sold in the Company’s major non-
U.S. countries (based on 2005 net sales), and for each of the key products sold by the other reporting segments listed below, the
percentage change in the Company’s estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand for the months of December 2006 and September
2006 compared to the same period in the prior year. The Company commenced collecting the estimated ultimate patient/consumer
demand for these reporting segments with the March 2005 period. The Company believes the year-to-year comparison below
provides a more meaningful comparison to changes in sales for the quarter than the quarter-to-prior-quarter comparisons previously
provided.
% Change in Demand on a Constant U.S. Dollar Basis
December 2006 September 2006
vs. December 2005 vs. September 2005
International Pharmaceuticals
Abilify (total revenue) 15 23
Avapro/Avalide 6 3
Baraclude ** —
Bufferin 11 20
Capoten (16) (24)
Dafalgan 5 11
Efferalgan 2 (23)
Maxipime (23) (5)
Monopril (10) (15)
Paraplatin (11) (19)
Perfalgan 17 31
Plavix (8) (13)
Pravachol (63) (55)
Reyataz 23 20
Sustiva Franchise (total revenue) 4 2
TAXOL® (paclitaxel) (18) (26)
Videx/Videx EC (33) (22)
Nutritionals
Enfamil/Enfagrow 6 5
Nutramigen 17 7
Other Health Care
ConvaTec
Ostomy — 3
Wound Therapeutics 5 5
Medical Imaging
Cardiolite (5) (5)
** Change is in excess of 200%.
17Bristol-Myers Squibb
Estimated Inventory Months on Hand in the Distribution Channel
U.S. Pharmaceuticals
The following tables set forth for each of the Company’s top 15 pharmaceutical products (based on 2005 annual net sales) and
other products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold by the Company’s U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the
U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler
distribution channel for the quarters ended December 31 and September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. The Company believes the
estimated number of months on hand for the quarters ended December 31 and September 30 for each of the three preceding years
provide a more meaningful comparison to the Estimated End-User Demand for U.S. Pharmaceuticals disclosed above than the
Company’s former practice of providing the six most recent quarters.
December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004
Months on Months on Months on
Dollars in Millions Net Sales Hand Net Sales Hand Net Sales Hand
Abilify (total revenue) $ 294 0.5 $ 175 0.6 $ 170 0.9
Avapro/Avalide 182 0.5 168 0.6 154 0.9
Baraclude 18 0.7 4 0.7 — —
Cefzil (5) 21.7 46 0.7 60 1.1
Coumadin 48 0.8 50 0.8 69 1.0
Erbitux 165 0.4 121 — 88 0.2
Glucophage Franchise 16 0.7 29 0.7 48 1.1
Kenalog 24 0.8 23 0.9 18 1.3
Orencia 31 0.4 — — — —
Paraplatin 6 5.8 5 0.9 (12) 1.2
Plavix 343 0.6 906 0.6 816 0.9
Pravachol 50 0.6 366 0.6 433 1.0
Reyataz 144 0.7 110 0.5 99 0.9
Sprycel 11 1.4 — — — —
Sustiva Franchise (a) (total revenue) 144 0.7 102 0.6 103 0.8
Tequin (10) — 22 0.9 39 0.9
Videx/Videx EC 2 1.1 7 0.9 25 0.9
Zerit 19 0.9 21 0.8 31 0.9
September 30, 2006 September 30, 2005 September 30, 2004
Months on Months on Months on
Dollars in Millions Net Sales Hand Net Sales Hand Net Sales Hand
Abilify (total revenue) $ 260 0.5 $ 214 0.9 $ 152 0.6
Avapro/Avalide 159 0.4 147 0.5 148 0.6
Baraclude 14 0.6 2 1.2 — —
Cefzil 1 29.2 27 0.7 30 0.6
Coumadin 45 0.7 49 0.6 58 0.9
Erbitux 173 0.5 106 — 83 0.2
Glucophage Franchise 20 0.7 38 0.7 39 1.0
Kenalog 19 0.8 19 0.7 9 1.7
Orencia 34 0.8 — — — —
Paraplatin 5 1.5 9 1.1 145 1.2
Plavix 474 1.5 833 0.4 781 0.6
Pravachol 73 1.0 297 0.5 318 0.6
Reyataz 129 0.5 105 0.6 75 0.6
Sprycel 11 1.2 — — — —
Sustiva Franchise (a) (total revenue) 128 0.5 101 0.6 95 0.7
Tequin 2 2.3 21 0.9 31 0.7
Videx/Videx EC 3 0.9 7 1.1 27 0.6
Zerit 19 0.7 24 0.8 34 0.7
(a) Beginning in the third quarter of 2006, the Sustiva Franchise includes sales of Sustiva, as well as revenue of bulk efavirenz included in the combination
therapy, Atripla. The estimated months on hand of the product in the U.S. wholesale distribution channel only include branded Sustiva inventory.
Baraclude was launched in the U.S. in April 2005. In anticipation of the launch, the Company’s U.S. wholesalers built
inventories of the product to meet expected demand and at September 30, 2005, Baraclude inventory in the U.S. wholesaler
distribution channel exceeded one month on hand. The estimated value of Baraclude inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution
channel had been worked down to less than one month on hand in subsequent quarters.
182006 Annual Report
At December 31, 2006 and September 30, 2006, the estimated value of Cefzil inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution
channel exceeded one month on hand by approximately $9.7 million and $11.8 million, respectively. The demand for Cefzil decreased
significantly in 2006 due to reduced wholesaler out-movements as generic competition began in the U.S. in December 2005. At
December 31, 2004, the estimated value of Cefzil inventory exceeded one month on hand by approximately $1.6 million as the
Company built higher inventories of the product to meet expected higher demand typically experienced in the winter months in the
U.S. The Company continues to monitor Cefzil sales with the objective to work down wholesaler inventory levels to one month on
hand or less.
At December 31, 2004, the estimated value of Glucophage Franchise products inventory (Glucophage XR, Glucophage IR,
Glucovance and Metaglip) in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeded one month on hand by approximately $1.6 million.
As with all products, the months on hand estimate for the Glucophage Franchise products is an average of months on hand for all
stock-keeping units (SKUs) of the product group. The increase in months on hand of the Glucophage Franchise products at the end of
the fourth quarter 2004 to more than one month on hand resulted primarily from the purchase by wholesalers of certain SKUs. After
giving effect to these purchases, the increased months on hand for these SKUs were less than one month on hand. However, when the
increased months on hand for these SKUs were averaged with all SKUs for the Glucophage Franchise products, the aggregate
estimated months on hand exceeded one month. At March 31, 2005, the estimated value of Glucophage Franchise products inventory
in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel had been worked down to approximately one month on hand, and has been worked down
to, and remained at, less than one month on hand in subsequent quarters.
At December 31, 2004 and September 30, 2004, the estimated value of Kenalog inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution
channel exceeded one month on hand by approximately $1.0 million and $2.6 million, respectively, due to high levels of goods-in-
transit caused by shipping delays. In subsequent quarters, the estimated value of Kenalog inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution
channel had been worked down to less than one month on hand.
In October 2004, the U.S. pediatric exclusivity period for Paraplatin expired. The resulting entry of multiple generic
competitors for Paraplatin led to a significant decrease in demand for Paraplatin, which in turn led to the months on hand of the
product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeding one month on hand at December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006,
September 30, 2005, December 31, 2004 and September 30, 2004. The estimated value of Paraplatin inventory in the U.S. wholesaler
distribution channel over one month on hand was approximately $0.6 million at December 31, 2006, $0.6 million at September 30,
2006, $0.7 million at September 30, 2005, $6.0 million at December 31, 2004 and $6.6 million at September 30, 2004. The Company
no longer produces Paraplatin for the U.S. market and will continue to monitor Paraplatin wholesaler inventory levels until they have
been depleted.
At September 30, 2006, the estimated value of Plavix inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeded one month
on hand by approximately $41.4 million due to the at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate in August 2006. Demand for Plavix
decreased precipitously following the at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate. As of December 31, 2006, Plavix inventory in
the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel has been worked down to less than one month on hand.
Sprycel was launched in the U.S. in July 2006. Consistent with customary practice at the time of a new product launch, the
Company’s U.S. wholesalers built inventories of the product to meet expected demand, and at December 31, 2006 and September 30,
2006, the estimated value of Sprycel inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeded one month on hand by
approximately $1.4 million and $0.6 million, respectively. The Company continues to monitor Sprycel inventory and sales with the
objective to work down wholesaler inventory levels to one month on hand or less.
In the first quarter of 2006, the Company made the decision to discontinue commercialization of Tequin for commercial reasons.
The Company stopped shipping product to U.S. wholesalers in June 2006 and established an accrual for the estimated returns of
Tequin inventory. In July 2006, the Company notified the U.S. wholesaler and retail distribution channels that it would allow for
return of the product regardless of expiry dates. The estimated value of Tequin inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel
that exceeded one month on hand was de minimis at September 30, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, the Company is not aware of any
significant amounts of Tequin inventory remaining in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel. The Company expects most of the
Tequin inventory in all U.S. channels to be reduced to nominal levels in the first quarter of 2007.
The estimated value of Videx/Videx EC (didanosine) inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel that exceeded one
month on hand was de minimis at December 31, 2006 and was approximately $0.2 million at September 30, 2005. As a result of
generic competition in the U.S. commencing in the fourth quarter of 2004, demand for Videx/Videx EC decreased significantly.
For all products other than Erbitux and Orencia, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the
estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product
from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of 31 days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence
19Bristol-Myers Squibb
the Company’s estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler
list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition,
such estimates are calculated using third-party data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and as such, may also reflect
estimates.
The Company maintains inventory management agreements (IMAs) with most of its U.S. Pharmaceuticals wholesalers, which
account for nearly 100% of total gross sales of U.S. pharmaceutical products. Under the current terms of the IMAs, the Company’s
three largest wholesaler customers provide the Company with weekly information with respect to inventory levels of product on hand
and the amount of out-movement of products. These three wholesalers accounted for approximately 90% of total gross sales of U.S.
pharmaceutical products in 2006. The inventory information received from these wholesalers excludes inventory held by
intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company uses
the information provided by these three wholesalers as of the Friday closest to quarter end to calculate the amount of inventory on
hand for these wholesalers at the applicable quarter end. This amount is then increased by the Company’s estimate of goods in transit
to these wholesalers as of the applicable Friday, which have not been reflected in the weekly data provided by the wholesalers. Under
the Company’s revenue recognition policy, sales are recorded when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are
transferred, which in the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business is generally when product is shipped. In such cases, goods in transit to a
wholesaler are owned by the applicable wholesaler and, accordingly, are reflected in the calculation of inventories in the wholesaler
distribution channel. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with
respect to their open orders as of the applicable Friday and the Company’s records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such
open orders. The Company determines the out-movement of a product from these wholesalers over a period of 31 days by using the
most recent four weeks of out-movement of a product as provided by these wholesalers and extrapolating such amount to a 31 day
basis. The Company estimates inventory levels on hand and out-movements for its U.S. Pharmaceuticals business wholesaler
customers other than the three largest wholesalers for each product based on the assumption that such amounts bear the same
relationship to the three largest wholesalers’ inventory levels and out-movements for such product as the percentage of aggregate sales
for all products to these other wholesalers in the applicable quarter bears to aggregate sales for all products to the Company’s three
largest wholesalers in such quarter. Finally, the Company considers whether any adjustments are necessary to these extrapolated
amounts based on such factors as historical sales of individual products made to such other wholesalers and third-party market
research data related to prescription trends and patient demand. In addition, the Company receives inventory information from these
other wholesalers on a selective basis for certain key products.
The Company’s U.S. Pharmaceuticals business through the IMAs discussed above has arrangements with substantially all of its
direct wholesaler customers and requires those wholesalers to maintain inventory at levels that are no more than one month of their
demand.
In response to the at-risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate on August 8, 2006, the Company offered certain U.S. MCOs
incremental rebates from its wholesaler list price for Plavix under certain conditions through March 31, 2007. A small number of
MCOs accepted the offer. All other offers were rejected, did not qualify or were terminated prior to or at the time of the issuance of
the preliminary injunction on August 31, 2006, and no further such offers have been made. The Company also provided a temporary
price reduction below the Federal supply schedule for Plavix to the Veterans Administration for a limited period in August and
September 2006. Primarily as a result of very limited participation in the rebate offer, the Company estimates that the impact of the
two programs on Plavix net sales in the third and fourth quarters was de minimis.
Orencia was launched in February 2006. From launch through the second quarter, the Company distributed Orencia through an
exclusive distribution arrangement with a single distributor. Following approval of the supplemental Biologics License Application
(sBLA) that allows a third-party to manufacture Orencia at an additional site, the exclusive distribution arrangement terminated on
July 17, 2006 and the Company expanded its distribution network for Orencia to multiple distributors. The above estimates of months
on hand were calculated by dividing the inventories of Orencia held by these distributors at the end of the quarter by the out-
movement of the product over the last 31 day period, as reported by these distributors. The inventory on hand and out-movements
reported by these distributors are a product of the distributors’ own record-keeping processes.
During 2004 and through May 2005, McKesson Corporation (McKesson), one of the Company’s wholesalers, provided
warehousing, packing and shipping services for Erbitux. McKesson held Erbitux inventory on consignment and, under the Company’s
revenue recognition policy, the Company recognized revenue when such inventory was shipped by McKesson to the end-users.
McKesson also held inventories of Erbitux for its own account. Upon the divestiture of OTN in May 2005, the Company discontinued
the consignment arrangement with McKesson and McKesson no longer held inventories for its own account. Thereafter, the
Company sold Erbitux to intermediaries (such as wholesalers and specialty oncology distributors) and shipped Erbitux directly to the
end-users of the product who are the customers of those intermediaries. Beginning in the third quarter of 2006, the Company
expanded its distribution model to include one of the Company’s wholesalers who then held Erbitux inventory. The Company
recognizes revenue upon such shipment consistent with its revenue recognition policy.
202006 Annual Report
The above estimate of months on hand was calculated by dividing the inventories of Erbitux held by the wholesaler for its own
account as reported by the wholesaler as of the end of the quarter by the out-movements of the product reported by that wholesaler
over the last 31 day period. The inventory levels reported by the wholesaler are a product of the wholesaler’s own record-keeping
process.
As previously disclosed, for the Company’s Pharmaceuticals business outside of the U.S., Nutritionals and Other Health Care
business units around the world, the Company has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product
level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where available,
varies widely. Accordingly, the Company relies on a variety of methods to estimate direct customer product level inventory and to
calculate months on hand for these business units.
Estimated Inventory Months on Hand in the Distribution Channel
The following table sets forth for each of the Company’s key products sold by the businesses listed below, the net sales of the
applicable product for each of the quarters ended December 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and September 30,
2005, and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the
businesses as of the end of each of the four quarters. The Company believes the estimated number of months on hand for the quarters
ended December 31 and September 30 for each of the two preceding years provide a more meaningful comparison to the Estimated
End-User Demand for International Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Health Care disclosed above than the Company’s former
practice of providing the four most recent quarters. The estimates of months on hand for key products described below for the
International Pharmaceuticals business are based on data collected for all of the Company’s significant business units outside of the
U.S. Also described further below is information on non-key product(s) where the amount of inventory on hand at direct customers is
more than approximately one month and the impact is not de minimis. For the other non-Pharmaceuticals reporting segments,
estimates are based on data collected for the U.S. and all significant business units outside of the U.S.
December 31, 2006 September 30, 2006
Months Months
Dollars in Millions Net Sales On Hand Net Sales on Hand
International Pharmaceuticals
Abilify (total revenue) $ 68 0.7 $ 53 0.6
Avapro/Avalide 125 0.6 118 0.5
Baraclude 18 0.8 8 0.9
Bufferin 32 0.5 28 0.5
Capoten 31 0.8 28 0.8
Dafalgan 40 1.0 35 1.1
Efferalgan 74 0.7 62 0.9
Maxipime 33 0.6 40 0.7
Monopril 35 0.9 34 1.0
Paraplatin 28 0.8 27 0.6
Perfalgan 54 0.5 48 0.6
Plavix 153 0.6 156 0.6
Pravachol 96 0.8 119 0.7
Reyataz 111 1.0 104 1.1
Sustiva Franchise (a) (total revenue) 78 0.5 73 0.5
TAXOL® (paclitaxel) 128 0.7 135 0.6
Videx/Videx EC 29 1.4 35 1.4
Nutritionals
Enfamil/Enfagrow 338 0.9 315 0.8
Nutramigen 54 1.0 50 1.0
Other Health Care
ConvaTec
Ostomy 151 1.0 139 0.9
Wound Therapeutics 123 1.0 113 0.9
Medical Imaging
Cardiolite 103 0.9 97 0.8
(a) Beginning in the third quarter of 2006, the Sustiva Franchise includes sales of Sustiva, as well as revenue of bulk efavirenz included in the combination
therapy, Atripla. The estimated months on hand of the product in the distribution channel only include branded Sustiva inventory.
21Bristol-Myers Squibb
December 31, 2005 September 30, 2005
Months Months
Dollars in Millions Net Sales on Hand Net Sales on Hand
International Pharmaceuticals
Abilify (total revenue) $ 49 0.6 $ 46 0.8
Avapro/Avalide 109 0.6 104 0.5
Baraclude 1 — — —
Bufferin 36 0.7 31 0.6
Capoten 38 0.8 38 0.9
Dafalgan 34 1.2 34 1.3
Efferalgan 74 1.0 66 1.1
Maxipime 48 0.8 40 0.7
Monopril 43 0.9 48 1.0
Paraplatin 33 0.8 33 0.6
Perfalgan 43 0.6 38 0.7
Plavix 155 0.6 147 0.6
Pravachol 218 0.8 230 0.8
Reyataz 78 0.6 71 0.9
Sustiva Franchise (a) (total revenue) 68 0.6 69 0.6
TAXOL® (paclitaxel) 176 0.8 171 0.5
Videx/Videx EC 34 0.9 34 0.9
Nutritionals
Enfamil/Enfagrow 330 1.0 284 0.9
Nutramigen 48 1.1 44 1.1
Other Health Care
ConvaTec
Ostomy 145 1.0 139 0.9
Wound Therapeutics 112 0.9 104 0.8
Medical Imaging
Cardiolite 100 1.0 106 0.8
The above months on hand information represents the Company’s estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at
direct customers divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate
patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end-user consumption or direct customer out-movement data over the most
recent 31 day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Company’s estimates include generic competition,
seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product or product presentation launches, new
warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for
governmental bidding situations.
The Company relies on a variety of methods to calculate months on hand for these businesses and reporting segments. Where
available, the Company relies on information provided by third-parties to determine estimates of aggregate product level inventory on
hand at direct customers and expected demand. For the businesses and reporting segments listed above; however, the Company has
limited information on direct customer product level inventory, end-user consumption and direct customer out-movement data.
Further, the quality of third-party information, where available, varies widely. In some circumstances, such as the case with new
products or seasonal products, such historical end-user consumption or out-movement information may not be available or applicable.
In such cases, the Company uses estimated prospective demand. In cases where direct customer product level inventory, ultimate
patient/consumer demand or out-movement data do not exist or are otherwise not available, the Company has developed a variety of
other methodologies to calculate estimates of such data, including using such factors as historical sales made to direct customers and
third-party market research data related to prescription trends and end-user demand.
As of September 30, 2006, the Company has entered into exclusive distributorship arrangements for certain products in several
Eastern and Central European markets.
As of September 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005, Dafalgan, an analgesic product sold principally in
Europe, had approximately 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3 months of inventory on hand, respectively, at direct customers. The level of inventory on
hand was due primarily to private pharmacists purchasing Dafalgan approximately once every eight weeks and the seasonality of the
product.
222006 Annual Report
As of September 30, 2005, Efferalgan, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had approximately 1.1 months of
inventory on hand at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand was due primarily to private pharmacists purchasing Efferalgan
approximately once every eight weeks and the seasonality of the product.
As of September 30, 2006, Reyataz, an antiviral product, had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct
customers. The increased level of inventory on hand was due primarily to government purchasing patterns in Brazil.
As of December 31, 2006 and September 30, 2006, Videx/Videx EC, an antiviral product, had approximately 1.4 months of
inventory on hand at direct customers. The increased level of inventory on hand was due primarily to government purchasing patterns
in Brazil. The Company is contractually obligated to provide Videx/Videx EC to the Brazilian government upon placement of an order
for product by the government. Under the terms of the contract, the Company has no control over the inventory levels relating to such
orders. The Company, however, expects that the inventory levels for Videx/Videx EC will be worked down.
As of December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005, Nutramigen, an infant nutritional product sold principally in the U.S., had
approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand at the end of the quarter ended
December 31, 2005 was due primarily to holiday stocking by retailers and at the quarter ended September 30, 2005 was due primarily
to the impact of retailers holding higher levels of inventory in response to Hurricane Katrina.
The Company continuously seeks to improve the quality of its estimates of months on hand of inventories held by its direct
customers including thorough review of its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and a thorough review and
analysis of its own and third-parties’ data used in such calculations. The Company expects that it will continue to review and refine its
methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and will continue to review and analyze its own and third-parties’ data
in such calculations. The Company also has and will continue to take steps to expedite the receipt and processing of data for the non-
U.S. Pharmaceuticals businesses.
Health Care Group
The combined 2006 revenues from the Health Care Group increased 3% to $4,053 million compared to the same period in 2005,
despite a 4% unfavorable impact from the divestiture of the U.S. and Canadian Consumer Medicines (Consumer Medicines) business
in the third quarter of 2005. The combined 2005 revenues from the Health Care Group increased 4% to $3,953 million compared to
the same period in 2004.
Nutritionals
The changes in Nutritionals sales were as follows:
Analysis of % Change
Total Change Volume Price Foreign Exchange
2006 vs. 2005 6% 2% 3% 1%
2005 vs. 2004 10% 7% 2% 1%
Key Nutritionals product lines and their sales, representing 96%, 95% and 94% of total Nutritional sales in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively, were as follows:
% Change
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004 2006 vs. 2005 2005 vs. 2004
Infant Formulas $1,637 $ 1,576 $ 1,405 4% 12%
Enfamil 1,007 992 859 2% 15%
Toddler/Children’s Nutritionals 606 529 468 15% 13%
Enfagrow 262 206 179 27% 15%
Worldwide Nutritionals sales increased 6%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $2,347 million in 2006 from
2005. In 2005, Worldwide Nutritionals sales were $2,205 million, an increase of 10%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange
impact and despite a 2% unfavorable impact from the divestiture of the Adult Nutritional business, from $2,001 million in 2004. In
the first quarter of 2004, the Company divested its Adult Nutritional business.
International sales increased 11%, including a 3% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $1,256 million in 2006 from 2005,
primarily due to increased sales of children’s nutritional products. In 2005, international sales increased 12%, including a 2%
favorable foreign exchange impact and despite a 1% unfavorable impact from the divestiture of the Adult Nutritional business, to
$1,135 million from $1,010 million in 2004, primarily due to the increased sales of Enfamil and Enfagrow.
23Bristol-Myers Squibb
U.S. sales increased 2% to $1,091 million in 2006 from 2005, primarily due to increased sales of Enfamil. In 2005, U.S. sales
increased 8%, despite a 3% unfavorable impact from the divestiture of the Adult Nutritional business, to $1,070 million from $991
million in 2004, primarily due to increased sales of Enfamil.
Other Health Care
The Other Health Care segment includes ConvaTec and the Medical Imaging business, as well as the Consumer Medicines
business in 2005 and 2004. In the third quarter of 2005, the Company sold its Consumer Medicines business and related assets. The
composition of the changes in Other Health Care segment sales were as follows:
Analysis of % Change
Total Change Volume Price Foreign Exchange
2006 vs. 2005 (2)% (2)% (1)% 1%
2005 vs. 2004 (4)% (4)% (1)% 1%
Other Health Care sales decreased 2% to $1,706 million compared to the same period in 2005, which included a 9% unfavorable
impact for the divestiture of the Consumer Medicines business. Other Health Care sales in 2005 decreased 4% to $1,748 million
compared to the same period in 2004, which included a 7% unfavorable impact for the divestiture of the Consumer Medicines
business.
Other Health Care sales by business and their key products for the years ended December 31, were as follows:
% Change
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004 2006 vs. 2005 2005 vs. 2004
ConvaTec $1,048 $ 992 $ 954 6% 4%
Ostomy 554 550 551 1% —
Wound Therapeutics 441 416 391 6% 6%
Medical Imaging 658 602 589 9% 2%
Cardiolite 408 416 406 (2)% 2%
Consumer Medicines — 154 272 (100)% (43)%
• Worldwide ConvaTec sales increased 6%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $1,048 million in 2006 from
2005. Ostomy sales increased 1% to $554 million in 2006, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact. Sales of wound
therapeutic products increased 6%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $441 million in 2006 from $416
million in 2005, primarily due to continued growth of the Aquacel franchise. In 2005, worldwide ConvaTec sales increased 4%,
including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $992 million from $954 million in 2004, primarily due to an increase in
worldwide sales of wound therapeutic products.
• Worldwide Medical Imaging sales increased 9% to $658 million in 2006 from 2005. This growth was primarily due to an
increase in TechneLite technetium Tc99m generator sales resulting from a competitor’s market absence in the first quarter of
2006 and an increase in Definity sales during a competitor’s continued absence from the market. Cardiolite sales decreased 2%
to $408 million in 2006 from $416 million in 2005, primarily due to decreased price. In 2005, Medical Imaging sales increased
2% to $602 million from $589 million in 2004, primarily due to increased demand for Cardiolite.
Geographic Areas
In general, the Company’s products are available in most countries in the world. The largest markets are in the U.S., France,
Japan, Canada, Spain, Italy, Mexico and Germany. The Company’s sales by geographic areas were as follows:
% Change
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004 2006 vs. 2005 2005 vs. 2004
United States $ 9,729 $ 10,461 $ 10,613 (7)% (1)%
% of Total 55% 54% 55%
Europe, Middle East and Africa 4,544 5,136 5,470 (12)% (6)%
% of Total 25% 27% 28%
Other Western Hemisphere 1,615 1,592 1,425 1% 12%
% of Total 9% 8% 7%
Pacific 2,026 2,018 1,872 — 8%
% of Total 11% 11% 10%
Total $ 17,914 $ 19,207 $ 19,380 (7)% (1)%
242006 Annual Report
Sales in the U.S. decreased 7% in 2006, primarily as a result of lower sales of Plavix and the loss of exclusivity of Pravachol in
April 2006. This decrease in sales was partially offset by growth of the remaining pharmaceutical growth drivers and recently
launched products. In 2005, sales in the U.S. decreased 1% in 2005, as a result of lower sales of Paraplatin and the Glucophage
Franchise due to the continuing impact of earlier exclusivity losses, and Pravachol, due to lower demand resulting from increased
competition. This decrease in sales was mostly offset by increased sales of growth drivers including Plavix, Abilify, Erbitux and
Reyataz, as well as strong sales growth of Enfamil.
Sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa decreased 12% as a result of sales decline of Pravachol and TAXOL® (paclitaxel)
resulting from increased generic competition. This decrease in sales was partially offset by increased sales in major European markets
of Reyataz and Avapro/Avalide. In 2005, sales decreased 6%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, as a result of a sales
decline of TAXOL® (paclitaxel), due to increased generic competition, and Pravachol, due to exclusivity loss in select markets,
including the UK and the Netherlands. This decrease in sales was partially offset by increased sales in major European markets of
Reyataz and Abilify, which were both launched in Europe in the second quarter of 2004.
Sales in the Other Western Hemisphere countries increased 1%, including a 3% favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily
due to increased sales of Avapro/Avalide in Canada and key nutritional products, partially offset by decreased sales of Tequin and
other pharmaceutical products. In 2005, sales increased 12%, including a 7% favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily due to
increased sales of Plavix in Canada and Mexico, Reyataz in Brazil and Canada, and Avapro/Avalide in Canada.
Sales in the Pacific region remained consistent compared to 2005. In 2005, sales increased 8%, as a result of increased sales of
TAXOL® (paclitaxel) in Japan, and Enfagrow and Enfamil in China.
Expenses
% Change
2006 vs. 2005 vs.
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004 2005 2004
Cost of products sold $ 5,956 $ 5,928 $ 5,989 — (1)%
% of net sales 33.2% 30.9% 30.9%
Marketing, selling and administrative $ 4,919 $ 5,106 $ 5,016 (4)% 2%
% of net sales 27.5% 26.6% 25.9%
Advertising and product promotion $ 1,351 $ 1,476 $ 1,411 (8)% 5%
% of net sales 7.5% 7.7% 7.3%
Research and development $ 3,067 $ 2,746 $ 2,500 12% 10%
% of net sales 17.1% 14.3% 12.9%
Acquired in-process research and development $ — $ — $ 63 — (100)%
% of net sales — — 0.3%
Provision for restructuring, net $ 59 $ 32 $ 104 84% (69)%
% of net sales 0.3% 0.1% 0.5%
Litigation charges, net $ 302 $ 269 $ 420 12% (36)%
% of net sales 1.7% 1.4% 2.2%
Gain on sale of businesses $ (200) $ (569) $ (320) 65% (78)%
% of net sales (1.1)% (3.0)% (1.7)%
Equity in net income of affiliates $ (474) $ (334) $ (273) (42)% (22)%
% of net sales (2.6)% (1.7)% (1.4)%
Other expense, net $ 299 $ 37 $ 52 ** (29)%
% of net sales 1.7% 0.2% 0.3%
Total Expenses, net $ 15,279 $ 14,691 $ 14,962 4% (2)%
% of net sales 85.3% 76.5% 77.2%
** Change is in excess of 200%.
25Bristol-Myers Squibb
• Cost of products sold, as a percentage of sales, increased to 33.2% in 2006 compared with 30.9% in 2005. In 2006, the
Company included $91 million, or 0.5% as a percentage of sales, of certain costs in cost of products sold, which were reported
in marketing, selling and administrative expenses in the prior year results. In addition to the reclassification, the increase was
primarily due to the unfavorable impact of pharmaceutical net sales mix, including lower sales of Plavix and impairment charges
for Tequin and EMSAM related assets, as well as for a manufacturing facility. In 2005 and 2004, cost of products sold, as a
percentage of sales, was 30.9%. In 2005, the unfavorable impact on gross margins resulting from the change in the U.S.
Pharmaceuticals sales mix was offset by Tequin impairment charges and $76 million of net litigation charges recorded in 2004.
• Marketing, selling and administrative expenses decreased 4% to $4,919 million as compared to 2005, including a 2% decrease
resulting from the above-mentioned reclassification. In addition to the reclassification, the decrease was primarily due to lower
sales force expenses resulting from the previously announced restructuring of the U.S. primary care sales organization that
became effective in March 2006 and lower expenses for Pravachol, partially offset by the impact of the adoption of stock option
expensing. In 2005, marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased 2% to $5,106 million from $5,016 million in
2004, primarily due to higher legal costs and higher pension expenses, reflecting increased amortization of unrecognized net
losses as well as change in actuarial assumptions, partially offset by lower sales force expenses resulting from a focus on
specialists and high value primary care physicians. Marketing, selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were
27.5%, which included a 0.5% decrease from the reclassification; compared with 26.6% and 25.9% in 2005 and 2004,
respectively.
• Advertising and product promotion expenditures decreased 8% to $1,351 million as compared to 2005, primarily driven by the
divestiture of the Consumer Medicines business in 2005 and lower spending on mature brands, partially offset by increased
investments in new products including Orencia and Sprycel. In 2005, advertising and product promotion expenditures increased
5% to $1,476 million as compared to $1,411 million in 2004, primarily due to increased investments in direct-to-consumer
marketing campaigns for Plavix and Abilify, increased costs associated with pre-launch activities for Orencia and the launch of
Baraclude, partially offset by lower spending on mature products.
• The Company’s investment in research and development was $3,067 million in 2006, an increase of 12% over 2005. In 2005,
the investment in research and development was $2,746 million, which represented a 10% increase over $2,500 million in 2004.
The increases in both 2006 and 2005 reflect the Company’s strategy with continued investments in late-stage compounds and
developing a pipeline in disease areas that address significant unmet medical needs. Research and development costs also
included charges consisting primarily of upfront and milestone payments of $85 million in 2006, primarily to Exelixis
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Solvay Global (Solvay), $72 million in 2005, primarily to Medarex and Pierre Fabre Medicament S.A.
(Pierre Fabre) and $58 million in 2004, primarily to Pierre Fabre and Solvay. As a percentage of sales, research and
development expenses were 17.1% in 2006 compared with 14.3% in 2005 and 12.9% in 2004. The percentage of sales in 2006
was impacted by lower Plavix sales.
• Acquired in-process research and development of $63 million in 2004 was related to the purchase of Acordis, a UK-based
company. For additional information on the acquisition, see Note 4 “Acquisitions and Divestitures.”
• Restructuring programs have been implemented to realign and streamline operations in order to increase productivity, reduce
operating expenses and to rationalize the Company’s manufacturing network, research facilities, and the sales and marketing
organizations. Actions under the 2006 restructuring program are expected to be substantially complete during 2008 while
actions under the 2005 and 2004 restructuring programs were substantially completed at December 31, 2006. As a result of these
actions, the Company expects the future annual benefit to earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and
income taxes to be approximately $64 million, $77 million and $186 million for the 2006, 2005 and 2004 programs,
respectively. For additional information on restructuring, see Note 3 “Restructuring.”
• Litigation charges, net of settlement income and insurance recoveries, were $302 million in 2006, $269 million in 2005 and
$420 million in 2004. The $302 million net charge in 2006 consisted of an increase to the reserves of $353 million for the
settlement in principle of certain pricing and sales investigations, partially offset by insurance recoveries of $37 million from an
unrelated matter and $14 million in income from a settlement of a litigation matter. The $269 million net charge in 2005
consisted of increases to the reserves of $590 million for liabilities, primarily related to private litigations and governmental
investigations, partially offset by insurance recoveries of $321 million. The $420 million charge in 2004 consisted of $336
million related to private litigation and governmental investigations related to wholesaler inventory issues and accounting
matters, $50 million related to the Platinol litigation settlement and $34 million related to pharmaceutical pricing and sales
practices. For additional information on litigation, see Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
262006 Annual Report
• The gain on sale of businesses of $200 million ($130 million net of tax) in 2006 was related to the sale of inventory, trademark,
patent and intellectual property rights related to Dovonex. The gain on sale of businesses of $569 million ($370 million net of
tax) in 2005 was related to the sale of the Consumer Medicines business and related assets. The gain on sale of business of $320
million ($198 million net of tax) in 2004 was related to the sale of the Adult Nutritional business. For additional information on
these transactions, see Note 4 “Acquisitions and Divestitures.”
• Equity in net income of affiliates for 2006 was $474 million, compared with $334 million and $273 million in 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Equity in net income of affiliates is principally related to the Company’s joint venture with Sanofi and investment
in ImClone. In 2006, the $140 million increase in equity in net income of affiliates was primarily due to increased net income in
the joint venture with Sanofi and income from the equity investment in ImClone in 2006 compared to a loss in 2005. In 2005,
the $61 million increase in equity in net income of affiliates from 2004 primarily reflects an increase in net income in the Sanofi
joint venture, partially offset by a net loss from the investment in ImClone. For additional information on equity in net income
of affiliates, see Note 2 “Alliances and Investments.”
• Other expense, net, was $299 million, $37 million and $52 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Other expense, net
includes net interest expense, foreign exchange gains and losses, income from third-party contract manufacturing, royalty
income and expense, debt retirement costs, gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment, gains and losses on
sale of marketable securities and certain other litigation matters. The $262 million increase in other expense, net, in 2006 from
2005 was primarily due to higher debt retirement costs in connection with the repurchase in 2006 of the $2.5 billion Notes due
2011 compared to the repurchase in 2005 of the $2.5 billion Notes due 2006, as well as a $143 million non-recurring income in
2005 resulting from the termination of the muraglitazar collaborative agreement, partially offset by lower net foreign exchange
losses. The $15 million decrease in other expense, net in 2005 from 2004 was primarily due to deferred income recognized
from the termination of the collaborative agreement for muraglitazar, partially offset by debt retirement costs in connection with
the repurchase of the $2.5 billion Notes due 2006 and higher net foreign exchange losses. For additional information, see Note 7
“Other Expense, Net.”
Stock-based compensation expense recognized under SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (SFAS No. 123(R))
for the year ended December 31, 2006, was $112 million. These charges were recorded in cost of product sold, marketing selling and
administrative expenses, and research and development expenses. Stock-based compensation expense recognized under Accounting
Principles Board (APB) No. 25 for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $31 million and $30 million, respectively. These
expenses were recorded in marketing, selling and administrative expenses.
27Bristol-Myers Squibb
During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company recorded several expense/(income) items that affected
the comparability of results of the periods presented herein. For a discussion of these items, see Note 2 “Alliances and Investments;”
Note 3 “Restructuring and Other Items;” Note 4 “Acquisitions and Divestitures;” Note 8 “Income Taxes;” Note 13 “Other Intangible
Assets;” Note 14 “Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt;” and Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.” The
expense/(income) items that affected the comparability of results were as follows:
Year ended December 31, 2006 Litigation
Research Marketing, Provision for settlement Other
Cost of and selling and restructuring, expense / expense / Gain on sale of
Dollars in Millions products sold development admin net (income) (income), net product asset Total
Litigation Matters:
Pharmaceutical pricing and sales litigation $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 353 $ — $ — $ 353
Product liability — — — — — 11 — 11
Claim for damages — — — — — 13 — 13
Commercial litigations — — — — (14) — — (14)
Insurance recovery — — — — (37) — — (37)
— — — — 302 24 — 326
Other:
Debt retirement costs — — — — — 220 — 220
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and
contract termination 167 15 4 — — — — 186
Upfront and milestone payments — 70 — — — — — 70
Streamlining of worldwide operations — — — 59 — — — 59
Gain on sale of product asset — — — — — — (200) (200)
$ 167 $ 85 $ 4 $ 59 $ 302 $ 244 $ (200) 661
Income taxes on items above (149)
Change in estimate for taxes on prior year items 39
Reduction to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 551
Year ended December 31, 2005 Litigation
Research Provision Gain on settlement Other
Cost of and for sale expense / expense /
Dollars in Millions products sold development restructuring of business (income) (income), net Total
Litigation Matters:
Private litigation and governmental investigations $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 558 $ — $ 558
ERISA liability and other matters — — — — 20 — 20
Pharmaceutical pricing and sales litigation — — — — 12 — 12
Insurance recoveries — — — — (321) — (321)
— — — — 269 — 269
Other:
Accelerated depreciation and asset impairment 96 14 — — — — 110
Debt retirement costs — — — — — 69 69
Streamlining of worldwide operations 1 14 32 — — — 47
Upfront and milestone payments — 44 — — — — 44
Loss on sale of fixed assets — — — — — 18 18
Gain on sale of equity investment — — — — — (27) (27)
Termination of muraglitazar agreement 5 — — — — (143) (138)
Gain on sale of Consumer Medicines businesses — — — (569) — — (569)
$ 102 $ 72 $ 32 $ (569) $ 269 $ (83) (177)
Income taxes on items above 126
Adjustment on taxes on repatriation of foreign earnings (135)
Increase to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ (186)
282006 Annual Report
Year ended December 31, 2004
Acquired in- Litigation Other
Research process Gain on Provision for settlement expense /
Cost of and research and sale restructuring, expense / (income),
Dollars in Millions products sold development development of business net (income) net Total
Litigation Matters:
Private litigation and governmental
investigations $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 336 $ — $ 336
Product liability 75 — — — — — 11 86
Anti-trust litigation — — — — — 50 — 50
Pharmaceutical pricing and sales litigation — — — — — 34 — 34
Commercial litigation 26 — — — — — — 26
Product liability insurance recovery (25) — — — — — — (25)
76 — — — — 420 11 507
Other:
Accelerated depreciation 100 3 — — — — 4 107
Streamlining of worldwide operations 1 — — — 104 — — 105
Acordis IPR&D write-off — — 63 — — — — 63
Upfront and milestone payments — 55 — — — — — 55
Gain on sale of Adult Nutritional business — — — (320) — — — (320)
$ 177 $ 58 $ 63 $(320) $ 104 $ 420 $ 15 517
Income taxes on items above (130)
Deferred taxes in anticipation of repatriation of foreign earnings 575
Other tax adjustments 10
Reduction to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 972
Earnings Before Minority Interest and Income Taxes
The Company’s earnings before minority interest and income taxes were as follows:
Earnings From Continuing Operations
Before Minority Interest and Income Taxes % Change
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004 2006 vs. 2005 2005 vs. 2004
Pharmaceuticals $ 2,559 $ 3,732 $ 4,334 (31)% (14)%
Nutritionals 696 677 610 3% 11%
Other Health Care 517 469 510 10% (8)%
Health Care Group 1,213 1,146 1,120 6% 2%
Total segments 3,772 4,878 5,454 (23)% (11)%
Corporate/Other (1,137) (362) (1,036) ** 65%
Total $ 2,635 $ 4,516 $ 4,418 (42)% 2%
** Change is in excess of 200%.
In 2006, earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes decreased 42% to $2,635 million from
$4,516 million in 2005. The decrease was primarily driven by the net impact of items that affected the comparability of results as
discussed above, lower net sales for pharmaceutical products resulting from lower Plavix net sales and loss of exclusivity of
Pravachol, and increased spending on research and development, partially offset by an increase in equity in net income of affiliates
and lower advertising and promotion expenses.
In 2005, earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes increased 2% to $4,516 million from
$4,418 million in 2004. The increase was primarily a result of growth in the Nutritionals segment and the net impact of items that
affected the comparability of results as discussed above, partially offset by lower sales and gross margin of pharmaceutical products,
primarily due to exclusivity losses and increased spending on research and development, primarily for late-stage pharmaceutical
compounds.
29Bristol-Myers Squibb
Pharmaceuticals
Earnings before minority interest and income taxes were $2,559 million in 2006. The decrease in 2006 from 2005 was primarily
due to lower net sales as a result of lower Plavix sales and loss of exclusivity of Pravachol, investment in research and development
and continued investment in key growth drivers and new products. Earnings before minority interest and income taxes of $3,732
million in 2005 decreased from $4,334 million in 2004, primarily due to lower net sales and gross margin, primarily related to
exclusivity losses, higher advertising and product promotion investments behind growth drivers and increased spending on research
and development.
Health Care Group
Nutritionals
Earnings before minority interest and income taxes were $696 million in 2006. The increase in 2006 from 2005 was primarily
due to sales growth of children’s nutritional products, partially offset by increased investments in advertising expense and research
and development programs. Earnings before minority interest and income taxes of $677 million in 2005 increased from $610 million
in 2004, primarily due to increased worldwide sales of infant formula products and international sales of toddler and children's
nutritional products, partially offset by increased investments in advertising and product promotion, and research and development
programs.
Other Health Care
Earnings before minority interest and income taxes were $517 million in 2006. The increase in 2006 from 2005 was primarily
driven by increased sales in the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses. Earnings before minority interest and income taxes of
$469 million in 2005 decreased from $510 million in 2004, primarily due to the sale of the Consumer Medicines business in the third
quarter of 2005 and higher spending on research and development, partially offset by sales growth in the ConvaTec and Medical
Imaging businesses.
Corporate/Other
Loss before minority interest and income taxes was $1,137 million in 2006. The increase in 2006 from 2005 was primarily due
to higher debt retirement costs in 2006 compared to 2005, lower gain on sale of a product asset in 2006 compared to the Consumer
Medicines business in 2005, a $143 million income in 2005 resulting from the termination of the muraglitazar collaborative
agreement, as well as lower insurance recoveries in 2006 as compared to 2005, partially offset by lower litigation charges in 2006
compared to 2005. Loss before minority interest and income taxes in 2005 of $362 million decreased from $1,036 million in 2004,
primarily due to the increase on the gain on the sales of businesses/product lines, deferred income recognized from the termination of
the collaborative agreement for muraglitazar and a reduction of litigation charges, net.
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes was 23.2% in
2006 compared with 20.6% in 2005 and 34.4% in 2004. The increase in the effective tax rate in 2006 compared to 2005 resulted from
the elimination in 2006 of tax benefits under Section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code, the treatment of provisions for a portion of
certain litigation reserves as non-deductible in 2006, tax benefits in 2005 associated with the settlement of an Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) examination and a favorable adjustment in 2005 to taxes on special dividends under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
(AJCA), partially offset by favorable U.S. tax legislation enacted in 2006 related to the tax treatment of certain inter-company
transactions amongst the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, and the implementation of tax planning strategies in 2006 related to the
utilization of certain charitable contributions. The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2005 was due primarily to a charge in 2004 of
approximately $575 million for taxes on special dividends under AJCA, a 2004 charge related to the establishment of a valuation
allowance against certain charitable contributions and tax benefits in 2005 discussed above, partially offset by lower estimated foreign
tax credits in 2005.
The Company has recorded significant deferred tax assets related to U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards of approximately
$1,071 million and U.S. research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $259 million, which expire in varying amounts beginning
in 2012. Realization of the foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic
taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that these
deferred tax assets will be realized. The Company anticipates increasing its level of domestic profitability over time by undertaking
actions such as increasing its biologics manufacturing capacity in the U.S. and implementing tax planning strategies. While increasing
domestic profitability will likely cause the Company’s effective tax rate to increase, it will also further enhance the Company’s ability
to utilize its foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards. The amount of foreign tax credit and research tax credit
carryforwards considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if Plavix is subject to either renewed or additional
generic competition. If such events occur, the Company may need to record significant valuation allowances against these U.S.
Federal deferred tax assets. For a discussion of Plavix related matters, see Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
302006 Annual Report
The Company’s U.S. Federal income tax returns for 2002 and 2003 are currently under examination by the IRS. The IRS has
proposed (1) a significant disallowance of certain litigation settlement expenses and (2) a significant reduction in U.S. foreign tax
credits claimed following the Company’s previously disclosed 2002 international restructuring. The IRS’ position on this latter matter
also affects U.S. foreign tax credits claimed by the Company in 2004, although that year currently is not under examination. While the
Company believes that it has very strong positions with respect to both issues and intends to contest the IRS’ positions, it is not
possible to predict the outcome of these issues. The Company has established tax contingency reserves that reflect the best estimate of
the probable tax liability for these matters. If the Company were not to prevail in a final, non-appealable determination of these
matters the amount of loss in excess of established reserves could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
operations. However, the Company does not believe that such a determination would have a material adverse effect on its cash flows.
Minority Interest
In 2006, minority interest, net of taxes decreased to $440 million from $592 million in 2005, primarily due to lower earnings in
the Company’s partnership with Sanofi for the territory covering the Americas, resulting from the impact of the August 2006 at-risk
launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate.
Discontinued Operations
In May 2005, the Company completed the sale of OTN to One Equity Partners LLC for cash proceeds of $197 million including
the impact of a preliminary working capital adjustment. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $63 million ($13 million net of tax)
that was presented as a gain on sale of discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of earnings. OTN was previously
presented as a separate segment. For further discussions of OTN, see Note 5 “Discontinued Operations.”
The amounts related to the OTN business have been segregated from continuing operations and are reflected as discontinued
operations for all periods presented. The amounts related to the OTN business were as follows:
Year ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004
Net sales $ — $ 1,015 $ 2,506
Loss before income taxes — (8) 15
Loss, net of taxes — (5) 10
Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were approximately $4.0 billion at December 31, 2006, compared to $5.8
billion at December 31, 2005. The Company continues to maintain a sufficient level of working capital, which was approximately
$3.8 billion at December 31, 2006, decreasing from $5.4 billion at December 31, 2005.
As noted above, there have been recent developments in the pending patent litigation involving Plavix, including the generic
launch by Apotex in August 2006, which currently is subject to a preliminary injunction that has halted sales by Apotex. The trial in
the underlying patent litigation ended on February 15, 2007 and the Court is expected to rule following post-trial briefing. If Apotex
were to prevail at trial, the Company would expect that Plavix would face renewed generic competition promptly thereafter. Subject to
these risks, the Company currently believes that, in the absence of renewed or additional generic competition for Plavix from other
generic pharmaceutical companies, in 2007 and future periods, cash generated by its U.S. operations, together with existing cash and
borrowings from the capital markets, to be sufficient to cover cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures (which the
Company expects to include substantial investments in facilities to increase and maintain the Company’s capacity to provide biologics
on a commercial scale), milestone payments and dividends paid in the U.S. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, the
conversion of other working capital items and borrowings are expected to fund near-term operations.
Under any circumstances, renewed or additional generic competition for Plavix would be material to the Company’s sales of
Plavix and results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to the Company’s financial condition and liquidity. Additional
information about the pending Plavix patent litigation and the recent adverse developments is included in “—Executive Summary—
Plavix” above and Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies—Intellectual Property—Plavix Litigation.”
In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company disclosed that it anticipated repatriating approximately $9 billion in special
dividends in 2005 and recorded a $575 million provision for deferred income taxes pursuant to the AJCA as enacted and other
pending matters. The Company repatriated approximately $6.2 billion from foreign subsidiaries in the first quarter of 2005 and
repatriated the remaining balance of approximately $2.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005. The Company has used and expects to
continue to use the special dividends in accordance with requirements established by the AJCA and the U.S. Treasury Department.
During the second quarter of 2005, the U.S. Treasury Department issued AJCA related guidance clarifying that the “gross-up” for
foreign taxes associated with the special dividends also qualifies for the 5.25% tax rate established by the AJCA. As a result of this
31Bristol-Myers Squibb
guidance, the Company reduced the $575 million provision by recording a benefit of approximately $135 million in its tax provision
for 2005. Except for earnings associated with the special dividends discussed above, U.S. income taxes have not been provided on the
balance of unremitted earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, since the Company has invested or expects to invest such earnings
permanently offshore.
As of December 31, 2006, the Company had approximately $11.3 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries for
which taxes have not been provided as the Company has invested or expects to invest these undistributed earnings permanently
offshore. If in the future these earnings are repatriated to the U.S., or if the Company determines such earnings will be remitted in the
foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would
have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that would have to be provided.
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2006 primarily consisted of U.S. dollar denominated bank deposits with an original
maturity of three months or less. Marketable securities at December 31, 2006 primarily consisted of U.S. dollar denominated floating
rate instruments with an ‘AAA/aaa’ credit rating. Due to the nature of these instruments, the Company considers it reasonable to
expect that their fair market values will not be significantly impacted by a change in interest rates, and that they can be liquidated for
cash at short notice. The average interest yield on invested cash and cash equivalents was 5.2% and 4.1% at December 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively, while interest yields on marketable securities averaged 5.3% and 4.4%, respectively.
In September 2006, the Company and Sanofi each posted $200 million towards a $400 million bond with the Court as collateral
in support of the preliminary injunction. The Company has pledged to the issuer of the bond collateral for its $200 million bond
consisting of short-term, high quality securities. This collateral is reported as marketable securities on the Company’s consolidated
balance sheet at December 31, 2006. Under the terms of the pledge agreement, the Company is entitled to receive the income
generated from the marketable securities and to make certain investment strategy decisions, but is restricted from using the $200
million pledged securities for any other purpose until such time as the bond is cancelled.
In December 2006, the Company completed the sale and leaseback of several administrative facilities in New Jersey for $283
million. The resulting pre-tax gain from the transaction of $154 million was deferred and will reduce future lease rental costs over the
lease periods ranging from 8 to 12 years.
Short-term borrowings at the end of 2006 and 2005 were $187 million and $231 million, respectively. The Company maintains
cash balances and short-term investments in excess of short-term borrowings.
Long-term debt was $7.2 billion at December 31, 2006 compared to $8.4 billion at December 31, 2005. During the fourth
quarter of 2006, the Company restructured its long-term debt by retiring all of its outstanding $2.5 billion principal amount of 5.75%
Notes due 2011, through a cash tender offer and subsequent redemption and issuing €500 million aggregate principal of 4.375% Notes
due 2016, €500 million aggregate principal of 4.625% Notes due 2021, as well as $1.25 billion aggregate principal of 5.875% Notes
due 2036. The Company incurred an aggregate pre-tax expense of approximately $220 million in connection with the early
redemption of the 2011 Notes and termination of related interest rate swaps, which included the write-off of the related unamortized
discount, issuance costs and deferred loss on an interest rate lock. Long-term debt at December 31, 2006 also included Japanese yen
debt of 19.4 billion Yen.
In December 2006, the Company replaced its prior $2 billion revolving credit facility with a new $2 billion five year revolving
credit facility from a syndicate of lenders, which is extendable on the anniversary date with the consent of the lenders. This facility
contains customary terms and conditions substantially similar to the prior facility, including a financial covenant whereby the ratio of
consolidated debt to consolidated capital cannot exceed 50% at the end of each quarter. The Company has been in compliance with
this covenant since the inception of this new facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility at
December 31, 2006.
In August 2005, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company entered into a new $2.5 billion term loan facility with a syndicate
of lenders. Borrowings under this facility are guaranteed by the Company, the subsidiaries of the borrower and by certain European
subsidiaries of the Company. This facility contains a five-year tranche of up to $2.0 billion and a two-year tranche of up to $500
million and was fully drawn at December 31, 2005. During the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company repaid the entire $500 million of
the two-year tranche and $700 million of the five-year tranche. The Company is subject to substantially the same covenants as those
included in its December 2004 Revolving Credit facility. The Company is also subject to further restrictions, including certain
financial covenants. Prior to borrowing any proceeds against the facility in 2005, the Company obtained a waiver from the lenders for
a covenant default under this facility due to a one-time intercompany distribution. At December 31, 2006, the Company was in full
compliance with all covenants.
322006 Annual Report
During the second quarter of 2005, the Company repurchased all of its outstanding $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount
4.75% Notes due 2006, and incurred an aggregate pre-tax loss of approximately $69 million in connection with the early redemption
of the Notes and termination of related interest rate swaps.
A majority of the Company’s debt is fixed rate. The Company, however, has entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps for
$3.9 billion of its long-term debt, including €1 billion Euro. Interest expense, net of interest swap gains, was $498 million, $349
million, and $310 million, in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in interest expense in 2006 from 2005 and in 2005 from
2004 was primarily due to higher interest rates.
The Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) long-term and short-term credit ratings for the Company are currently A2 and Prime-
1, respectively, following a downgrade of the long-term credit rating during the third quarter of 2006 from A1. Moody’s long-term
credit rating was amended from negative outlook to stable outlook in the third quarter of 2006. Standard & Poor’s (S&P) long-term
and short-term credit ratings for the Company are currently A+ and A-1, respectively. S&P’s long-term credit rating remains on
negative outlook. Fitch Ratings (Fitch) long-term and short-term credit ratings for the Company are currently A+ and F1,
respectively. Fitch has placed the Company on Rating Watch Negative.
Working capital for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005
Working capital $ 3,806 $ 5,393
The decrease in working capital of $1,587 million from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006 was impacted by:
• Decrease in cash and marketable securities, primarily due to the repayment of long-tem debt.
• Lower receivables, primarily due to lower Plavix sales and the loss of exclusivity of Pravachol, mostly offset by higher
receivables due from alliance partners.
• Increase in inventories to support growth drivers and recently launched products, mostly offset by a reduction of Pravachol
inventory resulting from loss of exclusivity.
• Reduction in deferred tax assets in 2006, primarily due to litigation settlement payments.
• Lower accounts payable due to lower purchases of Pravachol raw materials.
• Increase in deferred income resulting from higher deferred alliance revenue.
• Lower accrued rebates and returns, primarily due to exclusivity loss of Pravachol, volume erosion on highly rebated
Paraplatin and TAXOL® (paclitaxel) and lower Plavix volumes, partially offset by higher sales returns.
Cash flow activities for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004
Cash flow provided by/(used in):
Operating activities $ 2,083 $ 1,836 $ 3,176
Investing activities 206 1,191 (1,622)
Financing activities (3,351) (3,637) (463)
Net cash provided by operating activities was $2.1 billion in 2006 and $1.8 billion in 2005. The $247 million increase in 2006
compared to 2005 is mainly attributable to significant changes in adjustments to net earnings of $1,398 million and net changes in
operating assets and liabilities of $264 million, offset by lower net earnings of $1,415 million.
Significant positive changes in adjustments to net earnings in 2006 compared to 2005, of $1,398 million, mainly included:
• A $576 million positive cash flow variance in the deferred income tax expense/(benefit), due to a lower level of increase in
deferred tax benefit in 2006 compared to 2005. In 2006, there was an increase in deferred tax benefits associated with U.S.
research and development, foreign tax credits and an increase in litigation reserves. In 2005, there was an increase in
deferred tax benefits associated with the reversal of the tax liability related to the repatriation of special dividends under the
AJCA.
• A $425 million positive cash flow variance, due to lower gain on sale of a product asset in 2006 as compared to sale of a
business in 2005.
• A $143 million positive cash flow variance for deferred income recognized related to the termination of the muraglitazar
collaborative agreement in 2005.
33Bristol-Myers Squibb
Net positive changes in operating assets and liabilities in 2006 compared to 2005, of $264 million, mainly included:
• A $329 million negative cash flow variance from receivables. In 2006, the increase in cash flow was driven by increases in
receivables due from alliance partners, which were partially offset by lower trade receivable volume. In 2005, the increase in
cash flow was driven by the collection of foreign withholding taxes and from alliance partners.
• A $448 million positive cash flow variance from inventories, primarily due to an increase in inventories in 2005 resulting
from the growth of newer products and in anticipation of new product launches, and the reduction in inventories in 2006
resulting from Pravachol exclusivity loss.
• A $283 million negative cash flow variance in litigation, primarily due to settlement payments of $339 million in 2006 for
the DPA and the Vanlev litigation, which were partially offset by unrelated insurance recoveries of $67 million.
• A $443 million positive cash flow variance from income taxes payable, primarily related to payments in 2005 for the
settlement of examinations by the IRS for years 1998 through 2001 and the repatriation of special dividends under AJCA.
Net cash provided by investing activities was $206 million in 2006 compared to net cash provided of $1,191 million in 2005.
The $985 million negative cash flow variance was primarily attributable to:
• A $281 million negative cash flow variance mainly from the sale of marketable securities in 2005.
• A $617 million negative cash flow variance from lower proceeds from the sale of a product asset in 2006 compared to the
sale of the Consumer Medicines and OTN businesses in 2005.
• A $280 million negative cash flow variance from milestone payments in 2006 primarily related to ImClone.
• A $281 million positive cash flow variance for proceeds from the disposal of properties in connection with a sale and lease
back transaction in 2006.
Net cash used in financing activities was $3,351 million in 2006 compared to $3,637 million in 2005. The $286 million positive
cash flow variance was mainly attributable to:
• A $1,655 million positive cash flow variance from the repayment of short-term borrowings in 2005.
• A $1,198 negative cash flow variance from the retirement of long-term debt. In 2006, the Company repaid debt of $1,200
million and retired the 5.75% Notes due 2011 for $2,425 million. In 2005, the Company retired the 4.75% Notes due 2006
for $2,507 million.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.8 billion in 2005 and $3.2 billion in 2004. The $1,340 million decrease in 2005
compared to 2004 was mainly attributable to significant changes in adjustments to net earnings of $1,648 million and net changes in
operating assets and liabilities of $304 million, offset by higher net earnings of $612 million.
Significant negative changes in adjustments to net earnings in 2005 compared to 2004, of $1,648 million, mainly included:
• A $1,090 million negative cash flow variance, due primarily to the reversal of the $575 million AJCA deferred tax provision
recorded in 2004.
• A $151 million negative cash flow variance, due to lower litigation settlement expenses in 2006.
• A $312 million negative cash flow variance, due to a higher gain on sale of businesses in 2005 as compared to 2004.
Net changes in operating assets and liabilities in 2005 compared to 2004, of $304 million, mainly included:
• A $1,095 million positive cash flow variance from receivables. The increase in cash flow from receivables was driven by
lower sales volume in 2005 and an increase in foreign withholding taxes receivable in 2004.
• A $511 million positive cash flow variance, primarily due to lower litigation settlement payments as well as insurance
recoveries in 2005.
• A $626 million negative cash flow variance from accounts payable and accrued expenses, primarily due to vendor payments
prior to the sale of the OTN business in 2005 and lower accrued rebates and returns in 2005 as compared to 2004.
• A $762 million negative cash flow variance from income taxes payable, primarily related to payments in 2005 for the
settlement of examinations by the IRS for years 1998 through 2001 and the repatriation of special dividends under AJCA.
Net cash provided by investing activities was $1,191 million in 2005 compared to net cash used of $1,622 million in 2004. The
$2,813 million positive cash flow variance was primarily attributable to:
• A $1,822 million positive cash flow variance mainly from the sale of marketable securities in 2005 compared with purchases
in 2004.
• A $479 million positive cash flow variance from higher proceeds from the sale of the Consumer Medicines and OTN
businesses in 2005 compared with the sale of the Adult Nutritionals business in 2004.
• A $250 million positive cash flow variance, due to a milestone payment in 2004 to ImClone.
• A $150 million positive cash flow variance, due to the purchase of Acordis Specialty Fibres in 2004.
342006 Annual Report
Net cash used in financing activities was $3,637 million in 2005 compared to $463 million in 2004. The $3,174 million
negative cash flow variance was mainly attributable to:
• A $3,183 million negative cash flow variance from the retirement of commercial paper in 2005 compared to purchases in
2004.
• A $2,500 million negative cash flow variance, due to the 2005 repurchase of the $2.5 billion 4.75% Notes due 2006.
• A $2,500 million positive cash flow variance from proceeds from borrowings against the new term loan facility in 2005.
Cash provided from operations and borrowings were primarily used over the past three years to pay dividends of approximately
$6.6 billion. The Company has also invested approximately $2.2 billion over the past three years in capital expansion to improve plant
efficiency and maintain superior research facilities.
Over the past three years, the Company did not repurchase any of its common stock. The total shares acquired since the share
repurchase program’s inception is 372 million shares. The share repurchase program authorizes the Company to purchase common
stock from time to time in the open market or through private transactions as market conditions permit. This program is intended to
reduce the increase in shares outstanding from option exercises and to obtain shares for general corporate purposes.
Dividends declared per common share were $1.12 for each of 2006, 2005 and 2004. In December 2006, the Company declared a
quarterly dividend of $.28 per common share and indicated a dividend for the full year 2007 of $1.12 per share. Dividend decisions
are made on a quarterly basis by the Company’s Board of Directors.
The Company’s financial condition and liquidity could be affected by obligations to make milestone or other one-time payments
and by the outcome of pending litigations and investigations, including the challenge to the Plavix patent and/or the potential for
renewed or additional generic competition for Plavix. For more information, see Note 2 “Alliances and Investments” and Note 21
“Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Contractual Obligations
Payments due by period for the Company’s contractual obligations at December 31, 2006, were as follows:
Obligations Expiring by Period
Dollars in Millions Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Later Years
Short-term borrowings $ 187 $ 187 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Long-term debt (1) 7,248 — 1,735 — 1,329 — 4,184
Operating leases 714 141 120 97 70 63 223
Purchase obligations 2,728 505 464 412 399 382 566
Stand-by letters of credit/performance guarantees 165 105 48 1 — — 11
Pension and other liabilities 1,589 135 196 153 150 147 808
Total $ 12,631 $ 1,073 $ 2,563 $ 663 $ 1,948 $ 592 $ 5,792
(1) The current portion of long-term debt obligations is included in short-term borrowings on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006 and all
balances approximate the outstanding nominal long-term debt values. The contractual obligations table above excludes interest payment obligations. The Company’s
convertible debenture is included as due for payment in 2008, as it contains a 2008 put and call feature.
In addition to the above, the Company has committed to make potential future “milestone” payments to third-parties as part of
in-licensing and development programs. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement
of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. Because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable
nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.
For a discussion of contractual obligations, see Note 14 “Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt;” Note 17 “Financial
Instruments;” Note 19 “Leases;” and Note 20 “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans.”
35Bristol-Myers Squibb
SEC Consent Order and Deferred Prosecution Agreement
As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, the Company entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an
investigation concerning certain wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy
of which was attached as Exhibit 10 to the Company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.
Under the terms of the Consent, the Company agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to
its direct customers (including wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and government purchasers) based on
expected demand or on amounts that do not exceed approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a timely public
disclosure of any change in practice. The Company also agreed in the Consent to certain measures that it has implemented including:
(a) establishing a formal review and certification process of its annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC; (b) establishing a
business risk and disclosure group; (c) retaining an outside consultant to comprehensively study and help re-engineer the Company’s
accounting and financial reporting processes; (d) publicly disclosing any sales incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose of
inducing them to purchase products in excess of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that the Company’s budget process gives
appropriate weight to inputs that come from the bottom to the top, and not just those that come from the top to the bottom, and
adequately documenting that process.
Further, the Company agreed in the Consent to retain an “Independent Advisor” through the date that the Company’s Form 10-
K for the year ended 2005 was filed with the SEC. The Independent Advisor continues to serve as the Monitor under the DPA
discussed below.
As previously disclosed, on June 15, 2005, the Company entered into a DPA with the USAO for the District of New Jersey
resolving the investigation by the USAO of the Company relating to wholesaler inventory and various accounting matters covered by
the Company’s settlement with the SEC. Pursuant to the DPA, the USAO filed a criminal complaint against the Company alleging
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, but will defer prosecution of the Company and dismiss the complaint after two years if the
Company satisfies all of the requirements of the DPA. A copy of the DPA was filed as Exhibit 99.2 to a Form 8-K filed by the
Company on June 16, 2005.
Under the DPA, among other things, the Company agreed to include in its Forms 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC and in its
annual report to shareholders the following information: (a) estimated wholesaler/direct customer inventory levels of the top fifteen
(15) products sold by the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business; (b) for major non-U.S. countries, estimated aggregate wholesaler/direct-
customer inventory levels of the top fifteen (15) pharmaceutical products sold in such countries taken as a whole measured by
aggregate annual sales in such countries; (c) arrangements with and policies concerning wholesaler/direct customers and other
distributors for these products, including efforts by the Company to control and monitor wholesaler/distributor inventory levels; and
(d) data concerning prescriptions or other measures of end-user demand for these products. Pursuant to the DPA, the Company also
agreed to include in such filings and reports information on acquisition, divestiture, and restructuring reserve policies and activity, and
rebate accrual policies and activity.
The Company also agreed to implement remedial measures already undertaken or mandated in the Consent and in the
settlements of the derivative litigation and the Federal securities class action relating to wholesaler inventory and various accounting
matters. In addition, the Company agreed to undertake additional remedial actions, corporate reforms and other actions, including:
(a) appointing an additional non-executive Director acceptable to the USAO; (b) establishing and maintaining a training and education
program on topics that include corporate citizenship and financial reporting obligations; (c) making an additional $300 million
payment into the shareholder compensation fund established in connection with the Consent; (d) not engaging in or attempting to
engage in any criminal conduct as that term is defined in the DPA; (e) continuing to cooperate with the USAO, including with respect
to the ongoing investigation regarding individual current and former employees of the Company; and (f) retaining a Monitor. Also as
part of the DPA, the Board of Directors (the Board) separated the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the
Company and on June 15, 2005, elected a Non-Executive Chairman.
As noted above under the DPA, the Company agreed to not engage or attempt to engage in criminal conduct. “Criminal
conduct” is defined under the DPA as (a) any crime related to the Company’s business activities committed by one or more executive
officers or directors; (b) securities fraud, accounting fraud, financial fraud or other business fraud materially affecting the books and
records of publicly filed reports of the Company, and (c) obstruction of justice. The USAO, in its discretion, may prosecute the
Company for any Federal crimes for which the USAO has knowledge, including the matters that were the subject of the criminal
complaint referenced above, should the USAO determine that the Company committed any criminal conduct.
The Monitor has defined powers and responsibilities under the DPA, including the responsibility at least until April 2007 to
oversee the Company’s compliance with all of the terms of the DPA, the Consent and the settlements of the derivative action and the
Federal securities class action. The Monitor has the authority to require the Company to take any steps he believes necessary to
comply with the terms of the DPA and the Company is required to adopt all recommendations made by the Monitor, unless the
362006 Annual Report
Company objects to the recommendation and the USAO agrees that adoption of the recommendation should not be required. In
addition, the Monitor reports to the USAO, on at least a quarterly basis, as to the Company’s compliance with the DPA and the
implementation and effectiveness of the internal controls, financial reporting, disclosure processes and related compliance functions of
the Company.
On September 12, 2006, the Board announced that the Company’s then current CEO and General Counsel would be leaving
their respective positions effective immediately. The announcement took place after the Board received and considered reports from
the Company’s outside counsel on issues relating to the Plavix patent litigation with Apotex and a preliminary recommendation from
the Monitor to terminate the employment of such individuals. The Monitor’s recommendation followed an investigation initiated by
the USAO, conducted by the Monitor and the USAO, into corporate governance issues relating to the Company’s negotiations on a
proposed settlement with Apotex. The Company had been advised by the Monitor and the USAO that the investigation did not
involve matters that are the subject of the ongoing investigation by the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice into the Plavix
settlement agreement. At the time the Monitor made his preliminary recommendation, the Monitor and the USAO also advised the
Company that they had not found a violation of the DPA or any unlawful conduct by the Company or its employees. The
investigation included a review of whether there was any violation of Federal securities laws in connection with the proposed
settlement with Apotex under the terms of the SEC Consent. The Monitor has completed his investigation and submitted his report on
the investigation to the USAO. The Monitor’s report did not find any violation of the Consent or the Federal securities laws in
connection with the proposed settlement. The Monitor concluded that the Company had violated certain paragraphs of the DPA
related to governance matters. The violations cited by the Monitor in his report relate, among other things, to communication failures,
including insufficient communications by the Company’s former CEO and former General Counsel with the Board and with other
members of senior management, as well as failure to comply with certain internal Company policies and procedures. The Monitor did
not make any findings with respect to whether the Company knowingly and materially breached the DPA or make any
recommendations. The USAO has advised the Company that he believes the matters cited in the Monitor’s report have been fully
remediated and, accordingly, that he does not intend to take any action under the DPA with respect to the Monitor’s report. For
additional information on the pending Plavix patent litigation and the Antitrust Division investigation, see Note 21 “Legal Proceedings
and Contingencies.”
The Company has established a company-wide policy to limit its sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the
Consent. This policy includes the adoption of various procedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the
terms of the Consent. These procedures include a governance process to escalate to appropriate management levels potential
questions or concerns regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In addition,
compliance with the policy is monitored on a regular basis.
The Company maintains IMAs with most of its U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers that account for nearly 100% of total gross
sales of U.S. pharmaceutical products. Under the current terms of the IMAs, the Company’s three largest wholesaler customers
provide the Company with weekly information with respect to months on hand product level inventories and the amount of out-
movement of products. These three wholesalers currently account for 90% of total gross sales of U.S. pharmaceutical products in
2006, 2005 and 2004. The inventory information received from these wholesalers, together with the Company’s internal information,
is used to estimate months on hand product level inventories at these wholesalers. The Company estimates months on hand product
inventory levels for its U.S. Pharmaceuticals business’s wholesaler customers other than the three largest wholesalers by extrapolating
from the months on hand calculated for the three largest wholesalers. The Company considers whether any adjustments are necessary
to these extrapolated amounts based on such factors as historical sales of individual products made to such other wholesalers and
third-party market research data related to prescription trends and patient demand. In contrast, for the Company’s Pharmaceuticals
business outside of the U.S., Nutritionals and Other Health Care business units around the world, the Company has significantly more
direct customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and
the reliability of third-party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, the Company relies on a variety of
methods to estimate months on hand product level inventories for these business units.
The Company discloses for each of its top fifteen (15) pharmaceutical products (based on 2005 net sales) and pharmaceutical
products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold by the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business the amount of net
sales and the estimated number of months on hand in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel as of the end of the immediately
preceding quarter and as of the end of the applicable quarter, as well as corresponding information for the prior year in its quarterly
and annual reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K. The Company discloses corresponding information for the top fifteen pharmaceutical
products and pharmaceutical products that the Company views as current and future growth drivers sold within its major non-U.S.
countries, as described above. For all other business units, the Company discloses on a quarterly basis the key product level
inventories. The information required to estimate months on hand product level inventories in the direct customer distribution for the
non-U.S. Pharmaceuticals businesses is not available prior to the filing of the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for an applicable quarter.
Accordingly, the Company discloses this information on its website approximately 60 days after the end of the applicable quarter and
furnishes it on Form 8-K, and in the Company’s Form 10-Q for the following quarter. In addition to the foregoing quarterly disclosure,
37Bristol-Myers Squibb
the Company will include all the foregoing information for all business units for the immediately preceding quarter and of the
applicable quarter as well as corresponding information for the prior year in its Annual Report on Form 10-K. For products not
described above, if the inventory at direct customers exceeds approximately one month on hand, the Company will disclose the
estimated months on hand for such product(s), except where the impact on the Company is de minimis.
The Company has enhanced and will continue to seek to enhance its methods to estimate months on hand product inventory
levels for the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business and for the non-U.S. Pharmaceuticals businesses around the world, taking into account
the complexities described above. The Company also has taken and will continue to take steps to expedite the receipt and processing
of data for the non-U.S. Pharmaceuticals businesses.
The Company believes the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to ensure compliance with both the Consent
and the DPA and provides sufficient information to comply with disclosure requirements of both.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, which requires the measurement and recognition of
compensation expense for all stock-based payment awards made to employees and directors based on estimated fair values. SFAS No.
123(R) supersedes the Company’s previous accounting under APB No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, for periods
beginning January 1, 2006. In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 107, Share-Based Payment, relating
to SFAS No. 123(R). The Company has applied the provisions of SAB No. 107 in its adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).
The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method, which requires the application of
the accounting standard as of January 1, 2006, and has elected the alternative method as provided in FASB Staff Position (FSP) No.
123(R)-3, Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards, in determining the
Company’s pool of excess tax benefits. The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006
reflect the impact of SFAS No. 123(R). In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, the Company’s consolidated
financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123(R). Stock-
based compensation expense recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $112 million ($73
million, net of tax) or $0.04 per share, with a corresponding amount recorded in additional paid-in capital within stockholders’ equity.
Additionally, $10 million related to performance awards was reclassified from liabilities to stockholders’ equity in connection with the
adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).
In February 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, which permits an entity to measure certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair
value. The objective of SFAS No. 159 is to improve financial reporting by allowing entities to mitigate volatility in reported earnings
caused by the measurement of related assets and liabilities using different attributes, without having to apply complex hedge
accounting provisions. Under SFAS No. 159, entities that elect the fair value option (by instrument) will report unrealized gains and
losses in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. The fair value option election is irrevocable, unless a new election date occurs.
SFAS No. 159 establishes presentation and disclosure requirements to help financial statement users understand the effect of the
entity's election on its earnings, but does not eliminate disclosure requirements of other accounting standards. Assets and liabilities
that are measured at fair value must be displayed on the face of the balance sheet. This Statement is effective for fiscal years
beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company is evaluating the potential impact of this pronouncement.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). This pronouncement requires an employer to
recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan (other than a multiemployer plan) as an asset
or liability in its statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur
through comprehensive income of a business entity. This pronouncement also requires an employer to measure the funded status of a
plan as of the date of its year-end statement of financial position, with limited exceptions. The pronouncement does not require prior
periods to be restated to reflect the impact of SFAS No. 158. The Company adopted SFAS No. 158 in the fiscal year ended December
31, 2006 and the adoption of this accounting pronouncement resulted in a $1,064 million reduction of accumulated other
comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity, a $767 million reduction in total assets and a $297 million increase in total liabilities.
The adoption of SFAS No. 158 did not impact the Company’s results of operations or cash flows.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. This pronouncement defines fair value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement is effective
for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The adoption of this accounting pronouncement is not expected to have a
material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
382006 Annual Report
In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year
Misstatements when Quantifying the Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements, that expresses the staff's views regarding
the process of quantifying financial statement misstatements. This bulletin is effective for any interim period of the first fiscal year
ending after November 15, 2006. SAB No. 108 requires that companies utilize a “dual approach” to assess the quantitative effects of
financial statement misstatements. The dual approach includes both an income statement focus and balance sheet focus assessment.
The adoption of this bulletin did not have any effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, which, in the case of the Company, is effective as of January 1, 2007. FIN No. 48 clarifies
the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN No. 48 requires that all tax positions be evaluated using a recognition threshold and measurement
attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
Differences between tax positions taken in a tax return and amounts recognized in the financial statements are recorded as adjustments
to income taxes payable or receivable, or adjustments to deferred taxes, or both. FIN No. 48 also requires expanded disclosure at the
end of each annual reporting period including a tabular reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits. In accordance with FIN No. 48,
the Company will report the difference between the net amount of assets and liabilities recognized in the statement of financial
position prior to and after the application of FIN No. 48 as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The adoption of this accounting pronouncement is not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial
statements.
In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets – an amendment of FASB
Statement No. 140. This pronouncement relates to the accounting for separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities.
This Statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006. The adoption of this accounting pronouncement is not
expected to have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments, an amendment of
FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. This pronouncement primarily resolves certain issues addressed in the implementation of SFAS
No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, concerning beneficial interests in securitized financial assets.
The Statement is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued, or subject to a remeasurement event occurring after the
beginning of the 2007 fiscal year. The adoption of this accounting pronouncement is not expected to have a material effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, which replaces APB Opinion No.
20, Accounting Changes, and SFAS No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements. This pronouncement
applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle, and revises the requirements for accounting for and reporting a change in
accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods' financial statements of a voluntary change in
accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to do so. This pronouncement also requires that a change in the method of depreciation,
amortization, or depletion for long-lived, non-financial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate that is affected by a
change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005. The Statement does not change the transition provisions of any existing accounting
pronouncements, including those that are in a transition phase as of the effective date of SFAS No. 154. The adoption of this
accounting pronouncement did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. FIN No. 47 clarifies
that an entity must record a liability for a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the obligation can be reasonably
estimated. Asset retirement obligations covered by FIN No. 47 are those for which an entity has a legal obligation to perform an asset
retirement activity, even if the timing and method of settling the obligation are conditional on a future event that may or may not be
within the control of the entity. FIN No. 47 also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the
fair value of an asset retirement obligation. The adoption of this accounting pronouncement did not have a material effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. 109-1— Application of SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax
Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. FSP No. 109-1 provides that the
Deduction on Qualified Production Activities will be treated as a “special deduction” as described in SFAS No. 109, Accounting for
Income Taxes. Accordingly, the tax effect of this deduction was reported as a component of the Company’s tax provision and did not
have an effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities. On May 24, 2006, the IRS issued Final Tax Regulations (FTR) with respect to the
Deduction on Qualified Production Activities under Section 199 of the Internal Revenue Code. The final regulations are effective for
taxable years beginning on or after June 1, 2006. The adoption of the FTR and FSP No. 109-1 did not have a material impact on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.
39Bristol-Myers Squibb
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets. The provisions of this Statement are
effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The provisions of this Statement
should be applied prospectively, and eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar
productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions, and replaces it with an exception for
exchanges that do not have commercial substance. The adoption of this accounting pronouncement did not have a material effect on
the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs – an Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. The
pronouncement requires abnormal amounts of idle facility and related expenses to be recognized as current period charges and also
requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production
facilities. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of
this accounting pronouncement did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Critical Accounting Policies
The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires the use of
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, including disclosure of contingent assets and
contingent liabilities, at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
The Company’s critical accounting policies are those that are both most important to the Company’s financial condition and results of
operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result
of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding
the estimates or judgments used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, actual results may vary from these estimates.
The Company believes that the following discussion represents its critical accounting policies. Management has discussed the
Company’s critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with SAB No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, as amended
by SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition. The Company’s accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on its
reported results and relies on certain estimates that require difficult, subjective and complex judgments on the part of management.
The Company recognizes revenue when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, which
generally occurs on the date of shipment, with the exceptions described below.
In previous years, certain transactions with the Company’s U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers were accounted for using the
consignment model. In the case of sales made to wholesalers (1) as a result of incentives, (2) in excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary
course of business inventory level, (3) at a time when there was an understanding, agreement, course of dealing or consistent business
practice that the Company would extend incentives based on levels of excess inventory in connection with future purchases, and (4) at
a time when such incentives would cover substantially all, and vary directly with, the wholesaler’s cost of carrying inventory in excess
of the wholesaler’s ordinary course of business inventory level, substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership did not transfer
upon shipment, and accordingly, such sales were accounted for using the consignment model. The determination of when, if at all,
sales to a wholesaler meet the foregoing criteria involves evaluation of a variety of factors and a number of complex judgments.
Under the consignment model, the Company does not recognize revenue upon shipment of product. Rather, upon shipment of
product, the Company invoices the wholesalers, records deferred revenue at gross invoice sales price, and classifies the inventory held
by the wholesalers as consignment inventory at the Company’s cost of such inventory. The Company recognizes revenue (net of the
gross-to-net sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and judgments) when the consignment
inventory is no longer subject to incentive arrangements, but not later than when such inventory is sold through to the wholesalers’
customers, on a first-in first-out basis (FIFO).
In the case of new products for which the product introduction is not an extension of an existing line of product, where the
Company determines that there are not products in a similar therapeutic category, or where the Company determines the new product
has dissimilar characteristics with existing products, such that the Company cannot reliably estimate expected returns of the new
product, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the right of return no longer exists or until the Company has developed
sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns.
For discussions on revenue recognition, see Note 1 “Accounting Policies—Revenue Recognition and Sales Rebate and Return
Accruals.”
402006 Annual Report
Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments
The Company has the following significant categories of gross-to-net sales adjustments: prime vendor charge-backs, WIC
rebates, managed health care rebates and other contract discounts, Medicaid rebates, cash discounts, sales returns, and other
adjustments, all of which involve significant estimates and judgments and require the Company to use information from external
sources. The Company accounts for these gross-to-net sales adjustments in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No.
01-9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor’s Products), and SFAS No.
48, Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists, as applicable. See “—Net Sales” section above for a reconciliation of the
Company’s gross sales to net sales by each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustment.
Prime vendor charge-backs
The Company’s U.S. businesses participate in prime vendor programs with government entities, the most significant of which
are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties whereby pricing on products is
extended below wholesaler list price to participating entities. These entities purchase products through wholesalers at the lower prime
vendor price and the wholesalers charge the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower prime vendor price back to the
Company. The Company accounts for prime vendor charge-backs by reducing accounts receivable in an amount equal to the
Company’s estimate of charge-back claims attributable to a sale. The Company determines its estimate of the prime vendor charge-
backs primarily based on historical experience regarding prime vendor charge-backs and current contract prices under the prime
vendor programs. The Company considers prime vendor payments, levels of inventory in the distribution channel, and the Company’s
claim processing time lag and adjusts the reduction to accounts receivable periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual
experience.
WIC rebates
The Company’s U.S. Nutritionals business participates on a competitive bidding basis in nutrition programs sponsored by states,
tribal governments, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the U.S. territories for WIC. Under these programs, the Company
reimburses these entities for the difference between wholesaler list price and the contract price on eligible products. The Company
accounts for WIC rebates by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of WIC rebate claims attributable
to a sale. The Company determines its estimate of the WIC rebate accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding WIC
rebates and current contract prices under the WIC programs. The Company considers levels of inventory in the distribution channel,
new WIC contracts, terminated WIC contracts, changes in existing WIC contracts, and WIC participation and adjusts the accrual
periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
Managed health care rebates and other contract discounts
The Company offers rebates and discounts to managed health care organizations in the U.S. which manage prescription drug
programs and Medicare Advantage prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug benefit in addition to their commercial
plans, as well as globally to other contract counterparties such as hospitals and group purchasing organizations. The Company
accounts for managed health care rebates and other contract discounts by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s
estimate of managed health care rebates and other contract discounts attributable to a sale. The Company determines its estimate of
the managed health care rebates and other contract discounts accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding these rebates
and discounts and current contract prices. The Company considers the sales performance of products subject to managed health care
rebates and other contract discounts and levels of inventory in the distribution channel and adjusts the accrual periodically throughout
each quarter to reflect actual experience.
Medicaid rebates
The Company’s U.S. businesses participate in state government-managed Medicaid programs as well as certain other qualifying
Federal and state government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating state and local government
entities. Discounts and rebates provided through these latter programs are included in the Company’s Medicaid rebate accrual and are
considered Medicaid rebates for the purposes of this discussion. The Company accounts for Medicaid rebates by establishing an
accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of Medicaid rebate claims attributable to a sale. The Company determines its
estimate of the Medicaid rebates accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding Medicaid rebates, as well as any
expansion on a prospective basis of its participation in the non-mandatory aspects of the qualifying Federal and state government
programs, legal interpretations of applicable laws related to Medicaid and qualifying Federal and state government programs, and any
new information regarding changes in the Medicaid programs’ regulations and guidelines that would impact the amount of the rebates.
The Company considers outstanding Medicaid claims, Medicaid payments, and levels of inventory in the distribution channel and
adjusts the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
41Bristol-Myers Squibb
Cash discounts
In the U.S. and certain other countries, the Company offers cash discounts, approximating 2% of the sales price, as an incentive
for prompt payment. The Company accounts for cash discounts by reducing accounts receivable by the full amount of the discounts.
The Company considers payment performance and adjusts the accrual to reflect actual experience.
Sales returns
The Company accounts for sales returns in accordance with SFAS No. 48, Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists, by
establishing an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of sales recorded for which the related products are expected to
be returned. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the provision for sales returns was $230 million, $164 million and $276 million, respectively, or
1% of gross sales for each of the three years.
For returns of established products, the Company determines its estimate of the sales return accrual primarily based on historical
experience regarding sales returns, but also considers other factors that could impact sales returns. These factors include levels of
inventory in the distribution channel, estimated shelf life, product recalls, product discontinuances, price changes of competitive
products, introductions of generic products and introductions of competitive new products. The Company considers all of these factors
and adjusts the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
The Company considers the level of inventory in the distribution channel and determines whether it believes an adjustment to
the sales return accrual is appropriate. The Company adjusts the sales return accrual based on historical experience, the Company’s
returned goods policy, the shelf life of the Company’s products, and life cycle of the product levels of inventory in the distribution
channel. The Company considers introductions of generic products and factors the impact into the sales returns calculation based on
historical experience and the Company’s returned goods policy.
In the event of a product recall or product discontinuance, the Company considers the reasons for and impact of such actions and
adjusts the sales return accrual as appropriate, taking into account historical experience, estimated levels of inventory in the
distribution channel and, for product discontinuances, estimates of continuing demand.
Sales returns accruals from new products are estimated and primarily based on the historical sales returns experience of similar
products, such as those within the same line of product or those within the same or similar therapeutic category. In limited
circumstances, where the new product is not an extension of an existing line of product or where the Company has no historical
experience with products in a similar therapeutic category, such that the Company cannot reliably estimate expected returns of the new
product, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the right of return no longer exists or until the Company has developed
sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns. The Company also considers the shelf life of new products and determines
whether it believes an adjustment to the sales return accrual is appropriate. The shelf life in connection with new products tends to be
shorter than the shelf life for more established products because the Company may still be developing an optimal manufacturing
process for the new product that would lengthen its shelf life. In addition, higher launch quantities may have been manufactured in
advance of the launch date to ensure sufficient supply exists to satisfy market demand. In those cases, the Company assesses the
reduced shelf life, together with estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and projected demand, and determines
whether it believes an adjustment to the sales return accrual is appropriate.
Other adjustments
In addition to the gross-to-net sales adjustments described above, the Company makes other gross-to-net sales adjustments. For
example, the Company offers sales discounts, most significantly in its non-U.S. businesses, and also offers consumer coupons and
rebates, most significantly in its U.S. Nutritionals and Pharmaceuticals business. In addition, in a number of countries outside the
U.S., including major European countries, the Company provides rebates to government entities. The Company generally accounts
for these other gross-to-net adjustments by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of the adjustments
attributable to a sale. The Company generally determines its estimates of the accruals for these other gross-to-net sales adjustments
primarily based on historical experience, performance on commitments to government entities and other relevant factors, including
estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel, and adjusts the accruals periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual
experience.
422006 Annual Report
Use of information from external sources
The Company uses information from external sources to estimate its gross-to-net sales adjustments. The Company’s estimates
of inventory at the wholesalers and deferred revenue on consigned inventory are based on the projected prescription demand-based sales
for its products and historical inventory experience, as well as the Company’s analysis of third-party information, including written and
oral information obtained from certain wholesalers with respect to their inventory levels and sell-through to customers and third-party
market research data, and the Company’s internal information. The inventory information received from wholesalers is a product of their
record-keeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals. The Company
receives information from IMS, a supplier of market research to the pharmaceutical industry, which it uses to project the prescription
demand-based sales for many of its U.S. Pharmaceuticals products. The Company has historically reported estimated total U.S.
prescription growth and estimated therapeutic category share based on NPA data, which IMS made available to the public on a
subscription basis, and a simple average of the estimated number of prescriptions in the retail and mail order channels. In the third
quarter of 2005, the Company began disclosing estimated total U.S. prescription growth and estimated therapeutic category share
based on both NPA and NGPS version 1.0 data. NGPS version 1.0 data was collected by IMS under a new, revised methodology and
was released by IMS on a limited basis through a pilot program. IMS has announced that NGPS version 2.0 data is available to the
public on a subscription basis starting in January 2007 and legacy NPA and NGPS version 1.0 will be discontinued. The Company
believes that the NGPS data provided by IMS provides a superior estimate of prescription data for the Company’s products in the
retail and mail order channels. The Company has calculated the estimated total U.S. prescription growth and the estimated therapeutic
category share based on NGPS data on a weighted average basis to reflect the fact that mail order prescriptions include a greater
volume of product supplied compared with retail prescriptions. The Company believes that calculation of the estimated total U.S.
prescription growth and the estimated therapeutic category share based on the NGPS data and the weighted average approach with
respect to the retail and mail order channels provide a superior estimate of total prescription demand. The Company now uses this
methodology for its internal demand forecasts. The Company also uses information from external sources to identify prescription
trends, patient demand and average selling prices. The Company’s estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on
third-party information, as certain third-party information was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags
between the date as of which third-party information is generated and the date on which the Company receives third-party information.
Retirement Benefits
The Company’s pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are accounted for using actuarial valuations required by SFAS
No. 87, Employers’ Accounting for Pensions, and SFAS No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than
Pensions. The Company considers accounting for retirement plans critical because management is required to make significant
subjective judgments about a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, salary growth, long-term return on plan
assets, retirement, turnover, health care cost trend rates, and mortality rates. Depending on the assumptions and estimates used, the
pension and postretirement benefit expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. In
addition, the assumptions can materially affect projected benefit obligations and future cash funding.
The Company adopted SFAS No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R), in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and the adoption of this
accounting pronouncement resulted in a $1,064 million reduction of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’
equity, a $767 million reduction in total assets and a $297 million increase in total liabilities. The adoption of SFAS No. 158 did not
impact the Company’s results of operations or cash flows.
Plan Description
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans, and termination
indemnity plans for regular full-time employees. The principal defined benefit pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement
Income Plan and the principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings and Investment Program.
Approximately 80% of total Company defined benefit pension plan assets and liabilities are held in U.S. plans. The assets for
the U.S. plans are held in a single trust with a common asset allocation. Unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to
total Company plans (i.e., U.S. plans together with international plans).
Benefits under the Company’s defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on years of credited service and on
participants’ compensation. Assets under the Company’s defined benefit plans consist primarily of equity and fixed-income securities.
At December 31, 2006, the fair market value of plan assets for the Company’s defined benefit plans increased to $5,658 million from
$5,017 million at December 31, 2005. For the U.S. plans, assets were allocated 69% to equity securities (compared to 68% at the end
of 2005), 23% to fixed income securities (compared to 25% at the end of 2005) and 8% to private equity and other investments
(compared to 7% at the end of 2005). Bristol-Myers Squibb common stock represented less than 1% of assets for the U.S. plans at the
end of 2006 and 2005.
43Bristol-Myers Squibb
The Company provides comprehensive medical and group life benefits for substantially all U.S. retirees who elect to participate
in the Company’s comprehensive medical and group life plans. The asset allocation for these postretirement plans is identical to the
asset allocation described above for the U.S. defined benefit pension plans.
Accrual Accounting and Significant Assumptions
Consistent with the requirements of SFAS No. 87, the Company accounts for pension benefits using the accrual method,
recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. The accrual method of accounting for pension benefits
necessarily requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments.
The Company’s key assumptions used in calculating its cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation
increase, and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The Company, in consultation with its actuaries, evaluates the key
actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating its cost of pension benefits, such as retirement, turnover and mortality
rates, based on expectations or actual experience, as appropriate, and determines such assumptions on December 31 of each year to
calculate liability information as of that date and pension expense for the following year. Depending on the assumptions used, the
pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. In addition, the assumptions
can materially affect projected benefit obligations and future cash funding. Actual results in any given year may differ from those
estimated because of economic and other factors.
In determining the discount rate, the Company uses the yield on high quality corporate bonds that coincides with the cash flows
of its plans’ estimated payouts. The Citigroup Above Median yield curve is used in determining the discount rate for the U.S. plans.
The assumed rate of compensation increase used by the Company for determining future pension obligations reflects an estimate of
the change in actual future compensation levels due to general price levels, productivity, seniority and other factors.
In 2006, net pension expense for the Company’s defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before minority interest and
income taxes was $332 million compared to $392 million in 2005.
The U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2006 was determined using a 5.75% assumed discount rate and a 3.56% assumed rate of
compensation increase. The present value of benefit obligations at December 31, 2006 for the U.S. plans was determined using a
6.00% assumed discount rate and a 3.56% assumed rate of compensation increase. If the assumed discount rate used in determining
the U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2006 had been reduced by 0.25%, such expense would have increased by approximately $18
million. If the assumed rate of compensation increase used in determining the U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2006 had been reduced
by 0.25%, such expense would have decreased by approximately $9 million. If the assumed discount rate used in determining the
accumulated benefit obligation at December 31, 2006 had been reduced by 0.25%, the accumulated benefit obligation would have
increased by $123 million.
The U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2006 was determined using an 8.75% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. If
the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in determining the U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2006 had been reduced by
1%, such expense would have increased by $38 million.
Actual rates of return earned on U.S. plan assets for each of the last 10 years were as follows:
Year Return Year Return
2006 14.9% 2001 (6.1)%
2005 9.8% 2000 3.5%
2004 12.6% 1999 18.2%
2003 25.0% 1998 13.3%
2002 (13.4)% 1997 22.2%
At December 31, 2006, the Company increased its assumed discount rate for U.S. plans from 5.75% to 6.00% and maintained its
assumed rate of compensation increase at 3.56%. Compensation is assumed to increase on a scale with different rates for different
ages. The 3.56% rate disclosed at December 31, 2006 is the single rate, which, if used at each age, would produce the same present
value of benefit obligations.
The Company maintained the expected rate of return on U.S. plan assets at 8.75% for 2007.
The Company expects that the net pension expense for its defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before minority
interest and income taxes will be approximately $25 million lower in 2007 than the $332 million in 2006, reflecting primarily the
positive delayed impact of the favorable 2004-2006 investment returns.
442006 Annual Report
The Company has used the same assumed discount rates and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets in calculating its
cost of pension benefits and its cost of other postretirement benefits for U.S. plans except in the case of the discount rates at December
31, 2006 and 2005. Rates of 6.00% and 5.75%, respectively, were used for pension benefits versus 5.75% and 5.50%, respectively, for
other postretirement benefits to reflect the shorter duration of the other postretirement liabilities at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.
U.S. health care costs for the retiree population are assumed to increase 10.0% in 2007 and then trend down to an expected
increase of 4.5% per year by 2018. If actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put significant upward pressure on the
Company’s expense for retiree health care.
The effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 are reflected in 2006 net periodic
postretirement benefit cost (a reduction of $11 million) and accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at January 1, 2006 (a
reduction of $94 million).
Recognition of Actuarial Gains and Losses
In 2006, SFAS No. 158 requires the recognition of actuarial gains and losses as a component of stockholders’ equity in
accumulated other comprehensive income while SFAS No. 87 provides for delayed recognition in years prior to 2006. These amounts
arise from changes in the estimated plan benefit obligations due to changes in the assumed discount rate, differences between the
actual and expected returns on plan assets, and other assumption changes. The net actuarial gain or loss, determined based on the
market-related value of plan assets (which differs from fair market value and is a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value
in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years), be amortized in pension income or expense for the year to the
extent that such unrecognized net actuarial loss or gain exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-
related value of plan assets at the beginning of the year. These net gains and losses are recognized as pension income or expense
prospectively over a period that approximates the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits
under the plans (approximately 10 years) to the extent that they are not offset by losses and gains in subsequent years.
The unrecognized net actuarial loss reflects in large part the steady reduction of the weighted-average discount rate over the
years. Unless offset by future unrecognized gains from higher discount rates or higher than expected returns on plan assets,
amortization of the unrecognized loss is expected to increase pension expense by $133 million in 2007 and by progressively lower
amounts for each of the following nine years.
Plan Funding
The Company’s funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute amounts to provide for current service and to fund past
service liability. The Company contributed $325 million and $423 million to the defined benefit plans in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
For discussions on retirement benefits, see Note 20 “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans.”
Acquired In-Process Research and Development
The fair value of in-process research and development acquired in a business combination is determined by independent
appraisal based on the present value of each research project’s projected cash flows. An income approach is utilized that is consistent
with guidance in the practice aid issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Assets Acquired in a Business
Combination to Be Used in Research and Development Activities: A Focus on Software, Electronic Devices and Pharmaceutical
Industries. Future cash flows are predominately based on the net income forecast of each project, consistent with historical pricing,
margins, and expense levels of similar products. Revenues are estimated based on relevant market size and growth factors, expected
industry trends, individual project life cycles, and the life of each research project’s underlying patent. In determining the fair value of
each research project, expected revenues are first adjusted for technical risk of completion. The resulting cash flows are then
discounted at a rate approximating the Company’s weighted average cost of capital. Other acquired in-process research and
development is expensed as incurred when the underlying product has not received regulatory approval and does not have any future
alternative use. In addition, costs that are nonrefundable, related to the acquisition or licensing of products that have not yet received
regulatory approval to be marketed and that have no alternative future use, are charged to earnings as incurred.
For discussions on acquired in-process research and development, see Note 1 “Accounting Policies—Acquired In-Process
Research and Development.”
45Bristol-Myers Squibb
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
In accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, the Company periodically
evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its depreciable assets to be held and used may not
be recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows produced by the long-
lived asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether impairment exists. If an asset
is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. An
estimate of the asset’s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. If quoted market prices are not
available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques, including a discounted value of estimated future cash
flows. The Company reports an asset to be disposed of at the lower of its carrying value or its estimated net realizable value.
In accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment
using a two-step process. The first step is to identify a potential impairment, and the second step measures the amount of the
impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is deemed to be impaired if the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its estimated
fair value. SFAS No. 142 requires that indefinite-lived intangible assets be tested for impairment using a one-step process, which
consists of a comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the intangible asset. Such intangible assets are deemed to be
impaired if their net book value exceeds their estimated fair value. All other intangible assets are evaluated for impairment in
accordance with SFAS No. 144 as described above.
The estimates of future cash flows, based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections, require management’s
judgment. Any changes in key assumptions about the Company’s businesses and their prospects, or changes in market conditions,
could result in an impairment charge.
For discussions on impairment of long-lived assets, see Note 1 “Accounting Policies—Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” and
“—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”
Equity Investments
The Company reviews its equity investments for impairment based on its determination of whether the decline in market value
of the investment below the Company’s carrying value is other than temporary. In making this determination, the Company considers
APB Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock and related interpretations, which set forth
factors to be evaluated in determining whether a loss in value should be recognized, including the Company’s ability to hold its
investment, the market price and market price fluctuations of the investment’s publicly traded shares and inability of the investee to
sustain an earnings capacity, which would justify the carrying amount of the investment. The Company’s investment in ImClone is
subject to this accounting. For a discussion of the Company’s investment in ImClone, see Note 2 “Alliances and Investments.”
For discussions on equity investments, see Note 1 “Accounting Policies─Investments” and Note 2 “Alliances and Investments.”
Restructuring
To streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities, the Company has periodically recorded restructuring charges.
As a result, the Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future termination benefits and other
exit costs to be incurred when the restructuring actions take place. Actual results could vary from these estimates. Adjustments of $14
million, $1 million and $8 million were recorded in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and reflect changes in estimates for
restructuring actions taken in prior periods.
For discussions on restructuring, see Note 1 “Accounting Policies—Restructuring” and Note 3 “Restructuring and Other Items.”
Contingencies
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of
its business, that cover a wide range of matters, including, among others, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and
environmental liability, and tax matters. In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, the Company records accruals
for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
For discussions on contingencies, see Note 1 “Accounting Policies─Income Taxes and Contingencies;” Note 8 “Income Taxes;”
and Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
462006 Annual Report
Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes has been determined using the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes.
Under this approach, deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities are recovered or paid. The provision for income taxes represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the
change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from differences between the financial and tax bases of the Company’s
assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances are
recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether
or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including the long-range forecast of future taxable income
and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period
when such assessments are made. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had net deferred tax assets of $3,154 million and
$2,380 million, respectively, net of valuation allowances of $625 million and $559 million, respectively. The increase in net deferred
tax assets in 2006 primarily resulted from the adoption of SFAS No. 158, see Note 8 “Income Taxes” and Note 20 “Pension and Other
Postretirement Benefit Plans.”
The Company has recorded significant deferred tax assets related to U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards of approximately
$1,071 million and U.S. research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $259 million, which expire in varying amounts beginning
in 2012. Realization of the foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic
taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that these
deferred tax assets will be realized. The Company anticipates increasing its level of domestic profitability over time by undertaking
actions such as increasing its biologics manufacturing capacity in the U.S. and implementing tax planning strategies. While increasing
domestic profitability will likely cause the Company’s effective tax rate to increase, it will also further enhance the Company’s ability
to utilize its foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards. The amount of foreign tax credit and research tax credit
carryforwards considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if Plavix is subject to either renewed or additional
generic competition. If such events occur, the Company may need to record significant valuation allowances against these U.S.
Federal deferred tax assets. For a discussion of Plavix related matters, see Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
The Company conducts business in various countries throughout the world and is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. As a
result of its business activities, the Company files a significant number of tax returns that are subject to examination by various
Federal, state, and local tax authorities. Tax examinations are often complex as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of
items reported by the Company and may require several years to resolve. The Company establishes liabilities for possible assessments
by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures, including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits, and
deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid, and may
need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known.
As of December 31, 2006, the Company had approximately $11.3 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries for
which taxes have not been provided as the Company has invested or expects to invest these undistributed earnings permanently
offshore. If in the future these earnings are repatriated to the U.S., or if the Company determines such earnings will be remitted in the
foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would
have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that would have to be provided.
For discussions on income taxes, see Note 1 “Accounting Policies─Income Taxes” and Note 8 “Income Taxes.”
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, which requires the measurement and recognition of
compensation expense for all stock-based payment awards made to employees and directors based on estimated fair values. The
Company uses the modified prospective transition method, which requires the application of the accounting standard as of January 1,
2006, and has elected the alternative method as provided in FSP No. 123(R)-3 in determining the Company’s pool of excess tax
benefits. The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006 reflect the impact of SFAS No.
123(R). In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, the Company’s consolidated financial statements for prior
periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123(R). Stock-based compensation expense
recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $112 million ($73 million, net of tax) or $0.04 per
share, with a corresponding amount recorded in additional paid-in capital within stockholders’ equity. Comparatively, on a pro forma
basis, stock-based compensation expense of $31 million and $30 million ($20 million and $19 million, net of tax), respectively, was
recognized for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, under APB No. 25. Additionally, $10 million related to
performance awards was reclassified from liabilities to stockholders’ equity in connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).
The Company estimates the fair value of stock-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model. The
value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods in the
Company’s consolidated statement of earnings. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for stock-based
47Bristol-Myers Squibb
awards to employees and directors using the intrinsic value method related to stock options in accordance with APB No. 25 as allowed
under SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Under the intrinsic value method, no stock-based compensation
expense had been recognized in the Company’s consolidated statement of earnings because the exercise price of the Company’s stock
options granted to employees and directors equaled the fair market value of the underlying stock at the date of grant.
Stock-based compensation expense recognized during the period is based on the value of the portion of stock-based payment
awards that is ultimately expected to vest during the period. Stock-based compensation expense recognized in the Company’s
consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2006 included compensation expense for stock-based payment
awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the
pro forma provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) and compensation expense for the stock-based payment awards granted subsequent to
January 1, 2006 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R).
In conjunction with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company changed its method of attributing the value of stock-based
compensation expense from the accelerated multiple-option approach to the straight-line single option method. Compensation expense
for all stock-based payment awards granted prior to 2006 will continue to be recognized using the accelerated multiple-option
approach while compensation expense for all stock-based payment awards, with a service condition only, granted on or subsequent to
January 1, 2006 is recognized using the straight-line single-option method. Stock-based payment awards granted on or subsequent to
January 1, 2006, with both a service and market condition will be recognized using the accelerated multiple-option approach as
required under SFAS No. 123(R).
Prior to 2006, the Company applied APB Opinion No. 25, and did not recognize compensation expense for stock options granted
under the plans as the exercise price of the option on the date of grant is equal to the fair market value as of that date. However, for
grants of restricted stock, the Company recognized compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the period that the restrictions
expire.
The fair value of the options granted during 2006, 2005 and 2004 was estimated as $4.74 per common share, $5.49 per common
share and $5.91 per common share, respectively, on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option–pricing model. The assumptions
used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model were as follows:
2006 2005 2004
Expected volatility 26.7% 29.4% 30.0%
Risk-free interest rate 4.6% 4.4% 3.5%
Dividend yield 4.8% 4.6% 4.4%
Expected life 6.3 yrs 7.0 yrs 7.0 yrs
The Company determines fair value of certain stock-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model.
This model is affected by the Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective
variables. These variables include, but are not limited to the Company’s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards,
and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors.
With respect to the accounting treatment of retirement eligibility provisions of employee stock-based compensation awards, the
Company has historically followed the nominal vesting period approach. Upon the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company
follows the non-substantive vesting period approach and recognizes compensation cost over a one-year period for awards granted to
retirement eligible employees, or over the period from the grant date to the date retirement eligibility is achieved if more than one
year, but less than the vesting period. The impact of applying the non-substantive vesting period approach is not material to the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.
As stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31,
2006 is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. The Company estimates forfeitures
at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. In the Company’s
pro forma information required under SFAS No. 123 for the periods prior to 2006, the Company accounted for forfeitures as they
occurred.
482006 Annual Report
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This annual report and other written and oral statements the Company makes from time to time contain certain “forward-
looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the fact they use words such as “should”, “expect”, “anticipate”,
“estimate”, “target”, “may”, “project”, “guidance”, “intend”, “plan”, “believe” and other words and terms of similar meaning and
expression in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. One can also identify forward-looking
statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements are based on
current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and
could cause actual outcomes to differ materially from current expectations. These statements are likely to relate to, among other
things, the Company’s goals, plans and projections regarding its financial position, results of operations, cash flows, market position,
product development, product approvals, sales efforts, expenses, performance or results of current and anticipated products and the
outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results, which are based on current expectations that involve
inherent risks and uncertainties, including internal or external factors that could delay, divert or change any of them in the next several
years. The Company has included important factors in the cautionary statements included in this annual report that the Company
believes could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.
Although the Company believes it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or
plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements,
which speak only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking
statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
49Bristol-Myers Squibb
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The Company is exposed to market risk due to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. To reduce that risk, the
Company enters into certain derivative financial instruments, when available on a cost-effective basis, to hedge its underlying
economic exposure. These instruments are managed on a consolidated basis to efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of
any natural offsets. Derivative financial instruments are not used for speculative purposes. Gains and losses on hedging transactions
are offset by gains and losses on the underlying exposures being hedged. Any ineffective portion of hedges is reported in earnings as it
occurs.
The Company’s primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the Euro, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Chinese renminbi
and Canadian dollar.
The Company utilizes foreign currency contracts to hedge anticipated transactions, primarily intercompany transactions, on
certain foreign currencies and designates these derivative instruments as foreign currency cash flow hedges when appropriate.
The fair value of all foreign exchange forward contracts is based on year-end currency rates. The fair value of foreign exchange
forward contracts should be viewed in relation to the fair value of the underlying hedged transactions and the overall reduction in
exposure to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company’s outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts
as of December 31, 2006 were as follows:
Weighted-Average Fair Value
Dollars in Millions, Except Currency Rates Strike Price Notional Amount Asset/(Liability) Maturity
Foreign Exchange Forwards:
Australian Dollar 0.76 $ 102 $ (2) 2007/2008
British Pound 1.87 36 (2) 2007
Canadian Dollar 1.15 185 2 2007/2008
Euro 1.27 922 (42) 2007/2008
Japanese Yen 107.8 209 12 2007/2008
Mexican Peso 10.94 55 — 2007
Swedish Krona 6.89 34 (1) 2007/2008
Swiss Franc 1.18 42 — 2007/2008
Total Contracts $ 1,585 $ (33)
At December 31, 2006, the Company held foreign exchange forward contracts with maturity dates from 2007 to 2008. At
December 31, 2006, the Company did not hold any foreign exchange option contracts. The notional amounts and fair values of the
foreign exchange forward contract maturity dates were as follows:
Year of Maturity Notional Amount Fair Value
Dollars in Millions
2007 $ 1,173 $ (35)
2008 412 2
At December 31, 2006, the fair value of the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts was a net liability of $33 million, of
which $18 million was recorded as a non-current asset and $51 million was recorded as a current liability. The Company estimates
that a 10% appreciation or depreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the dollar as of December
31, 2006, with all other variables held constant, would decrease or increase, respectively, by $159 million, the fair value of foreign
exchange forward contracts held at December 31, 2006.
The Company is obligated to settle foreign exchange forward contracts based on the specified contract rates. As of December
31, 2006, the balance of deferred net after-tax losses of foreign exchange forward contracts included in accumulated other
comprehensive income was $22 million, of which a net after-tax loss of $25 million is estimated to be reclassified into earnings within
the next 12 months.
At December 31, 2005, the Company held foreign exchange forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $2,296
million. The fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts was a net asset of $53 million, of which $94 million was recorded as
a non-current asset and $41 million was recorded as a current liability. These contracts primarily related to exposures in Euro,
Canadian dollar and Australian dollar. The Company estimates that a 10% appreciation or depreciation in the underlying currencies
being hedged from their levels against the dollar as of December 31, 2005, with all other variables held constant, would decrease or
increase, respectively, by $230 million, the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts held at December 31, 2005.
502006 Annual Report
For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the impact of hedge ineffectiveness on earnings was not significant.
Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the impact of discontinued hedges was a loss of $10 million, a
gain of $2 million and a gain of $1 million, respectively. Furthermore, the Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to offset
its exposure to certain currency assets and liabilities. These foreign exchange forward contracts are not designated as hedges and,
therefore, changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized in earnings as they occur. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the amounts
recognized in earnings related to foreign exchange forward contracts that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment were not
significant.
The Company also uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency denominated monetary assets and
liabilities. The primary objective of these foreign exchange forward contracts is to protect the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency
denominated monetary assets and liabilities from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange rates that might occur prior to their
receipt or settlement in U.S. dollars. These foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are primarily denominated in
Euro. The foreign exchange forward contracts are not designated as hedges and are marked to market through other income/expense.
The notional and fair value amounts of purchased foreign exchange forward contracts were $24 million and a $1 million asset,
respectively, at December 31, 2006, and were $142 million and a $2 million liability, respectively, at December 31, 2005. The
notional and fair value amounts of sold foreign exchange forward contracts were $22 million and a $1 million liability, respectively, at
December 31, 2006, and were $47 million and a $1 million asset, respectively, at December 31, 2005.
In addition to the foreign exchange forward contracts noted above, the Company uses non U.S. dollar borrowings and, to a
lesser extent, foreign exchange forward contracts, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of the Company’s net investment in certain
foreign affiliates. These non U.S. dollar borrowings and foreign exchange forward contracts are designated as hedges of net
investments. The effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges is recorded as part of the foreign currency
translation component of other comprehensive income. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, $17 million in after-tax losses and $12
million in after-tax gains, respectively, were recorded in the foreign currency translation component of accumulated other
comprehensive income.
The Company uses derivative instruments as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. The derivative instruments used
are comprised principally of fixed to floating rate interest rate swaps, which are subject to fair-value hedge accounting treatment. In
November 2006, in connection with the funding of the retirement of the 2011 fixed rate debt, the Company executed several fixed to
floating interest rate swaps to convert $1.3 billion and €1 billion Euro ($1.3 billion) of the Company’s newly issued fixed rate debt to
be paid in 2016, 2021, and 2036 to variable rate debt. During 2004, the Company executed several fixed to floating interest rate
swaps to convert $700 million of the Company’s fixed rate debt to be paid in 2023 and 2026 to variable rate debt. The total notional
amount of outstanding interest rate swaps were $2.6 billion and €1 billion Euro ($1.3 billion) as of December 31, 2006 and $3.4
billion as of December 31, 2005, respectively. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities, the Company recognized a net increase in interest expense of $18 million in 2006, and a net reduction in interest expense of
$54 million and $151 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, from the impact of interest rate swaps.
51Bristol-Myers Squibb
SFAS No. 133 requires the revaluation, at fair value, of the swap contracts as well as the underlying debt being hedged. As such,
the swap contracts and the underlying debt have been revalued resulting in an increase in non-current assets of $7 million, and current
liabilities of $57 million, and a reduction in long-term debt of $50 million at December 31, 2006; and an increase in non-current assets
of $21 million, and current liabilities of $51 million, and a reduction in long-term debt of $30 million at December 31, 2005. Swap
contracts are generally held to maturity and are intended to create an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt for the
Company. Swap contracts that qualify as fair value hedges that are terminated prior to their maturity dates are reported as part of the
carrying value of the underlying debt and are amortized to earnings over the remaining life of the debt. Swap contracts that qualify as
cash flow hedges that are terminated are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income and amortized to earnings over the
remaining life of the debt. Interest rate swaps outstanding as of December 31, 2006 and terminated interest rate swaps for 2006 and
2005 were as follows:
Notional
Amount of
Underlying Variable Rate Year of Fair
Interest Rate Contracts Debt Received Transaction Maturity Value
Dollars in Millions
Swaps associated with:
4.00% Notes due 2008 $ 400 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +0.35% 2003 2008 $ (9)
5.25% Notes due 2013 600 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +0.42% 2003 2013 (9)
4.375% €500 Million EUR Notes due 2016 656 3 month EUR € EURIBOR +0.40% 2006 2016 (12)
4.625% €500 Million EUR Notes due 2021 656 3 month EUR € EURIBOR +0.56% 2006 2021 (16)
7.15% Notes due 2023 350 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +1.66% 2004 2023 7
5.875% Notes due 2036 1,250 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +0.62% 2006 2036 (11)
$ 3,912 $ (50)
Terminated Swap Contracts
Total Pre-Tax 2006 Pre-Tax 2005 Pre-Tax
Year of Notional Amount of Deferred Income/(Expense) Income/(Expense)
Interest Rate Contracts Termination Underlying Debt Gain/(Loss) Recognized Recognized
Dollars in Millions
Interest rate swap lock associated with 5.75%
Notes due 2011 (1) 2001 $2,500 $ (58) $ (37) $ (5)
Interest Rate Swap Lock associated with 4.75%
Notes due 2006 2001 2,000 (48) — (15)
Swaps associated with 4.75% Notes due 2006 (1) 2005 2,000 (13) — (13)
Swaps associated with 5.75% Notes due 2011 (1) 2005 500 (23) (21) (2)
Swaps associated with 6.8% Notes due 2026 2005 350 39 1 —
Swaps associated with 5.75% Notes due 2011 (1) 2006 2,000 (62) (62) —
$(165) $ (119) $ (35)
(1) The underlying 2011 and 2006 Notes were extinguished in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
At December 31, 2006, the Company held interest rate swap contracts with a notional value of $2.6 billion and €1.0 billion Euro
($1.3 billion) and a fair value of a net liability of $50 million.
It is estimated that an increase or decrease of 50 basis points in short-term or long-term interest rates would not have a material
impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
The Company had $7,248 million and $8,364 million of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. For additional information, see Note 14 “Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt” and see Note 17 “Financial
Instruments.”
The Company maintains cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities with various financial institutions, in order to limit
exposure to any one financial institution. These financial institutions are headquartered primarily in North America and Europe.
522006 Annual Report
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
Dollars and Shares in Millions, Except Per Share Data
Year Ended December 31,
2006 2005 2004
EARNINGS
Net Sales $ 17,914 $ 19,207 $ 19,380
Costs of products sold 5,956 5,928 5,989
Marketing, selling and administrative 4,919 5,106 5,016
Advertising and product promotion 1,351 1,476 1,411
Research and development 3,067 2,746 2,500
Acquired in-process research and development — — 63
Provision for restructuring, net 59 32 104
Litigation charges, net 302 269 420
Gain on sale of product asset and businesses (200) (569) (320)
Equity in net income of affiliates (474) (334) (273)
Other expense, net 299 37 52
Total expenses 15,279 14,691 14,962
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before
Minority Interest and Income Taxes 2,635 4,516 4,418
Provision for income taxes 610 932 1,519
Minority interest, net of taxes 440 592 521
Earnings from Continuing Operations 1,585 2,992 2,378
Discontinued Operations
Earnings/(loss), net of taxes — (5) 10
Gain on disposal, net of taxes — 13 —
— 8 10
Net Earnings $ 1,585 $ 3,000 $ 2,388
Earnings per Common Share
Basic:
Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 0.81 $ 1.53 $ 1.23
Discontinued Operations
Loss, net of taxes — — —
Gain on disposal, net of taxes — — —
Net Earnings per Common Share $ 0.81 $ 1.53 $ 1.23
Diluted:
Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 0.81 $ 1.52 $ 1.21
Discontinued Operations
Loss, net of taxes — — —
Gain on disposal, net of taxes — — —
Net Earnings per Common Share $ 0.81 $ 1.52 $ 1.21
Average Common Shares Outstanding
Basic 1,960 1,952 1,942
Diluted 1,963 1,983 1,976
Dividends declared per common share $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.12
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
53Bristol-Myers Squibb
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND RETAINED EARNINGS
Dollars in Millions
Year Ended December 31,
2006 2005 2004
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Net Earnings $ 1,585 $ 3,000 $ 2,388
Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss):
Foreign currency translation, no tax effect in 2006, net of tax
liability of $3 in 2005 and tax benefit of $48 in 2004 129 (270) 208
Deferred gains/(losses) on derivatives qualifying as hedges, net of
tax benefit of $10 in 2006, net of tax liability of $122 in 2005 and
$1 in 2004 (39) 325 (51)
Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax liability of $44 in
2006 and net of tax benefit of $4 in 2005 and $42 in 2004 82 (6) (93)
Available for sale securities, net of tax liability of $6 in 2006, net of
tax benefit of $12 in 2005 and no tax effect in 2004 12 (22) (1)
Total Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) 184 27 63
Comprehensive Income $ 1,769 $ 3,027 $ 2,451
RETAINED EARNINGS
Retained Earnings, January 1 $ 20,464 $ 19,651 $ 19,439
Net earnings 1,585 3,000 2,388
Cash dividends declared (2,204) (2,187) (2,176)
Retained Earnings, December 31 $ 19,845 $ 20,464 $ 19,651
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
542006 Annual Report
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Data
December 31,
2006 2005
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,018 $ 3,050
Marketable securities 1,995 2,749
Receivables, net of allowances of $150 and $207 3,247 3,378
Inventories, net 2,079 2,060
Deferred income taxes, net of valuation allowances 649 776
Prepaid expenses 314 270
Total Current Assets 10,302 12,283
Property, plant and equipment, net 5,673 5,693
Goodwill 4,829 4,823
Other intangible assets, net 1,852 1,921
Deferred income taxes, net of valuation allowances 2,577 1,808
Prepaid pension — 1,324
Other assets 342 286
Total Assets $ 25,575 $ 28,138
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Short-term borrowings $ 187 $ 231
Accounts payable 1,239 1,579
Accrued expenses 2,332 2,321
Accrued rebates and returns 823 1,056
Deferred income 411 125
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 444 538
Dividends payable 552 547
Accrued litigation liabilities 508 493
Total Current Liabilities 6,496 6,890
Pension and other postretirement liabilities 942 804
Deferred income 354 241
Other liabilities 544 631
Long-term debt 7,248 8,364
Total Liabilities 15,584 16,930
Commitments and contingencies (Note 21)
STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Preferred stock, $2 convertible series: Authorized 10 million shares; issued and
outstanding 6,001 in 2006 and 6,540 in 2005, liquidation value of $50 per share — —
Common stock, par value of $.10 per share: Authorized 4.5 billion shares; 2.2 billion
issued in both 2006 and 2005 220 220
Capital in excess of par value of stock 2,498 2,457
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (1,645) (765)
Retained earnings 19,845 20,464
20,918 22,376
Less cost of treasury stock — 238 million common shares in 2006 and 248 million in 2005 (10,927) (11,168)
Total Stockholders’ Equity 9,991 11,208
Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity $ 25,575 $ 28,138
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
55Bristol-Myers Squibb
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Dollars in Millions
Year Ended December 31,
2006 2005 2004
Cash Flows From Operating Activities:
Net earnings $ 1,585 $ 3,000 $ 2,388
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation 564 577 593
Amortization 363 352 316
Deferred income tax (benefits)/expense (236) (812) 278
Litigation settlement expense, net of recoveries 302 269 420
Stock-based compensation expense 112 — —
Provision for restructuring 59 32 104
Gain on sale of product asset and businesses (207) (632) (320)
Deferred income recognized — (143) —
Acquired in-process research and development — — 63
Impairment charges and asset write-offs 120 42 —
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and investment in other companies 26 36 18
Deferred expenses on extinguishment of long-term debt 62 — —
(Under)/over distribution of earnings from affiliates (35) 50 7
Unfunded pension expense 8 (31) (91)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Receivables 210 539 (556)
Inventories 78 (370) (133)
Prepaid expenses and other assets (43) 38 18
Litigation settlement payments, net of insurance recoveries (272) 11 (500)
Accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred income (460) (378) 248
Product liability (50) (48) 38
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable (91) (534) 228
Other liabilities (12) (162) 57
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 2,083 1,836 3,176
Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
Purchases of and proceeds from marketable securities, net 762 1,043 (779)
Additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized software (785) (738) (676)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and investment in other companies 10 73 35
Proceeds from sale of product assets and businesses 226 843 364
Proceeds from sale and leaseback of properties 281 — —
Upfront and milestone payments (280) — (250)
Purchase of Acordis Speciality Fibres — — (150)
Purchases of trademarks, patents, licenses & other businesses and investments in other companies (8) (30) (137)
Divestiture and acquisition costs — — (29)
Net Cash Provided by/(Used in) Investing Activities 206 1,191 (1,622)
Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
Short-term borrowings/(repayments) 30 (1,625) 1,558
Long-term debt borrowings 2,506 2,510 15
Long-term debt repayments (3,700) (2,502) (3)
Charges on extinguishment of long-term debt (158) — —
Issuances of common stock under stock plans and excess tax benefits from share-based payment
arrangements 170 166 141
Dividends paid (2,199) (2,186) (2,174)
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities (3,351) (3,637) (463)
Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash and Cash Equivalents 30 (20) 40
(Decrease)/Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents (1,032) (630) 1,131
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period 3,050 3,680 2,549
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period $ 2,018 $ 3,050 $ 3,680
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
562006 Annual Report
Note 1 Accounting Policies
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS, the Company or Bristol-
Myers Squibb) and all of its controlled majority-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been
eliminated. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. The most significant assumptions are employed in estimates used in determining values of intangible
assets, restructuring charges and accruals, sales rebate and return accruals, legal contingencies and tax assets and tax liabilities, as well
as in estimates used in applying the revenue recognition policy and accounting for stock-based compensation costs and retirement and
postretirement benefits (including the actuarial assumptions). Actual results may or may not differ from estimated results.
Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, Revenue Recognition in
Financial Statements, as amended by SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition, when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership
have transferred to the customer. Generally, revenue is recognized at time of shipment. However, in the case of certain sales made by
the Nutritionals and Other Health Care segments and certain non-U.S. businesses within the Pharmaceuticals segment, revenue is
recognized on the date of receipt by the purchaser. Revenues are reduced at the time of recognition to reflect expected returns that are
estimated based on historical experience and business trends. Additionally, provisions are made at the time of revenue recognition for
discounts, rebates and estimated sales allowances based on historical experience updated for changes in facts and circumstances, as
appropriate. Such provisions are recorded as a reduction of revenue.
In the case of sales made to wholesalers (1) as a result of incentives, (2) in excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary course of
business inventory level, (3) at a time when there was an understanding, agreement, course of dealing or consistent business practice
that the Company would extend incentives based on levels of excess inventory in connection with future purchases, and (4) at a time
when such incentives would cover substantially all, and vary directly with, the wholesaler’s cost of carrying inventory in excess of the
wholesaler’s ordinary course of business inventory level, substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership did not transfer upon
shipment, and accordingly, such sales were accounted for using the consignment model. The determination of when, if at all, sales to a
wholesaler meet the foregoing criteria involves evaluation of a variety of factors and a number of complex judgments. Under the
consignment model, the Company does not recognize revenue upon shipment of product. Rather, upon shipment of product the
Company invoices the wholesaler, records deferred revenue at gross invoice sales price, and classifies the inventory held by the
wholesalers as consignment inventory at the Company’s cost of such inventory. The Company recognizes revenue when the
consignment inventory is no longer subject to incentive arrangements, but not later than when such inventory is sold through to the
wholesalers’ customers, on a first-in first-out basis (FIFO).
In the case of new products for which the product introduction is not an extension of an existing line of product, where the
Company determines that there are not products in a similar therapeutic category, or where the Company determines the new product
has dissimilar characteristics with existing products, such that the Company cannot reliably estimate expected returns of the new
product, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the right of return no longer exists or until the Company has developed
sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns.
Sales Rebate and Return Accruals
Medicaid rebate accruals were $137 million and $326 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively; Women, Infants
and Children (WIC) rebate accruals were $230 million and $252 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively; sales return
accruals were $221 million and $185 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively; and managed health care rebate and other
contractual discount accruals were $111 million and $167 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These and other
rebate accruals were established in the same period the related revenue was recognized, resulting in a reduction to sales and the
establishment of a liability, which is included in accrued liabilities. An accrual is recorded based on an estimate of the proportion of
recorded revenue that will result in a rebate or return. Prime vendor charge-back accruals, established in a similar manner, are
recorded as a reduction to accounts receivable and were $63 million and $107 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
57Bristol-Myers Squibb
Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes has been determined using the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes.
Under this approach, deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities are recovered or paid. The provision for income taxes represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the
change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from differences between the financial and tax bases of the Company’s
assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances are
recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether
or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including the long-range forecast of future taxable income
and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period
when such assessments are made. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had net deferred tax assets of $3,154 million and
$2,380 million, respectively, net of valuation allowances of $625 million and $559 million, respectively.
The Company has recorded significant deferred tax assets related to U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards of approximately
$1,071 million and U.S. research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $259 million, which expire in varying amounts beginning
in 2012. Realization of the foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic
taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that these
deferred tax assets will be realized. The Company anticipates increasing its level of domestic profitability over time by undertaking
actions such as increasing its biologics manufacturing capacity in the U.S. and implementing tax planning strategies. While increasing
domestic profitability will likely cause the Company’s effective tax rate to increase, it will also further enhance the Company’s ability
to utilize its foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards. The amount of foreign tax credit and research tax credit
carryforwards considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if Plavix is subject to either renewed or additional
generic competition. If such events occur, the Company may need to record significant valuation allowances against these U.S.
Federal deferred tax assets. For a discussion of Plavix related matters, see Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
As of December 31, 2006, the Company had approximately $11.3 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries for
which taxes have not been provided as the Company has invested or expects to invest these undistributed earnings permanently
offshore. If in the future these earnings are repatriated to the U.S., or if the Company determines such earnings will be remitted in the
foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would
have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that would have to be provided.
The Company conducts business in various countries throughout the world and is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. As a
result of its business activities, the Company files a significant number of tax returns that are subject to examination by various
Federal, state and local tax authorities. Tax examinations are often complex as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of
items reported by the Company and may require several years to resolve. The Company establishes liabilities for possible assessments
by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits, and
deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid, and may
need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash equivalents are primarily highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase,
and are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value.
Marketable Securities
The Company accounts for marketable securities in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No.
115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. The Company determined the appropriate classification of all
marketable securities was “available-for-sale” at the time of purchase. As such, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, all of the Company’s
investments in marketable securities were reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are reported as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity. The Company follows its investment managers’ method of
determining the cost basis in computing realized gains and losses on the sale of its available-for-sale securities, which is the average
cost method. Realized gains and losses are included in other income (expense).
Inventory Valuation
Inventories are generally stated at average cost, not in excess of market.
582006 Annual Report
Capital Assets and Depreciation
Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalized at cost. Depreciation is generally computed on a straight-
line method based on the estimated useful lives of the related assets. The estimated useful lives of the major classes of depreciable
assets are 50 years for buildings and 3 to 40 years for machinery, equipment and fixtures. The Company periodically evaluates
whether current events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its depreciable assets may not be recoverable.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its depreciable
assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of undiscounted future
cash flows produced by the long-lived asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine
whether impairment exists. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset’s
fair value and its carrying value. An estimate of the asset’s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available.
If quoted market prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques, including a discounted
value of estimated future cash flows. The Company reports an asset to be disposed of at the lower of its carrying value or its estimated
net realizable value.
Capitalized Software
Certain costs to obtain internal use software for significant systems projects are capitalized and amortized over the estimated
useful life of the software, which ranges from 3 to 10 years. Costs to obtain software for projects that are not significant are expensed
as incurred. Capitalized software, net of accumulated amortization, included in other intangible assets, was $291 million and $336
million, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Amortization expense was $124 million, $116 million and $90 million for the
years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Investments
The Company accounts for 50% or less owned companies over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence using the
equity method of accounting, otherwise the cost method is used. The Company’s share of net income or losses of equity investments
is included in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated statement of earnings. Losses are recognized in other income
(expense) when a decline in market value is deemed to be other than temporary. The Company reviews its equity investments for
impairment based on its determination of whether the decline in market value of the investment below the Company’s carrying value
is other than temporary. In making this determination, the Company considers Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18,
The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock and related interpretations, which set forth factors to be evaluated
in determining whether a loss in value should be recognized, including the Company’s ability to hold its investment, the market price
and market price fluctuations of the investment’s publicly traded shares and inability of the investee to sustain an earnings capacity,
which would justify the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually using a two-step process. The first step is to identify a potential impairment, and the
second step measures the amount of the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is deemed to be impaired if the carrying amount of a
reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. The Company has completed its goodwill impairment assessment, which
indicated no impairment of goodwill.
Other intangible assets, consisting of patents, trademarks, technology, licenses, and capitalized software, are amortized on a
straight-line basis over their useful lives, ranging from 3 to 17 years. Indefinite-lived intangible assets, if any, are tested for
impairment using a one-step process, which consists of a comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the intangible asset.
Such intangible assets are deemed to be impaired if their net carrying value exceeds their estimated fair value. All other intangible
assets are evaluated for impairment as described under “—Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” above.
Restructuring
To streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities, the Company has periodically recorded restructuring charges.
As a result, the Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future termination benefits and other
exit costs to be incurred when the restructuring actions take place. Actual results may or may not vary from these estimates.
Product Liability
Accruals for product liability (including associated legal costs) are recorded on an undiscounted basis when it is probable that a
liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. These accruals
are adjusted periodically as assessment efforts progress or as additional information becomes available. Receivables for related
insurance or other third-party recoveries for product liabilities are recorded, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a
recovery will be realized and are classified as a reduction of litigation charges in the consolidated statement of earnings.
59Bristol-Myers Squibb
Contingencies
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to loss contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out
of its business, that cover a wide range of matters, including, among others, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product
and environmental liability, and tax matters. In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, the Company records
accruals for such loss contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably
estimated. The Company, in accordance with SFAS No. 5, does not recognize gain contingencies until realized. For a discussion of
contingencies, see Note 8 “Income Taxes” and Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivative financial instruments are used by the Company principally in the management of its interest rate and foreign currency
exposures. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Company records all derivative instruments on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in a derivative’s fair value are
recognized in earnings unless specific hedge criteria are met. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, the changes in the
fair value of the derivative and of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in the consolidated statement of
earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portions of changes in the fair value of the derivative are
recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) and are subsequently recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings when the
hedged item affects earnings; cash flows are classified consistent with the underlying hedged item. For purchased foreign currency
options the entire change in fair value is included in the measurement of hedge effectiveness for cash flow hedges. Ineffective portions
of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges, if any, are recognized as a charge or credit to earnings.
The Company designates and assigns derivatives as hedges of forecasted transactions, specific assets or specific liabilities.
When hedged assets or liabilities are sold or extinguished or the forecasted transactions being hedged are no longer expected to occur,
the Company immediately recognizes the gain or loss on the designated hedging financial instruments in the consolidated statement of
earnings.
Shipping and Handling Costs
The Company typically does not charge customers for shipping and handling costs. Therefore, shipping and handling costs are
included in marketing, selling and administrative expenses and were $269 million in 2006 and $245 million in both 2005 and 2004.
Advertising Costs
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense was $481 million, $509 million and $479 million in 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively.
Research and Development
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. The Company from time to time will enter into strategic alliances
with third parties, which give the Company rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to
which are owned by such third parties. As a result of these alliances, the Company may be obligated to make payments to alliance
partners in connection with research and development contingent upon the achievement of certain pre-determined criteria. For
milestones achieved prior to regulatory approval of the product, such payments are expensed as research and development. Milestone
payments made in connection with regulatory approvals, including non-U.S. regulatory approvals and additional indications, are
capitalized and amortized to cost of products sold over the remaining useful life of the asset. All capitalized milestone payments are
tested for recoverability periodically or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be
recoverable.
Acquired In-Process Research and Development
The fair value of in-process research and development acquired in a business combination is determined by independent
appraisal based on the present value of each research project’s projected cash flows. An income approach is utilized that is consistent
with guidance in the practice aid issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Assets Acquired in Business
Combinations to Be Used in Research and Development Activities: A Focus on Software, Electronic Devices and Pharmaceutical
Industries. Future cash flows are predominately based on the net income forecast of each project, consistent with historical pricing,
margins and expense levels of similar products. Revenues are estimated based on relevant market size and growth factors, expected
industry trends, individual project life cycles and the life of each research project’s underlying patent. In determining the fair value of
each research project, expected revenues are first adjusted for technical risk of completion. The resulting cash flows are then
discounted at a rate approximating the Company’s weighted average cost of capital. Other acquired in-process research and
development is expensed as incurred when the underlying product has not received regulatory approval and does not have any future
alternative use. In addition, costs that are nonrefundable, related to the acquisition or licensing of products that have not yet received
regulatory approval to be marketed and that have no alternative future use, are charged to earnings as incurred.
602006 Annual Report
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per common share are computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per common share are computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the year plus the
incremental shares outstanding assuming the exercise of dilutive stock options, restricted stock and convertible instruments.
Foreign Currency Translation
The statements of earnings of the Company's foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates.
The net assets of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar
effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recorded in the foreign currency translation
adjustment account, which is included in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI).
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
The Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (SFAS No. 123(R)), which requires the
measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all stock-based payment awards made to employees and directors based on
estimated fair values. SFAS No. 123(R) supersedes the Company’s previous accounting under APB No. 25, Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees, for periods beginning January 1, 2006. In March 2005, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
issued SAB No. 107, Share-Based Payment relating to SFAS No. 123(R). The Company has applied the provisions of SAB No. 107 in
its adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).
The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method, which requires the application of
the accounting standard as of January 1, 2006, and has elected the alternative method as provided in FASB Staff Position (FSP)
123(R)-3, Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards, in determining the
Company’s pool of excess tax benefits. The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006
reflect the impact of SFAS No. 123(R). In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, the Company’s consolidated
financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123(R). Stock-
based compensation expense recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $112 million ($73
million, net of tax) or $0.04 per share, with a corresponding amount recorded in additional paid-in capital within stockholders’ equity.
Additionally, $10 million related to performance awards was reclassified from liabilities to stockholders’ equity in connection with the
adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).
In February 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, which permits an entity to measure certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair
value. The objective of SFAS No. 159 is to improve financial reporting by allowing entities to mitigate volatility in reported earnings
caused by the measurement of related assets and liabilities using different attributes, without having to apply complex hedge
accounting provisions. Under SFAS No. 159, entities that elect the fair value option (by instrument) will report unrealized gains and
losses in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. The fair value option election is irrevocable, unless a new election date occurs.
SFAS No. 159 establishes presentation and disclosure requirements to help financial statement users understand the effect of the
entity's election on its earnings, but does not eliminate disclosure requirements of other accounting standards. Assets and liabilities
that are measured at fair value must be displayed on the face of the balance sheet. This Statement is effective for fiscal years
beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company is evaluating the potential impact of this pronouncement.
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement SFAS No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). This pronouncement requires an employer to
recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan (other than a multiemployer plan) as an asset
or liability in its statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur
through comprehensive income of a business entity. This pronouncement also requires an employer to measure the funded status of a
plan as of the date of its year-end statement of financial position, with limited exceptions. The pronouncement does not require prior
periods to be restated to reflect the impact of SFAS No. 158. The Company adopted SFAS No. 158 in the fiscal year ended December
31, 2006 and the adoption of this accounting pronouncement resulted in a $1,064 million reduction of accumulated OCI in
stockholders’ equity, a $767 million reduction in total assets and a $297 million increase in total liabilities. The adoption of SFAS No.
158 did not impact the Company’s results of operations or cash flows.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. This pronouncement defines fair value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement is effective
for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The adoption of this accounting pronouncement is not expected to have a
material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
61Bristol-Myers Squibb
In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying the
Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements, which expresses the staff's views regarding the process of quantifying financial
statement misstatements. This bulletin is effective for any interim period of the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006.
SAB No. 108 requires that companies utilize a “dual approach” to assess the quantitative effects of financial statement misstatements.
The dual approach includes both an income statement focus and balance sheet focus assessment. The adoption of this bulletin did not
have any effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation Number (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 which, in the case of the Company, is effective as of January 1, 2007. FIN No. 48 clarifies
the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN No. 48 requires that all tax positions be evaluated using a recognition threshold and measurement
attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
Differences between tax positions taken in a tax return and amounts recognized in the financial statements are recorded as adjustments
to income taxes payable or receivable, or adjustments to deferred taxes, or both. FIN No. 48 also requires expanded disclosure at the
end of each annual reporting period including a tabular reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits. In accordance with FIN No. 48,
the Company will report the difference between the net amount of assets and liabilities recognized in the statement of financial
position prior to and after the application of FIN No. 48 as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The adoption of this accounting pronouncement is not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial
statements.
In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets – an amendment of FASB
Statement No. 140. This pronouncement relates to the accounting for separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities.
This Statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006. The adoption of this accounting pronouncement is not
expected to have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments, an amendment of
FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. This pronouncement primarily resolves certain issues addressed in the implementation of SFAS
No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, concerning beneficial interests in securitized financial assets.
The Statement is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued, or subject to a remeasurement event occurring after the
beginning of the 2007 fiscal year. The adoption of this accounting pronouncement is not expected to have a material effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, which replaces APB Opinion No.
20, Accounting Changes and SFAS No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements. This pronouncement
applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle, and revises the requirements for accounting for and reporting a change in
accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods' financial statements of a voluntary change in
accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to do so. This pronouncement also requires that a change in the method of depreciation,
amortization, or depletion for long-lived, non-financial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate that is affected by a
change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005. The Statement does not change the transition provisions of any existing accounting
pronouncements, including those that are in a transition phase as of the effective date of SFAS No. 154. The adoption of this
accounting pronouncement did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. FIN No. 47 clarifies
that an entity must record a liability for a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the obligation can be reasonably
estimated. Asset retirement obligations covered by FIN No. 47 are those for which an entity has a legal obligation to perform an asset
retirement activity, even if the timing and method of settling the obligation are conditional on a future event that may or may not be
within the control of the entity. FIN No. 47 also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the
fair value of an asset retirement obligation. The Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 47 in the fiscal year ended December 31,
2005 and adoption of this accounting pronouncement did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial
statements.
In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. 109-1— Application of SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax
Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. FSP No. 109-1 provides that the
Deduction on Qualified Production Activities will be treated as a “special deduction” as described in SFAS No. 109, Accounting for
Income Taxes. Accordingly, the tax effect of this deduction was reported as a component of the Company’s tax provision and did not
have an effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities. On May 24, 2006, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued Final Tax
Regulations (FTR) with respect to the Deduction on Qualified Production Activities under Section 199 of the Internal Revenue Code.
The final regulations are effective for taxable years beginning on or after June 1, 2006. For taxable years beginning prior to the
622006 Annual Report
effective date of the final regulations, a taxpayer may apply either: (1) the final regulations, provided the taxpayer applies all
provisions in the final regulations; or (2) subject to certain limitations, the rules provided in Notice 2005-24, as well as the proposed
regulations. The issuance of the FTR and the adoption of the FSP No. 109-1 did not have a material impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets. The provisions of this Statement are
effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The provisions of this Statement
should be applied prospectively, and eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar
productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions, and replaces it with an exception for
exchanges that do not have commercial substance. The adoption of this accounting pronouncement did not have a material effect on
the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs – an Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. The standard
requires abnormal amounts of idle facility and related expenses to be recognized as current period charges and also requires that
allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS
No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of this accounting
pronouncement did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Note 2 Alliances and Investments
Sanofi-Aventis
The Company has agreements with Sanofi-Aventis (Sanofi) for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of Avapro/Avalide
(irbesartan), an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic nephropathy, and Plavix
(clopidogrel bisulfate), a platelet aggregation inhibitor. The worldwide alliance operates under the framework of two geographic
territories; one in the Americas (principally the U.S., Canada, Puerto Rico and Latin American countries) and Australia, and the other
in Europe and Asia. Accordingly, two territory partnerships were formed to manage central expenses, such as marketing, research and
development, and royalties, and to supply finished product to the individual countries. In general, at the country level, agreements
either to copromote (whereby a partnership was formed between the parties to sell each brand) or to comarket (whereby the parties
operate and sell their brands independently of each other) are in place. The agreements expire on the later of (i) with respect to Plavix,
2013 and, with respect to Avapro/Avalide, 2012 in the Americas and Australia and 2013 in Europe and Asia and (ii) the expiration of
all patents and other exclusivity rights in the applicable territory.
The Company acts as the operating partner for the territory covering the Americas and Australia and owns a 50.1% majority
controlling interest in this territory. Sanofi’s ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. As such, the Company consolidates all
country partnership results for this territory and records Sanofi’s share of the results as a minority interest, net of taxes, which was
$428 million in 2006, $578 million in 2005 and $502 million in 2004. The Company recorded sales in this territory and in
comarketing countries outside this territory (Germany, Italy, Spain and Greece) of $4,355 million in 2006, $4,805 million in 2005 and
$4,257 million in 2004.
Cash flows from operating activities of the partnerships in the territory covering the Americas and Australia are recorded as
operating activities within the Company’s consolidated statement of cash flows. Distributions of partnership profits to Sanofi and
Sanofi’s funding of ongoing partnership operations occur on a routine basis and are also recorded within operating activities on the
Company’s consolidated statement of cash flows.
Sanofi acts as the operating partner of the territory covering Europe and Asia and owns a 50.1% majority financial controlling
interest within this territory. The Company’s ownership interest in the partnerships within this territory is 49.9%. The Company
accounts for the investment in partnership entities in this territory under the equity method and records its share of the results in equity
in net income of affiliates in the consolidated statement of earnings. The Company’s share of net income from these partnership
entities before taxes was $439 million in 2006, $345 million in 2005 and $269 million in 2004.
The Company routinely receives distributions of profits and provides funding for the ongoing operations of the partnerships in
the territory covering Europe and Asia. These transactions are recorded as operating activities within the Company’s consolidated
statement of cash flows.
In 2001, the Company and Sanofi (the Companies) formed an alliance for the copromotion of irbesartan, as part of which the
Company contributed the irbesartan distribution rights in the U.S. and Sanofi paid the Company a total of $350 million in the two
years ended December 31, 2002. The Company accounted for this transaction as a sale of an interest in a license and deferred and is
amortizing the $350 million to other income over the expected useful life of the license, which is approximately 11 years from the
63Bristol-Myers Squibb
formation of the irbesartan copromotion alliance. The Company recognized other income of $31 million, $31 million and $32 million
in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The unamortized portion of the deferred income is recorded in the liabilities section of the
consolidated balance sheet and was $186 million and $217 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Otsuka
The Company has a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), to codevelop and
copromote, with Otsuka, Abilify (aripiprazole) for the treatment of schizophrenia and related psychiatric disorders, except in Japan,
China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan and Egypt. The product is currently
copromoted with Otsuka in the United Kingdom (UK), Germany, France and Spain. In the U.S., Germany and Spain, where the
product is sold by an Otsuka affiliate as distributor, the Company records alliance revenue for its 65% contractual share of Otsuka’s
net sales and records all expenses related to the product. The Company recognizes this alliance revenue when Abilify is shipped and
all risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to Otsuka's customers. In the UK, France and Italy, where the Company is
presently the exclusive distributor for the product, the Company records 100% of the net sales and related cost of products sold and
expenses.
The Company also has an exclusive right to sell Abilify in other countries in Europe, the Americas and a number of countries in
Asia. In these countries the Company records 100% of the net sales and related cost of products sold. Under the terms of the
agreement, the Company purchases the product from Otsuka and performs finish manufacturing for sale by the Company to its
customers. The agreement expires in November 2012 in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. For the entire European Union (EU), the
agreement expires in June 2014. In each other country where the Company has the exclusive right to sell Abilify, the agreement
expires on the later of the tenth anniversary of the first commercial sale in such country or expiration of the applicable patent in such
country.
The Company recorded total revenue for Abilify of $1,282 million in 2006, $912 million in 2005 and $593 million in 2004.
Total milestone payments made to Otsuka under the agreement through December 2006 were $217 million, of which $157 million
was expensed as acquired in-process research and development in 1999. The remaining $60 million was capitalized in other
intangible assets and is amortized in cost of products sold over the remaining life of the agreement in the U.S., ranging from 8 to 11
years. The Company amortized in cost of products sold $6 million in 2006, $6 million in 2005 and $5 million in 2004. The
unamortized capitalized payment balance was $35 million and $41 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
ImClone
The Company has a commercialization agreement expiring in September 2018 with ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone), a
biopharmaceutical company focused on developing targeted cancer treatments, for the codevelopment and copromotion of Erbitux in
the U.S. In 2004, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the Biologics License Application (BLA) for Erbitux for
use in combination with irinotecan in the treatment of patients with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR)-expressing, metastatic
colorectal cancer who are refractory to irinotecan-based chemotherapy and for use as a single agent in the treatment of patients with
EGFR-expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are intolerant to irinotecan-based chemotherapy. Also in 2004, the FDA approved
ImClone’s Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls supplemental BLA for licensure of its BB36 manufacturing facility. In March
2006, the FDA approved Erbitux for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck in combination with
radiation or as monotherapy. The Company paid $250 million as a milestone payment to ImClone for each of the FDA approvals in
2004 and 2006. Under the agreement, ImClone receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of net sales in North America.
In addition, the Company has the co-exclusive right to commercialize Erbitux in Japan (ImClone having previously granted co-
exclusive right to Merck KGaA in Japan). In December 2004, the Company, its Japanese affiliate (BMKK), Merck KGaA, Merck
Ltd., and ImClone executed a joint development agreement for Erbitux in Japan. Erbitux is not yet marketed in Japan, although an
application has been submitted with the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency for the use of Erbitux in treating
patients with advanced colorectal cancer.
The Company accounts for the $500 million approval milestones paid in 2004 and 2006 as license acquisitions, which were
capitalized and are being amortized into cost of products sold over the remaining term of the agreement, which ends in 2018. In 2006,
2005 and 2004, the Company amortized into cost of products sold $34 million, $17 million and $14 million, respectively. The
unamortized portion of the approval payments is recorded in other intangible assets, and was $435 million and $219 million at
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The Company accounts for its investment in ImClone under the equity method and records its share of the results in equity in
net income of affiliates in the consolidated statement of earnings. The Company’s recorded investment and the market value of its
holdings in ImClone common stock was $109 million and approximately $385 million as of December 31, 2006, respectively, and $66
million and approximately $493 million as of December 31, 2005, respectively. The Company holds 14.4 million shares of ImClone
stock, representing approximately 17% of ImClone’s shares outstanding at December 31, 2006 and 2005. On a per share basis, the
642006 Annual Report
carrying value of the ImClone investment and the closing market price of the ImClone shares as of December 31, 2006 were $7.59 and
$26.76, respectively, compared to $4.55 and $34.24, respectively, as of December 31, 2005.
The Company determines its equity share in ImClone’s net income or loss by eliminating from ImClone’s results the milestone
revenue ImClone recognizes for the $400 million in pre-approval milestone payments made by the Company from 2001 through 2003.
The Company recorded $80 million of the pre-approval milestone payments as an equity investment and expensed the remaining $320
million as acquired in-process research and development during that period. Milestone revenue recognized by ImClone in excess of
$400 million is not eliminated by the Company in determining its equity share in ImClone's results. For its share of ImClone’s results
of operations, the Company recorded net income of $43 million in 2006, a net loss of $5 million in 2005, and net income of $9 million
in 2004. The Company recorded net sales for Erbitux of $652 million in 2006, $413 million in 2005 and $261 million in 2004.
Gilead
In 2004, the Company and Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) entered into a joint venture to develop and commercialize a fixed-
dose combination of the Company's Sustiva (efavirenz) and Gilead's Truvada (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) in the
U.S. and Canada. In July 2006, the FDA granted approval of Atripla (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate 300 mg) for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in adults. Atripla is the first-ever once-daily
single tablet regimen for HIV intended as a stand-alone therapy or in combination with other antiretrovirals.
Gilead records 100% of Atripla revenues and consolidates the results of the joint venture in its operating results. The Company
records revenue for the bulk efavirenz component of Atripla upon sales of that product by the Gilead joint venture to third party
customers. The Company's revenue for the efavirenz component is determined by applying a percentage to Atripla revenue, which
approximates revenue for the Sustiva brand. In 2006, the Company recorded efavirenz revenues of $76 million related to Atripla
sales. The Company accounts for its participation in the joint venture under the equity method of accounting and records its share of
the joint venture results in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated statement of earnings. The Company recorded an
equity loss on the joint venture with Gilead of $6 million and $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Summary Financial Information
The summarized financial information for the Company’s equity investments in a joint venture with Sanofi in Europe and Asia
were as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004
Revenues $ 2,785 $ 2,436 $ 2,038
Gross profit 2,156 1,875 1,576
Net income 942 709 559
Current assets 1,595 1,398 1,142
Current liabilities 1,595 1,398 1,142
Note 3 Restructuring
2006 Activities
During 2006, the Company recorded pre-tax charges of $73 million, related to the termination benefits and other related costs
for workforce reductions for approximately 1,080 selling, operating and administrative personnel. These charges were decreased by
$14 million of adjustments reflecting changes in estimates for restructuring actions taken in prior periods.
The following table presents a detail of the charges by segment and type. The Company expects to substantially complete these
activities during 2008.
Termination Other
Dollars in Millions Benefits Exit Costs Total
Pharmaceuticals $ 62 $ 1 $ 63
Nutritionals 3 1 4
Other Health Care 6 — 6
Subtotal 71 2 73
Changes in estimates (13) (1) (14)
Restructuring as reflected in the statement of earnings $ 58 $ 1 $ 59
65Bristol-Myers Squibb
2005 Activities
During 2005, the Company recorded pre-tax charges of $33 million, related to the termination benefits and other related costs
for workforce reductions and streamlining of worldwide operations. Of these charges, $31 million related to employee termination
benefits and related expenses for approximately 640 selling and administrative personnel, which includes the restructuring of its U.S.
cardiovascular/metabolics primary care sales organization and workforce headcount reduction, $1 million related to retention bonuses
and $1 million related to asset impairments. These charges were decreased by $1 million of adjustments reflecting changes in
estimates for restructuring actions taken in prior periods.
The following table presents a detail of the charges by segment and type. The Company has substantially completed these
restructuring activities in late 2006.
Termination Other Relocation and Asset Write-
Dollars in Millions Benefits Exit Costs Retention Downs Total
Pharmaceuticals $ 27 $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ 30
Nutritionals 1 — — — 1
Other Health Care 2 — — — 2
Subtotal 30 1 1 1 33
Changes in estimates (3) 2 — — (1)
Restructuring as reflected in the statement of earnings $ 27 $ 3 $ 1 $ 1 $ 32
2004 Activities
During 2004, the Company recorded pre-tax charges of $116 million, relating to the termination benefits and other related costs
for workforce reduction and streamlining of worldwide operations. Of these charges, $107 million primarily related to employee
termination benefits and related expenses for approximately 2,000 selling, administrative and manufacturing personnel, $1 million
related primarily to asset impairments, $6 million related to the consolidation of certain research facilities and $2 million to retention
bonuses. These charges were partially offset by $8 million of adjustments reflecting changes in estimates for restructuring actions
taken in prior periods and a $4 million gain on sale of a research facility previously written off as restructuring.
The following table presents a detail of the charges by segment and type. The Company has substantially completed these
restructuring activities.
Termination Other Relocation and Asset Write-
Dollars in Millions Benefits Exit Costs Retention Downs Total
Pharmaceuticals $ 73 $ 5 $ 8 $ 1 $ 87
Other Health Care 18 — — — 18
Corporate/Other 11 — — — 11
Subtotal 102 5 8 1 116
Changes in estimates (7) — — (1) (8)
Gain in sale of research facility — — — (4) (4)
Restructuring as reflected in the statement of earnings $ 95 $ 5 $ 8 $ (4) $ 104
Rollforward
Restructuring charges and spending against liabilities associated with prior and current actions were as follows:
Employee
Termination Other Exit Cost
Dollars in Millions Liability Liability Total
Balance at January 1, 2004 $ 51 $ 7 $ 58
Charges 102 5 107
Spending (68) (9) (77)
Changes in estimate (7) (1) (8)
Balance at December 31, 2004 78 2 80
Charges 30 2 32
Spending (45) (6) (51)
Changes in estimate (3) 2 (1)
Balance at December 31, 2005 60 — 60
Charges 71 2 73
Spending (44) — (44)
Changes in estimate (13) (1) (14)
Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 74 $ 1 $ 75
662006 Annual Report
Liabilities of $32 million and $60 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, are included in accrued expenses in the
consolidated balance sheet. A long-term liability of $43 million is included in other liabilities at December 31, 2006.
Note 4 Acquisitions and Divestitures
In January 2006, the Company completed the sale of its inventory, trademark, patent and intellectual property rights in the U.S.
related to Dovonex, a treatment for psoriasis, to Warner Chilcott Company, Inc. for $200 million in cash. In addition, the Company
will receive a royalty based on 5% of net sales of Dovonex through the end of 2007. As a result of this transaction, the Company
recognized a pre-tax gain of $200 million ($130 million net of tax) in the first quarter of 2006.
In the third quarter of 2005, the Company completed the sale of its U.S. and Canadian Consumer Medicines (Consumer
Medicines) business and related assets to Novartis AG (Novartis). Under the terms of the agreement, Novartis acquired the
trademarks, patents and intellectual property rights of Consumer Medicines for $661 million in cash, including the impact of a
working capital adjustment, of which $15 million is attributable to a post-closing supply arrangement between the Company and
Novartis. The related assets include the rights to the U.S. Consumer Medicines brands in Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and
Africa. The results of operations of Consumer Medicines are included in the Company’s consolidated statement of earnings up to the
date of disposal. As a result of this transaction, the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $569 million ($370 million net of tax) in the
third quarter of 2005.
In April 2004, the Company completed the acquisition of Acordis Speciality Fibres (Acordis). The Company purchased all the
stock of Acordis for $150 million and incurred $8 million of acquisition costs in connection with the transaction. In December 2006,
the Company accrued a $9 million liability based on the achievement of production volumes, which was recorded as additional
goodwill. The purchase price for the acquisition was allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities
assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. Of the $158 million, $63 million was allocated to in-process
research and development, which was immediately expensed, and $22 million was assigned to identifiable intangible assets,
predominantly patents. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired was recorded as
goodwill. This acquisition was accounted for by the purchase method, and, accordingly, results of operations have been included in
the accompanying consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.
In February 2004, the Company completed the divestiture of its Adult Nutritional business to Novartis for $386 million,
including $20 million contingent on the achievement of contractual requirements, which were satisfied, and a $22 million upfront
payment for a supply agreement. The Company recorded a total pre-tax gain of $320 million ($198 million net of tax), which included
the $20 million contingent payment and a $5 million reduction in Company goodwill associated with the Mead Johnson product lines.
Note 5 Discontinued Operations
In May 2005, the Company completed the sale of Oncology Therapeutics Network (OTN) to One Equity Partners LLC for cash
proceeds of $197 million, including the impact of a preliminary working capital adjustment. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of
$63 million ($13 million net of tax), that was presented as a gain on sale of discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of
earnings. OTN was previously presented as a separate segment.
The following amounts related to the OTN business have been segregated from continuing operations and reported as
discontinued operations through the date of disposition, and do not reflect the costs of certain services provided to OTN by the
Company. Such costs, which were not allocated by the Company to OTN, were for services, which included legal counsel, insurance,
external audit fees, payroll processing, certain human resource services and information technology systems support.
Year ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004
Net sales — $ 1,015 $ 2,506
(Loss)/earnings before incomes taxes — (8) 15
Net (loss)/earnings from discontinued operations — (5) 10
The consolidated statement of cash flows includes the OTN business through the date of disposition. The Company uses a
centralized approach to the cash management and financing of its operations and accordingly, debt was not allocated to this business.
Cash flows from operating activities of discontinued operations consist of outflows of $265 million for the year ended December 31,
2005 and cash inflows of $134 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Cash flows used in investing activities of discontinued
67Bristol-Myers Squibb
operations were $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 and there were no investing activities for the year ended December
31, 2005.
Note 6 Earnings Per Share
The numerator for basic earnings per share is net earnings available to common stockholders. The numerator for diluted
earnings per share is net earnings available to common stockholders with interest expense added back for the assumed conversion of
the convertible debt into common stock. The denominator for basic earnings per share is the weighted average number of common
stock outstanding during the period. The denominator for diluted earnings per share is weighted average shares outstanding adjusted
for the effect of dilutive stock options and assumed conversion of the convertible debt into common stock. The computations for basic
and diluted earnings per common share were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data 2006 2005 2004
Basic:
Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 1,585 $ 2,992 $ 2,378
Discontinued Operations
Loss, net of taxes — (5) 10
Gain on Disposal, net of taxes — 13 —
Net Earnings $ 1,585 $ 3,000 $ 2,388
Basic Earnings Per Share:
Average Common Shares Outstanding 1,960 1,952 1,942
Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 0.81 $ 1.53 $ 1.23
Discontinued Operations
Loss, net of taxes — — —
Gain on Disposal, net of taxes — — —
Net Earnings per Common Share $ 0.81 $ 1.53 $ 1.23
Diluted:
Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 1,585 $ 2,992 $ 2,378
Interest expense on conversion of convertible debt, net of taxes (a) — 22 7
Discontinued Operations
Loss, net of taxes — (5) 10
Gain on Disposal, net of taxes — 13 —
Net Earnings $ 1,585 $ 3,022 $ 2,395
Diluted Earnings Per Share:
Average Common Shares Outstanding 1,960 1,952 1,942
Conversion of convertible debt (a) — 29 29
Incremental shares outstanding assuming the exercise/vesting of dilutive stock
options/restricted stock 3 2 5
1,963 1,983 1,976
Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 0.81 $ 1.52 $ 1.21
Discontinued Operations
Loss, net of taxes — — —
Gain on Disposal, net of taxes — — —
Net Earnings per Common Share $ 0.81 $ 1.52 $ 1.21
Weighted-average shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options, which were not included in the diluted earnings per share
calculation because they were not dilutive, were 164 million in 2006, 156 million in 2005, and 126 million in 2004, respectively.
(a)
In 2006, the 29 million weighted-average shares issuable, as well as $35 million of interest expense, net of tax, on the assumed conversion of convertible debt were
not included in the diluted earnings per share calculation because they were not dilutive.
682006 Annual Report
Note 7 Other Expense, Net
The components of other expense, net were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004
Interest expense $ 498 $ 349 $ 310
Interest income (274) (148) (105)
Foreign exchange transaction losses 6 58 5
Other, net 69 (222) (158)
Other expense, net $ 299 $ 37 $ 52
In 2006, interest expense was increased by net interest swap losses of $18 million. In 2005 and 2004, interest expense was
reduced by net interest swap gains of $54 million and $151 million, respectively. Interest income relates primarily to cash, cash
equivalents and investments in marketable securities. Other, net includes income from third-party contract manufacturing, royalty
income and expenses, debt retirement costs, certain other litigation matters, gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and
equipment, gains and losses on sale of marketable securities and deferred income recognized. The change in Other, net in 2006 as
compared to 2005, was primarily due to debt retirement costs and deferred income recognized.
Note 8 Income Taxes
The components of earnings (loss) from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004
U.S. $ (697) $ 809 $ 478
Non-U.S. 3,332 3,707 3,940
$ 2,635 $ 4,516 $ 4,418
The above amounts are categorized based on the location of the taxing authorities.
The provision/(benefit) for income taxes attributable to continuing operations consisted of:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004
Current:
U.S. $ 154 $ 1,058 $ 513
Non-U.S. 693 686 728
847 1,744 1,241
Deferred:
U.S. (204) (852) 264
Non-U.S. (33) 40 14
(237) (812) 278
$ 610 $ 932 $ 1,519
69Bristol-Myers Squibb
Effective Tax Rate
The Company’s provision for income taxes in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was different from the amount computed by applying the
statutory U.S. Federal income tax rate to earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes, as a result of
the following:
% of Earnings Before Minority Interest and Income Taxes
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before
Minority Interest and Income Taxes $ 2,635 $ 4,516 $ 4,418
U.S. statutory rate 922 35.0% 1,581 35.0% 1,546 35.0%
Foreign tax effect of operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico
and Switzerland (616) (23.3)% (708) (15.7)% (660) (14.9)%
State and local taxes (net of valuation allowance) 42 1.6 % 2 0.1% (14) (0.3)%
U.S. Federal & foreign contingent tax matters 87 3.3 % 114 2.5% 293 6.6%
Dividend repatriation under AJCA — — (135) (3.0)% 575 13.0%
U.S. Federal research tax credit (85) (3.2) % (63) (1.4)% (20) (0.5)%
U.S. Federal and foreign valuation allowance (24) (0.9) % 32 0.7% 142 3.2%
Foreign and other 284 10.7% 109 2.4% (343) (7.7)%
$ 610 23.2% $ 932 20.6% $ 1,519 34.4%
The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes was 23.2% in
2006 compared with 20.6% in 2005 and 34.4% in 2004. The increase in the effective tax rate in 2006 compared to 2005 resulted from
the elimination in 2006 of tax benefits under Section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code, the treatment of provisions for a portion of
certain litigation reserves as non-deductible in 2006, tax benefits in 2005 associated with the settlement of an IRS examination and a
favorable adjustment in 2005 to taxes on special dividends under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA), partially offset by
favorable U.S. tax legislation enacted in 2006 related to the tax treatment of certain inter-company transactions amongst the
Company’s foreign subsidiaries, and the implementation of tax planning strategies in 2006 related to the utilization of certain
charitable contributions. The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2005 was due primarily to a charge in 2004 of approximately $575
million for taxes on special dividends under AJCA, a 2004 charge related to the establishment of a valuation allowance against certain
charitable contributions and tax benefits in 2005 discussed above, partially offset by lower estimated foreign tax credits in 2005.
702006 Annual Report
Deferred Taxes and Valuation Allowance
The components of current and non-current deferred income tax assets (liabilities) were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005
Acquired in-process research and development $ 891 $ 976
Inter-company profit and other inventory items 248 225
U.S. Federal foreign tax credit carryforward 1,071 975
Deferred income 99 136
U.S. Federal research and development tax credit carryforward 259 125
U.S. Federal charitable contribution carryforward 40 117
State net operating loss carryforwards 394 306
Foreign net operating loss carryforwards 196 100
Other foreign deferred tax assets 120 152
Pension and postretirement benefits (a) 396 (223)
Depreciation (155) (245)
Share based compensation 47 —
Legal settlements 101 127
Other, net 72 168
3,779 2,939
Valuation allowance (625) (559)
Deferred tax assets, net $ 3,154 $ 2,380
Recognized as:
Deferred Income Taxes – Current $ 649 $ 776
Deferred Income Taxes – Non-Current 2,577 1,808
U.S. and Foreign Income Taxes Payable (4) (26)
Other Liabilities – Non-Current (68) (178)
Total $ 3,154 $ 2,380
(a) Includes the impact of a $567 million increase in deferred tax benefits in 2006 on adoption of SFAS No. 158, see Note 20 “Pension and Other Postretirement
Benefit Plans.”
The valuation allowance of $625 million at December 31, 2006 relates to $62 million of state deferred tax assets, $187 million
of foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and $376 million of state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards that
the Company currently believes are not likely to be realized.
The Company has recorded significant deferred tax assets related to U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards of approximately
$1,071 million and U.S. research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $259 million, which expire in varying amounts beginning
in 2012. Realization of the foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic
taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that these
deferred tax assets will be realized. The Company anticipates increasing its level of domestic profitability over time by undertaking
actions such as increasing its biologics manufacturing capacity in the U.S. and implementing tax planning strategies. While increasing
domestic profitability will likely cause the Company’s effective tax rate to increase, it will also further enhance the Company’s ability
to utilize its foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards. The amount of foreign tax credit and research tax credit
carryforwards considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if Plavix is subject to either renewed or additional
generic competition. If such events occur, the Company may need to record significant valuation allowances against these U.S.
Federal deferred tax assets. For a discussion of Plavix related matters, see Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Income taxes paid during the year were $741 million, $1,556 million and $822 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
The current tax benefit realized upon the exercise of stock options is charged to capital in excess of par value of stock and
amounted to $10 million, $19 million and $26 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
As of December 31, 2006, the Company had approximately $11.3 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries for
which taxes have not been provided as the Company has invested or expects to invest these undistributed earnings permanently
offshore. If in the future these earnings are repatriated to the U.S., or if the Company determines such earnings will be remitted in the
foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would
have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that would have to be provided.
71Bristol-Myers Squibb
The Company conducts business in various countries throughout the world and is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. As a
result of its business activities, the Company files a significant number of tax returns that are subject to examination by various
Federal, state and local tax authorities. Tax examinations are often complex as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of
items reported by the Company and may require several years to resolve. The Company establishes liabilities for possible assessments
by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits and
deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid, and may
need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known. The effect of changes in estimates related to contingent tax
liabilities is included in the effective tax rate reconciliation above. In 2005, the Company recognized an income tax benefit of
approximately $159 million, due to the settlement of the Company’s U.S. Federal income tax returns for the years 1998 through 2001.
The Company’s U.S. Federal income tax returns for 2002 and 2003 are currently under examination by the IRS. The IRS has
proposed (1) a significant disallowance of certain litigation settlement expenses and (2) a significant reduction in U.S. foreign tax
credits claimed following the Company’s previously disclosed 2002 international restructuring. The IRS’ position on this latter matter
also affects U.S. foreign tax credits claimed by the Company in 2004, although that year currently is not under examination.
While the Company believes that it has very strong positions with respect to both issues and intends to contest the IRS’
positions, it is not possible to predict the outcome of these issues. The Company has established tax contingency reserves that reflect
the best estimate of the probable tax liability for these matters. If the Company were not to prevail in a final, non-appealable
determination of these matters the amount of loss in excess of established reserves could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s results of operations, however the Company does not believe that such a determination would have a material adverse
effect on its cash flows.
Note 9 Receivables
The major categories of receivables were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005
Trade receivables $ 2,400 $ 2,797
Miscellaneous receivables 997 788
3,397 3,585
Less allowances 150 207
Receivables, net $ 3,247 $ 3,378
Miscellaneous receivables for 2006 and 2005 includes $647 million, net of allowances of $9 million and $415 million, net of
allowances of $5 million, respectively, related to receivables from alliance partners. For additional information on the Company's
alliance partners, see Note 2 “Alliances and Investments.”
Note 10 Inventories
The major categories of inventories were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005
Finished goods $ 1,003 $ 867
Work in process 682 679
Raw and packaging materials 394 514
Inventories, net $ 2,079 $ 2,060
722006 Annual Report
Note 11 Property, Plant and Equipment
The major categories of property, plant and equipment were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005
Land $ 254 $ 280
Buildings 4,630 4,560
Machinery, equipment and fixtures 4,540 4,574
Construction in progress 720 570
10,144 9,984
Less accumulated depreciation 4,471 4,291
Property, plant and equipment, net $ 5,673 $ 5,693
Capitalized interest is $18 million, $9 million and $10 million in the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, and is included in the categories of property, plant and equipment shown above.
Note 12 Goodwill
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows:
Other
Pharmaceuticals Nutritionals Health Care Discontinued
Dollars in Millions Segment Segment Segment Operations Total
Balance as of January 1, 2005 $ 4,448 $ 113 $ 264 $ 80 $ 4,905
Adjustments:
Reduction due to sale of OTN — — — (80) (80)
Reduction due to sale of Consumer Medicines — — (1) — (1)
Purchase price and allocation adjustment — — (1) — (1)
Balance as of December 31, 2005 4,448 113 262 — 4,823
Adjustments:
Reduction due to sale of business (1) — — — (1)
Purchase price and allocation adjustments (2) — 9 — 7
Balance as of December 31, 2006 $ 4,445 $ 113 $ 271 $ — $ 4,829
Note 13 Other Intangible Assets
As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, other intangible assets consisted of the following:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005
Patents/Trademarks $ 258 $ 269
Less accumulated amortization 145 113
Patents/Trademarks, net 113 156
Licenses 659 431
Less accumulated amortization 162 113
Licenses, net 497 318
Technology 1,787 1,787
Less accumulated amortization 836 676
Technology, net 951 1,111
Capitalized Software 844 761
Less accumulated amortization 553 425
Capitalized Software, net 291 336
Total other intangible assets, net $ 1,852 $ 1,921
73Bristol-Myers Squibb
In the first quarter of 2006 and for the year 2005, the Company recorded impairment charges for licenses of $32 million and $42
million, respectively, resulting from actual and estimated future sales declines of Tequin. These charges were recorded in cost of
products sold in the Company’s consolidated statement of earnings.
In March 2006, as a result of the FDA approval of Erbitux for use in the treatment of head and neck cancer, the Company made
a $250 million milestone payment to ImClone, which was capitalized as licenses.
In the third quarter of 2006, the Company recorded an impairment charge for licenses of $27 million, resulting from the lower
than expected sales of EMSAM. This charge was recorded in cost of products sold in the Company’s consolidated statement of
earnings.
Amortization expense for other intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $363 million, $352
million and $316 million, respectively.
Expected amortization expense related to the current net carrying amount of other intangible assets follows:
Years Ending December 31, Dollars in Millions
2007 $ 344
2008 291
2009 262
2010 248
2011 236
Later Years 471
Note 14 Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt
Short-term borrowings at the end of 2006 and 2005 were $187 million and $231 million, respectively. Long-term debt was $7.2
billion at December 31, 2006 compared to $8.4 billion at December 31, 2005.
During the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company restructured its long-term debt by retiring all of its outstanding $2.5 billion,
5.75% Notes due 2011, through a cash tender offer and subsequent redemption and issuing €500 million ($641 million) aggregate
principal amount of 4.375% Notes due 2016 and €500 million ($641 million) aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Notes due 2021,
as well as $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.875% Notes due 2036, which resulted in a $220 million pre-tax expense,
which are comprised of the items discussed below. The premium paid on the debt tender and make whole was $72 million and $24
million, respectively. In addition, the Company recognized in earnings $12 million of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs
associated with the 2011 debt, incurred a pre-tax loss of $62 million related to the termination of the remaining $2.0 billion notional
amount of its 2011 fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements and recognized in earnings the pre-tax unamortized portion of $18
million from the aforementioned loss incurred on the termination of $500 million notional amount on the 2011 fixed-to-floating
interest rate swaps that occurred in June 2005. Furthermore, in November 2006 the Company recognized in earnings from
accumulated other comprehensive income the pre-tax unamortized portion of $32 million from the loss incurred on the 2011
settlement of its interest rate lock contracts, which were used to manage its exposure to changes in interest rates for the anticipated
issuance of the 2011 long-term fixed rate debt.
In December 2006, the Company replaced its prior $2 billion revolving credit facility with a new $2 billion, five-year revolving
credit facility from a syndicate of lenders, which is extendable on the anniversary date with the consent of the lenders. This facility
contains customary terms and conditions substantially similar to the prior facility, including a financial covenant whereby the ratio of
consolidated debt to consolidated capital cannot exceed 50% at the end of each quarter. The Company has been in compliance with
this covenant since the inception of this new facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility at
December 31, 2006. The Company has unused short-term lines of credit and available trade finance facilities with foreign banks of
$402 million and $394 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
In August 2005, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company entered into a $2.5 billion term facility with a syndicate of bank
lenders. Borrowings under this facility are guaranteed by the Company, the subsidiaries of the borrower and by certain European
subsidiaries of the Company. This facility contained a five-year tranche of up to $2.0 billion and a two-year tranche of up to $500
million and was fully drawn at December 31, 2005. Interest is paid on a periodic basis, as agreed with the lenders, at an annual rate
equal to the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 0.25%. The Company is subject to substantially the same
covenants as those included in its December 2004 Revolving Credit facility. The Company is also subject to further restrictions,
including certain financial covenants. Prior to borrowing any proceeds against this facility in 2005, the Company obtained a waiver
from the lenders for a covenant default under this facility, due to a one-time intercompany distribution. As of December 31, 2006, the
742006 Annual Report
Company had fully repaid the two-year tranche, had $1.3 billion outstanding on the five-year tranche and was in full compliance with
all covenants.
During the second quarter of 2005, the Company retired all of its outstanding $2.5 billion 4.75% Notes due 2006, and incurred
an aggregate pre-tax expense of approximately $69 million in connection with the early redemption of the Notes and termination of
related interest rate swaps.
The components of long-term debt were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005
5.75% Notes, due 2011 $ — $ 2,425
Floating Rate Bank Term Facility, due 2010 1,300 2,000
5.875% Notes, due 2036 1,238 —
Floating Rate Convertible Debentures, due 2023 (1) 1,200 1,188
4.375% Euro Notes, due 2016 645 —
4.625% Euro Notes, due 2021 634 —
5.25% Notes, due 2013 588 593
Floating Rate Bank Term Facility, due 2007 — 500
4.00% Notes, due 2008 391 387
6.80% Debentures, due 2026 383 384
7.15% Debentures, due 2023 352 365
6.88% Debentures, due 2097 296 296
1.10% Yen Notes, due 2008 104 106
5.75% Industrial Revenue Bonds, due 2024 34 34
1.43% Yen Notes, due 2008 30 30
1.81% Yen Notes, due 2010 29 30
Variable Rate Industrial Revenue Bonds, due 2030 15 15
Other 9 11
$ 7,248 $ 8,364
(1) The Company’s outstanding $1.2 billion of convertible debentures pay interest quarterly at an annual rate equal to 3-month LIBOR, reset quarterly, minus 0.50%
(the yield never to be less than zero) and have a final maturity of September 15, 2023. The debentures are callable at par at any time on or after September 21, 2008 by
the issuer. Holders can also redeem some or all of their debentures at par on September 15, 2008, 2013, and 2018, or if a fundamental change in ownership of the
Company occurs. The bond has an initial conversion price of $41.28, or a conversion rate of 24.2248 shares, which will be adjustable depending on the average closing
prices for the applicable period. The maximum conversion rate is 38.7597 shares.
The Company has entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps for $3.9 billion of its long-term debt. In 2006, in conjunction
with the new issuance of $1.25 billion 5.87% Notes due 2036 and €1.0 billion Euro Notes ($1.3 billion), the Company executed
several fixed to floating interest rate swaps to convert the new fixed rate debt to be paid in 2016, 2021, and 2036 to variable rate debt.
During 2004, the Company executed several fixed to floating interest rate swaps to convert $700 million of the Company’s fixed rate
debt to be paid in 2023 and 2026 to variable rate debt. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company realized a net increase in
interest expense of $18 million as a result of the higher floating rates obtained in the swap agreements. For the year ended December
31, 2005, the Company recognized a net reduction in interest expense of $54 million that reflects the benefit of the lower floating rates
obtained in the swap agreements.
In November 2006, in connection with the early retirement of its outstanding $2.5 billion 5.75% Notes due 2011, the Company
terminated the remaining $2.0 billion notional amount of its 2011 fixed to floating interest rate swap agreements and incurred a pre-
tax loss of $62 million. In April 2005, in connection with the early redemption of its $2.5 billion Notes due 2006, the Company
terminated $2 billion notional amount of its 2006 fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements and incurred a pre-tax loss of $28
million. In June 2005, the Company terminated $500 million notional amount of its 2011 fixed-to-floating interest rate swap
agreements related to its $2.5 billion Notes due 2011, and incurred a pre-tax loss of $23 million. This loss was being amortized to
interest expense with $3 million and $2 million being recognized in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The remaining loss of $18 million,
together with the $62 million loss incurred from the unwind of $2.0 billion swap was fully recognized in 2006. In September 2005,
the Company terminated $350 million notional amount of its 2026 fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements related to its $350
million Debentures due 2026 at a gain of $39 million. This gain will be recognized against interest expense over the remaining life of
the Debentures due 2026, of which approximately $1 million was recognized in 2006 and 2005.
75Bristol-Myers Squibb
Cash payments for interest, including payments due to interest rate swaps, were $682 million, $598 million and $354 million in
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company’s cash receipts from interest rate swaps were $205 million, $275 million and $298
million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and were excluded from cash payments for interest.
Payments due by period
Dollars in Millions Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Later years
Long-Term Debt (2) $7,248 $ — $1,735 $ — $1,329 $ — $4,184
(2) 2007 obligations are included in short-term borrowings on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006 and all balances approximate the
outstanding nominal long-term debt values. The Company’s convertible debenture is included as due for payment in 2008, as it contains a 2008 put and call feature as
described above.
At December 31, 2006, the Company had provided a total of $165 million financial guarantees in the form of stand-by letters of
credit and performance bonds. The stand-by letters of credit are with insurance companies in support of third-party liability programs.
The performance bonds have been issued to support a range of ongoing operating activities including sale of Company products to
hospitals and foreign ministries of health, bonds for customs, duties and value added tax, and guarantees related to miscellaneous legal
actions. A significant majority of the Company’s outstanding financial guarantees will expire within the year and are not expected to
be funded.
Note 15 Stockholders’ Equity
Changes in common shares, treasury stock, capital in excess of par value of stock, and restricted stock were as follows:
Capital in Excess
Common Shares Treasury Cost of Treasury of Par Value Restricted
Dollars and Shares in Millions Issued Shares Stock of Stock Stock
Balance at January 1, 2004 2,201 261 $ (11,440) $ 2,477 $ (55)
Issued pursuant to stock plans and options 1 (6) 137 12 (32)
Amortization of restricted stock — — — — 24
Lapses and forfeitures of restricted stock — — (8) 2 6
Balance at December 31, 2004 2,202 255 (11,311) 2,491 (57)
Issued pursuant to stock plans and options 3 (7) 148 36 (40)
Amortization of restricted stock — — — — 22
Lapses and forfeitures of restricted stock — — (5) 1 4
Balance at December 31, 2005 2,205 248 (11,168) 2,528 (71)
Issued pursuant to stock plans and options — (11) 262 67 (81)
Amortization of restricted stock — — — 33 1
Lapses and forfeitures of restricted stock — 1 (21) (2) 23
Balance at December 31, 2006 2,205 238 $ (10,927) $ 2,626 $ (128)
Each share of the Company’s preferred stock is convertible into 16.96 shares of common stock and is callable at the Company’s
option. The reductions in the number of issued shares of preferred stock in 2006, 2005, and 2004 were due to conversions into shares
of common stock.
Dividends declared per common share were $1.12 in 2006, $1.12 in 2005 and $1.12 in 2004.
762006 Annual Report
The accumulated balances related to each component of other comprehensive income/(loss), net of taxes, were as follows:
Deferred Charges
Minimum on Pension and
Deferred Pension Other Accumulated Other
Foreign Currency (Income)/Loss on Liability Postretirement Available for Sale Comprehensive
Dollars in Millions Translation Effective Hedges Adjustment Benefits Securities Income/(Loss)
Balance at January 1, 2004 $ (491) $ (258) $ (130) $ — $ 24 $ (855)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 208 (51) (93) — (1) 63
Balance at December 31, 2004 (283) (309) (223) — 23 (792)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) (270) 325 (6) — (22) 27
Balance at December 31, 2005 (553) 16 (229) — 1 (765)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 129 (39) 82 — 12 184
Adjustments on adoption of SFAS No. 158 — — 147 (1,211) — (1,064)
Balance at December 31, 2006 $ (424) $ (23) $ — $ (1,211) $ 13 $ (1,645)
Note 16 Employee Stock Benefit Plans
Employee Stock Plans
Under the Company’s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, executive officers and key employees may be granted options to purchase the
Company’s common stock at no less than 100% of the market price on the date the option is granted. Options generally become
exercisable in installments of 25% per year on each of the first through the fourth anniversaries of the grant date and have a maximum
term of 10 years. Generally, the Company issues shares for the stock option exercise from treasury stock. Additionally, the plan
provides for the granting of stock appreciation rights whereby the grantee may surrender exercisable rights and receive common stock
and/or cash measured by the excess of the market price of the common stock over the option exercise price.
Under the terms of the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, authorized shares include 0.9% of the outstanding shares per year through
2007, as well as the number of shares tendered in a prior year to pay the purchase price of options and the number of shares previously
utilized to satisfy withholding tax obligations upon exercise. Shares that were available for grant in a prior year but were not granted
in such year and shares that were cancelled, forfeited or expired are also available for future grant.
The 2002 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the granting of common stock to key employees, subject to restrictions as to
continuous employment. Restrictions generally expire over a four-year period from date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized
over the restricted period. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, there were 6.9 million and 4.2 million shares of restricted stock and
restricted stock units outstanding under the plan, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, approximately
4.3 million, 1.8 million and 1.2 million shares, respectively, of restricted stock and restricted stock units were granted with a weighted
average fair value of $23.45, $24.61 and $27.64 per common share, respectively.
The 2002 Stock Incentive Plan also incorporates the Company's long-term performance awards. These awards, which are
delivered in the form of a target number of performance shares, have a three-year cycle. For 2006 to 2008, the awards will be based
50% on cumulative earnings per share and 50% on cumulative sales, with the ultimate payout modified by the Company’s total
stockholder return versus the 11 companies in its proxy peer group. If threshold targets are not met for the performance period, no
payment will be made under the long-term performance award plan. Maximum performance for all three measures will result in a
maximum payout of 253% of target. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, there were 1.8 million and 1.8 million performance shares
outstanding under the plan, respectively. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, 0.6 million, 1.1 million and 0.5 million performance shares were
granted, respectively, with a fair value of $20.00, $25.45 and $28.11 per common share, respectively.
Under the TeamShare Stock Option Plan, which terminated on January 3, 2005, full-time employees, excluding key executives,
were granted options to purchase the Company’s common stock at the market price on the date the options were granted. The
Company authorized 66 million shares for issuance under the plan. Individual grants generally became exercisable evenly on the third,
fourth and fifth anniversary of the grant date and have a maximum term of 10 years. Options on 35.5 million shares have been
exercised under the plan as of December 31, 2006.
77Bristol-Myers Squibb
The Company’s results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 reflect the impact of SFAS No. 123(R), which
includes the impact of the expensing of stock options. The Company has elected the alternative method as provided in FSP No.
123(R)-3 in determining the Company’s pool of excess tax benefits. The results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004 were not restated to reflect the impact of expensing of stock options and are prepared in accordance with APB No. 25. The
following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense, net of tax, related to employee stock options, restricted stock, and
long-term performance awards for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
Years Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004
Cost of products sold $ 11 $ — $ —
Marketing, selling and administrative 67 31 30
Research and development 34 — —
Total stock-based compensation expense 112 31 30
Deferred tax benefit 39 11 11
Stock-based compensation, net of tax $ 73 $ 20 $ 19
The table below reflects pro forma net income and diluted net income per share for the years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Data 2005 2004
Net Earnings:
As reported $ 3,000 $ 2,388
Total stock-based employee compensation expense, included in
reported net earnings, net of related tax effects 20 19
Total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under
fair value based method for all awards, net of related tax effects (112) (138)
Pro forma $ 2,908 $ 2,269
Basic Earnings per Share:
As reported $ 1.53 $ 1.23
Pro forma 1.49 1.17
Diluted Earnings per Share:
As reported $ 1.52 $ 1.21
Pro forma 1.48 1.15
There were no costs related to stock-based compensation that were capitalized during the period.
A summary of option activities were as follows:
Shares of Common Stock
Available for Issued Under Weighted-Average
Shares in Millions Option Award Plan Exercise Price of Shares
Balance at January 1, 2004 29 161 $ 39.24
Authorized 18 — —
Granted (20) 20 27.88
Exercised — (7) 14.56
Lapsed 11 (11) 40.69
Balance at December 31, 2004 38 163 38.87
Authorized 18 — —
Granted (20) 20 25.37
Exercised — (9) 16.26
Lapsed 10 (10) 37.67
Balance at December 31, 2005 46 164 38.45
Authorized 18 — —
Granted (16) 16 23.18
Exercised — (8) 21.00
Lapsed 9 (9) 33.53
Balance at December 31, 2006 57 163 38.16
782006 Annual Report
The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted by the Company during the twelve months ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004 was $4.74, $5.49 and $5.91, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised for the twelve month
periods ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $17 million, $69 million and $71 million, respectively. During the twelve
months ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company received $167 million, $137 million and $89 million in cash
proceeds from the exercise of its stock options. As of December 31, 2006, there was $91 million of total unrecognized compensation
cost related to stock options and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.7 years.
The following tables summarize information concerning the Company’s stock compensation plans and currently outstanding
and exercisable options:
Number of securities
remaining available for future
Number of securities to be issued Weighted-average exercise issuance under equity compensation
upon exercise of outstanding price of outstanding plans excluding securities reflected
options and rights options and rights in column (a)
Shares in Millions (a) (b) (c)
Plan Category
Equity compensation plans approved by security
holders 143 $ 37.51 44
Equity compensation plans not approved by security
holders (1) 20 42.94 13
163 38.16 57
(1) Shares under this plan are no longer being issued.
The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options as of December 31, 2006 (shares in
millions):
Options Outstanding Options Exercisable
Weighted- Weighted-
Average Weighted- Aggregate Average Weighted- Aggregate
Remaining Average Intrinsic Remaining Average Intrinsic
Range of Number Contractual Exercise Price Value (in Number Contractual Exercise Price Value (in
Exercise Prices Outstanding Life (in Years) Per Share millions) Exercisable Life (in Years) Per Share millions)
$20 - $30 82 7.07 $ 25.70 $ 114 44 6.15 $ 26.35 $ 48
$30 - $40 9 .19 32.30 — 8 .19 32.30 —
$40 - $50 41 2.81 47.03 — 41 2.81 47.04 —
$50 - $60 13 3.99 58.13 — 12 3.97 57.97 —
$60 and up 18 2.48 63.31 — 18 2.48 63.29 —
163 4.88 38.16 $ 114 123 3.88 42.03 $ 48
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on the Company’s average
stock price of $26.27 on December 29, 2006, which would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised
their options as of that date. The total number of in-the-money options exercisable as of December 31, 2006 was 20 million. As of
December 31, 2005, 113 million outstanding options were exercisable, and the weighted-average exercise price was $42.23.
At December 31, 2006, 306 million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to stock plans, options and
conversions of preferred stock.
79Bristol-Myers Squibb
Stock Option Valuation
The fair value of employee stock options granted in 2006 were estimated on the date of the grant and prior to January 1, 2006,
were estimated using a weighted-average estimated per option value granted, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
following assumptions:
2006 2005 2004
Expected volatility 26.7% 29.4% 30.0%
Risk-free interest rate 4.6% 4.4% 3.5%
Dividend yield 4.8% 4.6% 4.4%
Expected life 6.3 yrs 7.0 yrs 7.0 yrs
The Company derived the expected volatility assumption required in the Black-Scholes model by calculating a 10-year
historical volatility and weighting that equally against the derived implied volatility, consistent with SFAS No. 123(R) and SAB No.
107. Prior to 2006, the Company had used its historical stock price volatility in accordance with SFAS No. 123 for purposes of its pro
forma information. The selection of the blended historical and implied volatility approach was based on the Company’s assessment
that this calculation of expected volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than using only historical volatility.
The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The dividend
yield assumption is based on the Company’s history and expectation of dividend payouts.
The expected life of employee stock options represents the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to remain
outstanding and is a derived output of the lattice-binomial model. The expected life of employee stock options is impacted by all of
the underlying assumptions and calibration of the Company’s model. The lattice-binomial model assumes that employees’ exercise
behavior is a function of the option’s remaining vested life and the extent to which the option is in-the-money. The lattice-binomial
model estimates the probability of exercise as a function of these two variables based on the entire history of exercises and
cancellations on all past option grants made by the Company.
Prior to 2006, the Company used an option-pricing model to indirectly estimate the expected life of the stock options. The
expected life and expected volatility of the stock options were based upon historical and other economic data trended into the future.
Forfeitures of employee stock options were accounted for on an as-incurred basis.
As stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2006 is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. SFAS No. 123(R)
requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from
those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated based on historical experience. In the Company’s pro forma information required under
SFAS No. 123 for the periods prior to 2006, the Company accounted for forfeitures as they occurred.
802006 Annual Report
Restricted Stock
The fair value of nonvested shares of the Company’s common stock is determined based on the average trading price of the
Company’s common stock on the grant date.
Restricted share activities were as follows:
Weighted-
Average
Grant-Date
Shares in Thousands Number of Shares Fair Value
Nonvested shares at January 1, 2004 2,308 $ 36.34
Granted 1,244 27.64
Vested (398) 43.39
Forfeited (209) 35.58
Nonvested shares at December 31, 2004 2,945 31.12
Granted 1,786 24.61
Vested (375) 38.56
Forfeited (194) 31.37
Nonvested shares at December 31, 2005 4,162 27.36
Granted 4,295 23.45
Vested (645) 32.48
Forfeited (921) 26.64
Nonvested shares at December 31, 2006 6,891 24.58
As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, there was $126 million and $75 million, respectively, of total unrecognized compensation
cost related to nonvested restricted stock and restricted stock units. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of 2.75 years for the balance at December 31, 2006 and 3.5 years for the balance at December 31, 2005. The total fair value of
shares and share units that vested during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $21 million, $14 million
and $17 million, respectively.
Long-Term Performance Awards
Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), compensation expense related to long-term performance awards was determined
based on the market price of the Company’s stock at the time of the award applied to the expected number of shares contingently
issuable (up to 100%), and was amortized over the three-year performance cycle. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the fair value
of each long-term performance award was estimated on the date of grant using a Monte Carlo simulation model instead of the grant
date market price used previously.
The Company changed its valuation technique based on further clarification provided in SFAS No. 123(R) and the fact that
long-term performance awards contain a market condition and performance conditions that affect factors other than vesting (i.e.,
variable number of shares to be awarded), which should be reflected in the grant date fair value of an award. The Monte Carlo
simulation model utilizes multiple input variables that determine the probability of satisfying each market condition stipulated in the
award grant and calculates the fair market value for the long-term performance awards. The valuation model used the following
assumptions:
Weighted-Average Expected
Expected Dividend Risk Free
Grant Year Grant Date Volatility Yield Interest Rate
2006 3/7/2006 20.4% 4.9% 4.4%
Weighted-average expected volatility is based on the three year historical volatility levels on the Company’s common stock.
Expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend payments. Risk free interest rate reflects the yield on 5-year zero coupon U.S.
Treasury bonds, based on the performance shares’ contractual term. The fair value of the 2006 long-term performance awards is
amortized over the performance period of the award.
Long-Term Performance
Shares in Thousands Shares Outstanding
Performance Cycle Weighted-Average
Grant Date Measurement Date Grant Date Fair Value December 31, 2006
3/2/04 12/31/06 $ 28.11 417
3/1/05 12/31/07 25.45 894
3/7/06 12/31/08 20.00 461
81Bristol-Myers Squibb
At December 31, 2006 and 2005, there was $2 million and $8 million, respectively, of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to the performance share plan, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years and 1.7 years,
respectively.
Accuracy of Fair Value Estimates
The Company’s determination of fair value of stock-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is
affected by the Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These
variables include, but are not limited to the Company’s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and
projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded
options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Because the Company’s employee stock options have
certain characteristics that are significantly different from traded options, and because changes in the subjective assumptions can
materially affect the estimated value, in management’s opinion, the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of
the fair value of the Company’s employee stock options. Although the fair value of employee stock options is determined in
accordance with SFAS No. 123(R) and SAB 107 using an option-pricing model, that value may not be indicative of the fair value
observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction.
The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all
stock-based payment awards made to employees and directors based on estimated fair values. SFAS No. 123(R) supersedes the
Company’s previous accounting under APB No. 25 for periods beginning January 1, 2006. In March 2005, the SEC issued SAB No.
107 relating to SFAS No. 123(R). The Company has applied the provisions of SAB No. 107 in its adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).
The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method, which requires the application of
the accounting standard as of January 1, 2006, and has elected the alternative method as provided in FSP No. 123(R)-3 in determining
the Company’s pool of excess tax benefits. The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006
reflect the impact of SFAS No. 123(R). In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, the Company’s consolidated
financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123(R). Stock-
based compensation expense recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $112 million ($73
million, net of tax) or $0.04 per share, with a corresponding amount recorded in additional paid-in capital within stockholders’ equity.
Additionally, $10 million related to performance awards was reclassified from liabilities to stockholders’ equity in connection with the
adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).
Note 17 Financial Instruments
The Company is exposed to market risk due to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. To reduce that risk, the
Company enters into certain derivative financial instruments, when available on a cost-effective basis, to hedge its underlying
economic exposure. These instruments are managed on a consolidated basis to efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of
any natural offsets. Derivative financial instruments are not used for speculative purposes.
The Company’s primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the Euro, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Chinese
renminbi, and Canadian dollar.
The Company utilizes foreign currency contracts to hedge anticipated transactions, primarily intercompany transactions, on
certain foreign currencies and designates these derivative instruments as foreign currency cash flow hedges when appropriate. The
notional amounts of the Company’s foreign exchange derivative contracts at December 31, 2006 and 2005 were $1,585 million and
$2,296 million, respectively. For these derivatives, in which the majority qualify as hedges of future anticipated cash flows, the
effective portion of changes in fair value is temporarily deferred in accumulated OCI and then recognized in earnings when the hedged
item affects earnings.
During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company reclassified deferred losses of $18 million, $130 million and $234 million,
respectively, from accumulated OCI to earnings, the majority of which was classified as cost of products sold. As of December 31,
2006, the balance of deferred net after-tax losses of foreign exchange forward contracts included in accumulated OCI was $22 million,
of which a net after-tax loss of $25 million is estimated to be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
SFAS No.133 requires that the Company perform periodic assessments of hedge effectiveness. These assessments determine
whether derivatives designated as qualifying hedges continue to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of hedged
items. Any ineffective portion of fair value can no longer be deferred in accumulated OCI and is included in current period earnings.
For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the impact of hedge ineffectiveness on earnings was not significant. Additionally,
for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 the impact of discontinued hedges were a loss of $10 million and a gain of $2
million, respectively. Furthermore, the Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to offset its exposure to certain currency
822006 Annual Report
assets and liabilities. These foreign exchange forward contracts are not designated as hedges and, therefore, changes in the fair value
of these derivatives are recognized in earnings as they occur. In 2006 and 2005, the amounts recognized in earnings related to foreign
exchange forward contracts that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment were not significant.
The fair value of forward contracts was a net liability of $33 million at December 31, 2006, of which $18 million was recorded as
a non-current asset and $51 million was recorded as a current liability. The fair value of forward contracts was a net asset of $53
million at December 31, 2005, of which $94 million was recorded as a non-current asset and $41 million was recorded as a current
liability. The fair value of all foreign exchange contracts is based on year-end currency rates (and the Black-Scholes model in the case
of option contracts).
The Company had exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $1.6 billion and $2.5
billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily in Mexico, Japan, the UK, China, Australia and Canada. The
reduction in net exposure was primarily due to the issuance of €1 billion Euro ($1.3 billion) Notes in 2006. For additional
information, see Note 14 “Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt.”
In addition to the foreign exchange hedge contracts noted above, the Company utilizes forward contracts to hedge foreign
currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The primary objective of these forward contracts is to protect the U.S. dollar
value of foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange rates that
might occur prior to their receipt or settlement in U.S. dollars. These foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are
primarily denominated in Euro. The forward contracts are not designated as hedges and are marked to market through other
income/expense. The notional and fair value amount of purchased foreign exchange forward contracts was $24 million and a $1
million asset, respectively, at December 31, 2006, and was $142 million and a $2 million liability, respectively, at December 31, 2005.
The notional and fair value amount of sold foreign exchange forward contracts was $22 million and a $1 million liability, respectively,
at December 31, 2006, and was $47 million and a $1 million asset, respectively, at December 31, 2005.
The Company also uses non U.S. dollar borrowings and, to a lesser extent, forward contracts, to hedge the foreign currency
exposures of the Company’s net investment in certain foreign affiliates. These non U.S. dollar borrowings and forward contracts are
designated as hedges of net investments. The effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges is recorded as part
of the foreign currency translation component of OCI. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, $17 million in after tax losses and $12
million in after tax gains, respectively, were recorded in the foreign currency translation component of OCI.
The Company uses derivative instruments as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. The derivative instruments used
comprised principally of fixed to floating rate interest rate swaps, which are subject to fair-value hedge accounting treatment. In
November 2006, in connection with the funding of the retirement of the 2011 fixed rate debt, the Company executed several fixed to
floating interest rate swaps to convert $1.3 billion and €1 billion Euro ($1.3 billion) of the Company’s newly issued fixed rate debt to
be paid in 2016, 2021 and 2036 to variable rate debt. During 2004, the Company executed several fixed to floating interest rate swaps
to convert $700 million of the Company’s fixed rate debt to be paid in 2023 and 2026 to variable rate debt. The total notional amount
of outstanding interest rate swaps were $2.6 billion and €1 billion Euro ($1.3 billion) as of December 31, 2006 and $3.4 billion as of
December 31, 2005. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the Company
recognized a net increase in interest expense of $18 million in 2006, and a net reduction in interest expense of $54 million and $151
million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, from the impact of interest rate swaps.
83Bristol-Myers Squibb
The swap contracts as well as the underlying debt being hedged are recorded at fair value, which resulted in an increase in non-
current assets of $7 million and current liabilities of $57 million, and a reduction in long-term debt of $50 million at December 31,
2006; and an increase in non-current assets of $21 million, current liabilities of $51 million and a reduction in long-term debt of $30
million at December 31, 2005. Swap contracts are generally held to maturity and are intended to create an appropriate balance of
fixed and floating rate debt for the Company. Swap contracts that qualify as fair value hedges and that are terminated prior to their
maturity dates are reported as part of the carrying value of the underlying debt and are amortized to earnings over the remaining life of
the debt. Swap contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges and that are terminated are reported in accumulated OCI and amortized to
earnings over the remaining life of the debt. The following tables summarize the new and terminated interest rate swaps for 2006 and
2005:
Notional Amount of
Dollars/Euro in Millions Year of Transaction Underlying Debt
Interest Rate Contracts:
Swaps associated with 4.375% €500 EUR Notes due 2016 2006 $ 641
Swaps associated with 4.625% €500 EUR Notes due 2021 2006 641
Swaps associated with 5.875% Notes due 2036 2006 1,250
Terminated Swap Contracts
Total Pre-Tax 2006 Pre-Tax 2005 Pre-Tax
Year of Notional Amount of Deferred Income/(Expense) Income/(Expense)
Interest Rate Contracts Termination Underlying Debt Gain/(Loss) Recognized Recognized
Dollars in Millions
Interest rate swap lock associated with 5.75%
Notes due 2011 (1) 2001 $2,500 $ (58) $ (37) $ (5)
Interest Rate Swap Lock associated with 4.75%
Notes due 2006 2001 2,000 (48) — (15)
Swaps associated with 4.75% Notes due 2006 (1) 2005 2,000 (13) — (13)
Swaps associated with 5.75% Notes due 2011 (1) 2005 500 (23) (21) (2)
Swaps associated with 6.8% Notes due 2026 2005 350 39 1 —
Swaps associated with 5.75% Notes due 2011 (1) 2006 2,000 (62) (62) —
$ (165) $ (119) $ (35)
(1) The underlying 2011 and 2006 Notes were extinguished in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The carrying amount of the Company’s other financial instruments, which includes cash, cash equivalents, marketable
securities, accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximates their fair value at December 31, 2006 and 2005. For long-term
debt the difference between the fair value and carrying value is not material.
Note 18 Segment Information
The Company is organized in three reportable segments—Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Health Care. The
Pharmaceuticals segment is comprised of the global pharmaceutical and international consumer medicines businesses. The
Nutritionals segment consists of Mead Johnson, primarily an infant formula business and children’s nutritional business. The Other
Health Care segment consists of the ConvaTec, Medical Imaging and Consumer Medicines businesses. In the third quarter of 2005,
the Company completed the sale of its Consumer Medicines business. For additional information on the sale of Consumer Medicines,
see Note 4 “Acquisitions and Divestitures.”
842006 Annual Report
The Company’s products are sold principally to the wholesale and retail trade, both nationally and internationally. Certain
products are also sold to other drug manufacturers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and the medical profession. Three
wholesalers accounted for approximately 18%, 17% and 10%, respectively, of the Company’s total net sales in 2006. In 2005, sales to
these wholesalers accounted for 20%, 19% and 11%, respectively, of the Company’s total net sales. In 2004, the same three
wholesalers each accounted for approximately 19%, 17% and 10%, respectively, of the Company’s total net sales. These sales were
concentrated in the Pharmaceuticals segment.
Earnings Before
Minority Interest and
Net Sales Income Taxes Year-end Assets
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005
Pharmaceuticals $ 13,861 $ 15,254 $ 15,564 $ 2,559 $ 3,732 $ 4,334 $ 11,768 $ 11,671
Nutritionals 2,347 2,205 2,001 696 677 610 1,167 1,088
Other Health Care 1,706 1,748 1,815 517 469 510 1,124 1,180
Health Care Group 4,053 3,953 3,816 1,213 1,146 1,120 2,291 2,268
Total segments 17,914 19,207 19,380 3,772 4,878 5,454 14,059 13,939
Corporate/Other — — — (1,137) (362) (1,036) 11,516 14,199
Total $ 17,914 $ 19,207 $ 19,380 $ 2,635 $ 4,516 $ 4,418 $ 25,575 $ 28,138
Corporate/Other consists principally of interest income, interest expense, certain administrative expenses and allocations to the
business segments of certain corporate programs, litigation expense, debt retirement costs, gain on sale of businesses and product
asset, deferred income recognized from collaboration agreement and restructuring charges. Corporate/Other assets include cash and
cash equivalents, marketable securities, goodwill, assets of OTN held available for sale at December 31, 2004 and sold in 2005 and
certain other assets.
Capital Expenditures Depreciation
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004
Pharmaceuticals $ 543 $ 554 $ 455 $ 460 $ 477 $ 474
Nutritionals 65 65 55 41 38 48
Other Health Care 28 30 27 21 25 22
Health Care Group 93 95 82 62 63 70
Total segments 636 649 537 522 540 544
Corporate/Other 44 44 49 42 37 49
Total $ 680 $ 693 $ 586 $ 564 $ 577 $ 593
Geographic Areas
Net Sales Year-end Assets
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005
United States $ 9,729 $ 10,461 $ 10,613 $ 16,942 $ 20,579
Europe, Middle East and Africa 4,544 5,136 5,470 5,032 4,779
Other Western Hemisphere 1,615 1,592 1,425 2,237 1,556
Pacific 2,026 2,018 1,872 1,364 1,224
Total $ 17,914 $ 19,207 $ 19,380 $ 25,575 $ 28,138
The change in year-end assets in the U.S. in 2006 from 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities resulting from the reinvestment in 2006 of foreign dividends received in 2005 pursuant to the repatriation of
earnings to the U.S. under AJCA.
85Bristol-Myers Squibb
Note 19 Leases
Minimum rental commitments under all non-cancelable operating leases, primarily real estate and motor vehicles, in effect at
December 31, 2006, were as follows:
Years Ending December 31, Dollars in Millions
2007 $ 141
2008 120
2009 97
2010 70
2011 63
Later years 223
Total minimum payments 714
Less total minimum sublease rentals 52
Net minimum rental commitments $ 662
Operating lease rental expense (net of sublease rental income of $21 million in 2006, $15 million in 2005 and $13 million in
2004) was $149 million in 2006, $150 million in 2005 and $149 million in 2004.
In December 2006, the Company completed the sale and leaseback of several administrative facilities in New Jersey for $283
million. The resulting pre-tax gain from the transaction of $154 million was deferred and will reduce future lease rental costs over the
lease periods ranging from 8 to 12 years.
Note 20 Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans, and termination
indemnity plans for regular full-time employees. The principal pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan in
the U.S. The funding policy is to contribute amounts to provide for current service and to fund past service liability. Plan benefits are
based primarily on the participant’s years of credited service and compensation. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-
income securities.
The Company also provides comprehensive medical and group life benefits for substantially all U.S. retirees who elect to
participate in its comprehensive medical and group life plans. The medical plan is contributory. Contributions are adjusted
periodically and vary by date of retirement and the original retiring Company. The life insurance plan is noncontributory. Plan assets
consist principally of equity and fixed-income securities. Similar plans exist for employees in certain countries outside of the U.S.
The Company adopted SFAS No. 158 in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, resulting in a $1,064 million reduction of
accumulated OCI in stockholders’ equity, a $767 million reduction in total assets and a $297 million increase in total liabilities. The
impact of the adoption is summarized as follows:
SFAS No. 158 Adjustments
Dollars in Millions Pre SFAS No. 158 Pre-tax Tax Net Post SFAS No. 158
Current Assets:
Deferred income taxes $ 573 $ — $ 76 $ 76 $ 649
Non-Current Assets:
Deferred income taxes 2,139 — 438 438 2,577
Prepaid pension 1,324 (1,324) — (1,324) —
Other assets 299 43 — 43 342
Current Liabilities:
Accrued expenses 2,251 81 — 81 2,332
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 445 — (1) (1) 444
Non-Current Liabilities:
Other Liabilities 327 269 (52) 217 544
Stockholders’ Equity:
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (581) (1,631) 567 (1,064) (1,645)
862006 Annual Report
Cost of the Company’s deferred benefits and postretirement benefit plans included the following components:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits(a)
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004
Service cost — benefits earned during the year $ 238 $ 223 $ 180 $ 9 $ 9 $ 8
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation 326 314 295 34 36 37
Expected return on plan assets (410) (361) (355) (22) (20) (18)
Net amortization and deferral 179 216 157 1 3 —
Net periodic benefit cost 333 392 277 22 28 27
Curtailments and settlements (1) — (1) — — —
Total net periodic benefit cost $ 332 $ 392 $ 276 $ 22 $ 28 $ 27
(a) The Company has recognized the impact of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, and in
accordance with FSP No. 106-2, recorded $11 million, $11 million and $8 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, as a reduction in net periodic benefit costs.
The estimated net actuarial loss and prior service cost that will be amortized from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit
cost in 2007 are:
Dollars in Millions Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Amortization of net actuarial loss $ 133 $ 6
Amortization of prior service cost 11 (3)
$ 144 $ 3
Changes in benefit obligations, plan assets, funded status and amounts recognized on the balance sheet as of and for the years
ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, for the Company’s defined benefit and postretirement benefit plans, were as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2006 2005
Benefit obligation at beginning of year $ 5,918 $ 5,481 $ 643 $ 646
Service cost—benefits earned during the year 238 223 9 9
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation 326 314 34 36
Plan participants’ contributions 3 3 12 8
Curtailments and settlements (2) (2) — —
Actuarial losses/(gains) 10 400 27 17
Plan amendments 7 — — —
Retiree drug subsidy received — — 6 —
Benefits paid (432) (386) (81) (73)
Exchange rate (gains)/losses 118 (115) 1 —
Benefit obligation at end of year $ 6,186 $ 5,918 $ 651 $ 643
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year $ 5,017 $ 4,602 $ 253 $ 230
Actual return on plan assets 649 469 38 23
Employer contribution 325 423 63 65
Plan participants’ contributions 3 3 12 8
Settlements — (1) — —
Retiree drug subsidy received — — 6 —
Benefits paid (432) (386) (81) (73)
Exchange rate (losses)/gains 96 (93) — —
Fair value of plan assets at end of year $ 5,658 $ 5,017 $ 291 $ 253
Funded status $ (528) $ (901) $ (360) $ (390)
Unamortized net obligation at adoption — 2 — —
Unrecognized prior service cost — 61 — (27)
Unrecognized net actuarial loss — 2,067 — 108
Net amount recognized $ (528) $ 1,229 $ (360) $ (309)
87Bristol-Myers Squibb
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2006 2005
Amounts recognized in the balance sheet consist of:
Prepaid pension (prepaid benefit cost) $ — $ 1,324 $ — $ —
Other assets 45 2 — —
Accrued expenses (25) — (56) —
Pension and other postretirement liabilities (accrued benefit cost) (548) (423) (304) (309)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss — 326 — —
Net amount recognized $ (528) $ 1,229 $ (360) $ (309)
Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss
Net actuarial loss $ 1,711 $ — $ 117 $ —
Net obligation at adoption 2 — — —
Prior service cost 55 — (24) —
$ 1,768 $ — $ 93 $ —
Several plans had underfunded accrued benefit obligations that exceeded their accrued benefit liabilities at December 31, 2006
and 2005. Additional minimum liabilities were established to increase the accrued benefit liabilities to the values of the underfunded
accrued benefit obligations. The additional minimum liabilities totaled $232 million at December 31, 2006 prior to the adoption of
SFAS No. 158, which were for a U.S. unfunded benefit equalization plan and several international plans. These liabilities were
reversed upon the adoption of SFAS No. 158. The additional minimum liabilities totaled $328 million at December 31, 2005, which
were offset by intangible assets of $2 million and charges to accumulated OCI included in stockholders’ equity of $326 million.
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $5,422 million and $5,209 million at December 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively.
Information for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005
Projected benefit obligation $ 1,328 $ 1,343
Accumulated benefit obligation 1,137 1,148
Fair value of plan assets 795 748
This is attributable primarily to an unfunded U.S. benefit equalization plan and several plans in the international markets. The
unfunded U.S. benefit equalization plan provides pension benefits for employees with compensation above IRS limits and cannot be
funded in a tax-advantaged manner.
Additional information pertaining to the Company’s pension and postretirement plans were as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Dollars in Millions 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004
(Decrease)/Increase in minimum liability, including the
impact of foreign currency fluctuations, included in
other comprehensive income $ (96) $ (20) $ 153 $ — $ — $ —
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31, were as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2006 2005 2006 2005
Discount rate 5.74% 5.49% 5.73% 5.49%
Rate of compensation increase 3.63% 3.60% 3.60% 3.61%
882006 Annual Report
Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December 31, were as
follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004
Discount rate 5.49% 5.57% 6.08% 5.49% 5.52% 6.01%
Expected long-term return on plan assets 8.39% 8.41% 8.73% 8.75% 8.75% 9.00%
Rate of compensation increase 3.60% 3.59% 3.57% 3.61% 3.59% 3.58%
At December 31, 2006, the Company’s expected long-term rate of return on U.S. pension plan assets was 8.75%. The target
asset allocation is 70% public equity (58% U.S., 12% international), 8% private equity and 22% fixed income. The 8.75% was
approximated by applying expected returns of 9% on public equity, 15% on private equity and 6% on fixed income to the target
allocation. The actual historical returns are also relevant. Annualized returns for periods ended December 31, 2006 were 9.3% for 10
years, 10.1% for 15 years and 10.5% for 20 years.
U.S. pension plan assets represented approximately 80% of total Company pension plan assets at December 31, 2005. The
8.39% disclosed above for total Company expected return on assets for 2006 is below the 8.75% for U.S. pension plans, due to the
impact of international pension plans, which typically employ a less aggressive asset allocation.
An 8.75% expected return is disclosed for Other Benefits in 2006 as the relevant assets are invested in the same manner as U.S.
pension plan assets and there are no international plan assets.
Assumed health care cost trend rates at December 31, were as follows:
2006 2005 2004
Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year 9.87% 7.93% 8.93%
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline
(the ultimate trend rate) 4.49% 4.42% 4.51%
Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2018 2012 2012
Assumed health care cost trend rates do have an effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point
change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
1-Percentage- 1-Percentage-Point
Dollars in Millions Point Increase Decrease
Effect on total of service and interest cost $ 1 $ (1)
Effect on postretirement benefit obligation 25 (23)
The Company’s asset allocation for pension and postretirement benefits at December 31, 2006 and 2005, were as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2006 2005 2006 2005
Public equity securities 67.2% 67.3% 69.2% 67.7%
Debt securities (including cash) 26.9 26.8 23.3 25.0
Private equity 5.6 5.6 7.2 7.1
Other 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2
Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
The Company’s investment strategy emphasizes equities in order to achieve high expected returns and, in the long run, low
expense and low required cash contributions. For the U.S. pension plans, a target asset allocation of 70% public equity (58% U.S.,
12% international), 8% private equity and 22% fixed income is maintained and cash flow (i.e., cash contributions, benefit payments) is
used to rebalance back to the targets as necessary. Investments are very well diversified within each of the three major asset
categories. About 40% of the U.S. equity is passively managed. Otherwise, all investments are actively managed.
Investment strategies for international pension plans are typically similar, although the asset allocations are usually more
conservative.
Bristol–Myers Squibb Company common stock represents less than 1% of the plan assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005.
89Bristol-Myers Squibb
Assets for postretirement benefits are commingled with U.S. pension plan assets and, therefore, the investment strategy is
identical to that described above for U.S. pension plans.
Contributions
Although no minimum contributions were required, the Company made cash contributions to the U.S. pension plans of $235
million, $318 million and $225 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company also plans to make a cash contribution to
the U.S. pension plans in 2007.
When contributions are made to the U.S. pension plans, the Company may make tax-deductible contributions to the 401(h)
account for retiree medical benefits equal to a portion of the pension normal cost.
Contributions to the international pension plans were $90 million, $105 million and $142 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Contributions to the international plans are now expected to be $70 to $90 million in 2007.
Estimated Future Benefit Payments
The following benefit payments for mainly the U.S pension plans, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are
expected to be paid:
Other Benefits
Medicare
Dollars in Millions Pension Benefits Gross Subsidy Net
2007 $ 309 $ 67 $ 8 $ 59
2008 328 67 9 58
2009 386 67 10 57
2010 391 67 11 56
2011 408 66 11 55
Years 2012 – 2016 2,493 313 57 256
Savings Plan
The principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings and Investment Program. The Company’s
contribution is based on employee contributions and the level of Company match. The Company’s contributions to the plan were $56
million in 2006, $51 million in 2005 and $53 million in 2004.
Termination Indemnity Plans
The Company operates in certain jurisdictions, primarily in Europe, which require the recording of statutory termination
obligations. These obligations were assessed in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 88-1, Determination of Vested
Benefit Obligation for a Defined Benefit Pension Plan. The total pension liability recorded for these obligations was $75 million at
December 31, 2006 and $68 million at December 31, 2005.
Note 21 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies
Various lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations are pending involving the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In
accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, the Company records accruals for such contingencies when it is probable
that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. These matters involve antitrust, securities, patent
infringement, pricing, sales and marketing practices, environmental, health and safety matters, consumer fraud, product liability and
insurance coverage. The most significant of these matters are described below.
There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in the scope of these matters or that any future lawsuits, claims,
proceedings or investigations will not be material. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few
years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be
material to the Company’s results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity.
902006 Annual Report
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Plavix Litigation
Plavix is currently the Company’s largest product ranked by net sales. Net sales of Plavix were approximately $3.3 billion for
the year ended December 31, 2006, $3.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $3.3 billion in 2004, and U.S. net sales of
Plavix were $2.7 billion in 2006, $3.2 billion in 2005 and $2.8 billion in 2004. The Plavix patents are subject to a number of
challenges in the U.S. and other less significant markets for the product. It is not possible reasonably to estimate the impact of these
lawsuits on the Company. However, loss of market exclusivity of Plavix and sustained generic competition would be material to the
Company’s sales of Plavix and results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to the Company’s financial condition and
liquidity. The Company and Sanofi (the Companies) intend to vigorously pursue enforcement of their patent rights in Plavix.
Plavix Litigation –United States
Patent Infringement Litigation
The Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is a plaintiff in a pending patent infringement lawsuit
instituted in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York entitled Sanofi-Synthelabo, Sanofi-Synthelabo, Inc. and
Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership v. Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (Apotex). The suit was filed in
March 2002, as is based on U.S. Patent No. 4,847,265 (the ‘265 Patent), a composition of matter patent, which discloses and claims,
among other things, the hydrogen sulfate salt of clopidogrel, a medicine made available in the U.S. by the Companies as Plavix.
Plaintiffs’ infringement position is based on defendants’ filing of their Abbreviated New Drug Applications (aNDA) with the FDA,
seeking approval to sell generic clopidogrel bisulfate prior to the expiration of the composition of matter patent in 2011. The
defendants responded by alleging that the patent is invalid and/or unenforceable.
In March 2006, the Companies announced that they had executed a proposed settlement agreement (the March Agreement)
with Apotex to settle the patent infringement lawsuit pending between the parties in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York. In response to concerns expressed by the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general, the parties modified the
March Agreement (the Modified Agreement). In July 2006, the Companies announced that the Modified Agreement had failed to
receive required antitrust clearance from the state attorneys general. On August 8, 2006, Apotex launched a generic version of
clopidogrel bisulfate. On August 14, 2006, the Companies filed a motion for a preliminary injunction and on August 31, 2006, the trial
court issued a preliminary injunction in which it ordered that Apotex to halt sales of generic clopidogrel bisulfate, but the Court did
not order Apotex to recall product from its customers. The Companies were also required to post a bond in the amount of $400 million
to provide security to Apotex should the Court conclude at the end of the patent litigation that the injunction was wrongly imposed.
On September 1, 2006, the Companies each posted a $200 million bond to satisfy the requirement. The Company has pledged to the
issuer of the bond collateral for its $200 million bond consisting of short-term, high quality securities. This collateral is reported as
marketable securities on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006. Under the terms of the pledge agreement, the
Company is entitled to receive the income generated from the marketable securities and to make certain investment decisions, but is
restricted from using the $200 million pledged securities for any other purpose until such time the bond is cancelled.
On September 1, 2006, the Court denied Apotex’s motion to stay the preliminary injunction. Apotex filed an appeal of the
preliminary injunction to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on September 5, 2006 and filed a motion for stay of the
injunction pending appeal on September 6, 2006, which the Federal Circuit denied on September 21, 2006. On December 8, 2006, the
Federal Circuit affirmed the trial court’s issuance of the injunction. Apotex subsequently filed a motion for reconsideration and/or
rehearing, which was denied on January 19, 2007.
In September 2006, Apotex filed a motion to supplement its answer and counterclaims to add claims for breach of contract and
antitrust counterclaims, and additional equitable defenses. The trial court permitted Apotex to add the additional antitrust
counterclaims and they were stayed pending the outcome of the trial. The Court did not permit Apotex to add the breach of contract
claim. The trial commenced on January 22, 2007 and ended on February 15, 2007. The Court has ordered post-trial briefing, and is
expected to rule thereafter.
The Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is also a plaintiff in three additional pending patent
infringement lawsuits instituted in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories,
Inc. and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, LTD (Dr. Reddy’s), Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva) and Cobalt Pharmaceuticals Inc.
(Cobalt), all related to the ‘265 Patent. A trial date for the action against Dr. Reddy's has not been set. The patent infringement actions
against Teva and Cobalt have been stayed pending resolution of the Apotex litigation, and the parties to those actions have agreed to
be bound by the outcome of the litigation against Apotex, although Teva and Cobalt can appeal the outcome of the litigation. Each of
Dr. Reddy’s and Teva have filed an aNDA with the FDA, and all exclusivity periods and statutory stay periods under the Hatch-
Waxman Act have expired, with the exception of the 30-month stay that applies to Teva, which expires on February 27, 2007.
Accordingly, final approval by the FDA would provide each company authorization to distribute a generic clopidogrel bisulfate
product in the U.S., subject to various legal remedies for which the companies may apply including injunctive relief and damages.
91Bristol-Myers Squibb
The Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is a plaintiff in another pending patent infringement
lawsuit instituted in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey entitled Sanofi-Synthelabo, Sanofi-Synthelabo Inc. and
Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership v. Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Watson Laboratories, Inc. The
suit was filed in October 2004 and was based on U.S. Patent No. 6,429,210, which discloses and claims a particular crystalline or
polymorph form of the hydrogen sulfate salt of clopidogrel, which is marketed as Plavix. The case is in the discovery phase. In
December 2005, the court permitted Watson to pursue its declaratory judgment counterclaim with respect to U.S. Patent
No. 6,504,030. In January 2006, the Court approved the parties’ stipulation to stay this case pending the outcome of the trial in the
Apotex matter.
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the patent litigation with Apotex, or the other Plavix patent litigation, or the
timing of any renewed generic competition for Plavix from Apotex or additional generic competition for Plavix from other third-party
generic pharmaceutical companies. However, if Apotex were to prevail in the patent litigation, the Company would expect to face
renewed generic competition for Plavix from Apotex promptly thereafter. As noted above, loss of market exclusivity for Plavix and/or
sustained generic competition would be material to the Company’s sales of Plavix, results of operations and cash flows, and could be
material to the Company’s financial condition and liquidity.
The full impact of Apotex’s launch of its generic clopidogrel bisulfate product on the Company cannot be reasonably estimated
at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the amount of generic product sold by Apotex; whether
the Companies prevail in the underlying patent litigation; even if the Companies prevail in the pending patent case, the extent to which
the launch by Apotex will permanently adversely impact the pricing and prescription demand for Plavix, the amount of damages that
would be sought and/or recovered by the Companies, and Apotex’s ability to pay such damages. Loss of market exclusivity of Plavix
and/or sustained generic competition would be material to the Company’s sales of Plavix, results of operations and cash flows, and
could be material to the Company’s financial condition and liquidity.
The launch of the generic clopidogrel bisulfate product by Apotex in August 2006 had a significant adverse effect on sales in
2006, which the Company estimates to be in the range of $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion. In particular, the launch had an adverse impact
on sales in the third and fourth quarters of 2006, which the Company estimates to be in the range of $525 million to $600 million for
the third quarter and $700 to $750 million for the fourth quarter. In the first, second, third, and fourth quarters of 2006, U.S. net sales
for Plavix were $850 million, $988 million, $474 million, and $343 million, respectively. The sales of generic clopidogrel bisulfate are
expected to have a residual impact on Plavix sales into 2007. The Company cannot with certainty estimate the 2007 impact at this
point in time.
As also previously disclosed, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) is conducting a criminal
investigation regarding the proposed settlement. The Company is cooperating fully with the investigation. It is not possible at this time
reasonably to assess the outcome of the investigation or its impact on the Company.
As previously disclosed, the Company entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) with the U.S. Attorney’s Office
for the District of New Jersey (USAO) on June 15, 2005. Pursuant to the DPA, the USAO filed a criminal complaint against the
Company alleging conspiracy to commit securities fraud, but deferred prosecution of the Company and will dismiss the complaint
after two years if the Company satisfies all the requirements of the DPA. Under the terms of the DPA, the USAO, in its discretion,
may prosecute the Company for the matters that were the subject of the criminal complaint filed by the USAO against the Company in
connection with the DPA should the USAO make a determination that the Company committed any criminal conduct. Under the DPA,
“criminal conduct” is defined as any crime related to the Company’s business activities committed by one or more executive officers
or directors; securities fraud, accounting fraud, financial fraud or other business fraud materially affecting the books and records or
publicly filed reports of the Company; and obstruction of justice. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the impact, if any,
of the pending criminal investigation by the DOJ may have on the Company’s compliance with the DPA. Additional information with
respect to the DPA is included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis—SEC Consent Order and Deferred Prosecution
Agreement.”
922006 Annual Report
In September 2006, the Board of Directors (the Board) announced that the Company’s then current Chief Executive Officer
(CEO) and General Counsel would be leaving their respective positions effective immediately. The announcement took place after the
Board received and considered reports from the Company’s outside counsel on issues relating to the Plavix patent litigation with
Apotex and a preliminary recommendation from the Monitor under the DPA (Monitor) to terminate the employment of such
individuals. The Monitor’s recommendation followed an investigation initiated by the USAO conducted by the Monitor and the
USAO, into corporate governance issues relating to the Company’s negotiations of a proposed settlement with Apotex. The Company
had been advised by the Monitor and the USAO that the investigation did not involve matters that are the subject of the ongoing
investigation by the Antitrust Division of the DOJ into the Plavix settlement agreement. At the time the Monitor made his preliminary
recommendation, the Monitor and the USAO also advised the Company that they had not found a violation of the DPA or any
unlawful conduct by the Company or its employees. The investigation included a review of whether there was any violation of Federal
securities laws in connection with the proposed settlement with Apotex under the terms of the SEC Consent. The Monitor has
completed his investigation and submitted his report on the investigation to the USAO. The Monitor’s report did not find any
violation of the SEC Consent or the Federal securities laws in connection with the proposed settlement. The Monitor concluded that
the Company had violated certain paragraphs of the DPA related to governance matters. The violations cited by the Monitor in his
report relate, among other things, to communication failures, including insufficient communications, by the Company’s former CEO
and former General Counsel with the Board and with other members of senior management, as well as failure to comply with certain
internal Company policies and procedures. The Monitor did not make any findings with respect to whether the Company knowingly
and materially breached the DPA or make any recommendations. The USAO has advised the Company that he believes the matters
cited in the Monitor’s report have been fully remediated and, accordingly, that he does not intend to take any action under the DPA
with respect to the Monitor’s report.
Antitrust Litigation
Eighteen lawsuits comprised of both individual suits and purported class actions have been filed against the Company in U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Ohio, Western Division, by various plaintiffs, including pharmacy chains (individually and as
assignees, in whole or in part, of certain wholesalers), various health and welfare benefit plans/funds and individual residents of
various states, since the announcement of the March Agreement with Apotex in March 2006. These lawsuits allege, among other
things, that the Apotex settlement violates the Sherman Act and related laws. Plaintiffs are seeking, among other things, permanent
injunctive relief barring the Apotex settlement and/or monetary damages. The class actions filed on behalf of direct purchasers have
been consolidated under the caption In re: Plavix Direct Purchaser Antitrust Litigation, and the class actions filed on behalf of
indirect purchasers have been consolidated under the caption In re: Plavix Indirect Purchaser Antitrust Litigation. Amended
complaints have been filed in each of the consolidated class actions and in the individual actions, since the July 2006 announcement
that the Modified Agreement failed to receive required antitrust clearance from the state attorneys general. The amended complaints
include allegations regarding the criminal investigation by the Antitrust Division of the DOJ. On November 2, 2006, the Companies
filed a motion to transfer all eighteen lawsuits to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, where the Apotex
matter and similar Plavix-related patent infringement cases are pending. That motion is pending before the Court. The Court also will
be considering whether to stay the litigation pending the outcome of the patent infringement litigation. It is not possible at this time
reasonably to assess the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company.
Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits
In September 2006, certain members of the Board, current and former officers, and the Company were named in a derivative
complaint, Steven W. Sampson v. Peter R. Dolan, et al., filed in New York State Supreme Court. Also in September 2006, certain
members of the Board, current and former officers, and the Company were named in a derivative complaint, Americo Marchese v.
Peter R. Dolan et al., filed in the U.S District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaints allege, among other things,
breaches of fiduciary duty and claims for contribution and indemnification in relation to negotiations with Apotex regarding the Plavix
patent litigation. Among other things, the complaints seek money damages, injunctive remedies and other forms of equitable relief. It
is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company. Plaintiff Marchese
voluntarily dismissed without prejudice because the named plaintiff had sold his Bristol-Myers Squibb stock.
93Bristol-Myers Squibb
Consumer Fraud
On November 3, 2006, the Companies were served with a purported class action complaint, subsequently amended to include
various Sanofi entities, captioned. Skilstaf, Inc. v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, et al., (3:06 CV 04965) filed in the U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey. The complaint alleges that defendants misrepresented the safety and effectiveness of Plavix, both alone
and in combination with aspirin, and that third-party payors were misled, causing them to pay more for Plavix prescriptions for their
insureds, compared to lower cost alternatives. Plaintiffs assert, among other things, violations of the New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act.
Plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of this lawsuit or
the impact on the Company.
Plavix Litigation – International
Sanofi-Synthelabo and Sanofi-Synthelabo Canada Inc. instituted a prohibition action in the Federal Court of Canada against
Apotex Inc. and the Minister of Health in response to a Notice of Allegation (NOA) from Apotex Inc. directed against Canadian
Patent No. 1,336,777 (the ‘777 Patent) covering clopidogrel bisulfate. Apotex’s NOA indicated that it had filed an Abbreviated New
Drug Submission (ANDS) for clopidogrel bisulfate tablets and that it sought approval (a Notice of Compliance) of that ANDS before
the expiration of the ‘777 Patent, which is scheduled for August 12, 2012. Apotex’s NOA further alleged that the ‘777 Patent was
invalid or not infringed. In March 2005, the Canadian Federal Court of Ottawa rejected Apotex’s challenge to the Canadian Plavix
patent and held that the asserted claims are novel, not obvious and infringed, and granted Sanofi’s application for an order of
prohibition against the Minister of Health and Apotex Inc. That order of prohibition precludes approval of Apotex’s ANDS until the
patent expires in 2012, unless the Federal Court’s decision is reversed on appeal. Apotex filed an appeal, which the Canadian Federal
Court of Appeal heard on December 12-13, 2006. On December 22, 2006, the Federal Court of Appeal dismissed Apotex’s appeal and
upheld the Federal Court’s issuance of the order of prohibition. On February 20, 2007, Apotex filed leave to appeal this decision to
the Supreme Court of Canada.
Sanofi and Sanofi-Synthelabo Canada instituted a prohibition action in the Federal Court of Canada against Cobalt and the
Minister of Health in response to a NOA from Cobalt directed against the ‘777 Patent and Canadian Patent No. 2,334,870 (the ‘870
Patent). Cobalt’s NOA indicated that it has filed an ANDS for clopidogrel bisulfate tablets and that it sought a Notice of Compliance
for that ANDS before the expiration of the ‘777 and ‘870 Patents. Cobalt alleged that the ‘777 Patent was invalid and that the ‘870
Patent was invalid and not infringed. The case has been stayed pending the outcome of the Apotex appeal.
In June 2006, the Korean Intellectual Property Tribunal invalidated all claims of Sanofi’s Korean Patent No. 103,094, including
claims directed to clopidogrel and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and to clopidogrel bisulfate, and Sanofi has appealed. Sanofi has
also commenced infringement actions against generic pharmaceutical companies, several of which have launched a generic
clopidogrel bisulfate product in Korea. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these lawsuits or the impact
on the Company.
OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LITIGATION
Tequin (injectable form)
The Company and Kyorin Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. (Kyorin) commenced patent infringement actions in March 2005, against
Apotex, and against Sicor Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Sicor Inc., Sicor Pharmaceuticals Sales Inc., Teva and Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, relating to injectable forms of the antibiotic
gatifloxacin, for which Kyorin holds the composition of matter patent and which the Company sells as Tequin. The action related to
Apotex’s and Sicor’s filing of aNDAs for generic versions of injectable gatifloxacin with P(IV) certifications that the composition of
the matter patent, which expires December 2007 but which was granted a patent term extension until December 2009, is invalid. The
filing of the lawsuits placed stays on the approvals of both Apotex’s and Sicor’s generic products until July/August 2007, unless there
is a court decision adverse to the Company and Kyorin before that date. The Sicor case was consolidated with the above proceeding.
In a stipulation approved by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York in August 2005, the parties agreed that the
Apotex case will be stayed pending resolution of the Teva and Sicor cases, and that the parties will be bound by the outcome of the
litigation. In August 2006, the court approved a stipulation of dismissal jointly submitted by the parties. Under the stipulation,
plaintiffs’ claims against Teva and Sicor were dismissed without prejudice. Both Teva and Sicor’s counterclaims concerning claim 4
of U.S. Patent No. 4,980,470 were dismissed with prejudice. Both Teva and Sicor’s remaining counterclaims were dismissed without
prejudice. The Apotex case remains pending. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the Apotex lawsuit.
However, as a result of the Company’s decision to discontinue the manufacture, distribution and sale of Tequin, it is not expected that
the outcome of the Apotex lawsuit will have a material impact on the Company.
942006 Annual Report
Erbitux
Yeda Litigation
In October 2003, Yeda Research and Development Company Ltd. (Yeda) filed suit against ImClone and Aventis
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in Federal court claiming that three individuals associated with Yeda should be named as inventors of U.S.
Patent No. 6,217,866 (the ‘866 Patent), which covers the therapeutic combination of any EGFR – specific monoclonal antibody and
anti-neoplastic agents, such as chemotherapeutic agents, for use in treatment of cancer. In September 2006, following trial the Court
issued an opinion and order in which it held that three researchers at Yeda were the sole inventors of the subject matter of the ‘866
Patent, and giving complete ownership of the patent to Yeda. ImClone has appealed. ImClone also filed a declaratory judgment action
in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges that if the Yeda researchers remain sole
inventors of the ‘866 Patent, the patent is invalid. The Company, which is not a party to this action, is unable to predict the outcome of
these proceedings.
As a result of the Court’s decision, Yeda may seek damages for infringement with respect to past Erbitux sales and royalties on
future Erbitux sales. Yeda also has the right to license the patent to others. Yeda’s license of the patent to third parties could result in
product competition for Erbitux that might not otherwise occur. It is too early to assess whether and to what extent any such
competitive impact will occur or to quantify any such impact. However, Yeda has announced that it has licensed the patent to Amgen
Inc. (Amgen). Amgen received FDA approval to market an EGFR product that competes with Erbitux. Under its commercial
agreement with ImClone, the Company pays a royalty to ImClone on sales of Erbitux that is not impacted by the Court’s decision.
The agreement between ImClone and the Company also includes provisions pursuant to which certain financial consequences to
the Company resulting from the decision would be the responsibility of ImClone. In addition, the Company owns 14.4 million shares
of ImClone common stock, which the Company accounts for under the equity method of accounting and has a carrying value of $7.59
per share at December 31, 2006. The closing market price of ImClone common stock at December 31, 2006 was $26.76. There can be
no assurance that the Company will be able to realize fully the benefits of the contractual protections in its commercial agreement with
ImClone or that there will not be any other financial consequences to the Company as a result of the Court’s decision.
RepliGen Litigation
In 2004, RepliGen Corporation (Repligen) and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Massachusetts against ImClone, claiming that ImClone’s manufacture and sale of Erbitux infringes a patent
that generally covers a process for protein production in mammalian cells. In July 2006, the Court granted summary judgment in favor
of Repligen and MIT by rejecting one of ImClone’s defenses relating to patent exhaustion. The trial will proceed on the issue of patent
infringement. The Company is not a party to this action. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of this lawsuit
or the impact on the Company.
Abbott Laboratories Litigation
On February 5, 2007, Abbott Laboratories filed suit against ImClone in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts
(Case 1:07-cv-10216-RGS). The complaint alleges that ImClone’s manufacture and sale of Erbitux infringe U.S. Patent No.
5,665,578, and seeks damages for that alleged infringement. The Company is not a party to this action. It is not possible at this time
reasonably to assess the outcome of this lawsuit or the impact on the Company.
Orencia
In January 2006, Repligen and the Regents of the University of Michigan filed a complaint against the Company in the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division. Orencia was launched in February 2006. The complaint alleges
that the Company’s then-anticipated sales of Orencia will infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,685,541. Repligen has since amended the
complaint to include ongoing and future sales of Orencia. In August 2006, Zymogenetics, Inc. filed a complaint against the Company
in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that the Company’s manufacture and sales of Orencia
infringe U.S. Patents Nos. 5,843,725 and 6,018,026. The trial is scheduled to commence in April 2008. It is not possible at this time
reasonably to assess the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company.
95Bristol-Myers Squibb
GENERAL COMMERCIAL LITIGATION
Clayworth Litigation
The Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, was named as a defendant in an action filed in
California State Superior Court in Oakland, James Clayworth et al. v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, et al., alleging that the
defendants conspired to fix the prices of pharmaceuticals by agreeing to charge more for their drugs in the U.S. than they charge
outside the U.S., particularly Canada, and asserting claims under California’s Cartwright Act and unfair competition law. The
plaintiffs sought trebled monetary damages, injunctive relief, and other relief. On December 19, 2006, the Court granted the Company
and the other manufacturers’ motion for summary judgment based on the pass-on defense, and judgment was then entered in favor of
defendants. In January 2007, a notice of appeal with respect to the judgment was filed and remains pending. It is not possible at this
time reasonably to assess the outcome of this lawsuit or its impact on the Company in the event plaintiffs are successful on appeal.
Weisz & Stephenson Litigations
The Company has been named as a defendant, along with many other pharmaceutical companies, in an action originally brought
by the Utility Consumers Action Network, a consumer advocacy organization that focuses on privacy issues. The lawsuit entitled
Utility Consumers Action Network on behalf of the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, et al. v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., et al was filed in
California State Superior Court, San Diego County in July 2004. Another substantially similar lawsuit, Rowan Klein, a Representative
Action on Behalf of Similarly Situated Persons and the Consuming Public, v. Walgreens, et al., was filed in February 2005, in the
same court, against retail pharmacies, the Company and other pharmaceutical companies. The two complaints seek equitable relief,
monetary damages and attorneys’ fees based upon allegedly unfair business practices and untrue and misleading advertising under
various California statutes, including the California Confidentiality of Medical Information Act based on allegations that retail stores
are selling consumers’ confidential medical information and that the companies are using consumers’ medical information for direct
marketing designed to increase the sale of targeted drugs.
In January 2005, the Company and other pharmaceutical defendants sought to dismiss the Utility Consumers Action Network
case on the grounds that California’s Proposition 64 requires that a plaintiff must be the injured party in order to have standing to
bring a suit and that Utility Consumers Action Network was not personally injured. In October 2005, the Court entered a stay in the
Utility Consumers Action Network and the Klein cases pending the California Supreme Court’s decision to review several
intermediate appellate decisions that discuss the applicability of Proposition 64 to pending cases. In July 2006, the California Supreme
Court entered decisions in two appeals which held that Proposition 64 applies to pending cases, but complaints may be amended to
add a plaintiff with standing. The Court granted plaintiffs in both lawsuits leave to amend, and amended complaints containing
substantially similar allegations to the earlier complaints were filed on behalf of new plaintiffs who each purports to allege a personal
injury. The lawsuit filed by Utility Consumers Action Network on behalf of the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse is now entitled,
Kimberly Weisz, et al. v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., et al., and the lawsuit filed by Rowan Klein is now entitled, Roseanna Stephenson,
on behalf of herself and all others similarly situated, v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., et al. Both cases are at a very preliminary stage, and
it is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company.
RxUSA Wholesale Litigation
In July 2006, a complaint was filed by drug wholesaler RxUSA Wholesale, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of New York against the Company, fifteen other drug manufacturers, five drug wholesalers, two officers of defendant
McKesson and a wholesale distribution industry trade group, RxUSA Wholesale, Inc. v. Alcon Labs., Inc., et al. The complaint alleges
violations of Federal and New York antitrust laws, as well as various other laws. Plaintiff claims that defendants allegedly engaged in
anti-competitive acts that resulted in the exclusion of plaintiff from the relevant market and seeks $586 million in damages before any
trebling, and other relief. The Company, together with the other manufacturer defendants, filed a motion to dismiss the case on
November 13, 2006. That motion is pending before the Court. It is not possible at this time reasonably to estimate the outcome of this
lawsuit or the impact on the Company.
SECURITIES LITIGATION & INVESTIGATIONS
SEC Investigation of Wholesaler Inventory & Accounting Matters
In August 2004, the Company entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning certain
wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The Company agreed, without admitting or denying any liability, not to violate certain
provisions of the securities laws. The Company also established a $150 million fund, which is being distributed to certain Company
shareholders under a plan of distribution established by the SEC. The settlement does not resolve the ongoing investigation by the
SEC of the activities of certain former members of the Company’s management in connection with the wholesaler inventory issues
and other accounting matters. The Company is continuing to cooperate with this investigation.
962006 Annual Report
D&K Health Care Resources Litigation
In November 2004, a class action complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri against the
Company, D&K Health Care Resources, Inc. (D&K) and several current and former D&K directors and officers. The complaint
alleges that the Company participated in fraudulently inflating the value of D&K stock by allegedly engaging in improper “channel-
stuffing” agreement with D&K. In June 2006, the Court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss the complaint. Plaintiff’s time to
appeal the decision, if any such appeal is lodged, will begin to run when the litigation against D&K and its officers and directors is
finally resolved. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of this lawsuit or its impact on the Company.
Starkman Litigation
In September 2005, certain of the Company’s current and former officers were named in a purported class action, Starkman v.
Bristol-Myers Squibb, et al., filed in New York State Supreme Court alleging factual claims similar to the now resolved Federal class
action in the U.S. Southern District of New York related to alleged violations of Federal securities laws and regulations in connection
with sales incentives and wholesaler inventory levels, and asserting common law fraud and breach of fiduciary duty claims on behalf
of certain of the Company’s stockholders. In October 2005, the Company removed the case to the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York. In November 2005, the plaintiff moved to remand the matter to state court. The matter was stayed until the
Supreme Court, in March 2006, entered its decision in another case, which held that holder class actions asserting securities fraud
claims under state law, like Starkman, are preempted under Federal law. Following oral argument, the Court denied plaintiff’s motion
to remand in September 2006. On November 8, 2006, the Company and the plaintiff submitted a stipulation of dismissal (without
prejudice), which was approved by the Court.
PRICING, SALES AND PROMOTIONAL PRACTICES LITIGATION AND INVESTIGATIONS
The Company, together with a number of defendants, is a defendant in a number of private civil matters relating to its pricing
practices. In addition, the Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, has received subpoenas and other
document requests from various government agencies seeking records relating to its pricing, sales marketing practices and best price
reporting.
Investigations
The Company, the U.S. DOJ, and the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts have reached an agreement
in principle, subject to approval by the DOJ, to settle several investigations involving the Company’s drug pricing, and sales and
marketing activities. The agreement in principle provides for a civil resolution and an expected payment of $499 million. The
agreement in principle involves matters that have been actively investigated by and discussed with U.S. DOJ and the U.S. Attorney for
the District of Massachusetts over a number of years, including matters relating to (1) the pricing for certain products sold several
years ago by a subsidiary, which had been reimbursed by governmental health care programs; 2) financial relationships between the
subsidiary noted above and certain customers and other entities; 3) certain consulting programs; 4) the promotion of Abilify for
unapproved indications; 5) the calculation of certain Medicaid rebates for Serzone (nefazodone hydrochloride); and 6) the pricing for
certain of the Company’s products reimbursed by governmental health care programs. The agreement contemplates that States will
choose to participate in the settlement. There would be no criminal charges against the Company with respect to those matters. The
agreement in principle also provides for the Company to enter into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector
General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The settlement is contingent upon the parties’ agreement to the terms
of a final settlement agreement, including on the terms of the corporate integrity agreement and approval by the DOJ. There can be no
assurance that the settlement will be finalized, or that all the States will choose to participate. The agreement in principle only covers
those matters outlined above, and the U.S. DOJ, the U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts and the States have indicated that
they may pursue other matters outside the scope of the expected settlement, and in that event such matters could result in the assertion
of civil and/or criminal claims.
As a result of the agreement in principle, the Company has increased its reserves related to these investigations by $353 million,
bringing the aggregate reserves for these matters to $499 million. The increased reserve was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2006. In
accordance with GAAP, the aggregate reserves reflect the Company’s estimate of the expected probable loss with respect to these
matters, assuming the settlement is finalized. If the settlement is not finalized, and/or if certain States choose not to participate, the
amount reserved may not reflect eventual losses.
Furthermore, there are other open investigations on other issues being conducted by various Federal and state agencies as well
as by certain Congressional committees. The Company is producing documents and actively cooperating with these investigations,
which could result in the assertion of civil and/or criminal claims.
97Bristol-Myers Squibb
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the investigations described above, or of any additional matters
that the U.S. DOJ, and the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts may pursue, or the potential impact on the
Company.
As previously disclosed, in 2004, the Company undertook an analysis of its methods and processes for calculating prices for
reporting under governmental rebate and pricing programs related to its U.S. Pharmaceuticals business. The analysis was completed in
early 2005. Based on the analysis, the Company identified the need for revisions to the methodology and processes used for
calculating reported pricing and related rebate amounts and implemented these revised methodologies and processes beginning with
its reporting to the Federal government agency with primary responsibility for these rebate and price reporting obligations, the Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in the first quarter of 2005. In addition, using the revised methodologies and processes,
the Company also has recalculated the “Best Price” and “Average Manufacturer’s Price” required to be reported under the Company’s
Federal Medicaid rebate agreement and certain state agreements, and the corresponding revised rebate liability amounts under those
programs for the three-year period 2002 to 2004. Upon completion of the analysis in early 2005, the Company determined that the
estimated rebate liability for those programs for the three-year period 2002 to 2004 was actually less than the rebates that had been
paid by the Company for such period. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company recorded a reduction to the rebate
liability in the amount of the estimated overpayment. The Company has submitted proposed revisions and an updated estimate to CMS
for review. CMS may take the position that further revisions to the Company’s methodologies and calculations are required. The
Company believes, however, based on current information that any such recalculation for 2002 to 2004 period is not likely to result in
material rebate liability. However, due to the uncertainty surrounding the recoverability of the Company’s estimated overpayment
arising from the review process described above, the Company recorded a reserve in an amount equal to the estimated overpayment.
Litigation
With respect to the private civil matters, the Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, is a
defendant in private class actions, as well as suits brought by the attorneys general of several states and by numerous New York
counties and the City of New York, which are pending in Federal and state courts. In these actions, plaintiffs allege defendants caused
the Average Wholesale Prices (AWPs) of their products to be inflated, thereby injuring government programs, entities and persons
who reimbursed prescription drugs based on AWPs. The Federal cases and several of the state attorneys general actions and suits of
New York Counties and the City of New York have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the U.S. District Court for the District
of Massachusetts (AWP MDL). The Court in the AWP MDL has certified three classes of persons and entities who paid for or
reimbursed for seven of the Company’s physician-administered drugs. The non-jury trial for Classes 2 and 3 (insurance companies
and health and welfare funds in Massachusetts) commenced November 2006 and is currently ongoing. A trial date for the claims of
Class 1 (Medicare Part B beneficiaries nationwide) has not yet been set for the Company.
The Company also is one of many defendants in a putative class action filed in California allegedly on behalf of entities entitled
to discounted pricing pursuant to Section 340B of the Public Health Services Act, which requires prescription drug manufacturers to
offer discounts to qualified medical providers – generally those who disproportionately service poor people. In July 2006, an order
was entered dismissing the California case with prejudice. Plaintiff has appealed the dismissal of the California action.
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the litigation matters described above, or their potential impact
on the Company.
PRODUCT LIABILITY LITIGATION
The Company is a party to various product liability lawsuits. These involve, among other things, hormone replacement therapy
(HRT) products and the Company’s Serzone prescription drug. In addition to lawsuits, the Company also faces unfiled claims
involving these and other products.
The Company’s decision to obtain insurance coverage is dependent on market conditions, including cost and availability,
existing at the time such decisions are made. As a result of external factors, the availability of insurance continues to be restrictive
while the cost has increased significantly. The Company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining insurance
for product liability losses outweighs the benefits of coverage protection against such losses and as such, became self-insured for
product liability losses effective July 1, 2004. The Company will continue to evaluate these risks and benefits to determine its
insurance needs in the future.
982006 Annual Report
Serzone
Serzone is an antidepressant that was launched by the Company in May 1994, in Canada and in March 1995, in the U.S. In
December 2001, the Company added a black box warning to its Serzone label warning of the potential risk of severe hepatic events
including possible liver failure and the need for transplantation and risk of death. Within several months of the black box warning
being added to the package insert for Serzone, a number of lawsuits, including several class actions, were filed against the Company.
The plaintiffs in this mass-tort litigation allege, among other things, that the Company knew or should have known about the hepatic
risks posed by Serzone and failed to adequately warn physicians and users of the risks. In addition to the cases filed in the U.S., class
actions were filed in Canada. Without admitting any wrongdoing or liability, in October 2004, the Company entered into a settlement
agreement with respect to all claims in the U.S. and its territories regarding Serzone. In November 2004, the District Court
conditionally certified the temporary settlement class and preliminarily approved the settlement. In September 2005, the Court issued
an opinion granting final approval of the settlement. In August 2006, the Company agreed to proceed with the settlement and not
exercise its back-end opt-out right. Without admitting any wrongdoing or liability, in September 2006, the Company reached an
agreement in principle with respect to all claims in Canada regarding Serzone. Pursuant to the terms of the proposed settlement, all
claims will be dismissed, the litigation will be terminated, the defendants will receive releases and the Company committed to paying
at least $1 million into funds for class members. In May 2004, the Company announced that, following an evaluation of the
commercial potential of the product after generic entry into the marketplace and rapidly declining brand sales, it had decided to
discontinue the manufacture and sale of the product in the U.S. effective June 14, 2004.
Hormone Replacement Therapy
The plaintiffs in this mass-tort litigation allege, among other things, that various hormone therapy products, including hormone
therapy products formerly manufactured by the Company (Estrace, Estradiol, Delestrogen and Ovcon) cause breast cancer, stroke,
blood clots, cardiac and other injuries in women, that the defendants were aware of these risks and failed to warn consumers. As of
December 31, 2006, the Company was a defendant in 333 lawsuits filed on behalf of approximately 1,261 plaintiffs in Federal and
state courts throughout the U.S. The Company expects to be dismissed from many cases in which its products were never used. The
initial trials in the HRT litigation involving the primary defendant, Wyeth commenced in Federal court in July 2006 and in
Pennsylvania in November 2006. The initial trials involve only breast cancer claims and the Company is not a defendant in any of
these cases. All of the Company’s hormone therapy products were sold to other companies between January 2000 and August 2001,
but the Company maintains the Estrace aNDA, and continues to manufacture some of the products under a supply agreement. It is not
possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the lawsuits in which the Company is a party or their impact on the
Company.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS
As previously reported, the Company is a party to several environmental proceedings and other matters, and is responsible under
various state, Federal and foreign laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act,
(CERCLA), for certain costs of investigating and/or remediating contamination resulting from past industrial activity at the
Company’s current or former sites or at waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties.
CERCLA Matters
With respect to CERCLA matters for which the Company is responsible under various state, Federal and foreign laws, the
Company typically estimates potential costs based on information obtained from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or
counterpart state agency and/or studies prepared by independent consultants, including the total estimated costs for the site and the
expected cost-sharing, if any, with other “potentially responsible parties”, and the Company accrues liabilities when they are probable
and reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2006, the Company estimated its share of the total future costs for these sites to be
approximately $67 million, recorded as other liabilities, which represents the sum of best estimates or, where no simple estimate can
reasonably be made, estimates of the minimal probable amount among a range of such costs (without taking into account any potential
recoveries from other parties, which are not currently expected). The Company has paid less than $6 million (excluding legal fees) in
each of the last five years for investigation and remediation of such matters, including liabilities under CERCLA and for other on-site
remedial obligations.
Puerto Rico Air Emissions Civil Litigation
As previously reported, the Company is one of several defendants, including many of the major U.S. pharmaceutical companies,
in a purported class action suit filed in Superior Court in Puerto Rico in February 2000 relating to air emissions from a government
owned and operated wastewater treatment facility. In April 2006, the Company executed an individual settlement with the plaintiffs in
the amount of $460,000, subject to certain conditions, including that the Court would decide to certify the case as a class action. The
Court deferred decision on class certification pending its review of expert reports on the facility’s operations. The Court considered
the expert reports at a hearing in October 2006 and thereafter facilitated settlement discussions as to all parties and all claims. Those
discussions are ongoing and, consequently, the class certification hearing, scheduled for December 2006, has been postponed until
May 2007.
99Bristol-Myers Squibb
Passaic River (NJ) Remediation and Natural Resource Damages Claims
In September 2003, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) issued an administrative enforcement
Directive and Notice under the New Jersey Spill Compensation and Control Act requiring the Company and approximately 65 other
companies to perform an assessment of natural resource damages and to implement unspecified interim remedial measures to restore
conditions in the Lower Passaic River. The Directive alleges that the Company is liable because it historically sent bulk waste to the
former Inland Chemical Company facility in Newark, NJ (now owned by McKesson Corp.) for reprocessing, and that releases of
hazardous substances from this facility have migrated into Newark Bay and continue to have an adverse impact on the Lower Passaic
River watershed. Subsequently, the EPA also issued a notice letter under CERCLA to numerous parties—but not including the
Company—seeking their cooperation in a study of conditions in substantially the same portion of the Passaic River that is the subject
of the NJDEP’s Directive. A group of these other parties entered into a consent agreement with EPA in 2004 to finance a portion of
that study. The EPA has not yet determined the estimated cost of the study. Under the consent agreement, the private party group
committed to pay roughly half of the $20 million estimate, subject to revision and future negotiation. This study may also lead to
clean-up actions, directed by the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers. That group is actively negotiating with the EPA; if
successful, those negotiations will result in an amended consent agreement. In anticipation of that agreement, the Company has
reached an agreement in principle with McKesson Corp. to share the costs of an anticipated agreed portion of the EPA study tasks.
The Company also is working cooperatively with a group of the parties that received the NJDEP Directive and/or the EPA notice to
explore potential resolutions of the Directive and to address the risk of collateral claims. Although the Company does not believe it
has caused or contributed to any contamination in the Lower Passaic River watershed, the Company has informed the NJDEP that it is
willing to discuss the NJDEP’s allegations against the Company. Also, the private party group continues to discuss with the Federal
agencies designated as trustees of natural resources affected by contamination in the Passaic River watershed the possibility of funding
a cooperative NRD study that presumably would dovetail with the ongoing EPA study, and ideally would be joined by the NJDEP, to
coordinate actions NJDEP may seek under the Directive. In late 2005, the NJDEP issued a supplemental Directive and filed suit
against one of the site parties, seeking to compel implementation of interim measures. It is unclear whether the NJDEP will take
additional actions against other site parties and/or whether litigation will arise in response to these new claims. The extent of any
liability the Company may face, either to NJDEP or EPA, or with respect to future claims by the Federal trustees, McKesson Corp. or
other responsible parties, cannot yet be determined.
North Brunswick, NJ Board of Education Remediation Claims
In October 2003, the Company was contacted by the North Brunswick, NJ Board of Education (BOE) regarding the discovery
of industrial waste materials allegedly including materials from E.R. Squibb and Sons during an expansion project at the North
Brunswick Township High School, as well as at a number of neighboring residential properties and adjacent public park areas. In
January 2004, the NJDEP sent the Company and others an information request letter about possible waste disposal at the site, to which
the Company responded in March 2004. The BOE and the Township, who are the current owners of the school property and the park,
are conducting and jointly financing soil remediation work under a work plan approved by the NJDEP, and are evaluating the need to
conduct response actions to remediate or contain potentially impacted ground water. Due to financial constraints in late 2004, the BOE
asked the Company to contribute funds on an interim basis to assure uninterrupted performance of necessary site work. The Company
is actively monitoring the clean-up project, including its costs, and is discussing with the BOE and Township the terms of a
cooperative funding agreement and allocation process. Municipal records indicate the Township operated a landfill at the site in the
1940’s through the 1960’s, and the Company is investigating the historic use of the site, including any activities for which the
Company may be responsible. To date, neither the BOE nor the Township has asserted any claims against the Company.
NJDEP Air Permit – New Brunswick, NJ Facility
In December 2003, the Company and the NJDEP entered an Administrative Consent Order (ACO) concerning alleged violations
of the New Jersey Air Pollution Control Act and its implementing regulations at the Company’s New Brunswick facility. Pursuant to
the ACO, the Company agreed to submit a permit application creating a facility-wide emissions cap and to pay a small administrative
fine. Both of these obligations were satisfied in early 2004. Subsequently, in February, 2005, the ACO was amended to provide that
the Company would install a new cogeneration turbine at its New Brunswick facility by December 31, 2006, and would obtain
applicable air permits by December 31, 2005. The Company obtained the required Operating Permit in September 2006, purchased the
new cogeneration turbine at a cost of approximately $5 million and installed the turbine by December 31, 2006, in compliance with
the ACO. The Company has fulfilled all terms and conditions of the ACO and in February 2007 received notice of termination from
the ACO by the NJDEP, which concludes this matter.
1002006 Annual Report
Mead Johnson Facility – NSPS Issue
In October 2005, the Company commenced a voluntary environmental audit of the Mead Johnson facility in Mt. Vernon,
Indiana, to determine its compliance with the EPA’s new source performance standards (NSPS), which are applicable to the operation
of an incinerator. In December 2005, the Company disclosed possible violations of the NSPS requirement and is currently in the
process of modifying its operations to fall within an exemption from those requirements. To date, neither the EPA nor the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management has pursued any penalties for these potential violations; however; the Company could
potentially be subject to civil penalties for past non-compliance with the NSPS. In December 2006, EPA responded to the self-
disclosure and stated that it does not intend to pursue an enforcement action for these issues at this time. It is possible, however, that
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management could in the future pursue civil penalties for past non-compliance with the
NSPS.
ODS Regulatory Compliance
The EPA is investigating industrial and commercial facilities throughout the U.S. that use refrigeration equipment containing
ozone-depleting substances (ODS) and enforcing compliance with regulations governing the prevention, service and repair of leaks
(ODS requirements). In 2004, the Company performed a voluntary corporate-wide audit at its facilities in the U.S. and Puerto Rico
that use ODS-containing refrigeration equipment. The Company submitted an audit report to the EPA in November 2004, identifying
potential violations of the ODS requirements at several of its facilities. In addition to the matters covered in the Company’s audit
report letter to the EPA, the EPA previously sent the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Mead Johnson, a request for information
regarding compliance with ODS requirements at its facility in Evansville, Indiana. The Company responded to the request in June
2004, and, as a result, identified potential violations at the Evansville facility. The Company currently is in discussions with EPA to
resolve both the potential violations discovered during the audit and those identified as a result of the EPA request for information to
the Evansville facility. If the EPA determines that the Evansville facility, or any other facilities, was, or is, in violation of applicable
ODS requirements, the Company could be subject to penalties and/or be required to convert or replace refrigeration equipment to use
non-ODS approved substitutes.
MACT Compliance – Puerto Rico Facilities (Barceloneta and Humacao)
In March 2005, the Company commenced a voluntary environmental audit of the Barceloneta and Humacao, Puerto Rico
facilities to determine their compliance with EPA’s regulations regarding the maximum achievable control technology requirements
for emissions of hazardous air pollutants from pharmaceuticals production (Pharmaceutical MACT). The Company submitted to EPA
an audit report for the Humacao facility in June 2005 and for the Barceloneta facility in July 2005, which disclosed potential violations
of the Pharmaceutical MACT requirements at both facilities. The Company and the EPA are currently in discussions regarding
resolution of this matter.
OTHER PROCEEDINGS
SEC Germany Investigation
In October 2004, the SEC notified the Company that it is conducting an informal inquiry into the activities of certain of the
Company’s German pharmaceutical subsidiaries and its employees and/or agents. On October 4, 2006, the SEC informed the
Company that its inquiry is now formal. The SEC’s inquiry encompasses matters currently under investigation by the German
prosecutor in Munich, Germany. The Company understands the inquiry and investigation concern potential violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and German law, respectively. The Company is cooperating with both the SEC and the German authorities. The
Company has established an accrual, which represents minimum expected probable losses with respect to the investigation by the
German prosecutor. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these investigations or their impact on the
Company.
Bari, Italy Investigation
As previously disclosed, in January 2006, the Company was notified by the Prosecutor in the Bari region of Italy (Bari
Prosecutor) that the Company is under investigation as a result of the activities of two of its employees in the region. The investigation
involves the Company, as well as a number of doctors, pharmacists, pharmaceutical companies and their sales representatives. The
main allegation is that the parties were engaged in a plan to defraud the National Health Service. The Bari Prosecutor also alleges that
the companies lacked appropriate compliance controls and/or processes and procedures to control the activities of their sales
representatives. The Bari Prosecutor had requested to suspend the operations of the pharmaceutical companies under investigation and
to appoint a judicial administrator as preliminary measures is pending. In February 2007, the Company and the Bari Prosecutor
reached an agreement in principle to settle the matter. Under the agreement, which has not yet been finalized, the Company would
pay an administrative fine in an amount which is not material to the Company.
101Bristol-Myers Squibb
Note 22 Subsequent Events
On January 11, 2007, the Company entered into two worldwide (except for Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization
agreements with AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca) to develop and commercialize two investigational compounds being studied for the
treatment of type 2 diabetes. The Company received upfront payments of $100 million from AstraZeneca. In addition, the Company
will receive milestone payments from AstraZeneca upon successful achievement of various regulatory and sales related stages. The
companies have agreed upon initial development plans for the two compounds. From 2007 through 2009, the majority of
development costs will be paid by AstraZeneca and any subsequent development costs will generally be shared equally.
.
1022006 Annual Report
Note 23 Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
2006:
Net Sales $ 4,676 $ 4,871 $ 4,154 $ 4,213 $ 17,914
Gross Margin 3,200 3,303 2,689 2,766 11,958
Earnings/(Loss) from Continuing Operations(1) 714 667 338 (134) 1,585
Net Earnings/(Loss) 714 667 338 (134) 1,585
Earnings per common share(2):
Basic
Earnings/(Loss) from Continuing Operations(1) $ 0.36 $ 0.34 $ 0.17 $ (0.07) $ 0.81
Discontinued Operations, net — — — — —
Net Earnings/(Loss) $ 0.36 $ 0.34 $ 0.17 $ (0.07) $ 0.81
Diluted(4) (5) (6)
Earnings/(Loss) from Continuing Operations(1) $ 0.36 $ 0.34 $ 0.17 $ (0.07) $ 0.81
Discontinued Operations, net — — — — —
Net Earnings/(Loss) $ 0.36 $ 0.34 $ 0.17 $ (0.07) $ 0.81
Dividends declared per Common Share $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 1.12
Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,477 $ 2,602 $ 2,834 $ 2,018 $ 2,018
Marketable securities 2,804 2,755 2,671 1,995 1,995
2005:
Net Sales $ 4,532 $ 4,889 $ 4,767 $ 5,019 $ 19,207
Gross Margin 3,165 3,406 3,284 3,424 13,279
Earnings from Continuing Operations(3) 538 991 964 499 2,992
Discontinued Operations, net (5) 13 — — 8
Net Earnings 533 1,004 964 499 3,000
Earnings per common share(2):
Basic
Earnings from Continuing Operations(3) $ 0.27 $ 0.51 $ 0.49 $ 0.26 $ 1.53
Discontinued Operations, net — — — — —
Net Earnings $ 0.27 $ 0.51 $ 0.49 $ 0.26 $ 1.53
Diluted(4)
Earnings from Continuing Operations(3) $ 0.27 $ 0.50 $ 0.49 $ 0.26 $ 1.52
Discontinued Operations, net — — — — —
Net Earnings $ 0.27 $ 0.50 $ 0.49 $ 0.26 $ 1.52
Dividends declared per Common Share $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 1.12
Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,311 $ 1,798 $ 2,129 $ 3,050 $ 3,050
Marketable securities 2,671 1,242 1,652 2,749 2,749
(1) 2006 includes net litigation charges $40 million and $353 million in the first and fourth quarters, respectively, and net litigation income of $14 million and $29
million in the second and third quarters, respectively. The first, third and fourth quarters include litigation insurance recoveries of $21 million, $9 million and $7
million, respectively. The first, second, third and fourth quarters include restructuring of $1 million, $3 million, $2 million and $53 million, respectively. The first, third
and fourth quarters include upfront and milestone payments of $18 million, $17 million and $35 million, respectively. The first quarter includes $200 million from the
gain on sale of product asset. The first, second, third and fourth quarters include $50 million, $21 million, $72 million and $43 million, respectively, from accelerated
depreciation, asset impairment and contract termination. The fourth quarter includes debt retirement costs of $220 million. The fourth quarter includes a $13 million
claim for damages.
(2) Earnings per share for the quarters may not add to the amounts for the year, as each period is computed on a discrete basis.
(3) 2005 includes litigation charges of $124 million, $269 million and $197 million in the first, second and fourth quarters, respectively. The second and third quarters
include litigation insurance recoveries of $295 million and $26 million, respectively. The first, second, third and fourth quarters include restructuring and other items of
$17 million, $24 million, $30 million and $86 million, respectively. The first and fourth quarters include upfront payments for licensing agreements of $35 million and
$9 million, respectively. The first and second quarters include $18 million and $9 million, respectively, from the gain on sale of equity investments. The first, second
and third quarters include $16 million, $1 million and $1 million, respectively, from the loss on sale of fixed assets. The second quarter includes debt retirement costs of
$69 million. The fourth quarter includes $138 million deferred income, net of costs resulting from the termination of the collaborative agreement with Merck for
muraglitazar. The third quarter includes the gain on sale of the Consumer Medicines business of $569 million.
103Bristol-Myers Squibb
(4) Common equivalent shares excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share, because the effect would be anti-dilutive, were as follows (in millions):
First Second Third Fourth
Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year
2006 165 147 146 174 164
2005 142 141 139 156 156
(5) For the three months ended December 31, 2006, as a result of the net loss, basic and diluted loss per share are equal.
(6) In 2006, the 29 million weighted-average shares issuable, as well as $35 million of interest expense, net of tax, on the conversion of convertible debt were not
included in the diluted earnings per share calculation because they were not dilutive.
1042006 Annual Report
Reports of Management
Management’s Responsibility for Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and integrity of the financial information presented in this Annual Report. The
accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America (GAAP), applying certain estimates and judgments as required. In management’s opinion, the
consolidated financial statements present fairly the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors meets regularly with the internal auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP (D&T), the
Company’s independent registered accounting firm, and management to review accounting, internal control structure and financial
reporting matters. The internal auditors and D&T have full and free access to the Audit Committee. As set forth in the Company’s
Standard of Business Conduct and Ethics, the Company is firmly committed to adhering to the highest standards of moral and ethical
behavior in all of its business activities.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the
supervision and with the participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management
assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 based on the framework in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that
assessment, management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31,
2006 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Due to its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s financial statements
included in this Annual Report and has issued its report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control, which appears on page 108 in this Annual Report.
James M. Cornelius
Chief Executive Officer
Andrew R.J. Bonfield
Chief Financial Officer
February 26, 2007
105Bristol-Myers Squibb
Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
As of December 31, 2006, management carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its chief
executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures
as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that as of
December 31, 2006, such disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the
supervision and with the participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management
assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 based on the framework in “Internal
Control—Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that
assessment, management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31,
2006 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s financial statements
included in this report on Annual Report and issued its report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, which is included herein.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2006
that have materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
1062006 Annual Report
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income and retained
earnings, and cash flows for the year then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. The financial statements of the Company
for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were audited by other auditors whose report, dated March 13, 2006, expressed an
unqualified opinion on those statements.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion.
In our opinion, such 2006 consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Company as of December 31, 2006, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
As discussed in Notes 1, 16 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, effective January 1, 2006 and SFAS No. 158,
Employers’Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans-an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88,
106, and 132(R), effective December 31, 2006.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on the criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated February 26, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's
internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over
financial reporting.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 26, 2007
107Bristol-Myers Squibb
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
We have audited management's assessment, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,
that Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the "Company") maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's
principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of
directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to
the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management's assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Also in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on the criteria
established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2006 of the Company and our report dated February 26,
2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company’s
adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, effective January 1, 2006 and
SFAS No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans-an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R), effective December 31, 2006.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 26, 2007
1082006 Annual Report
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors
and Stockholders of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company:
In our opinion, the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 and the related consolidated statements of earnings,
comprehensive income and retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2005 present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2005, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted
our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Philadelphia, PA
March 13, 2006
109Bristol-Myers Squibb
Five-Year Financial Summary
Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
Income Statement Data:(1)(2)
Net Sales $ 17,914 $ 19,207 $ 19,380 $ 18,653 $ 16,208
Earning from Continuing Operations Before
Minority Interest and Income Taxes 2,635 4,516 4,418 4,680 2,748
Earnings from Continuing Operations 1,585 2,992 2,378 3,097 2,059
Earnings from Continuing Operations per Common
Share:
Basic $ 0.81 $ 1.53 $ 1.23 $ 1.60 $ 1.07
Diluted(3) $ 0.81 $ 1.52 $ 1.21 $ 1.59 $ 1.06
Average common shares outstanding:
Basic 1,960 1,952 1,942 1,937 1,936
Diluted(3) 1,963 1,983 1,976 1,950 1,942
Dividends paid on common and preferred stock $ 2,199 $ 2,186 $ 2,174 $ 2,169 $ 2,168
Dividends declared per Common Share $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.12
Financial Position Data at December 31:
Total Assets(4) $ 25,575 $ 28,138 $ 30,435 $ 27,448 $ 25,106
Cash and cash equivalents 2,018 3,050 3,680 2,549 2,451
Marketable securities 1,995 2,749 3,794 3,013 1,622
Long-term debt 7,248 8,364 8,463 8,522 6,261
Stockholders’ Equity(4) 9,991 11,208 10,202 9,786 8,756
(1) The Company recorded items that affected the comparability of results. For a discussion of these items for the years 2006, 2005 and 2004, see Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Expenses, Note 2 “Alliances and Investments”; Note 3 “Restructuring”; Note 4
“Acquisitions and Divestitures”; Note 5 “Discontinued Operations”; Note 14 “Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt”; and Note 21 “Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies.”
(2) Excludes discontinued operations of Oncology Therapeutics Network for years 2002 through 2005; and Clairol and Zimmer in 2002.
(3) In 2006, the 29 million weighted-average shares issuable, as well as $35 million of interest expense, net of tax, on the assumed conversion of convertible debt were
not included in the diluted earnings per share calculation because they were not dilutive.
(4) In 2006, includes the impact of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension
and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). For further discussion on SFAS No. 158, see Note 20 “Pension and
Other Postretirement Benefits.”
110Boardof Directors
JAMES D.ROBINSON III ROBERT E. ALLEN LAURIE H.GLIMCHER,M.D.
Chairman,Bristol-Myers Squibb,and Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Irene Heinz Given Professor of Immunology,
Co-founder and General Partner, AT&T Corporation (b,c,d) Harvard School of Public Health,and Professor
RRE Ventures (d) of Medicine,Harvard Medical School (a,b,e)
LEWIS B.CAMPBELL
Chairman,President and Chief Executive Officer, MICHAEL GROBSTEIN
Textron Inc.(a,b,c,d) Retired Vice Chairman,
Ernst & Young (a)
VANCE D.COFFMAN
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, LEIF JOHANSSON
Lockheed Martin Corporation (a,b,c,d) President,AB Volvo,and Chief Executive Officer,
The Volvo Group (a,c)
JAMES M.CORNELIUS
Chief Executive Officer,Bristol-Myers Squibb,and VICKI L.SATO,PH.D.
Chairman Emeritus,Guidant Corporation (d) Professor of Management Practice,Harvard
Business School,and Professor of the Practice
(a) Audit Committee LOUIS J.FREEH in the Department of Molecular and Cell Biology,
(b) Committee on Directors and Former Vice Chairman and General Counsel, Harvard University (e)
Corporate Governance MBNA America Bank,N.A.(a,b)
(c) Compensation and Management R.SANDERS WILLIAMS,M.D.
Development Committee
Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs,
(d) Executive Committee
(e) Science and Technology Committee Duke University Medical Center,and
Dean of Duke University School of Medicine (e)
ManagementCouncil
JAMES M.CORNELIUS LAMBERTO ANDREOTTI SANDRA LEUNG
Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President and President, Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Worldwide Pharmaceuticals
ELLIOTT SIGAL,M.D.,PH.D.
STEPHEN E.BEAR Executive Vice President and
Senior Vice President,Human Resources Chief Scientific Officer and President,
Pharmaceutical Research Institute
ANDREW R.J.BONFIELD
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
JOHN E.CELENTANO
President,Health Care Group
111StockholdeIr nformation
COMMON STOCK The most recent certifications by the Company’s PRODUCT NAMES
Ticker symbol:BMY chief executive officer and chief financial officer AND COMPANY PROGRAMS
New York Stock Exchange pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Product names and company programs
Act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to the Company’s appearing throughout in italics are trademarks
ANNUAL MEETING OF Form 10-K.The Company has also filed with the of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company or one of its
STOCKHOLDERS New York Stock Exchange the most recent divisions or subsidiary companies.Global products
Tuesday,May 1,2007 Annual CEO Certification as required by are referred to herein by their registered and
10:00 a.m.,Hotel duPont Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock approved U.S.trademarks,unless specifically
11th and Market Streets Exchange Listed Company Manual. noted otherwise.
Wilmington,DE 19801
Information on the following subjects is Abilify is a trademark of Otsuka
STOCKHOLDER SERVICES available at www.bms.com: Pharmaceutical Co.,Ltd.
AND PROGRAMS •Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation
All inquiries concerning stockholder accounts •Sustainability/Environmental Programs Atripla is a trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb
and stock transfer matters—including address •Political Contributions and Gilead Sciences,LLC.
changes,the elimination of duplicate mailings, •Diversity and EEO-1 Report
dividend reinvestment (see below) and direct Avapro,Avalide,Aprovel,Karvea and Plavix
deposit of dividends—should be directed to This Annual Report contains certain forward- are trademarks of sanofi-aventis.
the Company’s Transfer Agent and Registrar: looking information within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Delestrogen is a trademark of Jones Pharma,Inc.
MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES LLC These forward-looking statements involve
480 Washington Boulevard substantial risks and uncertainties that could Dovonex is a trademark of Leo Pharma A/S.
Jersey City,NJ 07310-1900 cause actual results to differ materially from
www.melloninvestor.com/isd the expectations or estimates reflected in the EMSAM is a trademark of Somerset
800-356-2026 (within the U.S.) forward-looking statements.Please see page 49 Pharmaceuticals,Inc.
201-680-6578 (outside the U.S.) in the Financial Review for a discussion and
TDD telephone service for the hearing- description of these risks and uncertainties. Erbitux is a trademark of ImClone
impaired:800-231-5469 (within the U.S.) The Company undertakes no obligation to Systems Incorporated.
201-680-6610 (outside the U.S.) publicly update any forward-looking statement,
whether as a result of new information,future Estrace is a trademark of Galen (Chemicals) Ltd.
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN events or otherwise.
Registered stockholders (stock must be held Gleevec and Bufferin are trademarks
in your name) who hold 50 or more shares of Novartis AG.
of the Company’s stock may participate in its
stockholder-paid Dividend Reinvestment Plan Glucophage IR,Glucophage XR,Glucovance,
(DRIP),which includes a safekeeping and and Metaglip are trademarks of Merck Santé
sale-of-stock feature.If you hold fewer than S.A.S.,an associate of Merck KGaA of
50 shares,you are still eligible to participate Darmstadt,Germany.
in the safekeeping and sale-of-stock features
as well as the direct registration option. Ovcon is a trademark of Warner Chilcott
Company,Inc.
FORM 10-K
For a free copy of the Company’s Norvir is a trademark of Abbott Laboratories.
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31,2006,contact: Trizivir is a trademark of Glaxo Group Ltd.
Secretary
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Truvada is a trademark of Gilead Sciences,Inc.
345 Park Avenue
New York,NY 10154-0037
Form 10-K is also available at
www.bms.com/investors.
112ON THE BACK COVER:
Clockwise from right:Barbara Cubic with William,age 2,
Brennen,age 7,and Alex,age 13.Barbara and her husband,
John,adopted William and Brennen from Russia.The boys
share a rare inherited metabolic disorder,called PKU.
Together,they prevail with the help of Mead Johnson’s
Phenyl-Free2 and Phenyl-Free2 HP dietary powders.
©2007 Bristol-Myers Squibb.All rights reserved.
Designed,written and photographed by the
Bristol-Myers Squibb Corporate and Business
Communications Department.Photo on page 12,
Syracuse facility,by Ron Trinca.
Portions of this document are printed on
paper manufactured by mills certified by the
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or the
Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI).NOPQ
Together we can prevail.TM
345 PARK AVENUE • NEW YORK,NY 10154-0037 • 212-546-4000 •WWW.BMS.COM