Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Report
“
I hope that my experience can
”
INSPIRE other patients to KEEP GOING.
Breast cancer patient
Julia MaasThe Bristol-Myers Squibb Mission
Our company’s mission is to extend and enhance
human life by providing the highest-quality
pharmaceutical and related health care products.
We pledge—to our patients and customers,
to our employees and partners, to our shareholders
and neighbors, and to the world we serve—to act
on our belief that the priceless ingredient of every
product is the honor and integrity of its maker.
on the cover
Breast cancer patient Julia Maas
“ONE MORNING IN 1992,I found a lump in my
breast the size of a marble,” 55-year-old Julia Maas
of Houston says. She was diagnosed with invasive
ductal carcinoma. Following surgery, radiation and
chemotherapy she was apparently cancer free for
nearly a decade. But her cancer recurred in August
2002. “This time, the recommended therapies didn’t
work,” says Maas. “I was desperate.” Her oncologist
from the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer
Center suggested that she enter a clinical trial for
a Bristol-Myers Squibb investigational compound
called ixabepilone. Maas appears to be doing well
since entering the trial. “I hope that my experience
can inspire other patients to keep going and not
give up,” she says.Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Report
To Our Stockholders:
O
ver the past few years, we have stayed tightly focused on achieving our near-term
goals—of launching new products, advancing our pipeline and investing in our busi-
ness—while also building toward a long-term vision for Bristol-Myers Squibb. We’ve
made good progress toward those goals, but we know that even more is required. The
reason is clear: We want to be a health care leader for the future—to make a differ-
ence for generations to come. And to do this, we need to build long-term growth and
strong financial performance for the company, even as we strive every day to realize
our mission of extending and enhancing human life.
To achieve this future of growth and leadership, we’re transforming the company
in several important ways:
We’re executing a strategy to sharpen our focus on areas of significant medical need,
where we can establish leadership with innovative products.
We’re renewing our company’s culture—how we work—to drive superior perform-
ance with the strongest possible commitment to accountability and ethical conduct.
We’re interpreting our mission as broadly as possible by further expanding
access to innovative therapies, as well as by building additional health care capacity
in parts of the world where disease and poverty have taken a toll.
Bristol-Myers Squibb accomplished a great deal in all these areas in 2004.
Specifically, we...
• increased sales of our growth drivers, including our three newest
medicines—ERBITUX, Reyataz and Abilify—as well as other key in-line
therapies, Plavix and Avapro/Avalide;
• advanced our late-stage pipeline, launching one new drug in the U.S. and
two in Europe, and moving three late-stage compounds into the regulatory
approval process;
• boosted sales significantly in our Health Care businesses, which provide
critical growth and stability for the company;
• strengthened compliance, accounting and financial reporting;
• provided free and discounted medicines to more than 1 million people in need; and
• helped build critical community-based health care infrastructure as part of
the company’s larger initiative to address the HIV/AIDS pandemic in southern
and West Africa.
– 1 –Chairman’s Letter
Opportunities, Challenges and Prospects
The company’s total net sales from continuing
operations increased 4 percent in 2004. Our overall
performance was helped by the growth of new and
in-line pharmaceutical products, the strength of
our Health Care businesses and the impact of a
weaker dollar.
While earnings were ahead of both our plan and
the consensus view of the investment community,
they declined from the prior year. This was largely
due to the ongoing impact of the loss of exclusivity
on several important pharmaceutical products in the
U.S., including Monopril, Paraplatinand Glucovance.
Exclusivity losses remain a challenge in the near
term for both Bristol-Myers Squibb and indeed the
entire pharmaceutical industry. Over the next five
years, U.S. patents will expire across the industry
on more than 70 key products that in 2004 realized
Peter R. Dolan,Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
more than $70 billion in total revenue.
Our industry also continues to face steadily
increasing costs associated with research and develop- the changing environmental factors affecting our com-
ment. At the same time, many governments and pany and sector—to find better ways to build leader-
other payors are putting downward pressure on drug ship and growth for the future. We decided the greatest
prices, and are urging companies to concentrate on opportunity lay in focusing our pharmaceutical busi-
finding new medicines that provide meaningful rather ness on 10 specific disease areas of significant unmet
than only marginal benefits over existing therapies. need where innovative medicines can help people
Safety has become an even more important focus with serious illnesses.
of attention. These areas are cancer, HIV/AIDS, affective (psy-
In light of these realities, we came to a pretty chiatric) disorders, diabetes, atherosclerosis/thrombosis,
straightforward conclusion: Pharmaceutical compa- hepatitis, rheumatoid arthritis, obesity, Alzheimer’s
nies, including Bristol-Myers Squibb, have to change disease and solid organ transplant rejection.
fundamentally if they want to continue to thrive, both We’re now more than halfway through a five-year
as engines of innovation and improvement in health shift in our pharmaceutical portfolio that supports
care and as successful growth-oriented businesses. this strategy and should position us well for the
It’s vital that our company and industry be—and be future. Still, as I have said before, although our sales
seen as—an essential, constructive and vibrant part of new and existing products will largely offset the
of the solution to the rapidly evolving health care decline in sales from products losing exclusivity, our
needs and challenges of tomorrow. earnings per share will continue to come under pres-
Bristol-Myers Squibb is implementing a transfor- sure through the remainder of the transitional period,
mational strategy designed to help us achieve this goal. including this year and next.
Two years ago, we revisited our pipeline projects, prod- There are several reasons for this. Generally, our
uct portfolio and business model—carefully evaluating growth drivers are carrying lower margins than the
– 2 –Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Report
products losing exclusivity. And we’ll have to continue Executing Our Strategy
investing significantly in research and development Let me now provide some more details about
and R&D growth. I strongly believe that investing our progress in executing the strategy over the past
in our pipeline opportunities is the right thing to year and our plans for 2005.
do for the long term—even if it has a negative impact Thanks to the growth of our newer and in-line
on earnings in the short term. products, the gains in the pipeline and a number of
We expect this picture to turn around in 2007. important licensing achievements, we now have a grow-
Beginning then, our exposure to further exclusivity ing presence—or a potentially meaningful presence—in
losses will be greatly reduced for several years. And our nearly all of the disease areas I mentioned earlier.
new products should begin contributing meaningfully In cancer, we have ERBITUX, a treatment for
to both revenue and earnings growth. advanced refractory colorectal cancer that we’re
This scenario assumes continued exclusivity for codeveloping and comarketing with ImClone Systems
Plavix, an antiplatelet medicine that has become our Incorporated. Since its launch in the U.S. at the
leading product, with sales of $3.3 billion in 2004. beginning of 2004, ERBITUX has been helping
focusing on
SERIOUS MEDICAL NEED
The primary patent for Plavix—which confers exclu- thousands of people with colorectal cancer. We hope it
sivity in the U.S. until 2011—is currently being chal- can benefit other cancer patients as well, as information
lenged by several generic drug companies. We believe becomes available from clinical studies that we and
the patent is valid and has been infringed by the ImClone currently have under way or plan to initiate.
generics companies, and—together with our alliance In our oncology pipeline, we licensed two later-
partner Sanofi-Aventis—we are defending it vigorously. stage anticancer medicines in 2004: vinflunine, or
While our strategy is focused primarily on trans- Javlor, from Pierre Fabre Médicament of France,
forming our pharmaceutical business, our non-phar- for metastatic bladder cancer, and MDX-010, from
maceutical Health Care businesses—Mead Johnson Medarex Inc., for metastatic melanoma. We also
Nutritionals, ConvaTec and Medical Imaging—have advanced two later-stage oncology compounds from
contributed greatly to the company’s financial strength our own laboratories: ixabepilone, for breast cancer,
and stability in 2004, while also helping us fulfill and our SRC/ABL kinase inhibitor, for chronic
our overriding mission. myelogenous leukemia, which was recently transi-
Collectively, these businesses delivered year-over- tioned to its Phase II registrational program and
year profit growth of nearly 20 percent, and now granted Fast Track designation by the U.S. Food
account for approximately one quarter of overall and Drug Administration (FDA).
earnings and 20 percent of net sales. They continue In the area of psychiatric disorders, Abilify
to generate solid growth, thanks to innovation and remains one of the most successful new product
market expansion, and they will continue to be introductions in the history of the U.S. pharmaceuti-
important to the company’s future. cal industry. We are codeveloping and comarketing
– 3 –Chairman’s Letter
Abilify—which was initially approved as a treatment rheumatoid arthritis. The FDA has granted Priority
for schizophrenia—with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Review status to Baracludeand Fast Track designation
Company, Ltd. In just over two years on the market to abatacept. Baracludealso has been submitted to
in the U.S., Abilify has captured a greater than 10 European regulatory authorities. Altogether, we
percent share of the weekly new prescriptions in the have 10 promising compounds in Full Development,
antipsychotics class, with total worldwide sales for both including four now in the regulatory approval process,
Bristol-Myers Squibb and Otsuka now annualizing at among the more than 50 compounds in the broader
a rate of more than $1 billion. development portfolio.
In 2004, we gained an important additional indi- As the pipeline continues to advance and distin-
cation for Abilify in the U.S., to treat acute mania in guish itself, I’m especially proud of the productivity
bipolar disorder, and recently we received its approval and commitment of our R&D organization. Nearly
driving
SUPERIOR PERFORMANCE
for maintenance therapy for certain patients with two thirds of the company’s compounds currently in
bipolar disorder. We also launched the product in Full Development—including three of the four now
the European Union. In several key European mar- in regulatory review—were discovered in our own
kets, Abilify has had the fastest uptake of any new laboratories. While in-licensing remains an important
atypical antipsychotic. We believe that we’re just component of our strategy, this dramatic transforma-
beginning to realize the full potential of this impor- tion in favor of our own R&D capabilities is a further
tant treatment for serious psychiatric disorders. step in building sustainable growth and leadership for
In HIV, our protease inhibitor, Reyataz, continues the future. And it’s potentially even more significant
to grow in share as well. Following its launch in the that more than 90 percent of our exploratory develop-
U.S. in July 2003, it now has nearly 30 percent of ment compounds have come from in-house efforts.
weekly new prescriptions among protease inhibitors, Licensing also has given a strong impetus
and is the second most prescribed therapy in its class. to building leadership in our disease areas of focus.
In 2004, we launched Reyatazin seven European mar- We currently have more than 170 collaborations
kets, and its uptake in the region has been vigorous. with approximately 130 companies and research
Already, it has achieved a greater than 20 percent institutions around the world.
share in France, and a nearly 30 percent share in We know we have to invest to keep our R&D
the U.K. and Germany. engine primed and running. In 2004, we increased
In a number of other disease areas, our pipeline overall R&D expenditures 10 percent to $2.5 billion,
is also paving the way for potential future leadership with a significant portion of the growth going to sup-
for the company. As planned, in 2004, we advanced port late-stage pipeline opportunities. Another major
to the regulatory approval process three late-stage area of investment has been our biologics capability,
compounds: Baraclude(entecavir), for hepatitis B; which requires costly and complex infrastructure.
muraglitazar, for diabetes; and abatacept, for Biologics—large-molecule proteins—are becoming
– 4 –Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Report
more important as laboratories in industry, acade-
mia and government apply new understanding of
RICHARD L. GELB
disease processes to increasingly targeted treatments.
1924–2004
ERBITUX is the company’s first biologic product,
and there are several more investigational biologics When Richard L. Gelb
joined Bristol-Myers in
in the pipeline, including abatacept, for rheumatoid
1959, total revenues stood
arthritis; belatacept, for the prevention of solid organ
at $132 million. Forty-five
transplant rejection; and MDX-010, for cancer. years later, the company
As I said before, in 2005 we will vigorously pur- that he eventually led as
CEO for 22 years and
sue our pipeline and product opportunities, even as
chairman of the board for
our margins come under some pressure as a result of
19 years had total net sales
ongoing exclusivity losses. For this reason, I’ve asked approaching $20 billion.
the entire organization to reduce—or, at a minimum, Growth was Dick Gelb’s enduring legacy—growth
in his company’s size and value, but also in its impact
hold flat—all spending in non-priority areas.
and purpose. He led the effort to acquire Mead
Johnson Nutritionals and several other successful
Building the Right Culture
businesses. He also was responsible for building the
Another important way we’re transforming company’s leadership position in pharmaceutical
products and research, in great part by engineering the
Bristol-Myers Squibb to build future growth and
merger in 1989 of Bristol-Myers Company and Squibb
leadership is by renewing and strengthening our
Corporation—a combination that created one of the
company culture. This translates into driving superior largest pharmaceutical companies in the world.
performance in every part of the organization, while When Dick Gelb became CEO, prescription drugs
accounted for a quarter of company sales. By the end
also ensuring the strongest possible commitment to
of his tenure, pharmaceuticals and medical devices
accountability, compliance and ethical conduct. To
accounted for more than 70 percent of sales. And
do this, we’ve created important new structures and the role of medicines in the company’s portfolio has
processes in the areas of human resources, finance continued to grow since.
His contributions were not limited to the company
and compliance.
alone, but extended to the world at large through the
For example, to link performance and behavior
work of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation. For
more closely, we have developed and communicated example, in 1977 he initiated what is now known as the
across the organization a set of critical behaviors that Bristol-Myers Squibb Freedom to DiscoverUnrestricted
Biomedical Research Grants and Awards Program. To
define conduct for all employees. These Core BMS
date, that effort, the first and largest of its kind in cor-
Behaviors include key attributes such as leadership,
porate America, has committed more than $110 million
communication and alignment, among others, all of in no-strings-attached support to expand the frontiers
which are essential factors in attaining our goals. of scientific understanding, with 259 grants to 155 insti-
tutions in 23 countries. And on a personal level, Dick
What’s more, executives and senior managers are being
Gelb was a generous and often anonymous backer of
evaluated on how well they demonstrate these behav-
many worthy causes to help individuals, strengthen
iors, and their compensation is tied in part to this communities and support civic institutions.
assessment. Complementing these Core Behaviors In everything Dick Gelb did, and in all that he accom-
plished, his legacy—of commitment to advancing the
are the company’s Pledge and Standards of Business
mission of Bristol-Myers Squibb, of extending its impact
Conduct and Ethics, which commit all employees to
and growing its contributions to the world at large—will
perform their duties with the highest ethical standards. remain an everlasting model for leaders everywhere.
In 2004, we continued to strengthen our financial
controls and accounting. A critical task for the year
– 5 –Chairman’s Letter
“
WE MUST be an essential, constructive and vibrant
”
part of the solution to HEALTH CARE CHALLENGES.
was ensuring the effectiveness of our internal control of the implementation of the Medicare Modernization
over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 Act in 2006, which will help many senior citizens in
of the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation. I’m pleased to say the U.S. better afford their medicines.
that we recently assessed the effectiveness of these Outside the U.S., we donated nearly $50 million
controls and concluded that they are engaged and in medicines and other products to people in need in
operating effectively. As required by the legislation, 2004, and also provided $1.2 million in direct assis-
an independent registered public accounting firm has tance and $7 million in donated medicines and other
issued its report on our assessment, which appears products to the tsunami relief effort in South Asia.
on page 93 of this Annual Report. I’m especially proud that the people of Bristol-Myers
Finally, we put additional significant resources Squibb donated more than $300,000 of their own
behind compliance activities this past year. We funds to tsunami relief; their contributions were
enlarged the Corporate Compliance Council—where matched dollar for dollar by the Bristol-Myers
these issues and policies are thoroughly reviewed— Squibb Foundation.
and named compliance leaders in several of our Finally, to help build stronger and healthier
businesses. We also continued to train personnel on communities in parts of the world devastated by the
compliance awareness and improved resources, such HIV/AIDS pandemic, we announced the establish-
as our Helpline, where employees can anonymously ment of two additional medical centers to treat chil-
ask questions and report concerns. dren and their families with HIV/AIDS in southern
Africa, funded by our $120 million SECURE THE
Rx for a Healthier Future FUTUREinitiative. These centers—which are sched-
I believe we can become a leader in building a uled to open in late 2005—are modeled on a success-
healthier future for the company and the world at ful Bristol-Myers Squibb–funded pediatric clinic in
large only if we define our mission of extending and Botswana that opened in 2003 and is today one of
enhancing human life in the broadest possible terms. the largest AIDS centers for children in the world.
Of course, that mission includes the vitally important To date, SECURE THE FUTUREhas committed
role of discovering, developing and providing innova- funding for 175 projects in nine countries in southern
tive medicines for serious diseases, as well as quality and West Africa, where the impact of HIV/AIDS has
health care products that help improve lives. But that’s been severe. In January, I had the opportunity to visit
where our commitment begins, not where it ends. several SECURE THE FUTUREprojects in Botswana,
To help expand access to pharmaceuticals, we Swaziland and South Africa, and was heartened to
have taken a lead role in a variety of initiatives in the see firsthand the difference this initiative is making
U.S., such as the Together Rx discount card for senior in the lives of so many women and children, as well
citizens and, more recently, the Together Rx Access as in the communities where these individuals live.
card for uninsured people under 65 years of age. Still, there is much more work to do. Through
Through contributions to our own patient assistance support by SECURE THE FUTUREof a wide range of
programs, we provided approximately $550 million in innovative community-based initiatives, we aim to
free medicines in 2004 to more than 1 million people help develop sustainable health care capacity that is
in the U.S. And we’re looking forward to being part greatly needed in the fight against AIDS.
– 6 –Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Report
Looking Back, Looking Ahead I think both Dick and James would be proud
In closing, I want to thank the Board of Directors of their company, which is staying true to their values
for their invaluable support and counsel over the past and ideals while building on their accomplishments
year, as well as the 43,000 dedicated Bristol-Myers and successes.
Squibb employees around the world for their tremen- As we look ahead, we see plenty of opportunity
dous accomplishments and commitment to our goals to expand on our many achievements over the past
building a healthier
FUTURE FOR ALL
and success. I’m pleased to welcome the newest board year. We’re continuing to execute our strategy to
member, James M. Cornelius, who is the nonexecu- build leadership and growth in addressing areas
tive chairman of Guidant Corporation. of significant unmet medical need. We’re working
I also want to acknowledge the outstanding hard to foster a company culture that puts even
contributions of two extraordinary former colleagues greater emphasis on strong performance driven by
who, sadly, passed away in 2004. strong values. And we’re dedicating much effort
Richard L. Gelb, our chairman emeritus, was to expanding access to innovative medicines and
a giant among business leaders in every regard. As building health care infrastructure and resources
chairman and chief executive officer over a 23-year in the developing world. That’s a tall order, and
span, Dick built Bristol-Myers Squibb into a power- an ambitious one. But we know it’s what we have
house of scientific innovation and financial strength. to do to be successful—and to be a leader.
Yet within this towering figure beat the heart of a Companies—like people—have great hopes
truly compassionate and committed man who every for the future. As you will see in this report, the hope
day lived our mission and the values of our Pledge, for good health is universal. At Bristol-Myers Squibb,
both of which he himself had authored. He was a our job is to turn that hope into a reality for people
valued mentor and a dear friend. everywhere. That’s how we measure success. And
James B. D. Palmer, M.D., our former chief that’s how we will live our mission, today and well
scientific officer and president of the Pharmaceutical into the future.
Research Institute, was a brilliant scientist who
devoted his life to turning scientific knowledge into
lifesaving therapies. I brought James into the com-
pany and respected him greatly. Many of our recent
pipeline achievements represent the fruit of his vision Peter R. Dolan
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of leadership for the company, and reflect his remark-
March 7, 2005
able ability to inspire excellence on the part of his
many colleagues at the PRI. His unexpected death
diminished us all.
– 7 –Pharmaceutical Pipeline
Our Pharmaceutical Pipeline
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBBresearchers are dedicated Throughout this report, we call attention to the impor-
to discovering and developing innovative medicines that tance of our ongoing clinical trials and highlight responses
address significant medical needs in key disease areas. from some of our individual clinical trial patients. These
Those areas, listed in the chart below, were selected with individual stories are case studies in hope. While results may
an emphasis on where the future of medicine and patient be unpredictable for any individual experimental study par-
needs match our internal strengths. ticipant, these personal accounts do illustrate the importance
Growth Driversare among those approved medicines of participation in clinical trials, which are essential to the
that are driving current and future growth, while continuing development of the next generation of medical innovation.
clinical development to determine whether additional indi- The true test of whether we can turn that hope into a reality
cations will benefit patients. The Registrationalcompounds for patients is whether we can document a real clinical bene-
are advanced investigational drugs that have been submitted fit across a significant number of research participants. Our
to regulatory agencies for approval in 2004 or are in the ability to bring new products to patients in need or to find
process of being submitted. Full Developmentcompounds new uses for our current products is dependent upon our
are in late-stage clinical development that we hope to demonstrating safety and effectiveness and a favorable bene-
submit for approval in the next two years. Compounds fit-risk relationship through systematic testing in patients
in Exploratory Developmentare in preclinical or early who volunteer to participate in our studies. Like any other
clinical development. Compounds and research programs scientific endeavor, clinical testing of novel drug compounds
in Discoveryare at the earliest stages of development. is a complex, time-consuming, resource-intensive process
Each investigational compound or research program is rep- with no guaranteed results. But as described here, Bristol-Myers
resented in the chart below as a dot. Some of the compounds are Squibb is committed to pursuing that endeavor vigorously
discussed in the Special Report on Hope beginning on page 9. and, in doing so, to bringing new hope to patients.
Disease Growth Registrational Full Exploratory Discovery
Area Drivers Development Development
Affective (Psychiatric) • • •• •••••
Disorders
Alzheimer’s Disease ••
Atherosclerosis/ •• • •• •••
Thrombosis ••••
• •••• ••• •••••••
Cancer
••• ••••••••
• ••• •••
Diabetes
•••• •••
• • •••
Hepatitis
• ••• •••
HIV/AIDS
••••
• •••
Obesity
▲ ••• ••••
Rheumatoid Arthritis
•••••
Solid Organ •
Transplant Rejection
• in-licensed • discovered by Bristol-Myers Squibb ▲ abatacept is in the process of being submitted for approval
– 8 –|
HOPE Special Report
HOPEis a powerful idea. It’s about
faith in ourselves and belief in the
future. Hope inspires people to act,
to transform dreams into realities.
For some people—such as Julia
Maas (on the cover), Edie Hudgins
(pictured here) and the other
patients featured in the pages that
follow—hope can be found in an
investigational clinical trial. For
others—like our scientists and other
Bristol-Myers Squibb employees—
hope is the promise of delivering
innovative products to patients in
need. In this Special Report, you’ll
learn how we develop new medi-
cines and other health care prod-
ucts, expand access to therapies
and create sustainable health care
programs for the neediest among
us. That’s how we at Bristol-Myers
Squibb live our mission to extend
and enhance human life—and keep
the beacon of hope shining brightly.
Kidney transplant patient Edie Hudgins
EDIE HUDGINS, 56,of Conyers, Georgia, was in apparent good health until 1999. That’s when a sudden
autoimmune condition attacked her kidneys, sent her to the emergency room and left her on dialysis. In 2002,
her 28-year-old daughter donated a kidney to her. Shortly after the transplant operation, Hudgins enrolled in
a clinical trial with an investigational immunosuppressive compound called belatacept to prevent transplant
rejection. “I felt whatever I could do to help someone else down the road would be worth it,” she says.Special Report
building
Hope
through the
medicines we create
π
Growth Drivers
The approval,successful launch and ERBITUX The key to how ERBITUX (Cetuximab) works
growth of a new medicine represent to fight cancer lies in its ability to selectively target the epider-
the culmination of years of intense lab- mal growth factor receptor, which is found on the surface of
oratory and clinical study. But often, for
many human cancers, including those of the colon and rectum.
new medicines, it is just the beginning
Today, this novel monoclonal antibody is being used success-
of a continuing journey of discovery.
fully in appropriate patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
ERBITUX, Abilify, Plavix, Reyatazand The hope is that this key will open the door for treating
Avapro/Avalide. Each is a successfully other solid tumors. Bristol-Myers Squibb and its partner
launched product—already a significant
ImClone Systems Incorporated have implemented a compre-
and growing part of the company’s
hensive clinical development plan to investigate the utility of
portfolio. Yet for each, we’ve hopefully
ERBITUX in non-small cell lung, pancreatic and other can-
just begun to tap the potential benefits
cers. Already, a submission is planned in 2005 for head and
for patients. And that’s why, for those
neck cancer. A new therapy for head and neck cancer has not
at Bristol-Myers Squibb who are devel-
been approved by the FDA since the 1970s.
oping those medicines, each day is
“I’m really pleased that Bristol-Myers Squibb and ImClone
an opportunity to do even more—for
have invested in programs to develop ERBITUX in these areas
patients and sometimes even for the
of unmet need,” says Martin Birkhofer, M.D., vice president
families of our employees themselves.
Four of our Growth Drivers are profiled and ERBITUX global development champion at Bristol-Myers
in this section of our Special Report. Squibb. “The reward in what I do comes from offering hope
for the future to colon cancer patients and in working toward
being able to make a difference in the lives of so many other
patients with cancer.”
– 10 –Bipolar disorder patient Chuck Conein
IN 1994, CHUCK CONEINof Deer Park, Washington,
realized he was more than simply stressed out. “My
brain felt like 50 TV sets all changing channels at the
same time,” Conein, 54, says. “I ended up in the
hospital.” He was diagnosed with bipolar disorder
and, over the years, prescribed various medications.
“At one point, I was so medicated I couldn’t even drive.”
Recently, his doctor suggested Abilify. “Now, finally,”
says Conein, “I feel I’m more in control of my life.”
ABILIFY Mark Altmeyer, senior vice president treatment of acute bipolar mania, and recently it
of Neuroscience marketing at Bristol-Myers was approved for maintaining efficacy in certain
Squibb, knows full well just how much medicines patients with Bipolar I Disorder. Yet, because Abilify
like Abilify (aripiprazole) help make a difference has a unique pharmacology profile, Bristol-Myers
in the lives of individuals. Still, he keeps a letter Squibb and its partner Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co.,
on his desk to remind him of that every day. “It’s Ltd. are exploring additional uses.
from a woman to her psychiatrist thanking him Studies suggest Abilify may work differently
for prescribing Abilify,” he says. “For years, she under different conditions: raising levels of certain
wasn’t sure whether life was worth living. She neurotransmitters when they are low and reducing lev-
had tried lots of medications, and none of them els when they are too high. This special type of activ-
worked. Then her doctor prescribed Abilify. ity means Abilify can potentially play an important
In her letter she says, ‘I’ve come out of my shell.’” role in many diseases currently under investigation.
Abilify has already benefited hundreds of Altmeyer understands the possibilities as
thousands of patients suffering from the most well as the challenges. “But it’s worth it,” he says,
serious psychotic disorder—schizophrenia. In as he holds that letter in his hand. “This is why
2004, Abilify was approved by the FDA for the I come to work every day.”
– 11 –Heart attack patient Otello Brighi
“I NEVER HADany health problems until
one morning in 1988,” says Otello Brighi
of Ravenna, Italy. On that day he felt a
sudden pain in his chest and arm, and
he was diagnosed with a myocardial
infarction. Brighi, 61, recovered. But in
November 2003, his doctor recommended
that he enter an investigational clinical
trial to determine if Plavix could help
prevent second heart attacks. “My heart
attack is a distant memory,” says Brighi.
“There’s a future that now even I can
look upon with hope.”building HOPE| Special Report
REYATAZ While Reyataz(atazanavir
sulfate) was launched by Bristol-Myers Squibb
in June 2003 as the eighth drug in its class of
PLAVIX “I trust Plavix for members of my protease inhibitors (PIs), it was the first PI to
own family,” says Brian Gavin, Ph.D., global ever be approved for once-daily dosing. And in
medical affairs director for Plavix (clopidogrel just one year Reyatazbecame the second-most-
bisulfate). “Doctors have prescribed Plavix to prescribed PI in the U.S. Reyatazis used in the
both my uncle and my great-aunt for cardiovas- U.S. and internationally in combination therapy
cular and peripheral vascular disease. Plavix for the treatment of HIV.
helps protect my aunt and uncle against future
vascular events such as heart attacks or strokes. “I’m amazed at how
And now my mother has suffered a series of
many people tell me
strokes and might be a candidate for Plavix.”
how grateful they are”
Yet for all of the benefits Plavix confers
today—in reducing the risk of heart attack and
stroke in appropriate patients following myocar- Now, a four-part clinical development pro-
dial infarction or stroke or with acute coronary gram is seeking to expand the utility of Reyataz
syndrome or peripheral arterial disease—there for patients. It is hoped that this program will
is still much more to learn. provide additional information about the use
Several landmark clinical studies already of Reyatazfor new patients; will further evaluate
serve as the foundation for understanding current its lipid and resistance profiles; will provide new
uses of Plavix for patients. And now, other major formulations; and will complete investigational
studies are ongoing, seeking to evaluate the effec- studies in pediatric patients.
tiveness of Plavix in patients at risk for a wide “Once-daily dosing, minimal lipid effect,
spectrum of life-threatening thrombotic events. and established efficacy and safety profiles are
Altogether, Bristol-Myers Squibb and its partner all important considerations for patients living
Sanofi-Aventis have mounted one of the largest with HIV,” says Ron Cooper, senior vice presi-
clinical trial programs ever developed—totaling dent of U.S. Virology. “At AIDS service organi-
more than 100,000 patients worldwide. zations, patient groups and physicians’ offices,
“It’s truly a challenging and rewarding I’m amazed at how many people approach me
experience to work on Plavix,” says Gavin. to tell me how grateful they are to Bristol-Myers
His family would likely agree. Squibb. Hearing them speak so passionately
about the positive impact that including Reyataz
in their HIV combination therapy has made
in their lives, makes me feel absolutely proud.”
– 13 –Special Report|building HOPE
Registrational
Soon, we anticipate that our Growth MURAGLITAZAR Don’t tell Cindy Rubin, M.D., group
Drivers—those medicines outlined on director in Metabolic Diseases Global Clinical Research, that
pages 10-13—will be complemented diabetes is not a serious health problem. “I know firsthand
by four investigational compounds
how devastating diabetes can be,” she says. “When I was an
developed to address additional
internist, I treated many patients with type 2 diabetes. Many
serious medical conditions: type 2
of the patients who have diabetes also have other medical
diabetes mellitus, hepatitis B virus
conditions, such as dyslipidemia, cardiovascular diseases
infection, rheumatoid arthritis and
and kidney and eye
major depressive disorder. “
I know firsthand
damage. Often it
These are our Registrational com-
is very challenging
how devastating
pounds, already submitted for regula-
to keep their blood
tory approval or in the process of being diabetes can be”
glucose under good
submitted. Three—muraglitazar, abata-
control and manage
cept and Baraclude—were discovered
associated conditions and complications.”
by Bristol-Myers Squibb scientists. The
Diabetes is a growing worldwide health crisis. More
fourth, EMSAM (selegiline transdermal
than 150 million people suffer from diabetes, including
system), entered Bristol-Myers Squibb’s
16 million Americans. Many remain undiagnosed. And
pipeline in December 2004 following
a commercialization agreement unfortunately, current treatments often fail to achieve
with Somerset Pharmaceuticals Inc. good control of the disease in many patients with diabetes.
Somerset received an “Approvable” If approved, muraglitazar would become the first in
letter from the FDA in February 2004, a new class of investigational compounds called glitazars, a
and, if approved, EMSAM would be the dual alpha/gamma PPAR (peroxisome proliferator-activated
first transdermal treatment for major receptor) activator designed to improve both the glucose
depressive disorder. Muraglitazar,
and the lipid abnormalities associated with type 2 diabetes.
abatacept and Baracludeare profiled
“Based on our clinical findings to date in about 4,500
in this section.
patients,” says Rubin, “I believe muraglitazar has the
potential to help diabetic patients better control their
blood sugar levels.”
In April 2004, Bristol-Myers Squibb entered into
a global collaborative agreement with Merck & Co., Inc.,
to jointly develop and market muraglitazar. The New Drug
Application (NDA) for marketing approval of muraglitazar
was submitted to the FDA in December 2004.
– 14 –Rheumatoid arthritis patient
Mike Hayward
RHEUMATOID ARTHRITISturned
even the simplest activities—like
unscrewing jars, lifting packages and
walking down steps—into impossible
feats for 51-year-old Mike Hayward
of Philadelphia. “I ached all over,” he
says. “I couldn’t even go up a ladder
at my carpentry job, and I stopped
shooting pool with friends.” However,
after enrolling in an investigational
clinical trial with abatacept, he says,
“I hope to achieve some normalcy.”
ABATACEPT In rheumatoid arthritis, the more than just treat symptoms,” says Michael
body literally erodes away the joints. This chronic, Corbo, Ph.D., vice president of abatacept
progressive autoimmune “abatacept is designed global development.
disorder affects about “Abatacept is designed
to do more than just
6 million people world- to actually target a
wide. Many of those treat symptoms” critical step in the
diagnosed will have to autoimmune process.”
stop working due to disability, will suffer a decrease Clinical trials with about 2,670 patients have
in quality of life and will have a reduced life span. supported abatacept’s development. A Biologics
While advances have been made in the treatment License Application is in the process of being
of rheumatoid arthritis, significant issues remain for submitted to the FDA for marketing approval.
the majority of patients suffering from the disease. The FDA has granted abatacept Fast Track status,
Abatacept is an investigational compound a designation that facilitates review of drugs that
in a potential new class of agents called selective may potentially address unmet medical needs
costimulation modulators. “It’s designed to do for serious diseases.
– 15 –Hepatitis B patient
Donghui Zhao
DONGHUI ZHAO, 39,lives in Beijing
with his wife and teenage son. In 1995,
his mother died of liver cirrhosis, and in
1996, he tested positive for hepatitis B
virus (HBV), which he probably acquired
at birth. By 2001, he says, “I began to
feel extremely tired. I was always look-
ing for a place to rest or sleep.” Despite
treatment, his serum HBV levels had
risen significantly. Then, in 2002, he
entered an investigational clinical trial
with Baraclude. “Since entering the trial,
I feel more like a healthy person,” says
Zhao. “I believe in science.”
BARACLUDE About 400 million people see for myself how the many years of work
worldwide are infected with the hepatitis B virus our team has put in may begin to pay off.”
(HBV). Chronic HBV infection can cause liver More than 2,000 patients in the U.S., Japan
cirrhosis and liver cancer. About 1 million people and China were enrolled in the Baracludeclinical trial
die annually from “Baraclude is an exciting program. In September
these complications. 2004, Bristol-Myers
antiviral compound”
HBV is the ninth- Squibb submitted an
leading cause of death worldwide. NDA to the FDA for Baracludeas well as a market-
Baraclude (entecavir), an investigational nucleo- ing authorization application to the European
side analog, blocks all three stages of the HBV Medicines Agency. The FDA has granted Baraclude
replication process. “Baracludeis an exciting antivi- Priority Review, a classification applied at the time
ral compound,” says Richard Colonno, Ph.D., vice of submission for drugs that, if approved, would
president of Infectious Diseases Drug Discovery. be a significant improvement in the treatment of
“Recently, I had the opportunity to jog with disease compared to marketed products.
a Baracludeclinical trial patient,” says Colonno. “When we cross the finish line with Baraclude,”
“It was such a meaningful experience to me as says Colonno, “I hope we can help many people
a scientist to meet a Baraclude-treated patient and around the world address this serious disease.”
– 16 –building HOPE| Special Report
In Development
Bristol-Myers Squibb today has more BELATACEPT In his work, Richard Wright, Ph.D.,
than 50 compounds in development. is motivated by the desire to help patients. “Every day,
These include six in advanced clinical I think about improving the lives of patients,” he says. “I
development, or Full Development,
think about the mother of a friend of mine, who underwent
that most closely follow the four
a heart transplant several years ago. Now she’s at risk
Registrational compounds in our
for developing kidney dysfunction, a side effect of her
pipeline. These more-advanced investi-
immunosuppressant therapy. I’m really looking forward
gational compounds may be ready to
to being able to offer transplant patients a potentially
be submitted to regulatory agencies for
less toxic alternative.”
marketing approval within the next two
In the U.S. and Europe, more than 300,000 patients
years. Because they are investigational,
live with transplanted organs, and about 50,000 receive
not all of them may ultimately be submit-
ted or approved. However, each of these “every day, I think about
compounds represents the possibility of
improving the lives
addressing a significant medical need.
of patients”
Among those in Full Development, four
are presented in this section: belatacept
new transplants each year. To prevent rejection, transplant
for prevention of solid organ transplant
recipients require lifelong therapy with potent immuno-
rejection and our SRC/ABL kinase
inhibitor, MDX-010 and ixabepilone for suppressive drugs. Unfortunately, such long-term therapy
the treatment of cancer. Additional Full can contribute to high blood pressure and high cholesterol
Development compounds are edifoligide levels, diabetes and kidney toxicity. What’s more, transplant
for the prevention of vein graft failure patients risk death from cardiovascular disease and prema-
and Javlor (vinflunine) for cancer. ture graft loss.
“Bristol-Myers Squibb scientists engineered belatacept
All of these compounds were discov-
ered and are being developed by some to block a specific pathway of T-cell activation believed
of the best minds in biomedical science. to initiate transplant rejection. We are exploring whether
Yet, it is often the hearts of these scien- this investigational approach can reduce the occurrence of
tists that drive them to do their very transplant rejection and cause fewer side effects than tradi-
best. Here are some of their stories. tional immunosuppressants,” says Wright, vice president
and global brand champion for belatacept.
In Phase II clinical trials involving kidney transplant
patients, treatment with belatacept has produced promising
results. “We’re very excited by these results,” says Wright.
“If confirmed by Phase III trials, I believe belatacept has
the potential to become an exciting new option for kidney
transplant patients.”
– 17 –Chronic myelogenous leukemia patient
Cheryl Iantorno
IN MARCH 1999,everything in Cheryl
Iantorno’s life came to a halt when
she was diagnosed with chronic
myelogenous leukemia. “I didn’t want
to believe I had a fatal disease,” says
Iantorno, 44, of Irvine, California. In
August 2004 her treatments failed.
“By October,” she says, “my bones
ached and I was sometimes incoher-
ent. I could barely get out of bed.”
Then she entered a clinical trial with
Bristol-Myers Squibb’s investigational
SRC/ABL kinase inhibitor. “I under-
stand that this is research, to see if
the drug really works,” says Iantorno.
“But now I have hope.”
SRC/ABL KINASE INHIBITOR Chronic in patients who are resistant to other agents.”
myelogenous leukemia (CML) is an often fatal The compound has the potential for anticancer
cancer of the bone marrow. Fortunately, treat- activity across many solid tumor types, including
ment has evolved in “it is my fervent prostate, colorectal, small
recent years with the cell lung and gastrointestinal
wish that we can
availability of imatinib, cancers. Preclinical studies
known in the U.S. as help more patients” in multiple tumor types as
Gleevec. However, for well as early clinical trial
those resistant to existing agents there are results in patients with CML have been promising.
few other therapeutic options available. Nicaise hopes that an accelerated Full Development
“Bristol-Myers Squibb scientists have discov- program will confirm these results. In January
ered a potential first-in-class compound that is 2005, the FDA granted the SRC/ABL kinase
being studied to determine its ability to inhibit inhibitor Fast Track status.
SRC and ABL pathways in the cell, mechanisms “I happen to know a 52-year-old CML
involved in the growth and progression of many patient who had undergone a bone-marrow
tumor types, including CML,” says Claude transplant and needed frequent platelet transfu-
Nicaise, M.D., vice president of SRC/ABL global sions,” says Nicaise. “He entered a clinical trial for
development. “The SRC/ABL kinase inhibitor our SRC/ABL kinase inhibitor in July 2004. It is
is potent in vitro, and we hope that it will work my fervent wish that we can help more patients.”
– 18 –building HOPE| Special Report
MDX-010 Melanoma, a cancer of the pigment-
producing cells of the skin, remains among the
most difficult forms of cancer to treat. Each year,
IXABEPILONE David Chuan Lee, M.D.,
more than 140,000 cases are diagnosed world-
leads the development team for ixabepilone,
wide, and more than 37,000 people die of the
a new investigational cancer drug. “In cancer,
disease. In November 2004, Bristol-Myers Squibb
much remains to be done to develop more
and Medarex Inc., a New Jersey biopharmaceuti-
effective treatments for the most common
cal company, announced a worldwide collabora-
cancers,” he says. Lee should know; his father
tion to develop and commercialize a potential
was diagnosed with lung cancer and passed
new treatment for melanoma called MDX-010.
away just before Christmas 2004.
MDX-010 is a fully humanized antibody
Discovered by Bristol-Myers Squibb
that targets CTLA-4, a molecule on the surface
scientists, ixabepilone may be the first in a new
of T-cells that is responsible for shutting off
“
I am driven by the
the immune response. We are exploring whether
MDX-010 could help the patient’s own immune new hope ixabepilone
system to effectively fight tumors.
could bring”
Bristol-Myers Squibb and Medarex are now
conducting a pivotal Phase III melanoma study,
class of anticancer drugs known as epothilones.
with Phase II studies ongoing in other cancer
“It is designed to avoid some of the mechanisms
types including renal cell, prostate and breast.
thought to be important in drug resistance,” Lee
“We’re encouraged by what we’ve seen from the
says, “and it may offer hope for patients who
early clinical studies,” says Rachel Humphrey,
either don’t respond or have stopped responding
M.D., vice president of development for
to other treatments.”
MDX-010, “and we look forward to the results
In Phase II clinical trials, more than a thou-
of the Phase III trial.” Signifying both the unmet
sand patients already have received ixabepilone
medical need and the promise of novel therapies,
for a variety of tumor types, including breast,
the compound has received Fast Track review
lung, prostate, pancreatic and renal cancers.
status from the FDA.
Almost 2,000 additional patients will be enrolled
“When I think about MDX-010, I often
in Phase III trials for metastatic breast cancer.
think about a patient I treated a year and a half
“As a member of the ixabepilone team, I am
ago,” says Humphrey. “At first, she had only
driven by the possibility of developing a com-
a small lump on her back. By the second week
pound that may work when other treatments
she was in terrible pain, and by the fourth week
stop working,” says Lee. “As a son who has just
she was dead. Unfortunately, she had failed to
lost his dad to cancer, I am driven by the new
respond to any of the available treatments. I wish
hope ixabepilone could bring for patients with
we could have given her another option, another
cancer and for their families.”
chance. For me, MDX-010 may represent that
other option, that potential ray of hope we
may someday be able to provide for patients.”
– 19 –Special Report|building HOPE
In Discovery
Bristol-Myers Squibb’s goal is to deliver DISCOVERY The first steps in the long process of drug
a steady stream of innovative new med- discovery are to find a good therapeutic target, to prove its
icines to patients in need worldwide. relevance to fighting disease, and then to match the target with
Feeding that stream, at its source, is
a novel compound. These steps alone may take several years.
the company’s Drug Discovery engine.
A new medicine may first arise in the mind of a scien-
“To lay the foundation for pipeline sus-
tist envisioning a novel therapeutic approach. It can also
tainability,” says Francis Cuss, M.D.,
begin in the silicon synapses of an advanced drug-designing
F.R.C.P., senior vice president of Drug
computer. Or it can be synthesized in an automated high-
Discovery, “we have focused on three
throughput chemical assembly line.
elements—improving productivity
Multidisciplinary teams of talented scientists—working
in the discovery process, delivering
with leading-edge technologies—first design and then refine
high-quality drug candidates for clinical
a compound. Once discovered, a promising compound is
testing on a consistent basis and
enhancing subsequent development evaluated and modified in a process called drug optimiza-
success rates.” tion. “We work closely with biologists and chemists to
minimize the molecule’s undesired effects and maximize
In this section of our Special Report,
desired effects,” says Richard Robertson, Ph.D., senior
we offer a brief overview of the com-
vice president of Drug Safety and Pharmaceutical Candidate
pany’s approach to Discovery and
Optimization. “The result should be a compound with high
how those three elements are fueling
a product pipeline that creates hope potency and low potential for toxicity.”
for the future. Cuss and his team have scrutinized every aspect of the
drug discovery process to eliminate redundancies and to
improve the quality and quantity of drug candidates. In 2000,
about half of the early drug candidates coming out of the
company’s labs entered human testing—a success rate that
was average for the industry. By 2003, the proportion of early
candidates entering the clinic had increased to 80 percent,
while the industry success rate had risen to just 65 percent.
A good example of the company’s approach is its oncology
discovery program. Recently, the introduction of new tech-
nologies combined with advances in genomics and biochem-
istry have generated an explosive growth in cancer research
productivity, resulting in a new generation of highly targeted
and selective anticancer compounds now in development.
Today, these new compounds are emerging from Bristol-
Myers Squibb’s Discovery labs. Most have technical names that
describe specific cellular targets or novel mechanisms of action.
– 20 –HIV researchers Pin-Fang Lin, Ph.D., & John Kadow, Ph.D.
EVERY GOOD COMPOUNDrequires a
dedicated team to discover and develop
it. Biologist Pin-Fang Lin, director of HIV
Drug Discovery, and John Kadow, direc-
tor of Virology Chemistry, are working on
Bristol-Myers Squibb’s investigational HIV
attachment inhibitor program. Multiple
compounds are already in early clinical
development. “These compounds are
designed to block HIV from attaching to
the CD4+ receptor,” says Kadow, “thus
potentially helping to prevent the virus
from gaining a foothold.” Lin and other
biologists profile the compounds for
potency, toxicity, safety, pharmacology
and viral resistance. “We all want to help
people suffering from HIV/AIDS,” says Lin.
“We are here for them, to find new hope.”
“we are entering
They range from selective Computer modeling, sophisti-
and orally active kinase a golden era” cated imaging, genomics, robotics:
inhibitors, targeting HER Drug discovery relies on a spec-
and VEGF/FGF receptor inhibitors, to an trum of high-tech tools. However, technology is
experimental anti-CD137a agonist monoclonal only part of the story, says John Houston, Ph.D.,
antibody that is designed to stimulate a cancer vice president of Applied Biotechnology and
patient’s immune system to stop or reverse tumor Discovery Biology: “The final product always
growth. Also in early development is a next-gen- depends on human intuition—the scientific
eration androgen receptor antagonist designed insight, innovation and drive of our biologists and
to target drug-resistant prostate cancer. chemists.” Carl Decicco, Ph.D., vice president of
“We are entering a golden era in which Discovery Chemistry, agrees: “Their enthusiasm
we will be in a position to harvest the fruits of and scientific excellence are what set us apart in our
decades of cancer research,” says Cuss. “But ability to tackle the challenges of human disease.”
oncology is only one of our disease areas, and “Our scientists’ unrelenting focus on medical
we apply the same approach to each.” The result: a need and their efforts at improving success rates
proliferation of compounds now in Discovery and have delivered an early pipeline that I believe is the
Exploratory Development not only in oncology best in the company’s history,” says Cuss. “Now,
but also across most of the company’s disease areas. at Bristol-Myers Squibb, Discovery is poised to
(See “Our Pharmaceutical Pipeline” on page 8.) deliver on the future for patients everywhere.”
– 21 –Special Report|building HOPE
Our Other Health Care Businesses
Bristol-Myers Squibb employees MEAD JOHNSON NUTRITIONALS Research
around the world are dedicated to gives all of us food for thought. Nowhere is that more
discovering and developing innovative
evident than at Mead Johnson Nutritionals. “Throughout
products that provide real value and
our history,” says Stephen W. Golsby, Mead Johnson presi-
offer significant benefits to the people
dent, “Mead Johnson has been a leader in infant and child
who need them. This commitment—
nutrition. We take our responsibility and commitment very
embedded in our mission and values—
seriously to give infants and children a great start in life.”
runs throughout the entire company,
The LIPILline of nutritional products is a case in point.
both in its pharmaceutical business as
In 2002, Mead Johnson introduced Enfamil LIPIL, the first
well as in our other related health care
U.S. infant formula including DHA, a nutrient found in
products businesses.
breast milk that is important for brain and eye development.
In this section, you will get a glimpse
Scientists at Mead Johnson then took the idea one
of those other businesses—Mead
step farther—or perhaps one step back, depending on your
Johnson Nutritionals infant and child
point of view. They knew that all babies prior to birth—and
nutrition products, Bristol-Myers Squibb
breast-fed babies after birth—depend on their mothers for
Medical Imaging cardiovascular imaging
DHA. However, intake of DHA-rich foods in the U.S. is rel-
products and ConvaTec ostomy and
atively low compared to some areas in the world. Therefore,
wound therapeutics. Perhaps, too, you
will get a sense for the passion that moti- some infants may not receive adequate DHA during the
vates our employees and drives them pregnancy. To address this concern, in 2004, Mead Johnson
to make a difference in people’s lives. launched ExpectaLIPIL, a supplement providing 200 mg
of DHA for pregnant and nursing moms.
“Studies have demonstrated better visual acuity and
better mental development in infants fed EnfamilLIPILwith
Iron versus formula without LIPIL,” says Deborah Diersen-
Schade, Ph.D., of Mead Johnson’s Global Regulatory and
Scientific Affairs. “In addition, breast-fed infants whose
mothers took a DHA supplement like ExpectaLIPILshowed
improved cognitive performance at five years of age.”
Mead Johnson researchers understand that even one
nutrient can have a significant impact during an infant’s
critical first year of life. “Whether you’re breast feeding or
using infant formula,” says Diersen-Schade, “we know it’s
a very important time in terms of growth and development
and in helping each baby reach his or her greatest potential.”
– 22 –Mother of newborn, Tammy Hawk
TAMMY HAWK OF CHICAGOis one mom who appreciates
the addition of DHA, a nutrient in Mead Johnson’s LIPIL
line of products that is important for brain and eye develop-
ment. When Hawk was pregnant with Connor, now four
months old, she and her husband wanted to give him a
good head start in life. Hawk works in a public relations
firm that serves Mead Johnson, and she heard about
ExpectaLIPILDHA supplement as soon as it was launched
in 2004. So she took ExpectaLIPILto provide DHA in utero.
Since birth, she has been feeding Connor EnfamilLIPIL
with Iron infant formula. “I think every woman is looking
for ways to take the best care of her baby,” says Hawk,
“both during pregnancy and afterwards.”Special Report|building HOPE
MEDICAL IMAGING As “Innovators at
Heart,” employees of Bristol-Myers Squibb CONVATEC AQUACEL Ag, introduced in
Medical Imaging are, in the words of the com-
2003 by ConvaTec, is the first antimicrobial
pany’s mission, committed to searching for
wound dressing to incorporate the innovative
new ways to see “ever deeper into the human
gelling properties of Hydrofibertechnology,
heart and vasculature.”
which absorbs up to 20 times its weight in
“Innovation defines how we bring our mis-
wound fluid and eliminates the need for daily
sion to life on behalf of our customers and their
and often painful dressing changes.
patients,” says Cory Zwerling, Medical Imaging’s
Although simple in concept, creating this
technology took years of hard work. “We began
“we are proud to
in 1992,” says Phil Bowler, M.Phil., director of
be at the forefront of
Microbiology and Anti-Infectives at ConvaTec,
in Deeside, England. “But when I first realized
cardiovascular imaging”
the true technical differentiation of Hydrofiberfrom
other fibrous dressings, I knew what benefits these
president. “That focus has made us leaders in
unique properties would likely bring to patients.”
the field of cardiovascular imaging and it is the
“The benefits of Hydrofibertechnology are
key to our continued success.”
increasingly being realized by physicians in the
For more than a decade, Cardiolite(Kit for
U.S. and worldwide,” says Gary Restani, presi-
the Preparation of Technetium Tc99m Sestamibi
dent of ConvaTec. “Now our researchers are
for Injection)—the most successful radiopharma-
taking this technology to a new level with the
ceutical ever—has provided physicians with vital
next-generation Hydrofibertechnology.”In the
information about blood flow to the heart muscle.
next few years, this new chemistry will enable
More recently, Definity(Vial for Perflutren Lipid
ConvaTec to design and develop gelling wound
Microsphere Injectable Suspension) has been
dressing products with increased versatility.
helping physicians bring clarity to unevaluable
“With this next-generation technology,
echocardiograms for many patients.
doctors should be able to fine-tune dressings
Medical Imaging is also working to shape
to fit the patient and the nature of the wound,”
the future of cardiovascular imaging with pipeline
says Michael J. Lydon, Ph.D., vice president
products that could help create new standards of
of ConvaTec Wound Therapeutics.
care. Current programs include exploring technolo-
Physical and polymer chemist Dave Parsons,
gies for assessing vulnerable plaque—the leading
Ph.D., explains another potential benefit. “This
cause of heart attack—developing a highly selec-
wound dressing technology enables us to make
tive pharmacologic stress agent with the potential
dressings that look like traditional gauze dressings
to improve patient tolerability, as well as other
but have the advantages of a modern Hydrofiber
promising innovations.
product,” he says. “That will help medical profes-
“Our mission drives everything we do as
sionals transition from traditional treatment to
a business,” Zwerling says. “We are proud to
modern wound care.”
be at the forefront of cardiovascular imaging.”
– 24 –Burn patient Mark Wilson
INDUSTRIAL ELECTRICIANMark Wilson, 45,
of Oklahoma City was working on electrical
equipment in May 2004 when a flash fire
engulfed him in flame. “Suddenly, I was
standing in a cloud of smoke with flesh just
hanging off my shins,” he recalls. Wilson
sustained severe burns on his arms, legs
and face. At the local burn center, he was
treated with AQUACEL Agantimicrobial
wound dressing with Hydrofibertechnology.
Without it, Wilson would probably have
needed skin grafting and an extended hospi-
tal stay. Instead, he was treated on an outpa-
tient basis and returned to work after four
months. “I feel blessed that I didn’t need to
have multiple skin grafts,” he says. “And I’m
glad I was able to get home so quickly.”Special Report
fostering
Hope
by expanding access
to health care
For some, hope is a precious commodity. ACCESS In 2002, Bristol-Myers Squibb joined with six
That’s why, working alone and with part- other pharmaceutical companies in the most comprehensive
ners, Bristol-Myers Squibb seeks to lift prescription savings program ever offered by the pharmaceuti-
barriers to treatment for people whose
cal industry. The Together Rxcard has helped participating
circumstances may prevent them from
seniors and other qualified Medicare recipients save on more
purchasing our medicines on their own.
than 155 brand-name prescription medicines at more than
In the U.S., discount prescription 50,000 U.S. pharmacies. Now that Congress has passed the
programs—like Together Rx for seniors Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization
who have no drug benefits and
Act, Together Rx plans to assist cardholders until the end
Together Rx Access for those who are
of 2005, when the new drug benefit becomes available.
uninsured and under 65—offer qualified
“The Together Rxmember companies are making a
individuals a helping hand. And for
real difference for people in need,” says Tom McKenna,
many thousands of indigent patients,
vice president of Business Processes. “Thus far, we’ve
the company’s Patient Assistance
enrolled over 1.5 million Medicare-eligible beneficiaries
Foundation and its Oncology/Virology
who’ve collectively saved over $750 million—an average
Access program provide medicines
of $45 or more per prescription. More than 300,000 people
at no cost. The Partnership for
signed on in 2004 alone.”
Prescription Assistance provides a
single resource that allows patients Together Rx Access,a savings program for qualified
to navigate their way to better health. uninsured people under 65 who are otherwise not eligible
Outside the U.S., programs that offer for Medicare, was introduced in January 2005. “The
significant discounts help make Together Rx Access card gets these individuals meaningful
accessible two HIV medications. savings on more than 275 brand-name prescription medi-
cines and products, including those from Bristol-Myers
In this section, we outline our
approach to making hope more Squibb,” says McKenna.
accessible to those in greatest need. Through the Bristol-Myers Squibb Patient Assistance
Foundation, Inc.,qualified patients living in the U.S.
with no prescription drug insurance can get the company’s
– 26 –Physician & Methodist minister
G. Scott Morris, M.D., M.Div.
G. SCOTT MORRIS REALIZEDa childhood
dream in 1987 when he founded the Church
Health Center in Memphis, Tennessee.
“Most of our patients are uninsured so
when they get sick, they’re stuck,” says
Morris. “We give them a place to turn.”
Morris encourages his patients to apply
for aid from the Bristol-Myers Squibb
Patient Assistance Foundation. “Being
able to dispense medicines free of charge
to disadvantaged people through this
program has been a tremendous help to
us,” says Morris. “I can’t imagine a more
caring decision that a company can make
to help people who are genuinely in need.”
prescription medications without charge. The along with the Bristol-Myers Squibb/AmeriCares
program is easy for patients and physicians Oncology/Virology Access Program, helped
to use—one of the more than 1.1 million
“there are plenty of
reasons why its reach indigent patients fill
government programs
has grown each year prescriptions—at no
since it began in 1998. charge—for company
out there, but they
“There are plenty pharmaceuticals valued
don’t cover everybody”
of government pro- at about $550 million
grams out there, but at wholesale prices.
they don’t cover everybody,” says James Prazak, Bristol-Myers Squibb participates in the
R.Ph., vice president of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Partnership for Prescription Assistance (PPA),
Patient Assistance Foundation. “Our program an industry program that helps low-income,
helps people get full access to medications,” says uninsured patients in the U.S. get free or nearly
Prazak. “They can lead more productive lives free brand-name medicines. The PPA is already
and have the chance to improve their situations.” available in several states, and is expected to be
In 2004, the Patient Assistance Foundation, available nationwide in April 2005. “The idea
– 27 –Special Report|fostering HOPE
Contact Information for Access Programs in the United States
Together Rx www.togetherrx.com
Together Rx Access 800-444-4106 or www.togetherrxaccess.com
Bristol-Myers Squibb Patient 800-332-2056
Assistance Foundation
Bristol-Myers Squibb/AmeriCares 800-272-4878 for oncology or virology
Oncology/Virology Access Program 877-758-7877 for virology only
Partnership for Prescription Assistance 800-906-7279 or www.pparx.org
ConvaTec Ostomy Assistance Program 800-422-8811
Mead Johnson Helping Hand Program Child’s physician coordinates with local
(for specialty infant formulas) Mead Johnson representative
is to have one central website and a toll-free num- governments, to increase access to sustainable
ber where people with financial difficulties can prevention, care and treatment of HIV/AIDS.
go to find out if there is assistance available “Bristol-Myers Squibb assists developing
for them and, if so, how they can get it,” says countries with discounts of up to 93 percent
Randy Alsman, senior off the U.S. prices of
“our job is to keep
vice president of our HIV drugs Videx
giving people in need
Strategic Access. (didanosine) and Zerit
Other domestic (stavudine),” says John
more reasons to hang
patient assistance McGoldrick, Bristol-
on to their hope”
initiatives for eligible Myers Squibb executive
patients in need include vice president and general
free ConvaTec ostomy products and discounted counsel. “Thus far, more than 36 developing
or free products from Mead Johnson Nutritionals countries have participated. And in sub-Saharan
for infants requiring specialty formulas. African countries, we are committed to prices
Outside the U.S., through the United at no profit to the company.”
Nations/Industry Accelerating Access Initiative, “The goal of all of these initiatives is to
Bristol-Myers Squibb has reached out to help help fulfill our mission to extend and enhance
people in developing countries stricken by human life,” says Alsman. “At the end of the
HIV/AIDS. Beginning in 2000, the company day, through these programs, our job is to keep
has worked with six other pharmaceutical com- giving people in need more reasons to hang on
panies, as well as United Nations agencies and to their hope.”
– 28 –Special Report
creating
Hope
for better health through
sustainable programs for children
Bristol-Myers Squibb seeks to create HOPE Consider HIV/AIDS and Africa. “Even with the
sustainable solutions—to be a responsi- steady drumbeat of negative news and the devastation that
ble neighbor and citizen—across many HIV/AIDS has brought to the African continent,” says
fronts and for many people in need. As
Mark Kline, M.D., director of the Baylor International
part of this effort, the company is paying
Pediatric AIDS Initiative, “we’re turning the corner.”
special attention to children.
Baylor is a partner with Bristol-Myers Squibb in
After all, children represent the future, creating groundbreaking HIV/AIDS treatment programs
and for them hope is eternal. But children for children. “I think it is a time of hope and optimism
are also the most vulnerable among us. for children and families affected by HIV/AIDS,” Kline
Every year, more than 11 million children
adds. “Infrastructure and human capacity are being built to
in developing countries die before their
care for and treat HIV-infected children and their families.”
fifth birthday. In southern Africa, 40-60
In 2003, in partnership with the company’s SECURE THE
percent of all deaths among children
FUTUREprogram and local governments, Kline’s group
less than five years old are caused by
opened a clinical center in Botswana, the first anywhere
HIV/AIDS. In Latin America and the
in Africa devoted exclusively to treating HIV-infected
Caribbean, each year more than 300,000
children and their families, training health care professionals
children less than five years old succumb
in pediatric AIDS and conducting clinical research.
to preventable or treatable illnesses. And
“Children have been underrepresented for too long,”
in the U.S., obesity in children—especially
among minorities—has reached epidemic Kline says. “Yet, in the center’s first 17 months of operation
proportions. A growing percentage of in Botswana, we tested more than 3,000 children and now
youths with diabetes now have type 2—a have more than 1,200 children in treatment, likely the largest
disease once almost exclusively diag- concentration of HIV-infected children being treated any-
nosed in adults. Being overweight is a where in the world. And we are thrilled that Bristol-Myers
critical risk factor to its development. Squibb agreed to take this highly successful model and
Yet, there is hope—even where it may fund two additional centers, in Swaziland and Lesotho.”
have appeared lost.
– 29 –Special Report|creating HOPE
In Latin America, Bristol-Myers Squibb is for addressing the issue of obesity in children
creating new measures of hope for those least able in inner cities and high-risk communities.
to speak for themselves. A grant to the Catholic “Obesity is a crisis in the African-American
Medical Mission Board (CMMB), working in community,” says Canada. “We’re hoping to
partnership with the Pan American Health come up with a set of best practices to get chil-
Organization, will seek to implement a strategy dren to eat healthy foods, to get them to exercise
for reducing childhood mortality by improving regularly and to influence parents about how
family and community practices for home man- they think about meals.”
agement of common illnesses and the clinical In Bristol-Myers Squibb’s own backyard in
skills of health workers. The project utilizes Mercer County, New Jersey, an innovative part-
a network of faith- nership with Robert
“
he who has health has
based organizations Wood Johnson
to reach out to several hope, and he who has University Hospital
million people in five Hamilton is building
hope has everything”
Central American and on groundbreaking
Caribbean countries. obesity and type 2
Says Rabia Mathai, Ph.D., CMMB senior diabetes screening programs supported by the
vice president of programs, “The Bristol-Myers Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation and the com-
Squibb Foundation is a trailblazer in interna- pany’s local contributions program. Says hospital
tional health. It was the first pharmaceutical president and CEO Christy Stephenson, “Over
company to come forward and join hands in this the past two years, our certified diabetes educa-
partnership—to leverage a faith-based network tors have worked with school nurses to screen
to provide health care. In this part of the world, children in the local schools via noninvasive
ministries of health do not have the means to measures that identify kids at high risk for type 2
provide total health care, so up to 50 percent of diabetes and then refer them into programs to
health care for vulnerable populations is provided prevent the onset of this serious disease.”
by faith-based organizations like ours. In many Now in the second phase of the partnership,
areas, they are in the fabric of the communities. Bristol-Myers Squibb and the Bristol-Myers Squibb
We have formed a critical mass, the platforms Foundation are funding a program that would enable
have been created and the people are coming.” parents and children to join SHAPEDOWN,
Sometimes, early intervention and education a special 10-week course that focuses not only on
provided today can offer the most hope for tomor- healthier eating but also on lifestyle and behavioral
row by helping to avoid future health epidemics. changes and even on issues such as self-esteem.
In New York’s Central Harlem, Geoffrey “But you can’t treat only the child,” Stephenson says.
Canada, president of Harlem Children’s Zone, “It has to be a family affair. Through the generosity
a community-based organization, has just begun and foresight of Bristol-Myers Squibb, we will be
working with 600 children and their families able to move families into this program.”
under a three-year Bristol-Myers Squibb These are just four programs—and there
Foundation grant to create a model program are many others in Mexico, Vietnam, Thailand
– 30 –SECURE THE FUTURE
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB’S
groundbreaking SECURE THE
FUTUREinitiative is taking
a forceful stand against the
rising tide of the HIV/AIDS
pandemic, especially among
children, the pandemic’s most
vulnerable victims. In southern
Africa, 40-60 percent of all
deaths of children under five
are caused by HIV/AIDS.SHAPEDOWN program
FOR THE PAST TWO YEARS, Jason
Marcus, 11, from West Windsor, New
Jersey, has enjoyed and benefited from
participating in a unique family-centered
weight management program called
SHAPEDOWN, which includes fitness
components and nutrition education,
and is offered locally at Robert Wood
Johnson University Hospital Hamilton
(RWJUHH). Says his mother, Jill, “The
program has raised Jason’s awareness
of healthy eating and what you need
to do to stay healthy. It’s something he
and I did together. Helping our children
stay fit and healthy for life has to involve
the entire family.” Now, thanks to a
grant from the Bristol-Myers Squibb
Foundation to RWJUHH, the SHAPE-
DOWN program is being made more
widely available.
and Eastern Europe—all supported by the adopted as part of Bristol-Myers Squibb’s
Foundation working with a wide range of part- Sustainability 2010 Goals. And while the focus
ners and all of them focused on children. In is on children outside the company, children of
addition, throughout the world, Bristol-Myers employees based in New Jersey and Connecticut
Squibb employees are doing their part to give are benefiting at four innovative on-site children’s
children hope for a healthier and safer environ- development centers.
ment. For instance, in Puerto Rico, employees “There is a proverb,” Stephenson adds, “that
work with area schoolchildren on environmental says he who has health has hope, and he who has
education, including energy and water conserva- hope has everything.” For Bristol-Myers Squibb,
tion. And in St. Nazaire, France, 400 local it is about fueling that hope through sustainable
schoolchildren are learning—through a company- programs that focus on making the right deci-
sponsored program—about the river otter, a local sions today for the health of our children and
endangered species that facility employees have for the children of generations to come.
– 32 –FINANCIAL REVIEW
33 Management’s Discussion and Analysis • 58 Consolidated Financial Statements • 62 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
92 Reports of Management • 93 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm• 94 Controls and Procedures
95 Five-Year Financial Summary
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ments for the period ended December 31, 2002 and prior periods in March
About the Company 2003. For a discussion of these matters, see “Restatement of Previously Issued
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS, the Company or Bristol-Myers Financial Statements” and “SEC Consent Order.”
Squibb) is a worldwide pharmaceutical and related health care products com- To help ensure the circumstances that led to the need for financial restate-
pany whose mission is to extend and enhance human life. The Company is ment do not recur, the Company has taken steps to enhance the effectiveness
engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, of its disclosure controls and procedures, including internal control over finan-
distribution and sale of pharmaceuticals and other health care related products. cial reporting. After completing the 2002 Restatement, the Company continued
The Company employs approximately 43,000 people. to identify and implement actions to improve the effectiveness of its disclosure
In 2004, the Company reported annual global sales from continuing opera- controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. These
tions of $19.4 billion. Sales increased 4% from the prior year level due to the actions contributed significantly to the Company identifying additional errors
favorable impact from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. U.S. sales remained relating to prior periods not reflected in the 2002 Restatement and accordingly,
constant at $10.6 billion, as increased sales of key brands and newer products the Company restated its consolidated financial statements in 2004 to correct
were offset by exclusivity losses on older brands, while international sales these errors for the years 2001 and 2002. The Company continues to strengthen
increased 10%, to $8.8 billion, including an 8% favorable foreign exchange disclosure controls and procedures surrounding internal controls over financial
impact. In 2004, two product lines achieved sales of over $2.5 billion each — reporting, specifically with respect to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
Plavix and Pravachol.Plavix sales grew 35%, including a 2% favorable foreign 2002. These actions include the establishment of policies and procedures to
exchange impact, to $3.3 billion, while Pravacholsales decreased 7%, includ- enhance compliance and focus on risk management.
ing a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $2.6 billion. An additional 44
product lines achieved more than $50 million each in annual sales, including Business Environment
30 product lines with more than $100 million each in annual sales, of which 7 The pharmaceutical industry in which the Company conducts its business is
had annual sales in excess of $500 million each. highly competitive and subject to numerous government regulations. Sales of
In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company signed a definitive agreement to the Company’s products can be affected significantly by many competitive fac-
sell its Oncology Therapeutics Network (OTN) business, a distributor of phar- tors, including product efficacy, safety, price and cost-effectiveness, marketing
maceutical products to office-based oncologists. Further, in January 2005, the effectiveness, product labeling, quality control and quality assurance of its man-
Company announced that it intends to divest its U.S. and Canadian Consumer ufacturing, operating and research and development of new products. To suc-
Medicines businesses. cessfully compete for business in the health care industry, the Company must
In support of its mission to extend and enhance human life by developing the not only demonstrate that its products offer medical benefits, but also cost
highest-quality products, in 2004 the Company invested $2.5 billion in research advantages. Currently, most of the new products introduced by the Company
and development, a 10% growth over 2003, and expects to increase spendingon must compete with other products in the same therapeutic category already on
drug development in 2005 to accelerate the development of its late-stage pipeline. the market. The Company manufactures branded products, which are subject
Research and development dedicated to pharmaceutical products, including mile- to higher prices than generic products. Generic competition is one of the
stone payments for in-licensing and development programs, was $2.3 billion and Company’s biggest challenges globally.
as a percentage of Pharmaceutical sales was 14.8% compared to 14.2% in 2003. In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s com-
In August 2004, the Company announced it entered into a settlement with mercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has
the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), concluding the market exclusivity. When a product loses exclusivity, it is no longer protected
SEC’s investigation regarding wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. by a patent and is subject to new competing products in the form of generic
The settlement was reached through a Consent Order under which the brands. Upon exclusivity loss of a product, the Company can lose a major
Company is currently operating. The SEC’s investigation arose from the portion of that product’s sales in a short period of time.
Company’s announcement in April 2002 that the Company experienced a sub- Both in the U.S. and internationally, the health care industry is subject to
stantial buildup of wholesaler inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals business various government-imposed regulations which authorize prices or price con-
over several years, primarily in 2000 and 2001, and that the buildup was prima- trols which could have an impact on the Company’s sales. In the U.S., Congress
rily due to sales incentives offered by the Company, as well as the Company’s and some state legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have
subsequent restatement (2002 Restatement) of its consolidated financial state- enacted laws that could effect major changes in the health care system, either
– 33–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportnationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid investmentsbehind its new product launches and re-deploying marketing and
access and reimbursement restrictions have been implemented in some states promotional spending from older products to its newer products.
and proposed in many others. For example, in December 2003, the Medicare In 2004, the Company submitted two New Drug Applications (NDAs) to the
Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act (MMA) was enacted to U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for regulatory approval, including
provide outpatient prescription drug coverage to senior citizens in the United Baraclude(entecavir) for hepatitis B and muraglitazar for type 2 diabetes. A
States. The Company cannot predict the potential impact that this legislation rolling Biologics License Application (BLA) for abatacept for the potential treat-
will have on its business; however, it could have a negative impact on the ment of rheumatoid arthritis is also expected to be completed in early 2005.
Company’s U.S. pharmaceutical business as greater federal involvement and The successful launch of these investigational compounds will further enhance
budget constraints may increase the likelihood of pricing pressures or controls the Company’s strategy to transition its product portfolio to cover all of the ten
in the future. In many markets outside the United States, the Company operates disease areas discussed above.
in environments of government-mandated, cost-containment programs. Most While internal growth is vital to the Company’s future success, the Company
European countries, except the United Kingdom and Germany, do not provide is continually evaluating and pursuing external possibilities through alliances
market pricing for new medicines. Pricing freedom is limited in the United and collaborative agreements. The Company has a notable record of executing
Kingdom by the operation of a profit control plan and in Germany by the opera- successful licensing arrangements to supplement its own pipeline, and many of
tion of a reference price system. Companies also face significant delays in mar- these arrangements have led to fruitful codevelopment, copromotion and
ket access for new products, and more than two years can elapse before new comarketing agreements. The Company expects to continue to complement its
medicines become available on some national markets. pipeline in 2005 with additional licensed products. Another component of the
The growth of Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) in the U.S. has played a Company’s strategy includes entry into the biologics business, which requires
large role in the competition that surrounds the health care industry. MCOs increased investments in manufacturing facilities and third-party manufacturing
seek to reduce health care expenditures for participants by making volume arrangements to meet future commercial demand expected to be generated
purchases and entering into long-term contracts to negotiate discounts with from new product launches. In addition, the Company continues to maintain
various pharmaceutical providers. Because of the market potential created by collaborations with major biotechnology and research institutions to enhance
the large pool of participants, marketing prescription drugs to MCOs has the life cycle of the Company’s product portfolio beyond initial approval/com-
become an important part of the Company’s strategy. Companies compete for mercialization, such as offering combination therapy and product extensions.
inclusion in an MCO formulary and the Company has generally been success- Another major aspect of the Company’s strategy relates to how it does busi-
ful in having its major products included. ness, specifically in marketing and sales approaches. Specialists are playing an
Pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated and even greater role in decisions related to patient treatment and care, particularly
vary widely from product to product. Shifting or adding manufacturing capacity in the ten critical disease areas where the Company is focusing its efforts. For
can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital expenditures and regula- this reason, the Company is recasting its business model to focus on specialists
tory approvals. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than as well as with those primary care physicians who are involved in treating
those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. Although the Company does patients in these select disease areas. In order to achieve its strategic objec-
have the capacity to manufacture biologics for clinical trials and commercial tives, the Company also plans to moderate selling, general and administrative
launch, its current capacity to manufacture larger commercial volumes of these spending for the next several years, through the customer model noted above,
products is limited. as well as elimination of organizational inefficiencies.
The Company has maintained a competitive position in the market and strives
to uphold this position, which is dependent on its success in discovering and RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
developing innovative products that serve unmet medical needs. The following discussion of the Company’s results of continuing operations
excludes the results related to the OTN business, which have been segregated
Strategy from continuing operations and are reflected as discontinued operations for all
The Company is implementing a new strategy to discover and develop periods presented. See “Discontinued Operations.”
innovative medicines that address significant unmet medical needs in ten % Change
critical disease areas. These areas are: affective (psychiatric) disorders, 2004 2003
to to
Alzheimer’s/dementia, atherosclerosis/thrombosis, diabetes, hepatitis,
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 2003 2002
HIV/AIDS, obesity, oncology, rheumatoid arthritis and related diseases and
solid organ transplant. The Company continuously strives to create better Net Sales $19,380 $18,653 $16,208 4% 15%
treatments for patients by building a high quality drug discovery and develop- Earnings from
ment pipeline. continuing operations
Since 2003, the Company has undergone a transition in its pharmaceutical before minority interest
product portfolio as older product lines, including the Glucophage franchise, and income taxes $4,418 $4,680 $2,748 (6)% 70%
Monopril,TAXOL®and Paraplatin, have experienced exclusivity loss. With the % of net sales 22.8% 25.1% 17.0%
successful launches of newer products including Abilify for the treatment of Provision for
psychiatric disorders, Reyatazfor human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and income taxes $1,519 $1,210 $386 26% **
ERBITUX for cancer, the portfolio is being refocused on growth brands which Effective tax rate 34.4% 25.9% 14.0%
fall within the ten critical disease areas targeting specialists and high-value Earnings from
primary care physicians. Sales of products within the ten disease areas have continuing operations $2,378 $3,097 $2,059 (23)% 50%
been increasing steadily, and are expected to comprise about half of pharma- % of net sales 12.3% 16.6% 12.7%
ceutical product sales by the end of 2005. The Company is making significant
** Change is in excess of 200%
– 34–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportNet Sales invoices the wholesaler, records deferred revenue at gross invoice sales price
Net sales from continuing operations for 2004 increased 4% to $19.4 billion and classifies the inventory held by the wholesalers as consignment inventory
due to the favorable impact from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. U.S. net at the Company’s cost of such inventory. The Company recognizes revenue
sales in 2004 remained constant at $10.6 billion compared to 2003, with (net of the gross to net sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve
growth in prescription demand for key brands, including Plavix, Avapro/Avalide significant estimates and judgments) when the risks and rewards of ownership
and Sustiva, and new product introductions, including Abilify, Reyatazand are transferred to the customer, which is not later than when such inventory is
ERBITUX, offset by lower sales of other products as a result of exclusivity losses sold through to the wholesalers’ customers, on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis.
forMonopril, Paraplatinand the Glucophage franchise. U.S. net sales increased The Company’s aggregate cost of pharmaceutical products that were
13% in 2003 from $9.4 billion in 2002 while international net sales increased accounted for using the consignment model (and accordingly, were reflected
18% to $8.0 billion in 2003 from $6.8 billion in 2002, or 8% excluding favorable as consignment inventory on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet) were
foreign exchange. International net sales increased 10% to $8.8 billion in 2004, not significant at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The deferred revenue related
or 2% excluding favorable foreign exchange. This 2% growth in sales was pri- to the inventory of pharmaceutical products accounted for using the consign-
marily attributable to increased sales of Plavix, Avapro/Avalide and the launch ment model was fully worked down by December 31, 2004. Deferred revenue
of Reyatazand Abilify in Europe, offset by a decline in Pravachol. In 2003, net recorded at gross invoice sales price, was approximately $12 million at
sales from continuing operations increased 15% to $18.7 billion, including a 4% December 31, 2003. Approximately $10 million, $321 million and $1,397 million
favorable impact from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. of deferred revenue was recognized in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The
The composition of the net increase in sales is as follows: corresponding effect on earnings from continuing operations before minority
2004 2003 interest and income taxes was an increase of $8 million, $237 million and
$1,095 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Volume — 9% The Company recognizes revenue on a gross sales basis and deducts vari-
Selling prices, net — 2% ous sales adjustments to arrive at net sales as reported on the Consolidated
Foreign exchange 4% 4% Statement of Earnings. These adjustments are referred to as gross-to-net sales
Increase in sales 4% 15% adjustments and are further described in “Critical Accounting Policies” below.
The following table summarizes the Company’s gross-to-net sales adjustments
In general, the Company’s business is not seasonal. For information on U.S. for each significant category:
pharmaceuticals prescriber demand, reference is made to the table within
Business Segments under the “Pharmaceuticals” section below, which sets Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002
forth a comparison of changes in net sales to the estimated total prescription
growth (for both retail and mail order customers) for certain of the Company’s Gross Sales $23,896 $ 22,992 $ 20,117
primary care pharmaceutical products. Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments
The Company operates in three reportable segments—Pharmaceuticals, Prime Vendor Charge-Backs (1,319) (1,228) (1,028)
Nutritionals and Other Healthcare. In 2004, the Company signed a definitive Women, Infants and Children (WIC) Rebates (846) (854) (993)
agreement to sell OTN, which was previously presented as a separate segment. Managed Health Care Rebates and Other
As such, the results of operations for OTN are presented as part of the Company’s Contract Discounts (660) (710) (503)
results from discontinued operations in accordance with Statement of Financial Medicaid Rebates (673) (523) (490)
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Cash Discounts (311) (319) (281)
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.Accordingly, OTN results of operations in prior Sales Returns (276) (348) (345)
periods have been reclassified to discontinued operations to conform with cur- Other Adjustments (431) (357) (269)
rent year presentations. The percent of the Company’s sales by segment were Total Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments (4,516) (4,339) (3,909)
as follows: Net Sales $19,380 $18,653 $16,208
% Change
2004 2003 In 2004, the increases from 2003 for prime vendor charge-backs and
to to
Medicaid rebates were primarily due to a shift in sales to products with higher
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 2003 2002
discounts in prime vendor and Medicaid programs while the decreases in sales
Pharmaceuticals $15,482 $14,925 $12,814 4% 16% returns were primarily attributable to higher sales returns in 2003 resulting from
% of net sales 80% 80% 79% discontinued products and product conversions. The overall increase in gross-
Nutritionals 2,001 2,023 1,821 (1)% 11% to-net sales adjustments in 2003 from 2002 was primarily due to sales growth
% of net sales 10% 11% 11% and increases in managed care rebates principally due to a shift in sales to
Other Healthcare 1,897 1,705 1,573 11% 8% products with higher discounts, partially offset by a decrease in WIC rebates
% of net sales 10% 9% 10% due to a decline in state WIC contracts.
Total $19,380 $18,653 $16,208 4% 15%
The Company recognizes revenue for sales when substantially all the risks
and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, which generally
occurs on the date of shipment. When substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership do not transfer, the Company uses a consignment model to recog-
nize the revenue. Under this model, the Company does not recognize revenue
upon shipment of product. Rather, upon shipment of product the Company
– 35–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportThe following table sets forth the activities and ending balances of each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustments:
Managed
Women, Healthcare
Prime Infants and Rebates and
Vendor Children Other
Charge- (WIC) Contract Medicaid Cash Sales Other
Dollars in Millions Backs Rebates Discounts Rebates Discounts Returns Adjustments Total
Balance at December 31, 2002 $ 134 $ 282 $ 230 $ 220 $ 16 $ 165 $ 87 $ 1,134
Provision related to sales made in current period 1,228 849 710 522 319 335 360 4,323
Provision related to sales made in prior periods — 5 — 1 — 13 (3) 16
Returns and payments (1,261) (928) (692) (510) (305) (246) (322) (4,264)
Impact of foreign currency translation — — 1 — — 1 2 4
Balance at December 31, 2003 101 208 249 233 30 268 124 1,213
Provision related to sales made in current period 1,314 843 646 618 311 270 463 4,465
Provision related to sales made in prior periods 5 3 14 55 — 6 (32) 51
Returns and payments (1,314) (820) (711) (534) (308) (316) (385) (4,388)
Impact of foreign currency translation — — — — — 1 6 7
Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 106 $ 234 $ 198 $ 372 $ 33 $ 229 $ 176 $ 1,348
In 2004, the Company recorded charges of $55 million for Medicaid rebates related to sales made in prior periods. These charges include $34 million for
rebate claims from prior years by certain states, primarily in relation to Medicaid utilization of oncology products not previously reported to the Company, and other
revisions resulting from the availability of additional information. In addition, the Company recorded $32 million for other adjustments as a result of lower-than-
expected rebates to foreign governments. No other significant revisions were made to the estimates for gross-to-net sales adjustments in 2004 and 2003.
Pharmaceuticals
The composition of the net increase in pharmaceutical sales is as follows: Key pharmaceutical products and their sales, representing 79%, 78% and 74%
of total pharmaceutical sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are as follows:
Analysis of % Change % Change
Foreign 2004 2003
Total Change Volume Price Exchange to to
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 2003 2002
2004 vs. 2003 4% 1% (1)% 4%
2003 vs. 2002 16% 9% 2% 5% Cardiovascular
Plavix $3,327 $2,467 $1,890 35% 31%
In 2004, worldwide Pharmaceuticals sales increased 4% to $15,482 million Pravachol 2,635 2,827 2,266 (7)% 25%
due to favorable foreign exchange impact. Domestic sales in 2004 remained Avapro/Avalide 930 757 586 23% 29%
constant at $8,446 million compared to $8,431 million in 2003. Domestic sales Monopril 274 470 426 (42)% 10%
were negatively affected by increased competition for Pravachol, and exclusivity Coumadin 255 303 300 (16)% 1%
losses of Paraplatinand the Glucophage franchise, offset by increased sales Virology
of Plavix and newer products, including Abilify, Reyatazand ERBITUX. Sustiva 621 544 455 14% 20%
International sales in 2004 increased 8% to $7,036 million, or a decrease of Reyataz 414 88 — ** —
1% excluding favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily due to generic Videx/Videx EC 274 267 262 3% 2%
competition for Pravacholand TAXOL®, partially offset by the launches of Zerit 272 354 443 (23)% (20)%
Abilify, Reyatazand continued growth in Plavix and Avapro/Avalide. Infectious Diseases
In 2003, worldwide Pharmaceuticals sales increased 16% to $14,925 mil- Cefzil 270 327 287 (17)% 14%
lion, or 11% excluding favorable foreign exchange impact. Domestic sales in Tequin 169 208 184 (19)% 13%
2003 increased 16% to $8,431 million primarily due to increased sales of Oncology
Plavix, Pravachol, Abilify, Glucovance and Paraplatinand partly due to the TAXOL® 991 934 857 6% 9%
impact on 2002 sales from the workdown of non-consignment wholesaler Paraplatin 673 905 727 (26)% 24%
inventory, and the launch of Reyatazin July 2003, partially offset by decreased ERBITUX 261 — — — —-
sales of Glucophage IR and TAXOL®primarily due to generic competition. Affective (Psychiatric)
International sales in 2003 increased 17% to $6,494 million, including an Disorders
11% favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily due to increased sales of Abilify (total revenue) 593 283 25 110% **
Pravachol, TAXOL®, Plavix, Avapro/Avalide and analgesic products in Europe Metabolics
partially offset by price declines principally in Germany and Italy. Glucovance 169 424 246 (60)% 72%
Glucophage IR 68 118 220 (42)% (46)%
Glucophage XR 67 395 297 (83)% 33%
** Change is in excess of 200%
– 36–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Report•Sales of Plavix, a platelet aggregation inhibitor sold by the Company •Sales of Sustiva, a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treat-
primarily in the U.S., increased 35%, including a 2% favorable foreign ment of HIV, increased 14%, including a 5% favorable foreign exchange
exchange impact, to $3,327 million in 2004 from 2003, primarily due to impact, to $621 million in 2004 from the prior year primarily due to increased
strong prescription growth of 24% in the U.S. market. Sales in 2003 were demand in 2004 and higher prices. U.S. sales increased 9% to $364 million
$2,467 million, an increase of 31%, including a 3% favorable foreign in 2004, while total U.S. prescription growth increased by 4% in 2004.
exchange impact, from $1,890 million in 2002, primarily due to strong pre- International sales of Sustivaincreased 22%, including a 13% favorable for-
scription growth of 29% in the U.S. Plavix is a cardiovascular product eign exchange impact, to $257 million in 2004 driven by increased sales in
launched from the alliance between the Company and Sanofi-Aventis Spain, the UK, France and Italy. In 2003, Sustivasales increased 20% to
(Sanofi). Market exclusivity for Plavix is expected to expire in 2011 in the U.S. $544 million from $455 million in 2002, primarily due to the workdown of
and 2013 in the EU. Statements on exclusivity are subject to any adverse U.S. wholesaler inventory in the third quarter of 2002. Market exclusivity pro-
determination that may occur with respect to the Plavix patent litigation. For tection for Sustivais expected to expire in 2013 in the U.S. and in countries in
additional information on the Plavix patent litigation, see Note 21, “Legal the EU; the Company does not, but others do, market Sustivain Japan.
Proceedings and Contingencies.”
•Sales of Reyataz, a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, which was
•Sales of Pravachol, an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor, decreased 7%, launched in the U.S. in the third quarter of 2003 and in Europe in the second
including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $2,635 million in 2004. quarter of 2004, were $414 million compared with $88 million in 2003.
Domestic sales decreased 12% to $1,420 million in 2004, as total U.S. pre- Reyatazhas achieved a weekly new prescription share of the U.S. protease
scription demand decreased 10%. International sales decreased 1%, includ- inhibitors market of approximately 28%. Market exclusivity for Reyatazis
ing a 10% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $1,215 million due to expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., in countries in the EU and Japan.
exclusivity loss in select European markets, including Germany and the UK.
Sales for Pravacholincreased 25% to $2,827 million in 2003 from $2,266 •Sales of Videx/Videx EC, an antiretroviral agent used in the treatment of HIV,
million in 2002 primarily due to wholesaler workdown of inventory in the U.S. increased 3%, or decreased 3% excluding a 6% favorable foreign exchange
in 2002 and continued growth in Europe, particularly in France, the UK and impact, to $274 million in 2004. Videx/Videx EC sales increased 2% to $267
Italy. Market exclusivity protection for Pravacholis expected to expire in April million in 2003 from $262 million in 2002, due to increased sales in Europe,
2006 in the U.S. Market exclusivity in the EU expired in 2004, with the excep- partially offset by sales declines in the U.S. The Company has a licensing
tion of France and Sweden, for which expiration will occur in August and arrangement with the U.S. Government for Videx/Videx EC, which by its
March 2006, respectively, and in Italy, for which expiration will occur in terms became nonexclusive in 2001. The U.S. Government’s method of use
January 2008. patent expires in 2007 in the U.S. (which includes an earned pediatric exten-
sion) and in Japan, and between 2006 and 2009 in countries in the EU. The
•Sales of Avapro/Avalide, angiotensin II receptor blockers for the treatment of license to the Company is non-exclusive, which has allowed another com-
hypertension, increased 23%, including a 5% favorable foreign exchange pany to obtain a license from the U.S. Government and receive approval for
impact, to $930 million in 2004 driven by increased sales in Europe and marketing. With respect to Videx/Videx EC, the Company has patents cover-
strong U.S. prescription growth of approximately 15%. Sales increased 29%, ing the reduced mass formulation of Videx/Videx EC that expire in 2012 in
including a 6% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $757 million in 2003 the U.S., the EU and Japan. However, these patents apply only to the type of
from $586 million in 2002, primarily due to strong U.S. prescription growth reduced mass formulation specified in the patent. Other reduced mass for-
and price increases. Avapro/Avalide are cardiovascular products launched mulations may exist. There is currently no issued patent covering the Videx
from the alliance between the Company and Sanofi. Market exclusivity for EC formulation.
Avapro/Avalide (known in the EU as Aprovel/Karvea) is expected to expire
in 2011 in the U.S. and 2012 in countries in the EU; Avapro/Avalide are not •Sales of Zerit,an antiretroviral agent used in the treatment of HIV, decreased
currently marketed in Japan. 23%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $272 million in
2004, primarily as a result of continued decrease in demand due to potential
•Sales of Monopril, a second generation angiotensin converting enzyme adverse side effects. Zeritsales decreased 20%, including a 5% favorable
(ACE) inhibitor for the treatment of hypertension, decreased 42%, including a foreign exchange impact, to $354 million in 2003 from $443 million in 2002,
4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $274 million due to the impact of primarily as a result of decreased demand due to potential adverse side
market exclusivity loss. Sales in 2003 were $470 million, an increase of 10%, effects. Market exclusivity protection for Zeritis expected to expire in 2008 in
including a 5% favorable foreign exchange impact, from $426 million in the U.S., between 2007 and 2011 in countries in the EU and in 2008 in Japan.
2002, resulting from the introduction of a branded generic product and a
new government contract. Market exclusivity protection for Monoprilexpired •Sales of Cefzil, an antibiotic for the treatment of mild to moderately severe
in 2003 in the U.S. and has expired or is expected to expire between 2001 bacterial infections, decreased 17%, including a 2% favorable foreign
and 2008 in countries in the EU. Monoprilis not currently marketed in Japan. exchange impact, to $270 million in 2004, primarily due to decreased
domestic demand, partially offset by higher international sales. Cefzilsales
•Sales of Coumadin, an oral anti-coagulant used predominately in patients increased 14% to $327 million in 2003 from $287 million in 2002. Market
with atrial fibrillation or deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism, exclusivity is expected to expire in 2005 in the U.S., between 2007 and 2009
decreased 16% to $255 million in 2004 compared to 2003 sales, due to in the EU and expired in 2004 in Japan.
increased generic competition. Sales in 2003 increased 1% to $303 million
from $300 million in 2002. Market exclusivity for Coumadinexpired in the
U.S. in 1997.
– 37–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Report•Tequin, an antibiotic used for the treatment of respiratory tract infections, had in 2009 in the U.S. (and may be extended until 2014 if a pending patent
sales of $169 million in 2004, a decrease of 19% compared to 2003 sales. In term extension is granted). The Company also has the right to copromote
2003, sales increased 13% to $208 million from $184 million in 2002. Tequin Abilify in several European countries (the United Kingdom, France,
is a seasonal product with sales increasing during the flu season. The sales Germany and Spain) and to act as exclusive distributor for the product in
fluctuations from 2002 to 2004 were due to a strong flu season in 2003 and the rest of the European Union (EU). Market exclusivity protection for
a weak flu season in 2004. The basic U.S. patent expires in 2007; however, it Abilify is expected to expire in 2009 for the EU (and may be extended until
is expected that the patent will be eligible for a statutory patent term exten- 2014 if pending supplemental protection certificates are granted). The
sion until 2009. Company’s right to market Abilify expires in November 2012 in the U.S.
and Puerto Rico and, for the countries in the EU where the Company has
•Sales of TAXOL®, the Company’s leading anticancer agent, were $991 the exclusive right to market Abilify, in June 2014. For additional informa-
million in 2004 compared to $934 million in 2003. Sales of TAXOL®, which tion on revenue recognition of Abilify, see Note 2, “Alliances and
are almost exclusively international, increased 6%, or decreased 3% exclud- Investments.”
ing favorable foreign exchange, primarily as a result of generic competition in
Europe. Generic competition for TAXOL®in a majority of the major European •Glucophage franchise sales decreased 65% to $336 million in 2004, com-
markets began in the second quarter of 2004 and increased in the second pared to a 22% increase to $948 million in 2003 from $778 million in 2002.
half of 2004. In 2003, TAXOL®sales increased 9% or decreased 3% exclud- The decrease in sales in 2004 primarily resulted from increased generic
ing favorable foreign exchange to $934 million from $857 million in 2002, competition. Glucophage IR, an oral medication for treatment of non-
primarily due to generic competition in the U.S., partially offset by strong insulin dependent (type 2) diabetes, experienced a sales decrease of 42%
sales in Japan and France. Market exclusivity protection for TAXOL®expired to $68 million. Sales decreased 46% to $118 million in 2003 from $220 mil-
in 2002 in the U.S., in 2003 in the EU and is expected to expire between lion in 2002. Glucovance, an oral combination drug, and Glucophage XR
2003 and 2013 in Japan. (Extended Release) tablets had sales in 2004 of $169 million and $67 mil-
lion, respectively, compared with sales in 2003 of $424 million and $395
•Sales of Paraplatin, an anticancer agent, decreased 26%, including a 1% million, respectively, and sales in 2002 of $246 million and $297 million,
favorable foreign exchange impact, to $673 million due to generic competi- respectively. Market exclusivity protection expired in March 2000 for
tion in the U.S. which began in mid-2004 and increased with the entry of mul- Glucophage IR, in October 2003 for Glucophage XR, and in January
tiple generic competitors in the fourth quarter. Domestic sales of Paraplatin 2004 for Glucovance. The Company does not, but others do, market
decreased 30% to $537 million. In 2003, Paraplatinsales increased 24%, these products in the EU and Japan.
with no significant foreign exchange impact, to $905 million from $727 mil-
lion in 2002, primarily due to the introduction of a new formulation of In most instances, the basic exclusivity loss date indicated above is the expi-
Paraplatinin 2003 and price increases. Market exclusivity protection for ration date of the patent that claims the active ingredient of the drug or the
Paraplatinexpired in October 2004 in the U.S., in 2000 in the EU and in method of using the drug for the approved indication. In some instances, the
1998 in Japan. basic exclusivity loss date indicated is the expiration date of the data exclusivity
period. In situations where there is only data exclusivity without patent protec-
•ERBITUX, an injection used in combination with irinotecan in the treatment tion, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical
of patients with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR)-expressing trial data to obtain marketing approval. The Company assesses the market
metastatic colorectal cancer who are refractory to irinotecan-based exclusivity period for each of its products on a case-by-case basis. The length of
chemotherapy and as a single agent in the treatment of patients with market exclusivity for any of the Company’s products is difficult to predict with
EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer who are intolerant to certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory
irinotecan-based chemotherapy, was approved by the FDA in February forms of exclusivity and other factors. There can be no assurance that a particu-
2004. Sales of ERBITUX, which is sold almost exclusively in the U.S., were lar product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that the
$261 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. A patent relating to Company currently anticipates.
combination therapy with ERBITUX expires in 2017. The Company’s right The following table sets forth a comparison of reported net sales changes
to market ERBITUX in North America and Japan expires in September 2018. and the estimated total U.S. prescription growth (for both retail and mail order
The Company does not, but others do, market ERBITUX in countries in customers) for certain of the Company’s U.S. pharmaceutical prescription prod-
the EU. ucts. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data
provided by IMS Health, a supplier of market research to the pharmaceutical
•Total revenue for Abilify, which is primarily domestic alliance revenue for the industry. A significant portion of the Company’s domestic pharmaceutical
Company’s 65% share of net sales in copromotion countries with Otsuka sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), was $593 million in 2004, compared with from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying
$283 million and $25 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively, due to contin- prescriber demand.
ued growth in prescription demand since its launch. The schizophrenia
agent was introduced in the United States in November 2002 and by
December 2004, had achieved more than a 10% weekly new prescription
share of the U.S. antipsychotic market. The European Commission granted
marketing authorization for Abilify in June 2004 and total revenue has
reached $26 million since public sales commenced in June 2004. In
September 2004, the FDA approved Abilify for the treatment of acute bipolar
mania in the U.S. Market exclusivity protection for Abilify is expected to expire
– 38–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Report2004 2003 2002 continue to monitor Paraplatinsales with the intention of working down whole-
% Change % Change % Change % Change % Change % Change saler inventories to less than one month on hand.
in U.S. in U.S.Total in U.S. in U.S. Total in U.S. in U.S.Total
The Company maintains inventory management agreements (IMAs) with
Net Sales Prescriptions Net Sales Prescriptions Net Sales Prescriptions
(a) (b) (a) (b) (a) (b) most of its U.S. wholesalers which account for nearly 100% of total gross sales
of U.S. pharmaceutical products. Under the current terms of the IMAs, these
Plavix 36 24 27 29 63 35 wholesalers provide the Company with information with respect to inventory lev-
Pravachol (12) (10) 22 2 1 5 els of product on hand and the amount of out-movement of products. The
Avapro/Avalide 19 15 24 15 16 13 inventory information received from wholesalers is a product of their record-
Monopril (85) (77) 16 (16) 2 (8) keeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they
Coumadin (18) (17) 1 (15) ** (16) sell, such as retailers and hospitals. The Company determines the amount of
Sustiva 9 4 13 17 ** 16 out-movement of a product over a period of one month by using the most
Videx/Videx EC (3) (4) (11) 3 15 13 recent prior four weeks of out-movement of a product as provided by these
Zerit (32) (29) (29) (25) (13) (11) wholesalers. The Company also determines months on hand estimates by
Cefzil (31) (30) 14 (4) (7) (14) using such factors as historical sales made to those wholesalers and from third-
Glucovance (61) (51) 72 3 (9) 48 party market research data related to prescription trends and patient demand.
Glucophage XR (83) (78) 33 (3) 29 81
Nutritionals
** In excess of 200%.
The composition of the net increase in Nutritionals sales is as follows:
(a) Reflects change in net sales in dollar terms, including change in average selling prices and
wholesaler buying patterns.
(b) Reflects change in total prescriptions in unit terms, based on third-party data. Analysis of % Change
Total Change Volume Price Foreign Exchange
The following table sets forth for each of the Company’s key pharmaceutical
products sold by the Company’s U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the amount of 2004 vs. 2003 (1)% (7)% 6% —
the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business’s net sales of the applicable product for the 2003 vs. 2002 11% 7% 5% (1)%
year ended December 31, 2004 and the estimated number of months on hand
of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel as of Key Nutritionals product lines and their sales, representing 94%, 84% and
December 31, 2004. 85% of total Nutritionals sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are as follows:
Dollars in Millions Net Sales Months on Hand % Change
2004 2003
to to
Plavix $2,833 0.8
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 2003 2002
Pravachol 1,420 0.8
Avapro/Avalide 562 0.7 Infant Formulas $1,405 $1,284 $1,172 9% 10%
Abilify 554 0.7 Toddler/Children’s
Paraplatin 537 1.2 Nutritionals 468 421 383 11% 10%
Sustiva 364 0.6
Glucophage Franchise 315 0.9 Worldwide Nutritionals sales decreased 1% to $2,001 million in 2004 from
Reyataz 305 0.6 2003. Excluding the impact of the Adult Nutritionals business that was divested
Coumadin 228 0.8 during the first quarter of 2004, worldwide sales increased 9% to $1,973 million
Tequin 124 0.6 from $1,817 million in 2003.
Zerit 119 0.7 International sales, excluding the impact of the Adult Nutritionals business,
Videx/Videx EC 106 0.6 increased 15%, primarily due to increased sales of infant formula and children’s
Monopril 34 0.8 nutritionals products. The increase in international sales is primarily due to a
15% increase in Enfagrow, a toddler and children’s nutritionals product, and a
The Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing 15% increase in Enfamil, the Company’s largest-selling infant formula, including
the estimated amount of the product in the wholesaler distribution channel by a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact. Domestic sales, excluding the impact
the estimated amount of out-movement of the product over a period of four of the Adult Nutritionals business, increased 3% to $945 million in 2004 from
weeks calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the $920 million in 2003, primarily due to increased sales of Enfamil.
Company’s estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, In 2003, Nutritionals sales were $2,023 million, an increase of 11%, including
wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesale list prices, new product a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange, over 2002. International sales
launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stock- increased 9%, including a 2% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to $938
ings by wholesalers. million from $862 million in 2002, while domestic sales increased 13% to
Paraplatinlost exclusivity in October 2004 and demand has since decreased $1,085 million from $959 million in 2002. Worldwide infant formula sales
significantly, resulting in the estimated months on hand of greater than one increased 10% to $1,284 million in 2003, primarily due to increased sales of
month. The value of Paraplatininventory over one month on hand at December Enfamil. International sales of Enfamilincreased 5% to $239 million in 2003
31, 2004 was approximately $4 million. The Company plans to from $228 million in 2002 and domestic sales of Enfamilincreased 10% to
$569 million in 2003 from $518 million in 2002. Worldwide toddler and chil-
dren’s nutritionals sales increased 10%, including a 5% unfavorable foreign
– 39–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportexchange impact, to $421 million in 2003 from $383 million in 2002, as a result Geographic Areas
of a 29% increase in sales of Enfagrow, primarily throughout the Pacific region, At least some of the Company’s products are available in most countries in
to $156 million in 2003. the world. The largest markets are in the United States, France, Japan, Spain,
Germany, Italy, Canada and the UK. The Company’s sales by geographic areas
Other Healthcare were as follows:
The Other Healthcare segment includes ConvaTec, the Medical Imaging % Change
business and Consumer Medicines in the United States and Japan. The com- 2004 2003
to to
position of the net increase in Other Healthcare sales is as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 2003 2002
Analysis of % Change
Total Change Volume Price Foreign Exchange United States $10,613 $10,656 $9,450 — 13%
% of Total 55% 57% 58%
2004 vs. 2003 11% 6% 1% 4% Europe, Middle East
2003 vs. 2002 8% 2% 1% 5% and Africa 5,470 4,985 4,041 10% 23%
%of Total 28% 27% 25%
Other Healthcare sales by business and their key products for the years Other Western
ended December 31, were as follows: Hemisphere 1,425 1,333 1,215 7% 10%
% Change % of Total 7% 7% 8%
2004 2003 Pacific 1,872 1,679 1,502 11% 12%
to to
% of Total 10% 9% 9%
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 2003 2002
Total $19,380 $18,653 $16,208 4% 15%
ConvaTec $954 $843 $734 13% 15%
Ostomy 551 512 453 8% 13% Sales in the United States remained constant in 2004, with growth in pre-
Wound Therapeutics 391 319 273 23% 17% scription demand for key brands including Plavix, Avapro/Avalide, and Sustiva,
Medical Imaging 589 508 462 16% 10% and newer products including Abilify, Reyatazand ERBITUX, offset by lower
Cardiolite 406 324 299 25% 8% sales of other products as a result of exclusivity losses for Monopril, Paraplatin
Consumer Medicines 354 354 377 — (6)% and the Glucophage franchise. In 2003, sales in the United States increased
13%, primarily due to increased sales of Plavix, Pravachol, Abilify, Glucovance
•In 2004, the increase in ConvaTec sales was due to a 6% increase in and Paraplatin. These sales increases were partially offset by the continued
volume and an 8% increase due to foreign exchange partially offset by impact of generic competition in the United States on Glucophage IR and
a 1% decrease from changes in selling prices. The increase over 2003 TAXOL®and the result of loss of exclusivity and a label change indicating a
was a result of increased worldwide sales of wound therapeutics products, potential serious side effect of Serzone.
which increased 23%, including an 8% favorable foreign exchange impact, Sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa increased 10%, or decreased 1%
to $391 million. Ostomy sales were flat, excluding an 8% increase due to excluding the impact from foreign exchange, as a result of sales decline of
foreign exchange impact. In 2003, the increase in ConvaTec sales over 2002 Pravacholdue to exclusivity loss in select markets, including Germany and
was due to a 13% increase in worldwide sales of ostomy products to $512 the UK, and TAXOL®, where generic competition in a majority of the major
million and strong growth of worldwide wound therapeutics products, which European markets began in the second quarter of 2004. This decrease in
increased 17% to $319 million. Foreign exchange contributed 9% to the sales sales was mostly offset by increased sales of Plavix in Germany and Spain,
increase in 2003. Avapro/Avalide in Italy and Spain, and Sustivain the majority of the major
markets. In 2003, sales increased 23%, including a 16% increase from foreign
•In 2004, the increase in Medical Imaging sales was due to a 9% increase in exchange, as a result of sales growth of Pravacholin France; TAXOL®in France,
volume, a 6% increase from changes in selling prices and a 1% increase due Germany, Spain and Italy; analgesics in France; Plavix in Germany and Spain;
to foreign exchange. The increase in Medical Imaging sales in 2004 and Avapro/Avalide in Italy; and Sustivain Spain.
2003 was primarily driven by increased sales ofCardiolite. This increase was Sales in the Other Western Hemisphere countries increased 7%, including a
partially due to a change in the timing of revenue recognition as a result of 2% increase from foreign exchange, primarily due to increased sales of Plavix
new distribution agreements entered into in January 2004. and Avapro/Avalide in Canada. In 2003, sales increased 10%, including a 5%
decrease from foreign exchange, primarily due to increased sales of Plavix
•Consumer Medicines sales remained flat at $354 million in 2004 compared in Canada.
to 2003 and declined from $377 million in 2002. In 2004, the sales increase Pacific region sales increased 11%, including a 5% increase from foreign
in the U.S., primarily driven by higher sales of Excedrin, was offset by exchange in 2004, as a result of increased sales of TAXOL®and Paraplatinin
decreased sales in Japan, primarily due to lower sales of Bufferinand other Japan, and Plavix and Avapro/Avalide in Australia. In 2003, sales increased
over-the-counter medicines. The sales decline in 2003 was in part due to 12%, including a 6% increase from foreign exchange, as a result of increased
distributors reducing U.S. inventory levels to more desirable levels. sales of TAXOL®in Japan and increased sales of Enfagrowthroughout
the region.
– 40–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportExpenses expenses increased 13% to $4,620 million in 2003 from $4,081 million in
% Change 2002, primarily due to increased sales support for Abilify and Avapro/
2004 2003 Avalide, higher pension costs, higher charges related to system infrastruc-
to to
ture, higher insurance premiums, and unfavorable foreign exchange impact,
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 2003 2002
principally related to the euro.
Cost of products sold $ 5,989 $ 5,406 $ 4,691 11% 15%
% of net sales 30.9% 29.0% 28.9% •Advertising and product promotion expenditures remained constant at $1.4
Marketing, selling and billion as compared to 2003, with increased investments in Abilify, Reyataz
administrative 5,016 4,620 4,081 9% 13% and Plavix, offset by lower spending on in-line and non-exclusive products. In
% of net sales 25.9% 24.8% 25.2% 2003, advertising and promotion expenses increased 24% to $1,415 million
Advertising and from $1,142 million in 2002, primarily as a result of promotional support for
product promotion 1,411 1,415 1,142 — 24% the Abilify and Reyatazlaunches and Plavix in the U.S., and additional sup-
% of net sales 7.3% 7.6% 7.0% port for in-line products and unfavorable foreign exchange impact in Europe.
Research and
development 2,500 2,279 2,206 10% 3% •The Company’s investment in research and development totaled $2,500 mil-
% of net sales 12.9% 12.2% 13.6% lion in 2004, an increase of 10% over 2003 and an increase from 2003 of 3%
Acquired in-process over 2002, and as a percentage of sales were 12.9% in 2004 compared with
research and 12.2% in 2003 and 13.6% in 2002. In 2004, the increase in research and
development 63 — 169 — (100)% development expenses was primarily due to higher spending on new devel-
% of net sales — — 1.0% opment projects, including investments in late-stage development, including
Provision for restructuring muraglitazar, a dual PPAR agonist for diabetes; abatacept for the potential
and other items, net 104 26 14 ** 86% treatment of rheumatoid arthritis; and Baracludefor hepatitis B, and invest-
% of net sales 0.5% 0.1% 0.1% ments in the area of biologics, partially offset by Merck’s share of codevelop-
Litigation charges, net 420 199 659 111% (70)% ment costs related to muraglitazar. Research and development costs also
% of net sales 2.2% 1.1% 4.1% included $58 million consisting primarily of upfront and milestone payments
Equity in net income of in 2004, $102 million of charges related to the upfront payments for licensing
affiliates (273) (151) (80) (81)% (89)% agreements in 2003 and $69 million of accelerated depreciation on research
% of net sales (1.4)% (0.8)% (0.5)% facilities in 2002. In 2004, research and development spending dedicated to
Other expense, net 52 179 229 (71)% (22)% pharmaceutical products increased to 14.8% of Pharmaceuticals sales
% of net sales 0.3% 1.0% 1.4% compared with 14.2% in 2003 and decreased compared with 16.5% in 2002.
Total Expenses, net $14,962 $13,973 $13,460 7% 4% The increase reflects the Company’s strategic focus on ten critical disease
% of net sales 77.2% 74.9% 83.0% areas—affective (psychiatric) disorders, Alzheimer’s/dementia, atherosclero-
sis/thrombosis, diabetes, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS, obesity, oncology, rheumatoid
** Change is in excess of 200%.
arthritis and related diseases and solid organ transplant. The Company is
•Cost of products sold, as a percentage of sales, increased over the last two focusing its research and development activities so that it can fully realize the
years to 30.9% in 2004 compared with 29.0% in 2003 and 28.9% in 2002. value of its research and development pipeline. The new priorities include
The increase is primarily due to an increase in accelerated depreciation of rebalancing drug discovery and development to increase support for the
$36 million to $100 million, a $75 million increase in product liability reserves Company’s full late-stage development pipeline and closing unnecessary
and the unfavorable impact of U.S. Pharmaceutical sales mix due to the facilities. They also include devoting greater resources to ensuring success-
impact of generic competition in the U.S. for the Glucophage franchise and ful near-term product launches and increasing the Company’s efforts on
Paraplatinand launch of lower margin ERBITUX, partially offset by sales in-licensing opportunities.
growth of Abilify, Reyataz, and Plavix. Cost of products sold also included
$26 million of commercial litigation expense and $25 million of product •In 2004, the $63 million charge for acquired in-process research and devel-
liability insurance recovery. In 2003, cost of products sold included $53 opment was related to the purchase of Acordis Specialty Fibres (Acordis), a
million of accelerated depreciation of assets in manufacturing facilities in UK-based company which is expected to strengthen the Company’s leader-
North America expected to be closed by the end of 2006 and a $14 million ship position in wound therapeutics. In 2002, the charges related to acquired
charge for asset impairment and other restructuring expenses. Cost of prod- in-process research and development were $169 million, primarily related to
ucts sold in 2002 included a $15 million reversal of prior period reserves for milestone payments to ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone) for
inventory write-offs related to canceled actions. ERBITUX. Of the $200 million milestone payment to ImClone, $160 million
was expensed as acquired in-process research and development in the first
•Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, quarter of 2002. The remaining $40 million was recorded as an additional
were 25.9% in 2004, 24.8% in 2003 and 25.2% in 2002. In 2004, marketing, equity investment to eliminate the income statement effect of the portion of
selling and administrative expenses increased 9% to $5,016 million from the milestone payment for which the Company has an economic claim
2003, primarily due to increased sales and marketing support for newer through its ownership interest in ImClone.
products, including additional sales representatives supporting Abilify. In
addition, the increase was also related to costs associated with the compli- •Restructuring programs have been implemented to downsize, realign and
ance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and unfavorable foreign exchange streamline operations in order to increase productivity, reduce operating
driven by the strengthening of the euro. Marketing, selling and administrative expenses and to rationalize the Company’s manufacturing network, research
– 41–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportfacilities, and the sales and marketing organizations. Actions under the 2004 primarily related to BuSparand TAXOL®settlements. For additional informa-
restructuring program are expected to be complete by 2006, while actions tion on litigation, see Note 21, “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
under the 2003 restructuring programs have been substantially completed,
and actions under the 2002 restructuring programs were completed at •Equity in net income of affiliates for 2004 was $273 million, compared with
December 31, 2004. As a result of these actions, the Company expects the $151 million and $80 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Equity in net
future annual benefit to earnings from continuing operations before minority income of affiliates principally related to the Company’s joint venture with
interest and income taxes to be approximately $186 million, $64 million Sanofi and investment in ImClone. In 2004 and 2003, the increases in equity
and $150 million for the 2004, 2003 and 2002 programs, respectively. For in net income of affiliates primarily reflect higher net income in the Sanofi
additional information on restructuring, see Note 3, “Restructuring and joint venture. For additional information on equity in net income of affiliates,
Other Items.” see Note 2, ”Alliances and Investments.”
•Litigation charges, net of settlement income, were $420 million in 2004, •Other expenses, net of income were $52 million, $179 million and $229 mil-
compared to $199 million in 2003 and $659 million in 2002. The $420 mil- lion in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Other expenses include net inter-
lion in 2004 consisted of $336 million related to private litigation and govern- est expense, foreign exchange gains and losses, income from third-party
mental investigations related to wholesaler inventory issues and accounting contract manufacturing, royalty income, and gains and losses on disposal of
matters, $50 million related to the Platinollitigation settlement and $34 mil- property, plant and equipment. The favorability in 2004 was primarily due to
lion related to pharmaceutical pricing and sales practices. In 2003, the higher income from third-party contract manufacturing, lower net interest
Company established reserves for liabilities in the total amount of $250 mil- expense and lower net foreign exchange losses. The decrease in expenses
lion, comprised of $150 million in relation to wholesaler inventory issues and in 2003 from 2002 was primarily due to net gains from interest rate swaps.
certain other accounting matters, and $100 million in relation to pharmaceu-
tical pricing and sales and marketing practices. In addition, the Company During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company
recorded charges of $31 million for other litigation matters and recognized recorded several items that affected the comparability of results of the periods
income of $82 million. The $82 million income consists primarily of $30 mil- presented herein, which are set forth in the following table. For a discussion of
lion of income for patent defense cost reimbursement, $27 million in litiga- these items, see Note 2, “Alliances and Investments”; Note 3, “Restructuring
tion settlement income and $21 million from the settlement of anti-trust and Other Items”; Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestitures”; and Note 5,
litigation involving vitamin manufacturers. The 2002 charges of $659 million “Discontinued Operations.”
Year ended December 31, 2004
Provision
Acquired in- for Litigation
Cost of process Gain on restructuring settlement Other
products Research and research and sale of and other expense/ expense,
Dollars in Millions sold development development business items, net (income) net Total
Litigation Matters:
Private litigation and governmental
investigations (a) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $336 $ — $336
Product liability 75 — — — — — 11 86
Pharmaceutical pricing and sales litigation (b) — — — — — 34 — 34
Commercial litigation 26 — — — — — — 26
Anti-trust litigation — — — — — 50 — 50
Product liability insurance recovery (25) — — — — — — (25)
76 — — — — 420 11 507
Other:
Gain on sale of Adult Nutritionals business — — — (320) — — — (320)
Accelerated depreciation 100 3 — — — — 4 107
Downsizing and streamlining
of worldwide operations 1 — — — 104 — — 105
Upfront and milestone payments — 55 — — — — — 55
Acordis IPR&D write-off — — 63 — — — — 63
$177 $58 $63 $(320) $104 $420 $15 517
Income taxes on items above (130)
Deferred taxes in anticipation of repatriation of foreign earnings 575
Other tax adjustments $910
Reduction to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $972
(a) relates to wholesaler inventory and accounting matters consisting of $16 million of reserves recorded in the fourth quarter and $320 million disclosed by the Company in the second quarter of
2004. These amounts are incremental to the $150 million recorded last year, bringing the total reserve to $486 million.
(b) incremental to the $100 million reserve recorded by the Company last year, bringing the total reserve to $134 million.
– 42–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportYear ended December 31, 2003
Provision for Litigation
Cost of restructuring settlement
products Research and and other expense/
Dollars in Millions sold development items, net (income) Total
Litigation Matters:
Private litigation and governmental investigations $ — $ — $ — $150 $150
Product liability — — — 15 15
Pharmaceutical pricing and sales litigation — — — 100 100
Litigation settlement income — — — (66) (66)
— — — 199 199
Other:
Upfront payments for licensing agreements — 102 — — 102
Accelerated depreciation and asset impairment charges 64 — — — 64
Termination benefits and other exit costs — — 53 — 53
Relocation and retention 3 — 13 — 16
Change in estimates — — (40) — (40)
$ 67 $102 $ 26 $199 394
Income taxes on items above $3(36)
Reduction to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $358
Year ended December 31, 2002
Provision
Acquired in- for Litigation
Cost of process restructuring settlement Other
products Research and research and and other expense/ Asset expense/
Dollars in Millions sold development development items, net (income) Impairment (income) Total
Litigation Matters:
Anti-trust Litigation $ — $ — $ — $ — $635 $ — $ — $ 635
Commercial Litigation — — — — 18 — — 18
Other Litigation — — — — 6 — — 6
— — — — 659 — — 659
Other:
Sale of product rights — — — — — — (30) (30)
Termination benefits and other exit costs (15) 69 — 14 — — — 68
Acquired in-process research
and development — — 169 — — — — 169
Asset impairment charge — — — — — 379 — 379
$(15) $ 69 $169 $ 14 $659 $379 $(30) 1,245
Income taxes on items above (472)
Settlement of prior year tax matters 01(261)
Reduction to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $1,1512
– 43–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportEarnings operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, foreign net operating loss and tax
Earnings From credit carryforwards, and charitable contribution carryforwards. The Company
Continuing Operations
currently believes that the state net deferred tax assets, state net operating
Before Minority Interest
loss and tax credit carryforwards, foreign net operating loss and tax credit
and Income Taxes % Change
2004 2003 carryforwards, and charitable contribution carryforwards for which valuation
to to allowances have been provided, more likely than not, will not be realized in
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 2003 2002 the future.
Pharmaceuticals $4,257 $4,369 $3,187 (3)% 37% Pharmaceuticals
Nutritionals 586 542 486 8% 12% Earnings before minority interest and income taxes of $4,257 million in 2004
Other Healthcare 573 408 427 40% (4)% decreased from $4,369 million in 2003 primarily driven by gross margin erosion
Total segments 5,416 5,319 4,100 2% 30% due to generic competition and product mix, additional sales representatives
Corporate/Other (998) (639) (1,352) (56)% 53% supporting Abilify, increased spending on research and development, higher
Total $4,418 $4,680 $2,748 (6)% 70% non-clinical grants and litigation settlement income in 2003, partially offset by
higher sales. Earnings before minority interest and income taxes in 2002 were
In 2004, earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and $3,187 million. The increase in 2003 from 2002 was primarily due to increased
income taxes decreased 6% to $4,418 million from $4,680 million in 2003. sales, partially offset by increased advertising and product spending on new
Contributing to the decrease in 2004 were increases in costs of products sold and existing in-line products.
as a result of a change in product mix, products losing exclusivity, increased
investment in research and development, and income and expenses that Nutritionals
affected the comparability of results as discussed above, partially offset by Earnings before minority interest and income taxes increased to $586 million
higher international sales. Net earnings from continuing operations decreased in 2004 from $542 million in 2003. This increase is primarily due to increased
23% in 2004 to $2,378 million from $3,097 million in 2003. In 2004, basic earn- global infant formula sales, a price increase in the infant formula line, favorable
ings per share from continuing operations decreased 23% to $1.23 from $1.60 manufacturing variances and tight operating expense management. In 2003,
in 2003, while diluted earnings per share from continuing operations earnings before minority interest and income taxes in the Nutritionals segment
decreased 24% to $1.21 from $1.59 in 2003. increased from $486 million in 2002 as a result of increased sales of Enfamil.
In 2003, earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and
income taxes increased 70% to $4,680 million from $2,748 million in 2002. The Other Healthcare
increase was primarily a result of increased sales and charges of $1,207 million Earnings before minority interest and income taxes in the Other Healthcare
recorded in 2002 for litigation settlements, asset impairments and write-offs for segment increased to $573 million in 2004 from $408 million in 2003, primarily
in—process research and development. This increase was partially offset by due to sales growth in the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses, in addi-
increased investment in advertising and promotion and in marketing, selling tion to favorable pricing and product mix. In 2003, earnings before minority
and administrative expenses. Earnings from continuing operations increased interest and income taxes in this segment decreased from $427 million in 2002,
50% in 2003 to $3,097 million from $2,059 million in 2002. In 2003, basic and primarily as a result of unfavorable product mix and inventory write-offs for
diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 50% each to ExcedrinQUICKTABS in the Consumer Medicines business.
$1.60 and $1.59, respectively, from $1.07 and $1.06 in 2002, respectively.
The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before Discontinued Operations
minority interest and income taxes was 34.4% in 2004 compared with 25.8% in In December 2004, the Company committed to a plan to sell OTN and
2003 and 14.0% in 2002. The higher effective tax rate in 2004 is attributable pri- entered into a definitive sale agreement with One Equity Partners LLC. OTN
marily to a $575 million charge for estimated deferred taxes taken in the fourth was formerly reported as a distinct operating segment. The transaction is
quarter in anticipation of repatriating in 2005 approximately $9 billion in special expected to be completed in the first half of 2005. The sale price will be equal to
dividends from the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries, pursuant to the American $210 million, plus certain price adjustments based on OTN’s excess of current
Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA), an increase in estimates for contingent tax assets over current liabilities on the closing date. The sale will result in a pre-tax
matters in 2004 compared to 2003, and a charge related to the establishment gain of $40 to $50 million, subject to certain price adjustments and other post-
of a valuation allowance against certain charitable contribution carryforwards. closing matters. The gain from the sale of OTN will be recognized on the closing
This increase was partially offset by the favorable resolution of certain tax date. For further discussions of OTN, see Note 5, “Discontinued Operations.”
refund claims, increased foreign tax credits, and in 2003, the effect of certain lit- The following amounts related to the OTN business have been segregated
igation reserves as non-deductible in 2003. The Company’s estimate of the tax from continuing operations and are reflected as discontinued operations for all
cost related to the dividend repatriation at December 31, 2004 was based on periods presented:
tax laws then in effect. The estimate may be revised as a result of additional
guidance or clarifying language that may be issued by Congress and/or the
Department of the Treasury, or any changes in the Company’s factual assump-
tions that may occur. The increase in the 2003 effective tax rate over the 2002
effective tax rate was primarily due to the decrease in effective tax rate benefit
from operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and Switzerland; the treatment of provi-
sions for certain litigation reserves as non-deductible; and an increase in esti-
mates for contingent tax matters in 2003 compared to 2002. The Company has
recorded valuation allowances for certain state net deferred tax assets, state net
– 44–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportDollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 authorization application for Baracludeto the European Medicines Evaluation
Agency.
Net sales $ 2,506 $ 2,241 $ 1,898
In August 2004, the FDA approved the Company’s supplemental New Drug
Earnings before income taxes 15 14 13
Net earnings from discontinued operations 10 9 8 Application (sNDA) to include new long-term virologic and clinical data from
BMS Study 006 in its prescribing information related to Sustiva(efavirenz). The
The net earnings from discontinued operations of $40 million reflected in the new data demonstrate the long-term durability of virologic response in people
2002 statement of earnings primarily reflects a reduction of $32 million in the living with HIV-1 who are naive to protease inhibitors, lamivudine (3TC) and
tax contingency reserve related to the spin-off of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. in 2001. non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTI) through more than
three years of treatment on a combination regimen containing Sustiva.
Developments In July 2004, the FDA approved the Company’s sNDA to include new scien-
In January 2005, the Company announced that it intends to divest its U.S. tific data and dosing in its package insert or labeling related to Reyataz. With the
and Canadian Consumer Medicines business. The Company’s primary con- sNDA, the Reyatazlabeling now includes data indicating that combination HIV
sumer medicine brands in the U.S. and Canada are Excedrin, Keri, Choiceand treatments containing Reyataz/ritonavir and Kaletra (lopinavir/ritonavir; Abbott
Comtrex. For the year ended December 31, 2004, sales of consumer medicines Laboratories, Inc.) were similar for the primary efficacy outcome measurement
brands in the U.S. and Canada totaled approximately $270 million. The of time-averaged difference in change from baseline in HIV RNA level in HIV-
Company’s consumer medicines businesses in Japan, Asia Pacific, Latin infected patients previously taking anti-HIV medicines.
America, Europe, Middle East and Africa are not included in this divestiture. In June 2004, the Company and Otsuka announced that the European
In December 2004, the Company provided an update on the rolling Commission granted marketing authorization for Abilify, an antipsychotic med-
BLA for abatacept submitted under the provisions of FDA’s Continuous ication, for the treatment of schizophrenia. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Europe Ltd.,
Marketing Application, Pilot 1. Abatacept is an investigational biologic drug for Otsuka’s European holding company, holds the marketing authorization for
the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and its development program was granted Abilify in Europe. The Company and Otsuka currently copromote Abilify in the
Fast Track status by the FDA. Complete Non-Clinical and Clinical sections of the United Kingdom and Germany, and will also copromote it in France and Spain.
BLA have already been submitted to the FDA and the remaining section is In addition, the Company also has an exclusive right to sell Abilify in a number
expected to be submitted early this year. of other countries in Europe. In the U.S., the FDA approved Abilify for the treat-
In December 2004, the Company and Somerset Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ment of acute bipolar mania in September 2004, and in December 2004, the
(Somerset), a joint venture between Mylan Laboratories Inc. and Watson Company and Otsuka received approval from the FDA for an oral solution for-
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., entered into an agreement for the commercialization and mulation of Abilify. The oral solution became available in U.S. pharmacies in
distribution of Somerset’s EMSAM (selegiline transdermal system), an investiga- February 2005.
tional monoamine oxidase inhibitor administered as a transdermal patch for the In May 2004, the Company entered into a worldwide codevelopment and
acute and maintenance treatment of patients with major depressive disorder. cocommercialization agreement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals (Solvay) to code-
Somerset received an “Approvable” letter from the FDA for EMSAM in February velop and copromote the investigational compound SLV319 which is currently
2004, and if approved by the FDA, EMSAM would be the first transdermal treat- in Phase I development with potential for use in treating obesity and other
ment for major depressive disorder. metabolic disorders. The Company may also elect to develop and market two
In December 2004, the Company and Corgentech Inc. announced top-line additional investigational compounds selected from Solvay’s pool of eligible
results from the first of two Phase 3 clinical trials for edifoligide (E2F Decoy). In a compounds. The Company paid Solvay an upfront milestone payment of
trial involving patients undergoing peripheral artery vein grafts, the primary and $10 million in July 2004, which was expensed as research and development.
secondary endpoints failed to show a benefit in the edifoligide-treated group Further milestone payments are expected to be made upon the successful
compared to the placebo group as defined as the rate of vein graft failure over outcome of certain development and regulatory stages.
the 12 months following surgery. Edifoligide is an investigational product to pre- In April 2004, the Company entered into a collaboration agreement with
vent vein graft failure in the coronary and peripheral arteries. Merck for worldwide codevelopment and copromotion for muraglitazar, the
In December 2004, the Company and Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) entered Company’s dual PPAR (peroxisome proliferator activated receptor) agonist, cur-
into a joint venture to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination of rently in Phase III clinical development for use in treating type 2 diabetes. An
the Company’s Sustivaand Gilead’s Truvada (emtricitabine and tenofovir NDA for muraglitazar was submitted to the FDA in December 2004 for U.S. reg-
disoproxil fumarate) in the United States. If approved, the new product would ulatory approval. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company received a
be the first complete Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) treatment $100 million upfront payment in May 2004, and received an additional
regimen for HIV available in a fixed-dose combination taken once daily. $55 million milestone payment in January 2005 for the filing of the NDA.
In November 2004, the Company and Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) entered into a The Company is entitled to receive $220 million in additional payments upon
worldwide collaboration to develop and commercialize MDX-010, a fully human achievement of certain regulatory milestones. The Company and Merck will
antibody investigational product targeting the CTLA-4 receptor. MDX-010 was jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy for muraglitazar, share
developed by Medarex and is currently in Phase III clinical development for the equally in future development and commercialization costs and copromote
treatment of metastatic melanoma. The collaboration agreement became effec- the product to physicians on a global basis, with Merck to receive payments
tive in January 2005, at which time the Company made a cash payment of $25 based on net sales levels.
million to Medarex which was expensed as research and development, and an In April 2004, the Company and Pierre Fabre Médicament S.A. (Pierre
additional $25 million equity investment in Medarex. Fabre), entered into an agreement to develop and commercialize Javlor
In September 2004, the Company completed the submission of an NDA to (vinflunine), a novel investigational anticancer agent. Javlor is currently in
the FDA for Baraclude, an investigational antiviral agent under development for Phase III clinical trials in Europe for the treatment of bladder and non-small
the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. In addition, the FDA granted the Company cell lung cancer, and Phase II clinical trials in breast and ovarian cancer. Under
a Priority Review for Baraclude. The Company also submitted a marketing the terms of the agreement, the Company received an exclusive license to
– 45–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportJavlor in the United States, Canada, Japan, Korea, and select Southeast Asian repatriated to the United States, or if the Company determines such earnings
markets. Pierre Fabre will be responsible for the development and marketing of will be remitted in the foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be
Javlor in all other countries, including Europe. Under the agreement, the required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would
Company made and expensed upfront and milestone payments of $35 million have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes
in 2004, with the potential for an additional $175 million in milestone payments that would have to be provided.
over time. The AJCA, which President Bush signed into law on October 22, 2004, pro-
In April 2004, the Company announced the completion of the acquisition of vides for a temporary 85 percent dividends-received deduction for certain cash
Acordis for $158 million. Acordis is a privately held company based in the UK distributions of the earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The deduction would result
that licenses patent rights and supplies materials to ConvaTec for its Wound in a federal tax rate of approximately 5.25% on the repatriated earnings (assum-
Therapeutics line. The acquired business was incorporated as part of the ing a marginal federal tax rate of 35% on those earnings). To qualify for the
Company’s ConvaTec division. This acquisition will enable ConvaTec to deduction, the repatriated earnings must be reinvested in the United States pur-
strengthen its position in the field of wound care management and continue to suant to a domestic reinvestment plan approved by a company’s chief execu-
provide new treatment options for patients with acute or chronic wound care tive officer and subsequently by its board of directors. In January 2005, the
needs. See Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestitures.” Department of Treasury issued guidelines for permitted investments under the
In March 2004, the Company announced that its Medical Imaging business plan. The Company expects to meet the requirements and criteria to qualify for
entered into an agreement with Kereos, Inc. (Kereos) for the development and the deduction. However, several provisions in the AJCA require further clarifica-
commercialization of novel molecular imaging agents. Under the terms of the tion which may be addressed in the coming months by Treasury or Congress.
agreement, the companies will work together to develop molecular imaging The Company’s estimate of the tax cost related to the repatriation at December
agents for cardiovascular diseases and cancer using Kereos’ core technology. 31, 2004 was based on tax laws then in effect. To the extent the tax laws and
Medical Imaging has obtained exclusive worldwide rights to develop and com- guidance changes, the estimate will be revised. The Company’s estimate may
mercialize select cardiovascular molecular imaging agents for magnetic reso- also be revised as a result of any changes in the Company’s factual assump-
nance imaging (MRI). Kereos has obtained exclusive worldwide rights to use a tions that may occur.
family of Medical Imaging targeting molecules with Kereos’ core technology to Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2004 primarily consisted of U.S.
develop and commercialize molecular cancer imaging agents and targeted dollar denominated bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or
therapeutics, including KI-001 - Kereos’ lead candidate for early MRI detection less. Marketable securities at December 31, 2004 primarily consisted of U.S.
of tumors. dollar denominated floating rate instruments with a ‘AAA/aaa’ credit rating.
In February 2004, the FDA approved the BLA for ERBITUX, the anticancer Due to the nature of these instruments, the Company considers it reasonable
agent that the Company is developing in partnership with ImClone. ERBITUX to expect that their fair market values will not be significantly impacted by a
Injection is for use in combination with irinotecan in the treatment of patients change in interest rates, and that they can be liquidated for cash at short notice.
with EGFR-expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are refractory to The average interest yield on cash and cash equivalents was 2.3% and 1.2% at
irinotecan-based chemotherapy and for use as a single agent in the treatment December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, while interest yields on marketable
of patients with EGFR-expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are intoler- securities averaged 2.5% and 1.3%, respectively.
ant to irinotecan-based chemotherapy. In accordance with the agreement, the Long-term debt at December 31, 2004 was denominated primarily in U.S.
Company paid ImClone $250 million in March 2004 as a milestone payment for dollars but also included Japanese yen debt of $187 million. Long-term debt
the approval of ERBITUX by the FDA. The FDA also approved ImClone’s remained constant at $8.5 billion at December 31, 2004 and 2003. A majority
Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls supplemental BLA for licensure of its of the Company’s debt is fixed rate. The Company, however, has entered into
BB36 manufacturing facility for ERBITUX in June 2004. fixed to floating interest rate swaps for $6.2 billion of its long-term debt. Interest
expense, net of interest swap gains, was $310 million, $277 million and $364
Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources million, in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in interest expense
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately in 2004 over 2003 was primarily due to increased short-term borrowings
$7.5 billion at December 31, 2004, compared with $5.6 billion at December 31, and higher interest rates; the decrease in 2003 over 2002 was driven by the
2003. The Company continues to maintain a high level of working capital, net gains from interest rate swaps. U.S. commercial paper outstanding at
which was $5.0 billion at December 31, 2004, increasing from $4.5 billion at December 31, 2004 was $1.6 billion, with an average interest rate of 2.3%.
December 31, 2003. In 2005 the Company expects cash generated by its U.S. There was no U.S. commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2003. The
operations, together with borrowings from the capital markets, to sufficiently average interest rate for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, on
cover cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures, milestone payments international short-term borrowings were 9.3% and 8.0%, respectively, and on
and dividends paid in the United States. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable current installments of long-term debt were 2.8% and 1.3%, respectively.
securities, the conversion of other working-capital items and borrowings are In December 2004, the Company replaced its prior $1 billion revolving credit
expected to fund near-term operations. facilities with a new $2 billion five-year revolving credit facility from a syndicate of
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had approximately $16.9 billion of lenders, which is extendable on the anniversary date with the consent of the
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Company accrued a provi- lenders. The availability of the facility is subject to the Company’s ability at the
sion for $575 million of estimated deferred taxes in the fourth quarter of 2004, time of borrowing to meet certain conditions, including a financial covenant in
which is expected to be paid in 2005, in anticipation of repatriating approxi- which net debt to capital cannot exceed 50%. This facility does not contain a
mately $9 billion of the undistributed earnings in 2005 pursuant to the AJCA. material adverse change representation in the Company’s business as a condition
Taxes were not provided on the balance of undistributed earnings of approxi- to borrowing. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had a ratio of consoli-
mately $7.9 billion, as the Company has invested or expects to invest these dated net debt to consolidated capital of 14%, and has been in compliance with
undistributed earnings permanently offshore. If in the future these earnings are this covenant since the inception of the facility. Changes in public credit ratings
will not affect the availability of the credit facility. There were no borrowings out-
– 46–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportstanding under the revolving credit facilities at December 31, 2004 and 2003. proceeds received from the issuance of convertible debt in 2003.
The Company also had unused short-term lines of credit with foreign banks of Cash provided from operations and borrowings were primarily used over the
$158 million and $363 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. past three years to pay dividends of $6.5 billion. The Company has also
In April 2003, Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) lowered the Company’s invested $2.7 billion over the past three years in capital expansion to improve
long-term credit rating from Aa2 to A1 and in March 2003, affirmed the Prime-1 plant efficiency and maintain superior research facilities.
short-term credit rating for the Company. In July 2003, Standard & Poor’s (S&P) During 2004 and 2003, the Company did not repurchase any of its common
lowered its long-term credit rating on the Company from AA to AA- and affirmed stock. The Company repurchased 5 million shares of common stock at a cost
its A-1+ short-term rating. In March 2004, S&P placed both long-term and short- of $164 million in 2002, bringing the total shares acquired since the share
term ratings of the Company on watch with negative implications. In August repurchase program’s inception to 372 million shares. The share repurchase
2004, S&P downgraded the short-term credit rating for the Company to A1 and program authorizes the Company to purchase common stock from time to time
the long-term credit rating of the Company to A+. Both Moody’s and S&P’s long- in the open market or through private transactions as market conditions permit.
term credit rating remains on negative outlook. This program is intended to reduce the increase in shares outstanding from
The following is a discussion of working capital and cash flow activities: option exercises and to obtain shares for general corporate purposes.
Dividends declared per common share were $1.12 for each of 2004, 2003,
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 and 2002. In December 2004, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of
Working capital $4,958 $4,536 $1,573 $.28 per common share and indicated a dividend for the full year 2005 of $1.12
Cash flow from: per share. Dividend decisions are made on a quarterly basis by the Board
Operating activities 3,176 3,512 945 of Directors.
Investing activities (1,622) (2,419) (2,030) The Company’s financial condition and liquidity could be affected by obliga-
Financing activities (463) (1,031) (1,033) tions to make milestone or other one-time payments and by the outcome of
pending litigation and investigations, including the challenge to the Plavix
•The increase in working capital of $422 million from 2003 was primarily due
patent. For more information, see Note 2, “Alliances and Investments” and
to: increased receivables resulting from higher sales and higher foreign with-
Note 21, “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
holding taxes expected to be refunded; higher inventories resulting from new
product introductions and higher demand for existing key brands; partially
offset by higher accounts payable due to higher purchasing activities in 2004; Contractual Obligations
and higher accrued expenses, rebates and returns mainly due to increases in Payments due by period for the Company’s contractual obligations at
royalties, higher unrealized losses from derivatives and Medicaid rebates. December 31, 2004, are as follows
Obligations Expiring by Period
•Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.2 billion in 2004, $3.5 bil- Later
Dollars in Millions Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Years
lion in 2003 and $0.9 billion in 2002. The decrease in net cash provided by
operating activities for 2004 is mainly attributable to lower earnings and Short-term
higher usage of working capital. The significant changes in operating borrowings $ 1,883 $1,883 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Long-term debt(1) 8,463 — 2,512 2 1,735 1 4,213
assets and liabilities between 2004 and 2003 are: a $260 million increase
Operating leases 485 123 99 78 65 62 58
in inventory primarily due to the introduction of new products including
Purchase obligations 1,237 364 230 185 129 115 214
Reyatazand ERBITUX and higher demand for key brands including Plavix,
Stand-by letters
Avapro/Avalide and Sustiva; a $350 million decrease in deferred revenue on
of credit 61 61 — — -— — —
consigned inventory due to the workdown of the consignment inventory in
Other liabilities 1,300 191 241 209 199 198 262
2003; and a $146 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued Total $13,429 $2,622 $3,082 $474 $2,128 $376 $4,747
expenses including advertising and promotion, deferred revenue for Abilify
(1) 2005 long-term debt obligations are included in short-term borrowings on the Company’s
and milestone payments. The increase in 2003 over 2002 was primarily due
consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2004 and all balances represent the out-
to income tax payments in 2002 related to the gain arising from the sale of standing nominal long-term debt values. The contractual obligations table above excludes
the Clairol business; increase in earnings; higher rate of decrease in deferred interest payment obligations.
revenue on consigned inventory due to the workdown of the consignment In addition to the above, the Company has committed to make potential
inventory; higher accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by future “milestone” payments to third-parties as part of in-licensing and develop-
reduction in accounts receivable; and increased litigation settlement payments. ment programs. Payments under these agreements generally become due and
payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or
•Net cash used in investing activities was $1.6 billion in 2004 compared to commercial milestones. Because the achievement of these milestones is nei-
$2.4 billion in 2003 and $2.0 billion in 2002. The decrease in net cash used ther probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been
in investing activities is mainly attributable to $364 million cash proceeds recorded on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.
from the sale of the Company’s Adult Nutritionals business, lower purchases For a discussion of contractual obligations, reference is made to Note 15,
in marketable securities and $261 million of lower capital spending, partially “Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt”; Note 17, “Financial Instruments”;
offset by a milestone payment of $250 million to ImClone, $150 million pay- Note 19, “Leases”; and Note 20, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans.”
ment for the Acordis acquisition and increased purchases of trademarks,
patents and licenses. Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements
As previously disclosed, the Company experienced a substantial buildup of
•Net cash used in financing activities was $0.5 billion in 2004, and $1.0 billion wholesaler inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals business in 2000 and 2001.
in both 2003 and 2002. The decrease in 2004 from 2003 was mainly attribut- This buildup was primarily due to sales incentives offered by the Company to
able to an increase in short-term borrowings in 2004 partially offset by the its wholesalers. These incentives were generally offered toward the end of a
– 47–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportquarter in order to incentivize wholesalers to purchase products in an amount SEC Consent Order
sufficient to meet the Company’s quarterly sales projections established by the As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, the Company entered into a final
Company’s senior management. In April 2002, the Company disclosed this settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning certain whole-
substantial buildup, and developed and subsequently undertook a plan to work saler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a
down in an orderly fashion these wholesaler inventory levels by reducing the Consent, a copy of which was attached as Exhibit 10s to the Company’s quar-
amount of sales made by the Company to wholesalers relative to the amount of terly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004. In the
sales made by wholesalers to customers, thereby reducing the inventories of Consent, the Company agreed, without admitting or denying any liability, not to
the Company’s products held by wholesalers. violate certain provisions of the securities laws. The Company also agreed to
In October 2002, based on further review and consideration of the previously establish a $150 million fund for a class of shareholders to be distributed under
disclosed buildup of wholesaler inventories in the Company’s U.S. pharmaceu- the court’s supervision. The $150 million fund, which included a $100 million
ticals business and the incentives offered to certain wholesalers, and on advice civil penalty, will be distributed to certain Company shareholders under a plan
from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), an independent registered public of distribution established by the SEC.
accounting firm, the Company determined that it was required to restate its Under the terms of the Consent, the Company has agreed, subject to certain
sales and earnings to correct errors in timing of revenue recognition for certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to its direct customers
sales made to the two largest wholesalers of the U.S. pharmaceuticals busi- (including wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and
ness. The Company determined that these sales should be accounted for government purchasers) based on expected demand or on amounts that do
under the consignment model, based, in part, on the relationship between the not exceed approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a
amount and nature of incentives offered to these wholesalers and the amount timely public disclosure of any change in practice. The Company has estab-
of inventory held by these wholesalers. lished a companywide policy to limit its sales to direct customers for the purpose
Following that determination, the Company also determined that it would of complying with the Consent. This policy includes the adoption of various pro-
correct its historical accounting policies to conform the accounting to U.S. cedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and known errors made in the terms of the Consent. These procedures include a governance process to escalate
application of GAAP that were previously not recorded because in each such to appropriate management levels any potential questions or concerns regarding
case the Company believed the amount of any such error was not material to the compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In
Company’s consolidated financial statements. In addition, as part of the restate- addition, compliance with the policy will be monitored on a regular basis.
ment process, the Company investigated its accounting practices in areas that The Company maintains inventory management agreements (IMAs) with
involved significant judgment and determined to restate additional items with most of its U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which account for nearly 100% of
respect to which the Company concluded errors were made in the application of total gross sales of U.S. pharmaceuticals products. Under the current terms of
GAAP, including revisions of inappropriate accounting. the IMAs, these wholesalers provide the Company with information about the
In March 2003, the Company completed the restatement of its financial state- inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out-movement of prod-
ments for these items and restated its financial statements for the three years ucts. The information received from these wholesalers is a product of their own
ended December 31, 2001 (2002 Restatement). record-keeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom
After completing the 2002 Restatement, the Company continued to identify they sell, such as retailers and hospitals. The Company determines the out-
and implement actions to improve the effectiveness of its disclosure controls movement of a product over a period of one-month by using the most recent
and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In connection prior four weeks of out-movement of a product as provided by these whole-
with this effort, the Company (i) has substantially strengthened the organization salers. The Company also determines the months on hand estimates for its U.S.
and personnel of the senior financial and control functions, (ii) adopted more pharmaceuticals business by using such factors as historical sales made to
rigorous policies and procedures with respect to its balance sheet review those wholesalers and from third-party market research data related to prescrip-
process, (iii) focused its internal audit function on financial reporting controls, tion trends and patient demand.
(iv) engaged a consultant to assist in the evaluation and documentation of cer- In contrast, for the Company’s Pharmaceuticals business outside of the
tain financial reporting and disclosure processes throughout the Company, in United States, Nutritionals and Other Healthcare business units around the
particular with respect to designing standard operating procedures and imple- world, the Company has significantly more direct customers, limited information
menting tools to ensure that disclosure issues are effectively identified, man- on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement
aged and controlled globally and (v) engaged a consultant to assist the information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where avail-
Company’s personnel to conduct a comprehensive and detailed review of cer- able, varies widely. Accordingly, the Company relies on a variety of methods to
tain of the Company’s tax reporting and accounting, in particular with respect to estimate direct customer product level inventory and to calculate months on
developing more effective processes for establishing and monitoring deferred hand for these business units. The Company expects to complete its analysis of
income taxes, valuation allowances and the Company’s annual effective tax direct customer inventory levels in these businesses in the first quarter of 2005
rate. In addition, at the request of the Company’s Audit Committee, an inde- and will provide additional disclosure of information with respect to direct cus-
pendent registered public accounting firm performed more extensive proce- tomer inventory levels. The Company has and will continue to enhance its meth-
dures with respect to the Company’s interim financial information during 2003 ods to estimate direct customer product level inventory and months on hand for
and, based on the auditors’ assessment of the Company’s risk profile, these business units, taking into account the complexities described above.
expanded the scope and amount of fieldwork to be performed for certain areas The Company will continue to disclose for each of its key pharmaceutical
in connection with its audit of the Company for 2003. These actions contributed products sold by the U.S. pharmaceutical business the amount of net sales
significantly to the Company identifying additional errors relating to prior peri-
ods not reflected in the 2002 Restatement. In March 2004, the Company cor-
rected these errors by restating its financial statements for the two years ended
December 31, 2002.
– 48–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportand the estimated number of months on hand in the U.S. wholesaler distribu- In December 2004, the FASB issued a final staff position (FSP) No. 109-1,
tion channel as of the end of the immediately preceding quarter and as of the Application of SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax
end of the applicable quarter in its quarterly and annual reports on Forms 10-Q Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs
and 10-K. For all other business units, the Company expects to disclose on a Creation Act of 2004. The effect of the adoption of FSP No. 109-1 is not mate-
quarterly basis the key product level inventories. The information required to rial to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. See Note 1,
estimate months on hand in the direct customer distribution for the non-U.S. “Accounting Policies—Income Taxes.”
Pharmaceuticals business is not available prior to the time the Company is In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary
required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Accordingly, the Company Assets. The provisions of this Statement is effective for nonmonetary asset
expects to disclose this information on its website approximately 60 days after exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The provi-
the end of each quarter. In addition to the foregoing quarterly disclosure, the sions of this Statement should be applied prospectively, and eliminates the
Company will include all the foregoing information for all business units for each exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar
quarter in its Annual Report on Form 10-K. productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for
The Company believes the above-described procedures provide a reason- Nonmonetary Transactions, and replaces it with an exception for exchanges
able basis to ensure compliance with the Consent Order and provides sufficient that do not have commercial substance. The adoption of this accounting pro-
information to comply with disclosure requirements. nouncement is not expected to have a material effect on the consolidated finan-
The Company has agreed in the Consent to certain measures that it has cial statements.
implemented or will implement, including: (a) establishing a formal review and In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs—an
certification process of its annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC; Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. The standard requires abnormal
(b) establishing a business risk and disclosure group; (c) retaining an outside amounts of idle facility and related expenses to be recognized as current period
consultant to comprehensively study and help re-engineer the Company’s charges and also requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the
accounting and financial reporting processes (d) publicly disclosing any sales costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities.
incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose of inducing them to SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years begin-
purchase products in excess of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that the ning after June 15, 2005. The Company is evaluating the impact that this state-
Company’s budget process gives appropriate weight to inputs that come from ment will have on its financial position and results of operations.
the bottom to the top, and not just those that come from the top to the bottom, In June 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. 106-2, Accounting and Disclosure
and adequately documenting that process. Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
The Company also agreed in the Consent to retain an “Independent Adviser” Modernization Act of 2003(the Medicare Act). The Medicare Act introduces a
through the date that the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended 2005 is filed prescription drug benefit under Medicare as well as a federal subsidy to spon-
with the SEC. The Consent defines certain powers and responsibilities of the sors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least
Independent Adviser. The Consent includes a process for the Independent Adviser actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. FSP No. 106-2 requires that the effects
to make recommendations regarding the Company’s compliance with applicable of the new law be accounted for under SFAS No. 106, Employers’ Accounting
federal securities laws and corporate obligations. The Company has agreed in the for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. The Company adopted FSP
Consent to adopt the Independent Adviser’s recommendations regarding compli- No. 106-2 in the third quarter of 2004, retroactive to January 1, 2004. There was
ance with applicable federal securities laws and corporate obligations. a reduction in net periodic benefit cost for other benefits of $8 million for 2004,
The settlement does not resolve the ongoing investigation by the SEC of the based on the re-measurement of the accumulated postretirement benefit obli-
activities of certain current and former members of the Company’s manage- gation as of January 1, 2004. The effect of the adoption of FSP No. 106-2 was
ment in connection with the wholesaler inventory issues and other accounting not material to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. See Note 20,
matters, which investigation is ongoing. In addition, an investigation by the U.S. “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans.”
Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey concerning the inventory and In March 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus
accounting matters covered by the Company’s settlement with the SEC is con- on Issue No. 03-06, Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method Under
tinuing. The Company is continuing to cooperate with those investigations. FAS 128,which requires the use of the two-class method of computing earn-
ings per share for those enterprises with participating securities or multiple
Recently Issued Accounting Standards classes of common stock. The consensus is effective for fiscal periods begin-
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ning after March 31, 2004. The adoption of EITF No. 03-06 did not affect the
issued a revised SFAS No. 123 (SFAS No. 123R),Share-Based Payment. This Company’s consolidated financial statements.
standard eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation trans- In December 2003, the FASB revised Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of
actions using the intrinsic value-based method under Accounting Principles Variable Interest Entities(FIN 46). FIN 46 requires a variable interest entity to be
Board Opinion (APB) No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a majority of the risk of
requires instead that such transactions be accounted for using a fair-value- loss from the variable interest entity’s activities or entitled to receive a majority of
based method. SFAS No. 123R is effective for financial statements issued for the entity’s residual returns or both. FIN 46 also requires disclosures about vari-
the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2005. Currently, the Company able interest entities that a company is not required to consolidate but in which
discloses the pro forma net income and related pro forma income per share it has a significant variable interest. The consolidation requirements of FIN 46
information in accordance with SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based (as revised) apply immediately to variable interest entities created after January
Compensation, and SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation 31, 2003 and to existing entities in the first fiscal year or interim period ending
Costs —Transition and Disclosure. The Company is evaluating the impact of this after March 15, 2004. Certain of the disclosure requirements apply to all finan-
statement which could have a material impact on its results of operations. cial statements issued after January 31, 2003, regardless of when the variable
interest entity was established. This accounting pronouncement did not have a
material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
– 49–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportCritical Accounting Policies For discussions on revenue recognition, see Note 1, “Accounting Policies—
The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with account- Revenue Recognition” and “Sales Rebate and Return Accruals” and Note 11,
ing principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of finan- “Consignment.”
cial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the use of estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, including Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments
disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities, at the date of the The Company has the following significant categories of gross-to-net sales
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during adjustments which impact the Company’s three reportable segments: prime
the reporting period. The Company’s critical accounting policies are those that vendor charge-backs, WIC rebates, managed health care rebates and other
are both most important to the Company’s financial condition and results of contract discounts, Medicaid rebates, cash discounts, sales returns, and other
operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on adjustments, all of which involve significant estimates and judgments and
the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to require the Company to use information from external sources. The Company
make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. accounts for these gross-to-net sales adjustments in accordance with EITF
Because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates or judgments Issue No. 01-9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer
used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, actual results (Including a Reseller of the Vendor’s Products), and SFAS 48, Revenue
may vary from these estimates. Recognition When Right of Return Exists (SFAS 48), as applicable. See “Net
The Company believes that the following discussion represents its critical Sales” section for reconciliations of the Company’s gross sales to net sales by
accounting policies. Management and the Company’s independent registered each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustments.
public accounting firm have discussed the Company’s critical accounting poli-
cies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Prime vendor charge-backs
The Company’s U.S. businesses participate in prime vendor programs with
Revenue Recognition government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of
The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with SAB No. 101, Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties
Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, as amended by SAB No. 104, whereby pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price to par-
Revenue Recognition. The Company’s accounting policy for revenue recogni- ticipating entities. These entities purchase products through wholesalers at
tion has a substantial impact on its reported results and relies on certain esti- the lower prime vendor price, and the wholesalers charge the difference
mates that require difficult, subjective and complex judgments on the part of between their acquisition cost and the lower prime vendor price back to the
management. The Company recognizes revenue for sales when substantially Company. The Company accounts for prime vendor charge-backs by reduc-
all the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, which ing accounts receivable in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of
generally occurs on the date of shipment, with the exceptions described below. charge-back claims attributable to a sale. The Company determines its esti-
In previous years, certain transactions with the Company’s U.S. mate of the prime vendor charge-backs primarily based on historical experi-
Pharmaceuticals wholesalers were accounted for using the consignment ence regarding prime vendor charge-backs and current contract prices
model. In the case of sales made to wholesalers (1) as a result of incentives, (2) under the prime vendor programs. The Company considers prime vendor
in excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary course of business inventory level, (3) at a payments, levels of inventory in the distribution channel, and the Company’s
time when there was an understanding, agreement, course of dealing or con- claim processing time lag and adjusts the reduction to accounts receivable
sistent business practice that the Company would extend incentives based on periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
levels of excess inventory in connection with future purchases, and (4) at a time
when such incentives would cover substantially all, and vary directly with, the WIC rebates
wholesaler’s cost of carrying inventory in excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary The Company’s U.S. Nutritionals business participates on a competitive bid-
course of business inventory level, substantially all the risks and rewards of own- ding basis in nutrition programs sponsored by states, tribal governments, the
ership do not transfer upon shipment, and accordingly, such sales should be Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Territory of Guam for women, infants,
accounted for using the consignment model. The determination of when, if at and children (WIC). Under these programs, the Company reimburses these
all, sales to a wholesaler meet the foregoing criteria involves evaluation of a vari- entities for the difference between wholesaler list price and the contract price
ety of factors and a number of complex judgments. Under the consignment on eligible products. The Company accounts for WIC rebates by establishing
model, the Company did not recognize revenue upon shipment of product. an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of WIC rebate
Rather, upon shipment of product the Company invoiced the wholesaler, claims attributable to a sale. The Company determines its estimate of the
recorded deferred revenue at gross invoice sales price, and classified the inven- WIC rebate accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding WIC
tory held by the wholesalers as consignment inventory at the Company’s cost of rebates and current contract prices under the WIC programs. The Company
such inventory. The Company recognized revenue (net of the gross- to- net considers levels of inventory in the distribution channel, new WIC contracts,
sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates terminated WIC contracts, changes in existing WIC contracts, and WIC par-
and judgments) when the consignment inventory is no longer subject to the ticipations and adjusts the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to
incentive arrangements described above, but not later than when such inven- reflect actual experience.
tory is sold through to the wholesalers’ customers on a FIFO basis.
In the case of new products for which the product introduction is not an Managed health care rebates and other contract discounts
extension of an existing line of product or where the Company determines that The Company offers rebates and discounts to managed health care organi-
there are not products in a similar therapeutic category, such that the Company zations in the U.S. and globally to other contract counterparties such as hos-
cannot reliably estimate expected returns of the new product, the Company pitals and group purchasing organizations. The Company accounts for
defers recognition of revenue until the right of return no longer exists or until the managed health care rebates and other contract discounts by establishing
Company has developed sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns. an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of managed health
– 50–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportcare rebates and other contract discounts attributable to a sale. The adjusts the sales return accrual, taking into account historical experience, the
Company determines its estimate of the managed health care rebates and Company’s returned goods policy and the shelf life of the Company’s prod-
other contract discounts accrual primarily based on historical experience ucts, which ranges, on average, from approximately 12 to 48 months. In situ-
regarding these rebates and discounts and current contract prices. The ations where the Company is aware of products in the distribution channel
Company considers the sales performance of products subject to managed nearing their expiration date, the Company analyzes the situation and if the
health care rebates and other contract discounts and levels of inventory in analysis indicates that sales returns will be larger than expected, the
the distribution channel and adjusts the accrual periodically throughout each Company adjusts the sales return accrual, taking into account historical
quarter to reflect actual experience. experience, the Company’s returned goods policy and levels of inventory in
the distribution channel.
Medicaid rebates In the event of a product recall or product discontinuance, the Company
The Company’s U.S. businesses participate in state government-managed considers the reasons for and impact of such actions and adjusts the sales
Medicaid programs as well as certain other qualifying federal and state return accrual as appropriate, taking into account historical experience, lev-
government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to partic- els of inventory in the distribution channel and, for product discontinuances,
ipating state and local government entities. Discounts and rebates provided estimates of continuing demand.
through these latter programs are included in the Company’s Medicaid Although the Company considers price changes of competitive products,
rebate accrual and are considered Medicaid rebates for the purposes of this introductions of generic products and introductions of competitive new
discussion. The Company accounts for Medicaid rebates by establishing an products, the Company generally does not believe that these factors impact
accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of Medicaid rebate sales returns based on historical experience and the Company’s returned
claims attributable to a sale. The Company determines its estimate of the goods policy.
Medicaid rebates accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding Returns from new products are significantly more difficult for the Company to
Medicaid rebates, as well as any expansion on a prospective basis of its par- assess. The Company determines its estimate of the sales return accrual pri-
ticipation in the non-mandatory aspects of the qualifying federal and state marily based on the historical sales returns experience of similar products,
government programs, legal interpretations of the applicable laws related to such as those within the same line of product or those within the same or
the Medicaid and qualifying federal and state government programs, and any similar therapeutic category. In limited circumstances, where the new prod-
new information regarding changes in the Medicaid programs’ regulations uct is not an extension of an existing line of product or where the Company
and guidelines that would impact the amount of the rebates. The Company has no historical experience with products in a similar therapeutic category,
considers outstanding Medicaid claims, Medicaid payments, and levels of such that the Company cannot reliably estimate expected returns of the new
inventory in the distribution channel and adjusts the accrual periodically product, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the right of return
throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience. no longer exists or until the Company has developed sufficient historical
experience to estimate sales returns. The Company also considers the shelf
Cash Discounts life of new products and determines whether it believes an adjustment to the
In the U.S. and certain other countries, the Company offers cash discounts, sales return accrual is appropriate. The shelf life in connection with new
generally approximately 2% of the sales price, as an incentive for prompt products tends to be shorter than the shelf life for more established products
payment. The Company accounts for cash discounts by reducing accounts because the Company may still be developing an optimal manufacturing
receivable by the full amount of the discounts. The Company considers pay- process for the new product that would lengthen its shelf life, or an amount of
ment performance and adjusts the accrual to reflect actual experience. launch quantities may have been manufactured in advance of the launch
date to ensure sufficient supply exists to satisfy market demand. In those
Sales Returns cases, the Company assesses the reduced shelf life, together with levels of
The Company accounts for sales returns in accordance with SFAS 48 by inventory in the distribution channel and projected demand, and determines
establishing an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of whether it believes an adjustment to the sales return accrual is appropriate.
sales recorded for which the related products are expected to be returned. In
2004, 2003 and 2002, provision for sales returns were $276 million, $348 Other Adjustments
million and $345 million, respectively, or 1%, 2% and 2%, respectively, of In addition to the significant gross-to-net sales adjustments described above,
gross sales. the Company makes other gross-to-net sales adjustments. For example, the
For returns of established products, the Company determines its estimate Company offers sales discounts, most significantly in its non-U.S. businesses,
of the sales return accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding and also offers consumer coupons and rebates, most significantly in its U.S.
sales returns but also considers other factors that could impact sales returns. Nutritionals, Consumer Medicines and Pharmaceuticals businesses. In addi-
These factors include levels of inventory in the distribution channel, esti- tion, in a number of countries outside the U.S., including major European coun-
mated shelf life, product recalls, product discontinuances, price changes of tries, the Company provides rebates to government entities. The Company
competitive products, introductions of generic products and introductions of generally accounts for these other gross-to-net adjustments by establishing an
competitive new products. The Company considers all of these factors and accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of the adjustments attribut-
adjusts the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual able to a sale. The Company generally determines its estimates of the accruals for
experience. these other gross-to-net sales adjustments primarily based on historical experience,
The Company considers the level of inventory in the distribution channel performance on commitments to government entities and other relevant factors,
and determines whether it believes an adjustment to the sales return accrual including levels of inventory in the distribution channel in some cases, and adjusts
is appropriate. For example, if levels of inventory in the distribution channel the accruals periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
increase, the Company analyzes the reasons for the increase and if the rea-
sons indicate that sales returns will be larger than expected, the Company
– 51–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportUse of Information from External Sources The Company provides comprehensive medical and group life benefits for
The Company uses information from external sources to estimate its signifi- substantially all U.S. retirees who elect to participate in the Company’s compre-
cant gross-to-net sales adjustments. The Company’s estimates of inventory at hensive medical and group life plans. The asset allocation for these postretire-
the wholesalers and deferred revenue on consigned inventory are based on the ment plans is identical to the asset allocation described above for the U.S.
projected prescription demand-based sales for its products and historical inven- defined benefit pension plans.
tory experience, as well as the Company’s analysis of third-party information,
including written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers with Accrual Accounting and Significant Assumptions
respect to their inventory levels and sell-through to customers and third-party Consistent with the requirements of SFAS No. 87, Employers’ Accounting for
market research data, and the Company’s internal information. The inventory Pensions,the Company accounts for pension benefits using the accrual
information received from wholesalers is a product of their record-keeping method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to
process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such retirees. The accrual method of accounting for pension benefits necessarily
as retailers and hospitals. The Company receives information from IMS requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the
Health, a supplier of market research to the pharmaceutical industry, which it amount and timing of the benefit payments.
uses to project the prescription demand-based sales for many of its U.S. The Company’s key assumptions used in calculating its cost of pension ben-
Pharmaceutical products. The Company also uses information from external efits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase, and the expected
sources to identify prescription trends, patient demand and average selling long-term rate of return on plan assets. The Company, in consultation with its
prices. The Company’s estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates actuaries, evaluates the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used
that rely on third-party information, as certain third-party information was itself in in calculating its cost of pension benefits, such as retirement, turnover and mor-
the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags between the tality rates, based on expectations or actual experience, as appropriate, and
date as of which third-party information is generated and the date on which the determines such assumptions on December 31 of each year to calculate liabil-
Company receives third-party information. ity information as of that date and pension expense for the following year.
Depending on the assumptions used, the pension expense could vary within a
Retirement Benefits range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. In addition,
The Company’s pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are the assumptions can materially affect accumulated benefit obligations and
accounted for using actuarial valuations required by SFAS No. 87, Employers’ future cash funding. Actual results in any given year may differ from those esti-
Accounting for Pensions,and SFAS No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for mated because of economic and other factors.
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions.The Company considers The assumed discount rate used by the Company for determining future
accounting for retirement plans critical because management is required to pension obligations under the U.S. plans is based on indices of AA-rated corpo-
make significant subjective judgments about a number of actuarial assump- rate bonds. The indices of high quality corporate bonds selected reflect the
tions, including discount rates, salary growth, long-term return on plan assets, weighted-average remaining period of benefit payments. The assumed rate of
retirement, turnover, health care cost trend rates and mortality rates. Depending compensation increase used by the Company for determining future pension
on the assumptions and estimates used, the pension and postretirement bene- obligations reflects an estimate of the change in actual future compensation lev-
fit expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on els due to general price levels, productivity, seniority and other factors.
reported earnings. In addition, the assumptions can materially affect accumu- In 2004, net pension expense for the Company’s defined benefit pension
lated benefit obligations and future cash funding. plans included in earnings before minority interest and income taxes was $276
million compared to $136 million in 2003.
Plan Description The U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2004 was determined using a 6.25%
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have defined benefit pension assumed discount rate and a 3.56% assumed rate of compensation increase.
plans and defined contribution plans for regular full-time employees. The princi- The present value of benefit obligations at December 31, 2004 for the U.S.
pal defined benefit pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income plans was determined using a 5.75% assumed discount rate and the same
Plan and the principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb salary increase rate. If the assumed discount rate used in determining the U.S.
Savings and Investment Program. plans’ pension expense for 2004 had been reduced by 0.5%, such expense
Approximately 80% of total Company defined benefit pension plan assets would have increased by approximately $30.2 million. If the assumed rate of
and liabilities are held in U.S. plans. The assets for the U.S. plans are held in a compensation increase used in determining the U.S. plans’ pension expense
single trust with a common asset allocation. Unless specified otherwise, the for 2004 had been reduced by 0.25%, such expense would have decreased by
references in this section are to total Company plans (i.e., U.S. plans together approximately $8.5 million. If the assumed discount rate used in determining
with international plans). the accumulated benefit obligation at December 31, 2004 had been reduced
Benefits under the Company’s defined benefit pension plans are based pri- by 0.5%, the accumulated benefit obligation would have increased by
marily on years of credited service and on participants’ compensation. Assets $251.9 million.
under the Company’s defined benefit plans consist primarily of equity and fixed- The U.S. plans pension expense for 2004 was determined using a 9%
income securities. At December 31, 2004, the fair market value of plan assets expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. If the expected long-term rate
for the Company’s defined benefit plans increased to $4,602 million from of return on plan assets used in determining the U.S. plans pension expense for
$4,085 million at December 31, 2003. For the U.S. plans, assets were allocated 2004 had been reduced by 1%, such expense would have increased by
70% to equity securities (compared to 71% at the end of 2003), 23% to fixed $33 million.
income securities (compared to 23% at the end of 2003) and 7% to private
equity and other investments (compared to 6% at the end of 2003). Bristol-
Myers Squibb common stock represented less than 1% of assets for the U.S.
plans at the end of 2004 and 2003.
– 52–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportActual rates of return earned on U.S. plan assets for each of the last ten years tions due to changes in the assumed discount rate, differences between the
were as follows: actual and expected returns on plan assets, and other assumption changes.
Year Return Year Return SFAS No. 87 requires that unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss, determined
2004 12.6% 1999 18.2% based on the market-related value of plan assets (which differs from fair market
2003 25.0% 1998 13.3% value and is a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a system-
2002 (13.4)% 1997 22.2% atic and rational manner over not more than five years), be amortized in pension
2001 (6.1)% 1996 17.0% income or expense for the year to the extent that such unrecognized net actuar-
2000 3.5% 1995 23.0% ial loss or gain exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or
the market-related value of plan assets at the beginning of the year. These net
As discussed below, GAAP provides that differences between expected and gains and losses are recognized as pension income or expense prospectively
actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. over a period that approximates the average remaining service period of active
At December 31, 2004, the Company lowered its assumed discount rate for employees expected to receive benefits under the plans (approximately 10 years)
U.S. plans from 6.25% to 5.75% and maintained its assumed rate of compensa- to the extent that they are not offset by losses and gains in subsequent years.
tion increase at 3.56%. Compensation is assumed to increase on a scale with At December 31, 2004, the unrecognized net actuarial loss, determined
different rates for different ages. The 3.56% rate disclosed at December 31, based on the market-related value of plan assets, was $2,278 million. This
2004 is the single rate which, if used at each age, would produce the same amount exceeded 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the
present value of benefit obligations. The reduction in the discount rate had the market related value of plan assets by $1,730 million. Unless offset by future
effect of increasing the present value of benefit obligations and, accordingly, unrecognized gains from higher discount rates or higher than expected returns
will have the effect of increasing pension expense for 2005. In addition, the on plan assets, amortization of this unrecognized loss is expected to increase
Company revised, based upon a review of experience, its assumption for lump pension expense for each of the following ten years by approximately $173 mil-
sum utilization. This revision had the effect of increasing the present value of lion per year, which amount is reflected in the higher expense expected in 2005.
benefit obligations, and accordingly, will have the effect of increasing pension At December 31, 2003, the unrecognized net actuarial loss, determined based
expense for 2005. on the market-related value of plan assets, was $1,717 million. This amount
Following many years of strong performance, the global equity market fell exceeded 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market
sharply in 2000 through 2002 (e.g., the S&P 500 declined by a cumulative related value of plan assets by $1,241 million.
37.6%). This was reversed in 2003-2004 (e.g., the S&P 500 rose by a cumulative In the event the fair market value of pension plan assets of a particular plan is
42.7%). The Company reduced the expected rate of return on U.S. plan assets less than the accumulated benefit obligation for such plan at year-end, GAAP
from 9% in 2004 to 8.75% for 2005. This revision will have the effect of increas- may require an additional minimum liability, and in such circumstances, a
ing pension expense for 2005. reduction in stockholders’ equity or an establishment of an intangible asset. At
The Company expects that the net pension expense for its defined benefit December 31, 2004, the fair market value of the Company’s defined benefit
pension plans included in earnings before minority interest and income taxes pension plan assets was $4,602 million and the related accumulated benefit
will be approximately $75 million higher in 2005 than the $276 million in 2004, obligation was $4,828 million. The Company recognized an additional mini-
reflecting, among other things, the decrease in the assumed discount rate. mum liability of $146 million (cumulatively $349 million) at December 31, 2004,
The Company has used the same assumed discount rates and expected which was offset by a $153 million charge in other comprehensive income
long-term rates of return on plan assets in calculating its cost of pension bene- included in stockholders’ equity and a $7 million reduction in the intangible
fits and its cost of other postretirement benefits for U.S. plans except in the case asset. At December 31, 2003, the fair market value of the Company’s defined
of the discount rates at December 31, 2004 and 2003. Rates of 5.75% and benefit pension plan assets was $4,085 million and the related accumulated
6.25% were used for pension benefits versus 5.50% and 6.00%, respectively, benefit obligation was $4,154 million. The Company recognized an additional
for other postretirement benefits to reflect the shorter duration of the other minimum liability of $53 million (cumulatively $203 million) at December 31,
postretirement liabilities. 2003, which was offset by a $53 million charge in other comprehensive income
U.S. health care costs for the retiree population are assumed to increase included in stockholders’ equity.
9.0% in 2005 and then trend down to an expected increase of 4.5% per year by
2012. If actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put signifi- Plan Funding
cant upward pressure on the Company’s expense for retiree health care. The Company’s funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute
On December 8, 2003, President Bush signed into law the Medicare amounts to provide for current service and to fund past service liability. The
Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. The effects of Company contributed $367 million and $332 million to the defined benefit
the Medicare Act are reflected in 2004 net periodic postretirement benefit cost plans in 2004 and 2003, respectively.
(a reduction of $8 million) and accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at For discussions on retirement benefits, see Note 20, “Pension and Other
December 31, 2004 (a reduction of $58 million). Postretirement Benefit Plans.”
Delayed Recognition of Actuarial Gains and Losses Acquired In-Process Research and Development
At December 31, 2004 and 2003, unrecognized net actuarial losses for the The fair value of in-process research and development acquired in a busi-
Company’s defined benefit plans were $2,017 million and $1,676 million, ness combination is determined by independent appraisal based on the pres-
respectively, based on the fair market value of plan assets. These unrecognized ent value of each research project’s projected cash flows. An income approach
net actuarial losses reflect in large part the steady reduction of the weighted- is utilized that is consistent with guidance in the practice aid issued by the
average discount rate over the years. American Institute of Certified Public Accountants entitled, “Assets Acquired in
SFAS No. 87 provides for delayed recognition of actuarial gains and losses, a Business Combination to Be Used in Research and Development Activities: A
including amounts arising from changes in the estimated plan benefit obliga- Focus on Software, Electronic Devices and Pharmaceutical Industries.” Future
– 53–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportcash flows are predominately based on the net income forecast of each project, For discussions on equity investments, see Note 1, “Accounting Policies —
consistent with historical pricing, margins and expense levels of similar prod- Investments” and Note 2, “Alliances and Investments.”
ucts. Revenues are estimated based on relevant market size and growth factors,
expected industry trends, individual project life cycles, and the life of each Restructuring
research project’s underlying patent. In determining the fair value of each To downsize and streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facili-
research project, expected revenues are first adjusted for technical risk of com- ties, the Company has periodically recorded restructuring charges. As a result,
pletion. The resulting cash flows are then discounted at a rate approximating the Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans,
the Company’s weighted average cost of capital. including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when
For discussions on acquired in-process research and development, see the restructuring actions take place. Actual results could vary from these esti-
Note 1, “Accounting Policies —Acquired In-Process Research and Development.” mates, resulting in an adjustment to earnings.
For discussions on restructuring, see Note 1, “Accounting Policies —
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Restructuring” and Note 3, “Restructuring and Other Items.”
In accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal
of Long-Lived Assets, the Company periodically evaluates whether current facts Contingencies
or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its depreciable long-lived In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to contingencies,
assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of its business, that cover a
determined to exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows produced by wide range of matters, including government investigations, shareholder law-
the long-lived asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the suits and product and environmental liability. In accordance with SFAS No. 5,
carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If an asset is deter- Accounting for Contingencies,the Company records accruals for such contin-
mined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between gencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the
the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. An estimate of the asset’s fair value loss can be reasonably estimated.
is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. If quoted mar- For discussions on contingencies, see Note 1, “Accounting Policies—
ket prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valua- Income Taxes”, “—Contingencies”; Note 8, “Income Taxes”; and Note 21, “Legal
tion techniques, including a discounted value of estimated future cash flows. Proceedings and Contingencies.”
The Company reports an asset to be disposed of at the lower of its carrying
value or its estimated net realizable value. Income Taxes
Goodwill is evaluated at least annually for impairment in accordance with As of December 31, 2004, the Company had approximately $16.9 billion of
SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.SFAS No. 142 requires undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Company accrued a provi-
that goodwill be tested for impairment using a two-step process. The first step is sion for $575 million of estimated deferred taxes in the fourth quarter of 2004 in
to identify a potential impairment, and the second step measures the amount of anticipation of repatriating approximately $9 billion of these earnings in 2005
the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is deemed to be impaired if the carrying pursuant to the AJCA. Taxes were not provided on the balance of undistributed
amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. SFAS No. earnings of approximately $7.9 billion, as the Company has invested or expects
142 requires that indefinite-lived intangible assets be tested for impairment to invest these undistributed earnings permanently offshore. If in the future
using a one-step process, which consists of a comparison of the fair value to the these earnings are repatriated to the United States, or if the Company deter-
carrying value of the intangible asset. Such intangible assets are deemed to be mines such earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future, additional tax
impaired if their net book value exceeds their estimated fair value. provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the
The estimates of future cash flows, based on reasonable and supportable assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the
assumptions and projections, require management’s judgment. Any changes amounts of income taxes that would have to be provided.
in key assumptions about the Company’s businesses and their prospects, or The Company evaluates the need for a deferred tax asset valuation
changes in market conditions, could result in an impairment charge. allowance by assessing whether it is more likely than not that it will realize its
For discussions on impairment of long-lived assets, see Note 1, “Accounting deferred tax assets in the future. The assessment of whether or not a valuation
Policies — Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” and “—Goodwill and Other allowance is required often requires significant judgment, including the forecast
Intangible Assets.” of future taxable income and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives.
Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in
Equity Investments the period when such assessments are made. As of December 31, 2004, the
The Company reviews its equity investments for impairment based on its Company had net deferred tax assets of $1,713 million, net of a valuation
determination of whether the decline in market value of the investment below allowance of $507 million.
the Company’s carrying value is other than temporary. In making this determi- In addition, the Company conducts business in various countries throughout
nation, the Company considers APB Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of the world and is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. As a result of its busi-
Accounting for Investments in Common Stockand related interpretations, ness activities, the Company files a significant number of tax returns that are
which set forth factors to be evaluated in determining whether a loss in value subject to audit by various tax authorities. Tax audits are often complex, as tax
should be recognized, including the Company’s ability to hold its investment, authorities may disagree with the treatment of items reported by the Company
the market price and market price fluctuations of the investment’s publicly and may require several years to resolve. The Company has recorded accruals
traded shares and inability of the investee to sustain an earnings capacity, for tax contingencies related to potential audit exposures, including, but not lim-
which would justify the carrying amount of the investment. The Company’s ited to, transfer pricing, certain tax credits, and various state and foreign tax mat-
investment in ImClone is subject to this accounting. See Note 2, “Alliances and ters. Such accruals are based on management’s judgment and best estimate
Investments” for a discussion of the Company’s investment as to the ultimate outcome of tax audits. Actual audit results could vary from
in ImClone. these estimates.
– 54–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportFor discussions on income taxes, see Note 1, “Accounting Policies—Income composition of matter patent for Plavix, which expires in 2011, is currently the
Taxes” and Note 8, “Income Taxes.” subject of litigation in the United States. Similar proceedings involving Plavix
have been instituted outside the United States. The Company continues to
believe that the patent is valid and that it is infringed, and with its alliance part-
OUTLOOK ner and patent-holder Sanofi, is vigorously pursuing these cases. It is not possi-
As previously disclosed, although anticipated sales declines due to contin- ble at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these litigations, or, if there
ued exclusivity losses during 2005 and 2006 are expected to be more or less were an adverse determination in these litigations, the timing of potential
offset by growth in sales of the Company’s in-line, recently launched and poten- generic competition for Plavix. However, if generic competition were to occur,
tial new products during the same period, changes in product mix will adversely the Company believes it is very unlikely to occur before the second half of 2005.
impact gross margins because the products that have lost or are expected to The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant
lose exclusivity generally have higher margins. In addition, earnings will be pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at
adversely affected by the Company’s investments to support the introduction of this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litiga-
new products and the development and launch of additional new compounds. tions. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during
In 2007, based on management’s current estimates of growth of the Company’s the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and
in-line and recently launched products and a risk-adjusted assessment of other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to
potential new product launches, the Company expects earnings growth will the Company’s results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its
resume. The Company has and will continue to rationalize its cost base in line financial condition and liquidity. The Company’s expectations for the next sev-
with its strategy to increase its sales and marketing emphasis on specialists and eral years described above do not reflect the potential impact of litigation on the
high value primary care physicians. Company’s results of operations.
As previously disclosed, the Company has experienced substantial revenue
losses in the last few years due to the expiration of market exclusivity protection Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results
for certain of its products. The Company expects substantial incremental rev- This annual report and other written and oral statements the Company
enue losses in each of 2005, 2006 and 2007 representing continuing declines makes from time to time contain certain “forward-looking” statements within the
in revenues of those products as well as declines in revenues of certain addi- meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
tional products that will lose market exclusivity primarily in 2005 and 2006. For Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these forward-looking state-
2005, the Company estimates reductions of net sales in the range of $1.4 billion ments by the fact they use words such as “should”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “esti-
to $1.5 billion from the 2004 levels for products which have lost or will lose mate”, “target”, “may”, “will”, “project”, “guidance”, “intend”, “plan”, “believe”
exclusivity protection in 2003, 2004 or 2005, specifically Monoprilin the United and other words and terms of similar meaning and expression in connection
States, Canada and Europe, Glucophage XR and Glucovance in the United with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. One can also
States, Cefzilin the United States, Paraplatinin the United States, Videx EC in identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to
the United States, TAXOL®in Europe and Pravacholin Europe. The Company historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements are based on cur-
also expects substantial incremental revenue losses in each of 2006 and 2007 rent expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors
representing continuing declines in net sales of the products that lost exclusivity that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual out-
protection in 2002, 2003 and 2004 and additional declines attributable to prod- comes to differ materially from current expectations. These statements are likely
ucts that will lose exclusivity protection primarily in 2005 and 2006. These prod- to relate to, among other things, the Company’s goals, plans and projections
ucts (and the years in which they lose exclusivity protection) include regarding its financial position, results of operations, cash flows, market posi-
Glucophage/Glucovance/Glucophage XR in the United States (2002 to 2004), tion, product development, product approvals, sales efforts, expenses, perform-
TAXOL®in Europe and Japan (2003); Pravacholin the United States (2006) ance or results of current and anticipated products and the outcome of
and in Europe (2002 to 2007); Paraplatinin the United States (2004); Monopril contingencies such as legal proceedings and financial results, which are based
in the United States (2003); Canada (2003) and Europe (2001 to 2008); Zeritin on current expectations that involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including
the United States (2008); and in Europe (2007 to 2011); Cefzilin the United internal or external factors that could delay, divert or change any of them in the
States (2005); and in Europe (2004 to 2009); and Videx/Videx EC (2004 to next several years.
2009). The timing and amounts of sales reductions from exclusivity losses, their Although it is not possible to predict or identify all factors, they may include
realization in particular periods and the eventual levels of remaining sales rev- but are not limited to the following:
enues are uncertain and dependent on the levels of sales at the time exclusivity •New government laws and regulations, such as (i) health care reform initia-
protection ends, the timing and degree of development of generic competition tives in the United States at the state and federal level and in other countries;
(speed of approvals, market entry and impact) and other factors. (ii) changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may
Pravachol, an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin), had net sales of $2.6 bil- cause delays in approving, or preventing the approval of, new products; (iii)
lion in 2004. During 2004, the Company experienced increased competition for tax changes such as the phasing out of tax benefits heretofore available in
Pravacholfrom established brands and new entrants. U.S. prescriptions for the United States and certain foreign countries; (iv) new laws, regulations and
Pravacholdeclined 10% in 2004 compared to 2003. While the product has judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing within or across jurisdictions;
begun to lose exclusivity in some markets, between now and its anticipated loss and (v) changes in intellectual property law.
of U.S. exclusivity in April 2006, its expected rate of decline in sales and in mar-
ket share could be accelerated by increased competition from established •Competitive factors, such as (i) new products developed by competitors that
brands and new entrants. have lower prices or superior performance features or that are otherwise
The Company’s expectations for future sales growth include substantial competitive with the Company’s current products; (ii) generic competition as
expected increases in sales of Plavix, which had net sales of $3.3 billion for the Company’s products mature and patents expire on products; (iii) techno-
2004, and is currently the Company’s largest product ranked by net sales. The logical advances and patents attained by competitors; (iv) problems with
– 55–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportlicensors, suppliers and distributors; and (v) business combinations among •Changes in product mix that may affect margins.
the Company’s competitors or major customers.
•Changes in the Company’s structure, operations, revenues, costs, staffing or
•Difficulties and delays inherent in product development, manufacturing and efficiency resulting from acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances, restruc-
sale, such as (i) products that may appear promising in development but fail turings or other strategic initiatives.
to reach market or be approved for additional indications for any number of
reasons, including efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain neces- •Economic factors over which the Company has no control, such as changes
sary regulatory approvals and the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture; of business and economic conditions including, but not limited to, changes
(ii) failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain commercial viability; in interest rates and fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates.
(iii) seizure or recalls of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manu-
facturing plants; (iv) the failure to obtain, the imposition of limitations on the •Changes in business, political and economic conditions due to political or
use of, or loss of patent and other intellectual property rights; (v) failure of the social instability, military or armed conflict, nationalization of assets, debt or
Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good payment moratoriums, other restrictions on commerce, and actual or threat-
Manufacturing Practices and other application regulations and quality assur- ened terrorist attacks in the United States or other parts of the world and
ance guidelines that could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, related military action.
product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; and (vi) other man-
ufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing pro- •Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the FASB, the SEC or the
duction sites and manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, AICPA, which may require adjustments to financial statements.
changes in types of products produced, such as biologics, or physical limita-
tions that could impact continuous supply. •Capacity, efficiency, reliability, security and potential breakdown, invasion,
destruction or interruption of information systems.
•Legal difficulties, including lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations,
any of which can preclude or delay commercialization of products or •Reliance of the Company on vendors, partners and other third parties to
adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations in relation to their
including (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) adverse decisions in litigation, arrangements with the Company.
including product liability and commercial cases; (iii) the inability to obtain
adequate insurance with respect to this type of liability; (iv) recalls of pharma- •Results of clinical studies relating to the Company’s or a competitor’s products.
ceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the failure
to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other Although the Company believes it has been prudent in its plans and assump-
customers, which may result in liability; (vi) government investigations, includ- tions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-look-
ing those relating to wholesaler inventory, financial restatement and product ing statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue
pricing and promotion; (vii) claims asserting violations of securities, antitrust, reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. The
federal and state pricing and other laws; (viii) environmental, health and Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-
safety matters; and (ix) tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that there looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
will not be an increase in scope of these matters or that any future lawsuits,
claims, proceedings or investigations will not be material. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
•Increasing pricing pressures worldwide, including rules and practices of
managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, judi- The Company is exposed to market risk due to changes in currency
cial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, exchange rates and interest rates. To reduce that risk, the Company enters into
Medicaid and health care reform and potential impact of importation legisla- certain derivative financial instruments, when available on a cost-effective basis,
tive or otherwise, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. to hedge its underlying economic exposure. These instruments are managed
on a consolidated basis to efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of
•Fluctuations in buying patterns and inventory levels of major distributors, any natural offsets. Derivative financial instruments are not used for speculative
retail chains and other trade buyers, which may result from seasonality, pric- purposes. Gains and losses on hedging transactions are offset by gains and
ing, wholesaler buying decisions (including the effect of incentives offered), losses on the underlying exposures being hedged. Any ineffective portion of
the Company’s wholesaler inventory management policies (including the hedges is reported in earnings as it occurs.
workdown or other changes in wholesaler inventory levels) or other factors. Foreign exchange option contracts and forward contracts are used to hedge
anticipated transactions. The Company’s primary foreign currency exposures in
•Greater than expected costs and other difficulties, including unanticipated relation to the U.S. dollar are the euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar and
effects and difficulties of acquisitions, dispositions and other events, includ- Mexican peso.
ing obtaining regulatory approvals in connection with evolving business The table below summarizes the Company’s outstanding foreign exchange
strategies, legal defense costs, insurance expense, settlement costs and the contracts as of December 31, 2004. The fair value of all foreign exchange con-
risk of an adverse decision related to litigation. tracts is based on year-end currency rates (and the Black-Scholes model in the
case of option contracts). The fair value of option contracts and forward con-
•Changes to advertising and promotional spending and other categories of tracts should be viewed in relation to the fair value of the underlying hedged
spending that may affect sales. transactions and the overall reduction in exposure to adverse fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates.
– 56–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportas hedges and are marked to market through other income/expense. The notional
Weighted and fair value amount of these foreign exchange forward contracts at December
Dollars in Millions, Average Notional Fair 31, 2004 is $325 million and $6 million, respectively.
Except Currency Rates Strike Price Amount Value Maturity The Company uses derivative instruments as part of its interest rate risk man-
agement policy. The derivative instruments used include interest rate swaps,
Foreign Exchange Forwards:
Australian Dollar .71 $ 157 $ (12) 2005/2006 which are subject to fair-value hedge accounting treatment. During 2004, 2003
British Pound 1.74 101 (9) 2005 and 2002, the Company executed several fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to
Canadian Dollar 1.33 426 (46) 2005-2007 convert $6.2 billion of the Company’s fixed rate debt to be paid in 2006, 2008,
Euro 1.23 2,270 (257) 2005/2006 2011, 2013, 2023 and 2026 to variable rate debt. For the year ended December
Polish Zloty 3.62 60 (9) 2005/2006 31, 2004, the Company recognized a net reduction in interest expense of $151
Swedish Krona 7.35 71 (8) 2005/2006 million that reflects the benefit of the lower floating rate obtained in the swap
Swiss Franc 1.21 130 (10) 2005/2006
agreement. SFAS No. 133 requires the revaluation, at fair value, of the swap
All Others 195 (16) 2005/2006
contracts as well as the underlying debt being hedged. As such, the swap con-
Option Contracts
tracts and the underlying debt have been revalued, resulting in an increase in
Japanese Yen 111.70 51 5 2005
non-current assets of $76 million, short-term liabilities of $1 million and long-
Total Contracts $3,461 $(362)
term debt of $75 million, and an increase in non-current assets and long-term
At December 31, 2004, the Company held option and forward exchange debt of $40 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Swap con-
contracts with maturity dates from 2005 to 2007. The notional amounts and fair tracts are generally held to maturity and are not used for speculative purposes.
values of these maturity dates are expressed in the table below: The following table summarizes the interest rate swaps outstanding as of
December 31, 2004:
Notional Notional Amount of Variable
Amount Fair Value Underlying Rate
Year of Maturity (in millions) (in millions) Dollars in Millions Debt Received Maturity Fair Value
2005 $1,958 $(232)
Interest Rate Contracts
2006 1,473 (128)
Swaps associated with 1 month U.S.$
2007 30 (2)
4.75% Notes due 2006 $2,000 LIBOR +1.04% 2006 $13
Swaps associated with 1 month U.S.$
At December 31, 2004, the Company held option contracts with an aggre-
4.00% Notes due 2008 400 LIBOR +0.35% 2008 (1)
gate notional amount and fair value of $51 million and $5 million, respectively.
These options give the Company the right to buy Japanese Yen at specified Swaps associated with 1 month U.S.$
rates. The Company also held forward contracts with an aggregate notional 5.75% Notes due 2011 2,500 LIBOR +1.50% 2011 4
amount of $3,410 million. The fair value of the forward contracts was $367 mil-
lion and was recorded as a current liability. These contracts primarily related to Swaps associated with 1 month U.S.$
exposures in euro, Canadian dollar and Australian dollar. The Company is obli- 5.25% Notes due 2013 600 LIBOR +0.42% 2013 17
gated to settle forward contracts based on the specified contract rates. As of
Swaps associated with 1 month U.S.$
December 31, 2004, the balance of deferred net after-tax losses of option and
7.15% Notes due 2023 350 LIBOR +1.66% 2023 20
forward contracts included in accumulated other comprehensive income was
$267 million, of which $168 million is estimated to be reclassified into earnings
Swaps associated with 1 month U.S.$
within the next 12 months.
6.8% Notes due 2026 $6,350 LIBOR +1.24% 2026 $22
For the year ended December 31, 2004, the impact of hedge ineffectiveness
$6,200 $75
on earnings was a loss of $4 million. Additionally, the Company uses forward
contracts to offset its exposure to certain currency assets and liabilities. These At December 31, 2003, the Company held interest rate swap contracts with a
forward contracts are not designated as hedges and, therefore, changes in the notional value of $5,500 million and a fair value of $40 million.
fair value of these derivatives are recognized in earnings as they occur. As of It is estimated that a 10% change in interest rate structure would not have a
December 31, 2004 the Company recorded a loss of $7 million related to for- material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of
ward exchange contracts that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. operations or cash flows.
At December 31, 2003, the Company held option and forward exchange The Company had $8,463 million and $8,522 million of long-term debt out-
contracts with an aggregate notional amount and fair value of $2,488 million standing at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. See Note 15, “Short-
and $(265) million, respectively. These contracts primarily related to exposures Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt” and Note 17, “Financial Instruments” for
in euro, Japanese Yen, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar. additional information.
In addition to the foreign exchange hedge contracts noted above, the The Company maintains cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities
Company also uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency with various financial institutions, in order to limit exposure to any one financial
denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The primary objective of these for- institution. These financial institutions are headquartered primarily in North
eign exchange forward contracts is to protect the U.S. dollar value of foreign America and Europe.
currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities from the effects of volatility in
foreign exchange that might occur prior to their receipt or settlement in U.S. dollars.
These foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are primarily
denominated in Japanese yen and euro. The forward contracts are not designated
– 57–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportConsolidated Statement of Earnings
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Data 2004 2003 2002
Earnings
Net Sales $19,380 $18,653 $16,208
Cost of products sold 5,989 5,406 4,691
Marketing, selling and administrative 5,016 4,620 4,081
Advertising and product promotion 1,411 1,415 1,142
Research and development 2,500 2,279 2,206
Acquired in-process research and development 63 — 169
Provision for restructuring and other items, net 104 26 14
Litigation charges, net 420 199 659
Gain on sales of businesses/product lines (320) — (30)
Asset impairment charge for investment in ImClone — — 379
Equity in net income of affiliates (273) (151) (80)
Other expense, net 52 179 229
Total expenses 14,962 13,973 13,460
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Minority Interest and Income Taxes 4,418 4,680 2,748
Provision for income taxes 1,519 1,210 386
Minority interest, net of taxes 521 373 303
Earnings from Continuing Operations 2,378 3,097 2,059
Discontinued Operations
Net earnings 10 9 40
Net gain on disposal — — 38
10 9 78
Net Earnings $ 2,388 $ 3,106 $ 2,137
Earnings per Common Share
Basic
Earnings from Continuing Operations $1.23 $1.60 $1.07
Discontinued Operations
Net earnings — — .02
Net gain on disposal — — .02
— — .04
Net Earnings $1.23 $1.60 $1.11
Diluted
Earnings from Continuing Operations $1.21 $1.59 $1.06
Discontinued Operations
Net earnings — — .02
Net gain on disposal — — .02
— — .04
Net Earnings $1.21 $1.59 $1.10
Average Common Shares Outstanding
Basic 1,942 1,937 1,936
Diluted 1,976 1,950 1,942
Dividends declared per common share $1.12 $1.12 $1.12
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
– 58–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportConsolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002
Comprehensive Income
Net Earnings $2,388 $ 3,106 $ 2,137
Other Comprehensive Income:
Foreign currency translation, net of tax benefit of
$48 in 2004, $25 in 2003 and $53 in 2002 208 233 161
Deferred losses on derivatives qualifying as hedges,
net of tax liability of $1 in 2004 and the tax benefit of $65 in 2003 and $19 in 2002 (51) (171) (25)
Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax benefit of
$42 in 2004, $17 in 2003, $43 in 2002 (93) (36) (89)
Available for sale securities, net of tax liability of $13 in 2003 (1) 23 1
Total Other Comprehensive Income 63 49 48
Comprehensive Income $2,451 $3,155 $2,185
Retained Earnings
Retained Earnings, January 1 $19,439 $18,503 $18,530
Net earnings 2,388 3,106 2,137
21,827 21,609 20,667
Cash dividends declared (2,176) (2,170) (2,168)
Zimmer common stock dividend — — 4
Retained Earnings, December 31 $19,651 $19,439 $18,503
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
– 59–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportConsolidated Balance Sheet
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003
Assets
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $3,680 $2,549
Marketable securities 3,794 3,013
Receivables, net of allowances of $178 and $154 4,373 3,660
Inventories, including consignment inventory 1,830 1,601
Deferred income taxes, net of valuation allowances 805 864
Prepaid expenses 319 310
Total Current Assets 14,801 11,997
Property, plant and equipment, net 5,765 5,712
Goodwill 4,905 4,836
Other intangible assets, net 1,866 1,732
Deferred income taxes, net of valuation allowances 1,129 1,234
Other assets 1,969 1,937
Total Assets $30,435 $27,448
Liabilities
Current Liabilities:
Short-term borrowings $1,883 $232
Accounts payable 2,127 1,893
Accrued expenses 2,838 2,661
Accrued rebates and returns 1,209 1,082
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 1,023 707
Dividends payable 545 543
Accrued litigation liabilities 186 267
Deferred revenue on consigned inventory 32 76
Total Current Liabilities 9,843 7,461
Other liabilities 1,927 1,679
Long-term debt 8,463 8,522
Total Liabilities 20,233 17,662
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders’ Equity
Preferred stock, $2 convertible series: Authorized 10 million shares; issued and outstanding 7,476
in 2004 and 8,039 in 2003, liquidation value of $50 per share — —
Common stock, par value of $.10 per share: Authorized 4.5 billion shares; 2,202 million issued in 2004
and 2,201 million issued in 2003 220 220
Capital in excess of par value of stock 2,491 2,477
Restricted stock (57) (55)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (792) (855)
Retained earnings 19,651 19,439
21,513 21,226
Less cost of treasury stock—255 million common shares in 2004 and 261 million in 2003 (11,311) (11,440)
Total Stockholders’ Equity 10,202 9,786
Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity $30,435 $27,448
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
– 60–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportConsolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002
Cash Flows From Operating Activities:
Net earnings $2,388 $3,106 $2,137
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation 593 491 427
Amortization 316 298 308
Deferred income tax (benefit)/expense 286 249 (471)
Litigation settlement expense 420 199 669
Provision for restructuring and other items 104 29 68
Gain on sales of businesses/product lines (including discontinued operations) (320) — (95)
Acquired in-process research and development 63 — 160
Loss (gain) on disposal of property, plant, and equipment and investment in other companies 18 (3) 20
Undistributed (earnings)/losses of affiliates, net 7 66 24
Unfunded pension expense (91) (195) (520)
Impairment charges and asset write-offs — 26 438
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Receivables (556) (549) 906
Inventories (133) 127 200
Prepaid expenses 2 50 13
Other assets 16 (70) 799
Deferred revenue on consigned inventory (44) (394) (1,556)
Litigation settlement payments (500) (526) (108)
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 248 394 (212)
Product liability 38 (3) 4
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 220 147 (2,386)
Other liabilities 101 70 120
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 3,176 3,512 945
Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
Purchases, net of sales and maturities, of marketable securities (779) (1,385) (520)
Additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized software (676) (937) (1,075)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and investment in other companies 35 59 27
Proceeds from sales of businesses/product lines 364 — 159
ImClone milestone payment (250) — —
Purchase of Acordis Specialty Fibres (150) — —
Purchases of trademarks, patents and licenses and other businesses (133) (53) (78)
Investments in other companies (4) (85) (133)
Divestiture and acquisition costs (29) (18) (410)
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (1,622) (2,419) (2,030)
Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
Short-term borrowings, net of repayments 1,558 (1,189) 1,164
Long-term debt borrowings 15 2,286 6
Long-term debt repayments (3) (3) (9)
Issuances of common stock under stock plans 141 44 138
Purchases of treasury stock — — (164)
Dividends paid (2,174) (2,169) (2,168)
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities (463) (1,031) (1,033)
Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash 40 36 17
Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 1,131 98 (2,101)
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 2,549 2,451 4,552
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year $3,680 $2,549 $2,451
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
– 61–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportNote 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES $249 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These and other
Basis of Consolidation rebate accruals were established in the same period the related revenue was
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Bristol-Myers recognized, resulting in a reduction to sales and the establishment of a liability,
Squibb Company (BMS, the Company or Bristol-Myers Squibb) and all of its which is included in accrued liabilities. An accrual is recorded based on an esti-
controlled majority owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transac- mate of the proportion of recorded revenue that will result in a rebate or return.
tions have been eliminated. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified Prime vendor charge-back accruals, established in a similar manner, are
to conform to the current year presentation. recorded as a reduction to accounts receivable and were $106 million and
$101 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally Income Taxes
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires the use of estimates and The provision for income taxes has been determined using the asset and lia-
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and dis- bility approach of accounting for income taxes. Under this approach, deferred
closure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. The provision
reporting period. The most significant assumptions are employed in estimates for income taxes represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year
used in determining values of intangible assets, restructuring charges and plus the change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from
accruals, sales rebate and return accruals, legal contingencies and tax assets differences between the financial and tax bases of the Company’s assets and
and tax liabilities, as well as in estimates used in applying the revenue recogni- liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes
tion policy and accounting for retirement and postretirement benefits (including are enacted. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets
the actuarial assumptions). Actual results could differ from estimated results. when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized.
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had approximately $16.9 billion of
Revenue Recognition undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Company accrued a provi-
The Company recognizes revenue when substantially all the risks and sion for $575 million of estimated deferred taxes in the fourth quarter of 2004 in
rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer. In the case of certain anticipation of repatriating approximately $9 billion of these earnings in 2005
sales made by the Nutritionals and Other Healthcare segments and certain pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA). Taxes were not
non-U.S. businesses within the Pharmaceuticals segment, revenue is recognized provided on the balance of undistributed earnings of approximately $7.9 billion,
on the date of receipt by the purchaser. Revenues are reduced at the time of as the Company has invested or expects to invest these undistributed earnings
sale to reflect expected returns that are estimated based on historical experience. permanently offshore. If in the future these earnings are repatriated to the
Additionally, provisions are made at the time of sale for all discounts, rebates United States, or if the Company determines such earnings will be remitted in
and estimated sales allowances based on historical experience, updated for the foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required. Due to com-
changes in facts and circumstances, as appropriate. Such provisions are plexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would have to be made, it is
recorded as a reduction of revenue. not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that would have to be
In the case of sales made to wholesalers (1) as a result of incentives, (2) in provided.
excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary course of business inventory level, (3) at a The AJCA provides for a temporary 85 percent dividends received deduction
time when there was an understanding, agreement, course of dealing or con- for certain cash distributions of the earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The deduc-
sistent business practice that the Company would extend incentives based on tion would result in a federal tax rate of approximately 5.25% on the repatriated
levels of excess inventory in connection with future purchases and (4) at a time earnings (assuming a marginal federal tax rate of 35% on those earnings). To
when such incentives would cover substantially all, and vary directly with, the qualify for the deduction, the repatriated earnings must be reinvested in the
wholesaler’s cost of carrying inventory in excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary United States pursuant to a domestic reinvestment plan approved by a com-
course of business inventory level, substantially all the risks and rewards of own- pany’s chief executive officer and by its board of directors. In January 2005, the
ership do not transfer upon shipment and accordingly, such sales should be Department of Treasury issued guidelines for permitted investments under the
accounted for using the consignment model. The determination of when, if at plan. The Company expects to meet the requirements and criteria to qualify for
all, sales to a wholesaler meet the foregoing criteria involves evaluation of a vari- the deduction. However, several provisions in the AJCA require further clarifica-
ety of factors and a number of complex judgments. Under the consignment tion which may be addressed in the coming months by the Treasury or
model, the Company does not recognize revenue upon shipment of product. Congress. The Company’s estimate of the tax cost related to the repatriation at
Rather, upon shipment of product the Company invoices the wholesaler, December 31, 2004 was based on tax laws then in effect. To the extent the tax
records deferred revenue at gross invoice sales price and classifies the inven- laws and guidance changes, the estimate will be revised. The Company’s esti-
tory held by the wholesalers as consignment inventory at the Company’s cost of mate may also be revised as a result of any changes in the Company’s factual
such inventory. The Company recognizes revenue when the consignment assumptions that may occur.
inventory is no longer subject to incentive arrangements but not later than when Under the guidance of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB),
such inventory is sold through to the wholesalers’ customers, on a first-in first- Staff Position (FSP) No. 109-1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109,
out (FIFO) basis. "Accounting for Income Taxes," to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production
Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004,this deduction
Sales Rebate and Return Accruals will be treated as a “special deduction” as described in Statement of Financial
Medicaid rebate accruals were $372 million and $233 million at December Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109. As such, the special deduction will not
31, 2004 and 2003, respectively; Women, Infants and Children (WIC) rebate affect deferred tax assets and liabilities existing at the enactment date. Rather,
accruals were $234 million and $208 million, respectively; and managed health the impact of this deduction will be reported in the period in which the deduc-
care rebate and other contractual discount accruals were $198 million and tion is claimed on the Company’s tax return.
– 62–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportThe Company establishes liabilities for possible assessments by tax authori- Capitalized Software
ties resulting from known tax exposures. Such amounts represent a reasonable Certain costs to obtain internal use software for significant systems projects
provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid, and may need to be adjusted are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software,
over time as more information becomes known. which ranges from three to ten years. Costs to obtain software for projects that
are not significant are expensed as incurred. Capitalized software, net of accu-
Cash and Cash Equivalents mulated amortization, included in other assets, was $394 million and $407 mil-
Cash equivalents are primarily highly liquid investments with original maturi- lion, at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Amortization expense was
ties of three months or less at the time of purchase, and are recorded at cost, $90 million, $71 million and $39 million for the years ended December 31,
which approximates fair value. 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Marketable Securities Investments
The Company accounts for marketable securities in accordance with SFAS In January 2003, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46
No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. The or Interpretation), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of
Company determined the appropriate classification of all marketable securities ARB No. 51. FIN 46 clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin
was “available-for-sale” at the time of purchase. As such, at December 31, 2004 (ARB) No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, to certain entities in which
and 2003, all of the Company’s investments in marketable securities were equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest
reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are reported as a component or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities with-
of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity. The out additional subordinated financial support from other parties. Such entities
amortized cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and are known as variable interest entities (VIEs). The FASB issued a revision to FIN
accretion of discounts from the date of purchase to maturity. Such amortization 46 (FIN 46-R) in December 2003. FIN 46-R is effective for the interim period
is included in interest income as an addition to or deduction from the coupon ending March 31, 2004 for all new or existing VIEs. The adoption of FIN 46 had
interest earned on the investments. The Company follows its investment man- no effect on the Company’s financial statements.
agers’ method of determining the cost basis in computing realized gains and If an entity does not meet the definition of a VIE under FIN 46, the Company
losses on the sale of its available-for-sale securities, which is the average cost accounts for the entity under the provisions of ARB No. 51, Consolidated
method. Realized gains and losses are included in other income (expense). Financial Statements, as amended by SFAS No. 94, Consolidation of All
Majority-Owned Subsidiaries,which requires that the Company consolidates all
Inventory Valuation majority (more than 50%) owned subsidiaries where it has the ability to exercise
Inventories are generally stated at average cost, not in excess of market. control. The Company accounts for 50% or less owned companies over which
it has the ability to exercise significant influence using the equity method of
Capital Assets and Depreciation accounting. The Company’s share of net income or losses of equity invest-
Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalized at ments is included in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated state-
cost. Depreciation is generally computed on a straight-line method based on ment of earnings. The Company periodically reviews these equity investments
the estimated useful lives of the related assets. The estimated useful lives of the for impairment and adjusts these investments to their fair value when a decline
major classes of depreciable assets are 50 years for buildings and 3 to 40 years in market value is deemed to be other than temporary. During 2002, the
for machinery, equipment and fixtures. The Company periodically evaluates Company recorded an asset impairment charge of $379 million for an other-
whether current events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its than-temporary decline in the market value of ImClone Systems Incorporated
depreciable assets may not be recoverable. (ImClone).
Long-term investments in securities, which comprise marketable equity
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets securities and securities and investments for which market values are not read-
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. ily available, are included in other assets. Marketable equity securities are classi-
144, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.The adoption of fied as available-for-sale and reported at fair value. Fair value is based on quoted
SFAS No. 144 did not have a material effect on the consolidated financial state- market prices as of the end of the reporting period. Securities and investments
ments of the Company. SFAS No. 144 establishes the accounting for impair- for which market values are not readily available are carried at cost. Unrealized
ment of long-lived tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill and for the gains and losses are reported, net of their related tax effects, as a component of
disposal of a segment of a business. Pursuant to SFAS No. 144, the Company accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity until
periodically evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the sold. At the time of sale, any gains or losses are calculated by the specific identi-
carrying value of its depreciable assets to be held and used may not be fication method and recognized in other (income)/expense. Losses are also
recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of recognized in income when a decline in market value is deemed to be other
undiscounted future cash flows produced by the long-lived asset, or the appro- than temporary.
priate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine
whether an impairment exists. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
is measured based on the difference between the asset’s fair value and its car- The Company adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,
rying value. An estimate of the asset’s fair value is based on quoted market on January 1, 2002, with certain provisions adopted as of July 1, 2001 with
prices in active markets, if available. If quoted market prices are not available, respect to amortization of goodwill arising from acquisitions made after June
the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques, including a 30, 2001. SFAS No. 142 addresses the initial recognition and measurement of
discounted value of estimated future cash flows. The Company reports an intangible assets acquired outside a business combination and the recognition
asset to be disposed of at the lower of its carrying value or its estimated net and measurement of goodwill and other intangible assets subsequent to their
realizable value.
– 63–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportacquisition. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer amortized but is subject tions of changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in other compre-
to annual impairment tests. hensive income (loss) and are subsequently recognized in the consolidated
In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill is tested for impairment upon statement of earnings when the hedged item affects earnings; cash flows are
adoption of the new standard and annually thereafter. SFAS No. 142 requires classified consistent with the underlying hedged item. For purchased foreign
that goodwill be tested for impairment using a two-step process. The first step is currency options the entire change in fair value is included in the measurement
to identify a potential impairment and the second step measures the amount of of hedge effectiveness for cash flow hedges. Ineffective portions of changes in
the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is deemed to be impaired if the carrying the fair value of cash flow hedges, if any, are recognized as a charge or credit to
amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. The earnings.
Company has completed its goodwill impairment assessment, which indicated The Company designates and assigns derivatives as hedges of forecasted
no impairment of goodwill. transactions, specific assets or specific liabilities. When hedged assets or liabili-
Other intangible assets, consisting of patents, trademarks, technology and ties are sold or extinguished or the forecasted transactions being hedged are
licenses, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, ranging no longer expected to occur, the Company immediately recognizes the gain or
from 3 to 17 years. SFAS No. 142 requires that indefinite-lived intangible assets loss on the designated hedging financial instruments in the consolidated state-
be tested for impairment using a one-step process, which consists of a compari- ment of earnings.
son of the fair value to the carrying value of the intangible asset. Such intangible
assets are deemed to be impaired if their net book value exceeds their esti- Shipping and Handling Costs
mated fair value. All other intangible assets are evaluated for impairment in The Company typically does not charge customers for shipping and
accordance with SFAS No. 144 as described under “Impairment of Long-Lived handling costs. Shipping and handling costs, when charged, are included in
Assets” above. marketing, selling and administrative expenses and for 2004, 2003 and 2002
were $245 million, $243 million and $231 million, respectively.
Restructuring
To downsize and streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facili- Advertising Costs
ties, the Company has periodically recorded restructuring charges. As a result, Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense was $479
the Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, million, $448 million and $393 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
including future termination benefits and other exit costs when approved and
incurred, Actual results could vary from these estimates, resulting in an adjust- Milestone Payments
ment to earnings. The Company from time to time will enter into strategic alliances with third
parties, which give the Company rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or
Product Liability sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are owned by such third par-
Accruals for product liability are recorded on an undiscounted basis when it ties. As a result of these alliances, the Company may be obligated to make pay-
is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can ments to alliance partners contingent upon the achievement of certain
be reasonably estimated, based on existing information. These accruals are pre-determined criteria. For milestones achieved prior to marketing approval of
adjusted periodically as assessment efforts progress or as additional informa- the product, such payments are expensed as research and development. After
tion becomes available. Receivables for related insurance or other third-party product approval, any additional milestones are capitalized and amortized to
recoveries for product liabilities are recorded, on an undiscounted basis, when cost of products sold over the remaining useful life of the asset. All capitalized
it is probable that a recovery will be realized and classified as a reduction of liti- milestone payments are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in
gation charges in the consolidated statement of earnings. circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
Contingencies Acquired In-Process Research and Development
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to contingencies, The fair value of in-process research and development acquired in a busi-
such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of its business, that cover a ness combination is determined by independent appraisal and based on the
wide range of matters, including, among others, product liability, environmental present value of each research project’s projected cash flows. An income
liability and tax matters. In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for approach is utilized that is consistent with guidance in the practice aid Assets
Contingencies, the Company records accruals for such contingencies when it Acquired in Business Combinations to Be Used in Research and Development
is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reason- Activities: A Focus on Software, Electronic Devices and Pharmaceutical
ably estimated. For a discussion of contingencies, reference is made to Note 8, Industries issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
“Income Taxes” and Note 21, “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies”. Future cash flows are predominately based on the net income forecast of each
project consistent with historical pricing, margins and expense levels of similar
Derivative Financial Instruments products. Revenues are estimated based on relevant market size and growth
Derivative financial instruments are used by the Company principally in the factors, expected industry trends, individual project life cycles and the life of
management of its interest rate and foreign currency exposures. The Company each research project’s underlying patent. In determining the fair value of each
does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. research project, expected revenues are first adjusted for technical risk of com-
The Company records all derivative instruments on the balance sheet at fair pletion. The resulting cash flows are then discounted at a rate approximating
value. Changes in a derivative’s fair value are recognized in earnings unless the Company’s weighted average cost of capital. Other acquired in-process
specific hedge criteria are met. If the derivative is designated as a fair value research and development is expensed as incurred when the underlying prod-
hedge, the changes in the fair value of the derivative and of the hedged item uct has not received regulatory approval and does not have any future alterna-
attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in the consolidated statement of tive use. In addition, costs that are nonrefundable, related to the acquisition
earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective por- or licensing of products that have not yet received regulatory approval to be
– 64–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportmarketed and that have no alternative future use are charged to earnings Recently Issued Accounting Standards
as incurred. In December 2004, the FASB issued revised SFAS No. 123 (SFAS No. 123R),
Share-Based Payment.This standard eliminates the ability to account for share-
Earnings Per Share based compensation transactions using the intrinsic value-based method
Basic earnings per common share are computed using the weighted-aver- under APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,and
age number of shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per com- requires instead that such transactions be accounted for using a fair-value-
mon share are computed using the weighted-average number of shares based method. SFAS No. 123R is effective for financial statements issued for
outstanding during the year plus the incremental shares outstanding assuming the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2005. Currently, the Company
the exercise of dilutive stock options, restricted stock and convertible instruments. discloses the pro forma net income and related pro forma income per share
information in accordance with SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Foreign Currency Translation Compensation, and SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
The net assets of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Costs —Transition and Disclosure.The Company is evaluating the impact of this
dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from statement which could have a material impact on its results of operations.
translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recorded in In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. 109-1, Application of SFAS No.
the foreign currency translation adjustment account, which is included in other 109, Accounting for Income Taxes,to the Tax Deduction on Qualified
comprehensive income. Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The
effect of the adoption of FSP No. 109-1 is not material to the Company’s consol-
Stock Compensation Plans idated financial statements. See Income Taxes above.
Currently, the Company applies Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary
No. 25, Accounting for StockIssued to Employees, and related interpretations in Assets. The provisions of this Statement is effective for nonmonetary asset
accounting for its stock-based compensation plans and discloses the pro forma exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The provi-
net income and related pro forma income per share information in accordance sions of this Statement should be applied prospectively, and eliminates the
with SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,and SFAS exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar
No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Costs —Transition and productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for
Disclosure. The Company does not recognize compensation expense for stock Nonmonetary Transactions, and replaces it with an exception for exchanges
options granted under the plans as the exercise price of the option on the date that do not have commercial substance. The adoption of this accounting pro-
of grant is equal to the fair market value as of that date. For grants of restricted nouncement is not expected to have a material effect on the consolidated finan-
stock, the Company recognizes compensation expense on a straight-line basis cial statements.
over the period that the restrictions expire. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs—an
The following table summarizes the Company’s results on a pro forma basis Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.The standard requires abnormal
as if it had recorded compensation expense based upon the fair value at the amounts of idle facility and related expenses to be recognized as current period
grant date for awards under these plans consistent with the methodology pre- charges and also requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the
scribed in SFAS No. 123 for 2004, 2003 and 2002: costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities.
SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years begin-
Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Data 2004 2003 2002 ning after June 15, 2005. The Company is evaluating the impact that this state-
ment will have on its financial position and results of operations.
Net Earnings: In June 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. 106-2, Accounting and Disclosure
As reported $2,388 $3,106 $2,137 Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Total stock-based employee compensation Modernization Act of 2003(the Medicare Act). The Medicare Act introduces a
expense, included in reported net income, prescription drug benefit under Medicare as well as a federal subsidy to spon-
net of related tax effects 19 14 12 sors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least
Total stock-based employee compensation actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. FSP No. 106-2 requires that the
expense determined under fair value based effects of the new law be accounted for under SFAS No. 106, Employers’
method for all awards, net of related Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions.The Company
tax effects (138) (195) (261) adopted FSP No. 106-2 in the third quarter of 2004, retroactive to January 1,
Pro forma $2,269 $2,925 $1,888 2004. There was a reduction in net periodic benefit cost for other benefits of
Basic earnings per share: $8 million for 2004, based on the re-measurement of the accumulated postre-
As reported $1.23 $1.60 $1.11 tirement benefit obligation as of January 1, 2004. The effect of the adoption of
Pro forma 1.17 1.51 .98 FSP No. 106-2 was not material to the Company’s consolidated financial state-
Diluted earnings per share: ments. See Note 20, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans.”
As reported $1.21 $1.59 $1.10 In March 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus
Pro forma 1.15 1.50 .97 on Issue No. 03-06, Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method Under
FAS 128,which requires the use of the two-class method of computing earn-
Options related to discontinued operations have no impact on basic and ings per share for those enterprises with participating securities or multiple
diluted earnings per share. See Note 16, “Stockholders’ Equity” for additional classes of common stock. The consensus is effective for fiscal periods begin-
information. ning after March 31, 2004. The adoption of EITF No. 03-06 did not affect the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.
– 65–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportIn December 2003, the FASB revised FIN 46, Consolidation of Variable idated balance sheet and was $248 million and $280 million as of December
Interest Entities. FIN 46 requires a variable interest entity to be consolidated by a 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
company if that company is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the vari-
able interest entity’s activities or entitled to receive a majority of the entity’s resid- Otsuka
ual returns or both. FIN 46 also requires disclosures about variable interest The Company has a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka
entities that a company is not required to consolidate but in which it has a signif- Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), to codevelop and copromote Abilify (arip-
icant variable interest. The consolidation requirements of FIN 46 (as revised) iprazole) for the treatment of schizophrenia and related psychotic disorders,
apply immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003 except in Japan, China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines,
and to existing entities in the first fiscal year or interim period ending after March Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Egypt. The Company began copromoting
15, 2004. Certain of the disclosure requirements apply to all financial state- the product with Otsuka in the U.S. and Puerto Rico in November 2002. In June
ments issued after January 31, 2003, regardless of when the variable interest 2004, the Company received marketing approval from the European
entity was established. This accounting pronouncement did not have a material Commission. The product is currently copromoted with Otsuka in the United
effect on the consolidated financial statements. Kingdom and Germany, and will also be copromoted in France and Spain. The
Company records alliance revenue for its contractual share of the net sales in
Note 2 ALLIANCES AND INVESTMENTS these copromotion countries, excluding the United Kingdom, and records all
Sanofi-Aventis expenses related to the product. Alliance revenue is recorded by the Company
The Company has agreements with Sanofi-Aventis (Sanofi) for the codevel- as net sales based upon 65% of Otsuka’s net sales in the copromotion coun-
opment and cocommercialization of Avapro/Avalide, an angiotensin II receptor tries. The Company recognizes this alliance revenue when Abilify is shipped
antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension, and Plavix, a platelet and all risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to Otsuka’s customers.
inhibitor. The worldwide alliance operates under the framework of two geo- In the UK, the Company records 100% of the net sales and related cost of prod-
graphic territories; one in the Americas (principally the United States, Canada, ucts sold.
Puerto Rico and Latin American countries) and Australia and the other in The Company also has an exclusive right to sell Abilify in a number of other
Europe and Asia. Accordingly, two territory partnerships were formed to manage countries in Europe, the Americas and Asia. In these countries, as sales com-
central expenses, such as marketing, research and development and royalties, mence, the Company will record 100% of the net sales and related cost of prod-
and to supply finished product to the individual countries. In general, at the ucts sold. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company purchases the
country level, agreements either to copromote (whereby a partnership was product from Otsuka and performs finish manufacturing for sale by the
formed between the parties to sell each brand) or to comarket (whereby the Company to its customers. The agreement expires in November 2012 in the
parties operate and sell their brands independently of each other) are in place. U.S. and Puerto Rico. For the countries in the European Union where the
The agreements expire on the later of (i) with respect to Plavix, 2013 and, with Company has an exclusive right to sell Abilify, the agreement expires on the
respect to Avapro/Avalide, 2012 in the Americas and Australia and 2013 in tenth anniversary of the first commercial sale. In each other country where the
Europe and Asia and (ii) the expiration of all patents and other exclusivity rights Company has the exclusive right to sell Abilify, the agreement expires on the
in the applicable territory. later of the tenth anniversary of the first commercial sale in such country or expi-
The Company acts as the operating partner for the territory covering the ration of the applicable patent in such country.
Americas and Australia and owns a 50.1% majority controlling interest in this The Company recorded revenue for Abilify of $593 million in 2004, $283 mil-
territory. Sanofi’s ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. As such, the lion in 2003 and $25 million in 2002. Total milestone payments made to Otsuka
Company consolidates all country partnership results for this territory and under the agreement through December 2004 were $217 million, of which
records Sanofi’s share of the results as a minority interest, net of taxes, which $157 million was expensed as acquired in-process research and development.
was $502 million in 2004, $351 million in 2003 and $292 million in 2002. The remaining $60 million was capitalized in other intangible assets and is
The Company recorded sales in this territory and in comarketing countries amortized in cost of products sold over the remaining life of the agreement in
(Germany, Italy, Spain and Greece) of $4,257 million in 2004, $3,224 million the U.S., ranging from eight to eleven years. Included in the $60 million of capi-
in 2003 and $2,476 million in 2002. talized payments is a $10 million payment made in July 2004 for attainment of
Sanofi acts as the operating partner of the territory covering Europe and marketing approval by the European Union. The Company amortized in cost of
Asia and owns a 50.1% majority financial controlling interest in this territory. products sold $5 million in 2004, $5 million in 2003 and $3 million in 2002. The
The Company’s ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. The Company unamortized capitalized payment balance was $47 million and $52 million as of
accounts for the investment in partnership entities in this territory under the December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
equity method and records its share of the results in equity in net income of
affiliates in the consolidated statement of earnings. The Company’s share of net ImClone
income from these partnership entities before taxes was $269 million in 2004, The Company has a commercialization agreement expiring in September
$187 million in 2003 and $120 million in 2002. 2018 with ImClone, a biopharmaceutical company focused on developing tar-
In 2001, the Company and Sanofi formed an alliance for the copromotion of geted cancer treatments, for the codevelopment and copromotion of ERBITUX
irbesartan, as part of which the Company contributed the irbesartan distribu- in the United States. In February 2004, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
tion rights in the United States and Sanofi paid the Company a total of $350 (FDA) approved the Biologics License Application (BLA) for ERBITUX for use in
million in 2002 and 2001. The Company accounted for this transaction as a sale combination with irinotecan in the treatment of patients with Epidermal Growth
of an interest in a license and deferred and amortized the $350 million in other Factor Receptor (EGFR)-expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are
income over the expected useful life of the license, which is approximately refractory to irinotecan-based chemotherapy and for use as a single agent in
eleven years. The Company recognized other income of $32 million, $31 mil- the treatment of patients with EGFR-expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer
lion and $31 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The unamortized who are intolerant to irinotecan-based chemotherapy. In accordance with the
portion of the deferred income is recorded in the liabilities section of the consol- terms of the agreement, the Company paid ImClone $200 million, of which
– 66–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Report$140 million was paid in March 2002 and $60 million was paid in March 2003. ment, which is approximately sixteen years. In 2004 the Company recognized
The Company paid $250 million in March 2004 as a milestone payment for the $4 million of these payments in other income. The $55 million milestone pay-
initial approval of ERBITUX. An additional $250 million is payable upon FDA ment was deferred and recorded as a receivable in December 2004, and will be
approval for use in treating an additional tumor type. Under the agreement, amortized into other income, beginning in January 2005, over the remaining
ImClone receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of product rev- useful life of the agreement. In addition, the Company records Merck’s share of
enues in North America. In addition, the Company also has codevelopment and codevelopment costs as a reduction to research and development expense
copromotion rights in Canada and Japan to the extent the product is commer- and Merck’s share of copromotion costs as a reduction to advertising and prod-
cialized in such countries. uct promotion expense.
With respect to the $200 million of milestone payments the Company paid
ImClone in 2002 and 2003, $160 million was expensed in the first quarter of Summary Financial Information
2002 as acquired in-process research and development, and $40 million was Following is summarized financial information for the Company’s equity
recorded as an additional equity investment to eliminate the income statement investments in ImClone and a joint venture with Sanofi in Europe and Asia:
effect of the portion of the milestone payment for which the Company has an
economic claim through its ownership interest in ImClone. The Company
accounts for the $250 million approval milestone paid in March 2004 as a Unaudited, Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002
license acquisition and amortizes the payment into cost of products sold over
the expected useful life of the license, which is approximately fourteen years. In Revenues $2,427 $1,605 $1,051
2004, the amortization expense was $14 million. The unamortized portion of Gross profit 1,965 794 535
the approval payment is recorded in other intangibles, net, and was $236 mil- Net income 673 288 107
lion at December 31, 2004. Current assets 2,206 827 822
The Company accounts for its investment in ImClone under the equity Non-current assets 371 259 200
method and records its share of the results in equity in net income of affiliates in Current liabilities 1,447 829 533
the consolidated statement of earnings. In 2002, the Company recorded a pre- Non-current liabilities 949 527 626
tax charge of $379 million for an other than temporary decline in the market
value of ImClone based on the decline in value of ImClone’s share during 2002. Note 3 RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER ITEMS
The Company’s recorded investment in ImClone common stock as of 2004 Activities
December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $72 million and $63 million, respectively, During 2004, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring and other charges
representing approximately 17% and 19% of the ImClone shares outstanding, of $116 million, relating to downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations
respectively. On a per share basis, the carrying value of the ImClone investment and rationalization of worldwide manufacturing operations. Of this charge,
and the closing market price of the ImClone shares as of December 31, 2004 $102 million relates primarily to employee termination benefits for approxi-
were $5.03 and $46.08, respectively, compared to $4.41 and $39.66, respec- mately 2,000 employees, including manufacturing, administrative and sales
tively, as of December 31, 2003. personnel in Europe, North America, Asia and Latin America. Other exit costs of
The Company determines its equity share in ImClone’s net income or loss by $5 million relate primarily to lease termination costs, while other items of $9 mil-
eliminating from ImClone’s results the milestone revenue ImClone recognizes lion relate primarily to relocation expenses as a result of the consolidation of
for the pre-approval milestone payments that were recorded by the Company as research facilities. These charges were partially offset by an adjustment due to
additional equity investment. For its share of ImClone’s results of operations, the changes in estimates to prior period reserves of $8 million, which principally is
Company recorded net income of $9 million in 2004, and net losses of $36 mil- due to reduced separation costs, and also a $4 million gain on the sale of a
lion and $40 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company recorded research facility previously written off as restructuring. The Company expects to
net sales for ERBITUX of $261 million in 2004. complete these restructuring activities by 2006.
The following table presents a detail of provision for restructuring and other
Merck items by operating segment and type. The Company does not allocate restruc-
In April 2004, the Company entered into a collaboration agreement with turing charges to its business segments.
Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck) for worldwide codevelopment and copromotion for
muraglitazar, the Company’s dual PPAR (peroxisome proliferator activated Employee Other
Employee Termination Exit Other
receptor) agonist, currently in Phase III clinical development for use in treating Dollars in Millions Terminations Benefits Costs Items Total
Type 2 diabetes. In December 2004 the Company submitted a New Drug
Pharmaceuticals 1,650 $ 84 $5 $9 $ 98
Application (NDA) to the FDA for regulatory approval of murgalitazar. Under the
Other Healthcare 350 18 — — 18
terms of the agreement, the Company received a $100 million upfront payment 2,000 $102 $5 $9 116
in May 2004, and was entitled to receive an additional $55 million milestone Reduction in reserves for changes in estimates (8)
payment in December 2004, which was subsequently received in January Gain on sale of research property (4)
2005. The Company is entitled to receive $220 million in additional payments Provision for restructuring and other items $104
upon achievement of certain regulatory milestones. The Company and Merck
will jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy for muraglitazar, share In addition, the Company recorded $107 million in asset impairments
equally in future development and commercialization costs and copromote the and accelerated depreciation relating to the rationalization of manufacturing
product to physicians on a global basis, with Merck to receive payments based operations primarily in cost of products sold and $55 million in research and
on net sales levels.
The upfront payment of $100 million received in May 2004 was deferred and
amortized in other income over the expected remaining useful life of the agree-
– 67–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportEmployee Other
development related to the upfront payments for 4 licensing agreements, Employee Termination Exit Other
which were not allocated to business segments. Dollars in Millions Terminations Benefits Costs Items Total
Pharmaceuticals 901 $62 $38 $19 $119
2003 Activities Nutritionals 92 5 — — 5
During 2003, the Company recorded pretax restructuring and other charges Other Healthcare 22 2 — 5 7
of $65 million, relating to downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations Corporate/Other 25 2 — 27 29
and rationalization of worldwide manufacturing operations. Of this charge, $50 Subtotal 1,040 $71 $38 $51 160
Reduction in reserves for changes in estimates 0 (146)
million relates primarily to termination benefits for approximately 950 employ-
Provisions for restructuring and other items $14
ees, including manufacturing, administrative and sales personnel in Europe,
North America, Asia and Latin America. Other items of $15 million relate prima- In addition, $69 million of accelerated depreciation relating to the planned
rily to relocation expenses as a result of the consolidation of research facilities. shutdown of research facilities in the United States has been included in
These charges were partially offset by an adjustment due to changes in esti- research and development expense, and $2 million for inventory write-offs asso-
mates to prior period reserves of $39 million, which principally is due to higher ciated with these projects has been included in cost of products sold. In the
than anticipated proceeds from disposal of assets and reduced separation third quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of
costs. The Company expects to complete these restructuring activities by 2006. $79 million for severance and other exit costs associated with the consolidation
The following table presents a detail of provision for restructuring and other of research and development efforts and the closure of two leased facilities. As
items by operating segment and type. The Company does not allocate restruc- a result of this action, an impairment assessment was performed on long lived
turing charges to its business segments. assets used at these sites in accordance with SFAS 144. The Company con-
cluded that although the $69 million of assets were recoverable, the remaining
Employee Other useful life of these assets (mainly laboratory equipment and leasehold improve-
Employee Termination Exit Other
Dollars in Millions Terminations Benefits Costs Items Total ments for which there was no alternate use or residual value) was accelerated
from four years to three months to reflect the date of abandonment of the facili-
Pharmaceuticals 850 $39 $3 $15 $57
ties (the fourth quarter of 2002).
Other Healthcare 100 8 — — 8
Subtotal 950 $47 $3 $15 65
Reduction in reserves for changes in estimates (39) Rollforward
Provision for restructuring and other items $26 Restructuring charges and spending against liabilities associated with prior
and current actions are as follows:
In addition, the Company recorded $67 million in asset impairments and Employee
Termination Other Exit Cost
accelerated depreciation relating to the rationalization of manufacturing opera- Dollars in Millions Liability Liability Total
tions in cost of products sold and $102 million in research and development
related to the upfront payments for four licensing agreements, which were not Balance at December 31, 2001 $243 $41 $284
allocated to business segments Charges 71 38 109
. Spending (155) (29) (184)
2002 Activities Changes in estimate (92) (8) (100)
During 2002, the Company recorded pretax restructuring and other charges Balance at December 31, 2002 67 42 109
of $160 million, relating to a reduction or elimination of non-strategic research Charges 47 3 50
efforts as well as the consolidation of research facilities, workforce reductions Spending (56) (35) (91)
and downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations. Of this charge, $71 Changes in estimate (7) (3) (10)
million relates to employee termination benefits for approximately 1,040 employ- Balance at December 31, 2003 $ 51 $ 7 $ 58
ees, including research, manufacturing, sales, and administrative personnel, Charges 102 5 107
$51 million represents asset write-downs including a $24 million impairment Spending (68) (9) (77)
charge for the Company’s investment in Deltagen and $38 million for other exit Changes in estimate (8) — (8)
costs for the closure of facilities and other related expenses. These charges Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 77 $ 3 $ 80
were offset by an adjustment to prior period restructuring reserves of $146 mil-
lion, $65 million of which is due to lower than expected separation costs, $59 These liabilities are included in accrued expenses in the consolidated bal-
million due to higher than anticipated proceeds from disposal of assets previ- ance sheet.
ously written off as restructuring and $22 million for projects that have been
cancelled. In addition, a $17 million adjustment to cost of products sold was Note 4 ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES
made to reflect the reversal of inventory reserves associated with canceled In February 2004, the Company completed the divestiture of its Adult
projects. The Company has completed these restructuring activities. Nutritionals business to Novartis AG (Novartis) for $386 million, included $20
The following table presents a detail of provision for restructuring and other million contingent on the achievement of contractual requirements, which
items by operating segment and type. The Company does not allocate restruc- were satisfied, and a $22 million upfront payment for a supply agreement.
turing charges to its business segments. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $320 million ($198 million net of tax),
which included the $20 million contingent payment and a $5 million reduction
in Company goodwill associated with the Mead Johnson product lines. In 2003,
Adult Nutritionals products recorded sales of over $200 million.
– 68–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportIn April 2004, the Company completed the acquisition of Acordis Specialty The net earnings from discontinued operations also includes $32 million in
Fibres (Acordis), which is headquartered in the United Kingdom and supplies the 2002 statement of earnings primarily related to a reduction in the tax contin-
materials to ConvaTec for its Wound Therapeutics line. The acquisition is gency reserve related to the spin-off of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. in 2001.
expected to strengthen the Company’s leadership position in wound therapies. The following is a summary of the assets and liabilities of discontinued oper-
The Company purchased all the stock of Acordis for $150 million, and incurred ations that are expected to be sold. The amounts presented below were derived
$8 million of acquisition costs in connection with the transaction. An additional from historical financial information of OTN and adjusted to exclude cash and
$10 million payment is contingent on the achievement of future sales volumes. inter-company receivables and payables between OTN and the Company,
The purchase price for the acquisition was allocated to the tangible and identifi- which were excluded from the divestiture. In addition, goodwill related to OTN
able intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their esti- at December 31, 2004 of $80 million has been excluded from the following
mated fair values at the acquisition date. Of the $158 million, $63 million was summary of net assets to be disposed, which will be considered in determining
allocated to in-process research and development, which represents the esti- the gain on the sale on the date the transaction is consummated.
mated fair value of acquired in-process projects, consisting primarily of Medicel,
a wound therapeutics product, which had not yet reached technological feasi- Dollars in Millions
bility and had no alternative future use, and was therefore expensed. The esti-
mated fair value of these projects was determined by employment of a Assets
discounted cash flow model; and $22 million was assigned to identifiable intan- Receivables, net $ 319
gible assets, predominantly patents. The excess of the purchase price over the Other current assets 2
estimated fair values of net assets acquired was approximately $73 million and Total Current Assets 321
was recorded as goodwill. This acquisition was accounted for by the purchase Property, plant and equipment 3
method, and, accordingly, results of operations have been included in the Other non-current assets 8
accompanying consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. Total Assets $ 332
In 2002, the Company completed the sale of two branded products,
Moisturel and Duricef, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $30 million. Liabilities
Accounts payable $ 535
Note 5 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Accrued expenses 7
In December 2004, the Company committed to a plan to sell OTN and Total liabilities $ 542
entered into a definitive sale agreement with One Equity Partners LLC. OTN is a Net assets to be sold $ (210)
leading specialty distributor of pharmaceutical products to office-based oncolo-
gists in the United States and was formerly reported as a distinct operating seg- The accounts payable balance primarily includes payables to McKesson
ment. The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2005. The Corporation (McKesson) at December 31, 2004, which is usually paid within the
sale price will be equal to $210 million, plus a sale price adjustment (the Sale first five days of each month for goods shipped in the preceding month. As a
Price Adjustment) based on the excess of current assets over current liabilities result of the timing of these accounts payable balances, OTN has a net liability
(Working Capital) on the closing date. The sale price shall be increased or balance as of December 31, 2004.
decreased by the amount by which Working Capital exceeds or is less than $50 The consolidated statement of cash flows includes the OTN business for all
million on the closing date. The sale will result in a pre-tax gain of approximately periods presented. The Company uses a centralized approach to the cash
$40 to $50 million, subject to the Sale Price Adjustment and other post-closing management and financing of its operations and accordingly, debt is not allo-
matters. The gain from the sale of OTN will be recognized on the closing date. cated to this business. Cash inflows from operating and investing activities of
The following amounts related to the OTN business have been segregated discontinued operations were $132 million and $95 million for the years ended
from continuing operations and reported as discontinued operations, and do December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively and cash outflows were $127
not reflect the costs of certain services provided to OTN by the Company. Such million for the year ended December 31, 2002.
costs, which are not allocated by the Company to OTN, are for services which
include legal counsel, insurance, external audit fees, payroll processing, and Note 6 EARNINGS PER SHARE
certain human resource services and information technology systems support. The numerator for basic earnings per share is net earnings available to com-
mon stockholders. The numerator for diluted earnings per share is net earnings
Year ended December 31, available to common stockholders with interest expense added back for the
assumed conversion of the convertible debt into common shares. The denomi-
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002
nator for basic earnings per share is the weighted average number of common
Net sales $ 2,506 $ 2,241 $ 1,898
shares outstanding during the period. The denominator for diluted earnings per
Cost of products sold 2,444 2,186 1,842
share is weighted average shares outstanding adjusted for the effect of dilutive
Gross profit 62 55 56
Total operating expenses 47 41 43
Earnings before income taxes 15 14 13
Provision for income taxes 5 5 5
Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 10 $ 9 $ 8
– 69–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportstock options. The computations for basic earnings per common share and Note 8 INCOME TAXES
diluted earnings per common share are as follows: The components of earnings (loss) from continuing operations before minority
Year Ended December 31, interest and income taxes were:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amount 2004 2003 2002
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002
Earnings from Continuing Operations(1) $2,378 $3,097 $2,059
Discontinued Operations: U.S. $ 478 $ 899 $(549)
Net earnings 10 9 40 Non-U.S. 3,940 3,781 3,297
Net gain on disposal — — 38 $4,418 $4,680 $2,748
10 9 78
Net Earnings $2,388 $3,106 $ 2,137 The above amounts are categorized based on the location of the taxing
Basic: authorities.
Average Common Shares Outstanding 1,942 1,937 1,936 The provision/(benefit) for income taxes attributable to continuing operations
Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 1.23 $ 1.60 $ 1.07 consisted of:
Discontinued Operations: Year Ended December 31,
Net earnings — — .02
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002
Net gain on disposal — — .02
— —- .04 Current:
Net Earnings $ 1.23 $ 1.60 $ 1.11 U.S. $ 513 $ 423 $218
Diluted: Non-U.S. 728 538 639
Average Common Shares Outstanding 1,942 1,937 1,936 1,241 961 857
Conversion of Convertible Debt Bonds 29 7 — Deferred:
Incremental Shares Outstanding Assuming U.S. 264 232 (431)
the Exercise of Dilutive Stock Options 5 6 6 Non-U.S. 14 17 (40)
1,976 1,950 1,942 278 249 (471)
$1,519 $1,210 $386
Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 1.21(1) $ 1.59(1) $ 1.06
Discontinued Operations: The Company’s provision for income taxes in 2004, 2003 and 2002 was dif-
Net earnings — — .02 ferent from the amount computed by applying the statutory U.S. federal income
Net gain on disposal — — .02 tax rate to earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and
— — .04 income taxes, as a result of the following:
Net Earnings $ 1.21 $ 1.59 $ 1.10 % of Earnings Before
Minority Interest and Income Taxes
Weighted-average shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options, which Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002
were not included in the diluted earnings per share calculation because they Earnings from Continuing Operations
were not dilutive, were 126 million in 2004, 114 million in 2003, and 121 million Before Minority Interest
in 2002. and Income Taxes $4,418 $4,680 $2,748
U.S. statutory rate 1,546 35.0% 1,638 35.0% 962 35.0%
(1) Net earnings in 2004 and 2003 include interest expense of $7 million and $1 million,
respectively, added back for the assumed conversion of the convertible debt into common Effect of operations in
shares. Ireland, Puerto Rico and
Switzerland (660) (14.9)% (734) (15.7)% (494) (18.0)%
Note 7 OTHER EXPENSE, NET State and local taxes
The components of other expense, net are: (net of valuation
Year Ended December 31, allowance) (14) (0.3)% 14 0.3% 156 5.7%
Changes in estimate for
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002
contingent tax matters 293 6.6% 197 4.2% (104) (3.8)%
Interest expense $310 $277 $364 Non-deductible reserves 12 0.3% 88 1.9% — —
Interest income (105) (65) (81) Anticipated dividend
Foreign exchange transaction loss, net 5 23 29 repatriation under AJCA 575 13.0% — — — —
Other, net (158) (56) (83) Federal and foreign
Other expense, net $ 52 $179 $229 valuation allowance 142 3.2% 133 2.8% — —
Foreign and other (375) (8.5)% (126) (2.7)% (134) (4.9)%
In 2004, 2003 and 2002 interest expense was reduced by net interest swap $1,519 34.4% $1,210 25.8% $ 386 14.0%
gains of $151 million, $116 million and $23 million, respectively. Interest income
relates primarily to cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable secu- The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before
rities. Other income includes income from third-party contract manufacturing, minority interest and income taxes was 34.4% in 2004 compared with 25.8% in
royalty income and gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equip- 2003 and 14.0% in 2002. The higher effective tax rate in 2004 is attributable pri-
ment. marily to a $575 million charge for estimated deferred taxes taken in the fourth
– 70–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportquarter in anticipation of repatriating in 2005 approximately $9 billion in special repatriation may be revised as a result of additional guidance or clarifying lan-
dividends from the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries pursuant to the AJCA, an guage that may be issued by Congress and/or the Department of the Treasury,
increase in estimates for contingent tax matters in 2004 compared to 2003, and or any changes in the Company’s factual assumptions that may occur. Taxes
a charge related to the establishment of a valuation allowance against certain were not provided on the balance of undistributed earnings of approximately
charitable contribution carryforwards, partially offset by the favorable resolution $7.9 billion, as the Company has invested or expects to invest these undistrib-
of certain tax refund claims, increased foreign tax credits, and in 2003, the uted earnings permanently offshore. If in the future these earnings are repatri-
effect of certain litigation reserves as non-deductible. The increase in the 2003 ated to the United States, or if the Company determines such earnings will be
effective tax rate over the 2002 effective tax rate is primarily due to the decrease remitted in the foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required.
in effective tax rate benefit from operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and Due to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would have to be
Switzerland, the treatment of provisions for certain litigation reserves as non- made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that would
deductible, and an increase in estimates for contingent tax matters in 2003 have to be provided.
compared to 2002. The Company has settled its U.S. federal income tax returns with the Internal
The components of current and non-current deferred income tax assets Revenue Service (IRS) through 1997.
(liabilities) were: The Company establishes liabilities for possible assessments by taxing
December 31, authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to,
transfer pricing, certain tax credits, and various state and foreign tax matters.
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003
Such amounts represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to
Acquired in-process research and development $1,156 $1,253 be paid, and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes
Intercompany profit and other inventory items 274 360 known. As of December 31, 2004, there are certain tax contingencies for which
Foreign tax credit carryforward 801 425 no liabilities have been established. Although the Company cannot reasonably
Deferred income 194 88 estimate the possible amount of any such contingency, it is possible that such
Alternative minimum tax and research contingencies could be material. The effect of changes in estimates related to
and development credit carryforward 89 76 contingent tax matters is included in the rate reconciliation above. During the
Charitable contribution carryforward 135 35 year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recognized an income tax bene-
State tax net operating loss carryforward 194 191 fit of $261 million due to the settlement of certain prior year tax matters and the
Foreign net operating loss and credit determination by the Company as to the expected settlement of tax litigation.
carryforward 277 193 In 2002, the Company reorganized the structure of its ownership of many of
Postretirement and pension benefits (213) (188) its non-U.S. subsidiaries. The principal purpose of the reorganization was to
Depreciation (332) (316) facilitate the Company’s ability to efficiently deploy its financial resources out-
Deferred foreign currency gain/loss 120 121 side the United States. The Company believes that the reorganization transac-
Anticipated dividend repatriation under AJCA (575) — tions were generally tax-free both inside and outside the United States. It is
Other, net 100 56 possible, however, that taxing authorities in particular jurisdictions could assert
2,220 2,294 tax liabilities arising from the reorganization transactions or the operations of
Valuation allowance (507) (368) the reorganized subsidiaries. It is not reasonably possible to predict whether
Deferred tax assets, net $1,713 $1,926 any taxing authority will assert such a tax liability or to reasonably estimate the
possible loss or range of loss with respect to any such asserted tax liability. The
Recognized as: Company would vigorously challenge any such assertion and believes that it
Deferred Income Taxes - Current $ 805 $ 864 would prevail but there can be no assurance of such a result. If the Company
Deferred Income Taxes - Non-Current 1,129 1,234 were not to prevail in final, non-appealable determinations, it is possible the
U.S. and Foreign Income Taxes Payable 18 17 impact could be material.
Other Liabilities - Non-Current 203 155
Total $1,713 $1,926 Note 9 RECEIVABLES
The major categories of receivables follow:
The valuation allowance of $507 million at December 31, 2004 relates to December 31,
$56 million of foreign and state net deferred tax assets, $334 million of foreign
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003
and state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and $117 million of
charitable contribution carryforwards that the Company currently believes are Trade receivables $3,350 $3,011
not likely to be realized. Miscellaneous receivables 1,201 803
Income taxes paid during the year were $822 million, $869 million and 4,551 3,814
$2,491 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Less allowances 178 154
The current tax benefit realized upon the exercise of stock options is charged Receivables, net $4,373 $3,660
to capital in excess of par value of stock and amounted to $26 million, $10 mil-
lion and $45 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had approximately $16.9 billion of
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Company accrued a provi-
sion for $575 million of estimated deferred taxes in the fourth quarter of 2004 in
anticipation of repatriating approximately $9 billion of these earnings in 2005
pursuant to the AJCA. The Company’s estimate of the tax cost related to the
– 71–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportNote 10 INVENTORIES Note 13 GOODWILL
The major categories of inventories follow: The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended
December 31, December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows:
Other
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 Pharmaceuticals Nutritionals Healthcare Discontinued
Dollars in Millions Segment Segment Segment Operations Total
Finished goods $1,097 $1,005
Work in process 458 416 Balance as of
Raw and packaging materials 275 180 December 31,
Inventories, net $1,830 $1,601 2002 and 2003 $4,448 $118 $190 $80 $4,836
Purchase accounting
adjustments:
Note 11 CONSIGNMENT Reduction due to
Through 2002, the Company experienced a substantial buildup of whole- Sale of Adult
saler inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals business resulting from sales incen- Nutritionals
tives offered by the Company to its wholesalers. In October 2002, the Company Business — (5) — — (5)
determined that it was required to restate its sales and earnings to correct errors Purchase price and
in timing of revenue recognition for certain sales made to two of the largest allocation
wholesalers of the U.S. pharmaceuticals business. The Company determined adjustments — — 74 — 74
that these sales should be accounted for under the consignment model as Balance as of
described under Note 1, “Accounting Policies—Revenue Recognition”, based in December 31, 2004 $4,448 $113 $264 $80 $4,905
part on the relationship between the amount and nature of incentives offered to
these wholesalers and the amount of inventory held by these wholesalers. Note 14 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Under the consignment model, these transactions resulted in deferred revenue Intangible assets by major asset class were as follows:
of $12 million as of December 31, 2003. There was no deferred revenue as of December 31,
December 31, 2004 as inventory accounted for using the consignment model
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003
was fully worked down. The Company recognized approximately $10 million,
Patents/Trademarks $278 $253
$321 million and $1,397 million of deferred revenue as net sales in 2004, 2003
Licenses 523 248
and 2002, respectively, net of rebates, returns and adjustments.
Technology 1,787 1,783
2,588 2,284
Note 12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Less accumulated amortization 722 552
The major categories of property, plant and equipment follow:
Net carrying amount $1,866 $1,732
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003
Amortization expense for other intangible assets (the majority of which is
Land $ 266 $ 241 included in costs of products sold) for the years ended December 31, 2004,
Buildings 4,497 3,917 2003 and 2002 was $226 million, $227 million and $269 million, respectively.
Machinery, equipment and fixtures 4,686 4,197 Expected amortization expense related to the current net carrying amount of
Construction in progress 560 1,087 other intangible assets follows:
10,009 9,442
Less accumulated depreciation 4,244 3,730
Years Ending December 31 Dollars in Millions
Property, plant and equipment, net $5,765 $5,712
2005 $236
Capitalized interest is included in the categories of property, plant and equip- 2006 237
ment shown above. The Company capitalized interest of $10 million, $35 mil- 2007 234
lion and $16 million in the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, 2008 225
respectively. 2009 220
Later Years 714
– 72–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportNote 15 SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS The Company has entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps for $6.2
AND LONG-TERM DEBT billion of its long-term debt. Cash payments for interest were $354 million, $290
Included in short-term borrowings were amounts due to foreign banks of $92 million and $375 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
million and $114 million, and current installments of long-term debt of $126 mil-
lion and $13 million, at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. U.S. short- Payments due by period
term borrowings, which primarily consist of commercial paper, was $1,665 Later
million at December 31, 2004, with an average interest rate of 2.3%. There was Dollars in Millions Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Years
no U.S. commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2003. The proceeds Long-Term Debt(2) $ 8,463 $— $2,512 $2 $1,735 $1 $ 4,213
from the commercial paper issuance in 2004 was used for general corporate
purposes. The average interest rates on international short-term borrowings
(2) 2005 obligations are included in short-term borrowings on the Company’s consolidated
and on current installments of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, balance sheet and all balances represent the outstanding nominal long-term debt values.
2004 were 9.3% and 2.8%, respectively, compared with 8.0% and 1.3%, respec- The Company’s convertible debenture is included as due for payment in 2008, as it con-
tains a 2008 put and call feature as described above.
tively, at December 31, 2003.
In December 2004, the Company replaced its prior $1 billion revolving credit
facilities with a new $2 billion five year revolving credit facility from a syndicate of At December 31, 2004, the Company had provided financial guarantees in
lenders, which is extendable on the anniversary date with the consent of the the form of stand-by letters of credit and performance bonds. The majority of
lenders. This facility contains a financial covenant whereby the ratio of consoli- the stand-by letters of credit are with insurance companies in support of third-
dated debt to consolidated capital cannot exceed 50%. The Company has party liability programs. The performance bonds relate to the sale of Company
been in compliance with this covenant since the inception of the new facility. products to various foreign ministries of health in the Middle East. The
There were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facilities at Company believes the significant majority of these guarantees will expire with-
December 31, 2004 and 2003. The Company had unused short-term lines of out being funded. The amounts of these obligations are presented in the follow-
credit with foreign banks of $158 million and $363 million at December 31, ing table:
2004 and 2003, respectively.
The components of long-term debt were as follows: Expiration Period
December 31, Less than 1 to 2
Dollars in Millions Total 1 year years
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003
4.75% Notes, due in 2006 $2,507 $2,544
Stand-by letters of credit $61 $61 $ —
5.75% Notes, due in 2011 2,488 2,459
Performance bonds and guarantees 3 3 —
Floating Rate Convertible Debentures, due 2023(1) 1,183 1,179
5.25% Notes, due 2013 610 600 Total other commercial commitments $64 $64 $ —
4.00% Notes, due 2008 396 399
6.80% Debentures, due in 2026 367 345
7.15% Debentures, due in 2023 365 344
6.88% Debentures, due in 2097 296 296
1.10% Yen Notes, due 2008 120 114
2.14% Yen Notes, due in 2005 — 60
3.51% Euro Interest on Yen
Principal Term Loan, due in 2005 — 55
5.75% Industrial Revenue Bonds, due in 2024 34 34
1.43% Yen Notes, due 2008 34 32
1.81% Yen Notes, due 2010 34 32
Variable Rate Industrial Revenue Bonds due in 2030 15 15
Other 14 14
$8,463 $8,522
(1) The Company’s outstanding $1.2 billion of convertible debentures pay interest quarterly at
an annual rate equal to 3-month LIBOR, reset quarterly, minus 0.50% (the yield never to be
less than zero) and have a final maturity of September 15, 2023. The debentures are
callable at par at any time on or after September 21, 2008 by the issuer. Holders can also
redeem some or all of their debentures at par on September 15, 2008, 2013, and 2018, or
if a fundamental change in ownership of the Company occurs. The bond has an initial con-
version price of $41.28, or a conversion rate of 24.2248 shares, which will be adjustable
depending on the average closing prices for the applicable period. The maximum conver-
sion rate is 38.7597 shares.
– 73–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportNote 16 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY The accumulated balances related to each component of other comprehen-
Changes in common shares, treasury stock, capital in excess of par value of sive income (loss) were as follows:
stock, and restricted stock were: Deferred Minimum Accumulated
Loss on Pension Available Other
Capital in
Foreign Currency Effective Liability for Sale Comprehensive
Cost of Excess of
Dollars in Millions Translation Securities Adjustment Securities Income/(Loss)
Dollars Common Treasury Treasury Par Value Restricted
and Shares in Millions Shares Issued Shares Stock of Stock Stock
Balance at
Balance at December 31, December 31, 2001 $(885) $ (62) $ (5) $ — $(952)
2001 2,200 264 $(11,389) $2,403 $(50) Other comprehensive
Issued pursuant to stock income (loss) 161 (25) (89) 1 48
plans and options 1 (5) 60 90 (30) Balance at
Amortization of December 31, 2002 (724) (87) (94) 1 (904)
restricted stock — — — — 16 Other comprehensive
Lapses and forfeitures income (loss) 233 (171) (36) 23 49
of restricted stock — — (10) (2) 12 Balance at
Purchases — 5 (163) — — December 31, 2003 (491) (258) (130) 24 (855)
Balance at December 31, Other comprehensive
2002 2,201 264 (11,502) 2,491 (52) income (loss) 208 (51) (93) (1) 63
Issued pursuant to Balance at
stock plans and options — (3) 64 (14) (23) December 31, 2004 $(283) $(309) $(223) $23 $(792)
Amortization of
restricted stock — — — — 18 Stock Compensation Plans
Lapses and forfeitures Under the Company’s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, executive officers and key
of restricted stock — — (2) — 2 employees may be granted options to purchase the Company’s common stock
Balance at December 31, at no less than 100% of the market price on the date the option is granted.
2003 2,201 261 (11,440) 2,477 (55) Options generally become exercisable in installments of 25% per year on each
Issued pursuant to stock of the first through the fourth anniversaries of the grant date and have a maxi-
plans and options 1 (6) 137 12 (32) mum term of 10 years. Additionally, the plan provides for the granting of stock
Amortization of appreciation rights whereby the grantee may surrender exercisable rights and
restricted stock — — — — 24 receive common stock and/or cash measured by the excess of the market
Lapses and forfeitures price of the common stock over the option exercise price.
of restricted stock — — (8) 2 6 Under the terms of the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, authorized shares include
Balance at 0.9% of the outstanding shares per year through 2007, as well as the number
December 31, of shares tendered in a prior year to pay the purchase price of options and the
2004 2,202 255 $(11,311) $2,491 $(57) number of shares previously utilized to satisfy withholding tax obligations upon
exercise. Shares which were available for grant in a prior year but were not
Each share of the Company’s preferred stock is convertible into 16.96 shares granted in such year and shares which were canceled, forfeited or expired
of common stock and is callable at the Company’s option. The reductions in are also available for future grant.
the number of issued shares of preferred stock in 2004, 2003, and 2002 were The 2002 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the granting of common stock to
due to conversions into shares of common stock. key employees, subject to restrictions as to continuous employment.
Dividends declared per common share were $1.12 in 2004, $1.12 in 2003 Restrictions generally expire over a five-year period from date of grant.
and $1.12 in 2002. Compensation expense is recognized over the restricted period. At December
31, 2004 and 2003, there were 2.9 million and 2.3 million shares of restricted
stock outstanding under the plan, respectively. In 2004, 1.2 million shares of
restricted stock were granted with a fair value of $27.64.
– 74–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportThe 2002 Stock Incentive Plan also incorporates the Company’s long-term The following tables summarize information concerning the Company’s
performance awards. These awards, which are delivered in the form of a target stock compensation plans and currently outstanding and exercisable options:
number of performance shares, have a three-year cycle. For 2004 to 2006, the
awards will be based 50% on EPS growth, 50% on sales growth, with the ulti- Number of Number of securities remaining
securities to be issued Weighted average available for future issuance
mate payout modified by the Company’s total stockholder return versus the
upon exercise of exercise price of under equity compensation
eleven companies in its proxy peer group. If threshold targets are not met for the outstanding options, outstanding options, plans excluding securities
performance period, no payment will be made under the long-term perform- and rights and rights reflected in column (a)
Plan Category (a) (b) (c)
ance award plan. Maximum performance for all three measures will result in a
(shares in millions) (shares in millions)
maximum payout of 253% of target. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, there
were 0.9 million and 0.6 million performance shares outstanding under the Equity compensation
plan, respectively. In 2004, 0.5 million performance shares were granted with a plans approved by
fair value of $28.11. security holders 136 $38.82 30
Under the TeamShare Stock Option Plan, full-time employees, excluding key Equity compensation
executives, are granted options to purchase the Company’s common stock at plans not approved
the market price on the date the options are granted. The Company has author- by security holders 27 39.11 8
ized 66 million shares for issuance under the plan. Individual grants generally 163 $38.87 38
become exercisable evenly on the third, fourth, and fifth anniversary of the grant
date and have a maximum term of 10 years. Options on 32.9 million shares 000 Options Outstanding000 0000Options Exercisable
have been exercised under the plan as of December 31, 2004. Weighted
The fair value of the options granted during 2004, 2003 and 2002 was esti- Average Weighted Weighted
Range of Remaining Average Average
mated as $5.91 per common share, $5.15 per common share and $11.12 per Exercise Number Contractual Exercise Number Exercise
common share, respectively, on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes Prices Outstanding Life Price Exercisable Price
(shares in millions) (in years) (shares in millions)
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:
$10–$20 7 0.16 $14.75 7 $14.75
2004 2003 2002 $20–$30 68 7.07 25.78 20 23.23
$30–$40 9 2.21 32.39 9 32.40
Dividend yield 4.4% 4.0% 3.0% $40–$50 45 4.86 47.01 38 46.86
Volatility 30.0% 29.7% 31.3% $50–$60 15 6.01 58.06 10 58.27
Risk-free interest rate 3.5% 3.5% 5.0% $60 and up 19 4.48 63.33 16 63.34
Expected life (years) 7 7 7 163 100
Stock option transactions were: At December 31, 2004, 288 million shares of common stock were reserved
for issuance pursuant to stock plans, options and conversions of preferred
Weighted
stock. Options related to discontinued operations included in the above
Shares of Common Stock Average
Available for Issued Under Exercise Price amounts are not material.
Shares in Millions Option Award Plan of Shares
Balance at December 31, 2001 31 129 $42.19
Authorized 22 — —
Granted (40) 40 37.55
Exercised — (7) 21.64
Lapsed 13 (13) 51.44
Balance at December 31, 2002 26 149 $41.20
Authorized 19 — —
Granted (22) 22 23.19
Exercised — (4) 13.76
Lapsed 6 (6) 43.62
Balance at December 31, 2003 29 161 $39.24
Authorized 18 — —
Granted (20) 20 27.88
Exercised — (7) 14.56
Lapsed 11 (11) 40.69
Balance at December 31, 2004 38 163 $38.87
– 75–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportNote 17 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Company uses derivative instruments as part of its interest rate risk man-
The Company is exposed to market risk due to changes in currency agement policy. The derivative instruments used comprised principally of fixed
exchange rates and interest rates. Accordingly, the Company utilizes foreign to floating rate interest rate swaps, which are subject to fair-value hedge account-
exchange option and forward contracts to offset the effect of exchange rate ing treatment. During 2004 and 2003, the Company entered into several fixed to
fluctuations on anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercom- floating interest rate swap contracts with several financial institutions. The
pany inventory purchases expected to occur within the next two years. notional amounts of these swaps were $6.2 billion and $5.5 billion as of
The Company had exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In accordance with SFAS No. 133,
and liabilities, which approximated $2,264 million and $1,932 million at Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,the Company rec-
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, primarily in Europe, Japan, ognized a net reduction in interest expense of $151 million, $116 million and $23
Mexico and Canada. million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, that reflects the benefit of the lower
Foreign exchange option contracts and forward contracts are used to hedge floating rate obtained in the swap as compared to the fixed rate of the underlying
anticipated transactions. The Company’s primary foreign currency exposures in debt. The swap contracts as well as the underlying debt being hedged are
relation to the U.S. dollar are the euro, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and recorded at fair value, which resulted in an increase in non-current assets of $76
Japanese yen. The notional amounts of the Company’s foreign exchange deriv- million, short-term liabilities of $1 million and long-term debt of $75 million, and
ative contracts at December 31, 2004 and 2003, were $3,461 million and an increase in non-current assets and long-term debt of $40 million at
$2,488 million, respectively. For these derivatives, in which the majority qualify December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Swap contracts are generally held
as hedges of future anticipated cash flows, the effective portion of changes in to maturity and the Company does not use derivative financial instruments for
fair value is temporarily deferred in other comprehensive income (OCI) and then speculative purposes.
recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. During 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company reclassified deferred losses
SFAS No. 133 requires that the Company perform periodic assessments of of $234 million, $223 million and $71 million, respectively, from other compre-
hedge effectiveness. These assessments determine whether derivatives desig- hensive income to earnings, the majority of which was classified as cost of
nated as qualifying hedges continue to be highly effective in offsetting changes products sold.
in the cash flows of hedged items. Any ineffective portion of fair value can no The carrying amount of the Company’s other financial instruments, which
longer be deferred in OCI and is included in current period earnings. For the includes cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable and
year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recognized a loss due to ineffec- accounts payable, approximates their fair value at December 31, 2004 and
tive contracts of $4 million. The fair value of option and forward contracts were 2003. For long-term debt (other than noted above) the difference between the
liabilities of $362 million and $265 million, at December 31, 2004 and 2003, fair value and carrying value is not material.
respectively, and was recorded in other assets and accrued liabilities at
December 31, 2004 and 2003. The fair value of all foreign exchange contracts Note 18 SEGMENT INFORMATION
is based on year-end currency rates (and the Black-Scholes model in the case The Company is organized as a pharmaceutical company with related health-
of option contracts). care businesses and has three reportable segments—Pharmaceuticals,
In addition to the foreign exchange hedge contracts noted above, the Nutritionals and Other Healthcare. The Pharmaceuticals segment is comprised
Company also uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign cur- of the global pharmaceutical and international (excluding Japan) consumer
rency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The primary objective of medicines businesses. The Nutritionals segment consists of Mead Johnson, pri-
these foreign exchange forward contracts is to protect the U.S. dollar value of marily an infant formula business. The Other Healthcare segment consists of the
foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities from the effects of ConvaTec, Medical Imaging, and Consumer Medicines (United States and
volatility in foreign exchange that might occur prior to their receipt or settlement Japan) businesses.
in U.S. dollars. These foreign currency denominated monetary assets and The Company’s products are sold principally to the wholesale and retail
liabilities are primarily denominated in Japanese yen and euro. The forward trade, both nationally and internationally. Certain products are also sold to other
contracts are not designated as hedges and are marked to market through drug manufacturers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and the medical
other income/expense. The notional and fair value amount of these foreign profession. Three wholesalers accounted for approximately 19%, 17% and 10%,
exchange forward contracts at December 31, 2004 is $325 million and $6 respectively, of the Company’s total net sales in 2004. In 2003 sales to these
million, respectively. wholesalers accounted for 17%, 15% and 13%, respectively of the Company’s
total net sales. In 2002, the same three wholesalers each accounted for approxi-
mately 16%, 15% and 16%, respectively of the Company’s total net sales. These
sales were concentrated in the Pharmaceuticals segment.
– 76–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportBusiness Segments
Earnings Before
Minority Interest
Net Sales and Income Taxes Year-end Assets
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003
Pharmaceuticals $15,482 $14,925 $12,814 $4,257 $4,369 $3,187 $12,436 $11,531
Nutritionals 2,001 2,023 1,821 586 542 486 1,055 1,037
Other Healthcare 1,897 1,705 1,573 573 408 427 1,368 1,242
Total segments 19,380 18,653 16,208 5,416 5,319 4,100 14,859 13,810
Corporate/Other — —- — (998) (639) (1,352) 15,576 13,638
Total $19,380 $18,653 $16,208 $4,418 $4,680 $2,748 $30,435 $27,448
Corporate/Other consists principally of interest income, interest expense, certain administrative expenses and allocations to the business segments of certain
corporate programs. Corporate/Other also includes the gain on sales of businesses/product lines of $320 million and $30 million in 2004 and 2002, respectively;
accelerated depreciation of $69 million in 2002; termination benefits and other exit costs of $97 million, $50 million and $109 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively; asset write-down and impairment charges of $3 million and $53 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively; upfront and milestone payments for licensing
agreements of $55 million and $66 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively; litigation charges, net, of $507 million, $220 million and $659 million in 2004, 2003 and
2002, respectively; and an acquired in-process research and development charge of $63 million in 2004. 2002 also includes a $379 million asset impairment
charge for ImClone.
The Pharmaceuticals segment in 2004 includes accelerated depreciation of $107 million for certain manufacturing facilities in North America expected to be
closed by 2006, relocation of $7 million and retention of $1 million. In 2003, Pharmaceuticals includes a litigation settlement income of $21 million, an upfront pay-
ment for a licensing agreement of $36 million, $53 million of accelerated depreciation of assets in manufacturing facilities in North America expected to be closed
by the end of 2006, $11 million charge for asset impairment, $13 million charge for relocation expenses and $2 million charge for retention bonus benefits.
Additionally, in 2002, the Pharmaceuticals segment includes a charge for acquired in-process research and development of $169 million.
Corporate/Other assets include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, goodwill, assets of OTN held available for sale and certain other assets.
Capital Expenditures Depreciation
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
Pharmaceuticals $455 $678 $878 $474 $391 $312
Nutritionals 55 50 72 48 39 45
Other Healthcare 27 23 25 22 19 17
Total segments 537 751 975 544 449 374
Corporate/Other 49 74 61 49 42 53
Total $586 $825 $1,036 $593 $491 $427
Geographic Areas
Net Sales Year-End Assets
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003
United States $10,613 $10,656 $9,450 $15,727 $15,593
Europe, Middle East and Africa 5,470 4,985 4,041 5,920 5,001
Other Western Hemisphere 1,425 1,333 1,215 7,228 5,711
Pacific 1,872 1,679 1,502 1,560 1,143
Total $19,380 $18,653 $16,208 $30,435 $27,448
– 77–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportNote 19 LEASES
Minimum rental commitments under all non-cancelable operating leases, primarily real estate and motor vehicles, in effect at December 31, 2004, were:
Years Ending December 31, (dollars in millions)
2005 $123
2006 99
2007 78
2008 65
2009 62
Later years 58
Total minimum payments 485
Less total minimum sublease rentals 69
Net minimum rental commitments $416
Operating lease rental expense (net of sublease rental income of $13 million in 2004, $11 million in 2003 and $25 million in 2002) was $149 million in 2004,
$137 million in 2003 and $95 million in 2002.
Note 20 PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for regular full-time employees. The principal pen-
sion plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan. The funding policy is to contribute amounts to provide for current service and to fund past service lia-
bility. Plan benefits are based primarily on years of credited service and on the participant’s compensation. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income
securities.
The Company also provides comprehensive medical and group life benefits for substantially all U.S. retirees who elect to participate in its comprehensive medical
and group life plans. The medical plan is contributory. Contributions are adjusted periodically and vary by date of retirement and the original retiring Company. The
life insurance plan is noncontributory. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income securities. Similar plans exist for employees in certain countries out-
side of the United States.
Cost of the Company’s deferred benefits and postretirement benefit plans included the following components:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
Service cost—benefits earned during the year $180 $144 $143 $8 $8 $10
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation 295 275 275 37 46 46
Expected return on plan assets (355) (353) (402) (18) (15) (19)
Net amortization and deferral 157 71 21 — 7 2
Net periodic benefit cost 277 137 37 27 46 39
Curtailments and settlements (1) (1) (3) — — —-
Total net periodic benefit cost $276 $136 $ 34 $27 $46 $39
The Company has recognized the impact of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 in 2004, and in accordance with FSP
No. 106-2, recorded $8 million as a reduction in net periodic benefit cost.
– 78–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportChanges in benefit obligations and plan assets for December 31, 2004 Several plans had underfunded accrued benefit obligations that exceeded
and 2003, for the Company’s defined benefit and postretirement benefit their accrued benefit liabilities at December 31, 2004 and 2003. Additional mini-
plans, were: mum liabilities were established to increase the accrued benefit liabilities to the
Pension Benefits Other Benefits values of the underfunded accrued benefit obligations. These liabilities totaled
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2004 2003 $349 million and $203 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, for
a U.S. unfunded benefit equalization plan and several international plans. The
Benefit obligation additional minimum liability was offset by intangible assets of $3 million and
at beginning of year $4,755 $4,172 $ 758 $ 717 $10 million and charges to other comprehensive income included in stock-
Service cost—benefits holder’s equity of $346 million and $193 million at December 31, 2004 and
earned during the year 180 144 8 8 2003, respectively.
Interest cost on projected The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was
benefit obligation 295 275 37 46 $4,828 million and $4,154 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Plan participants’ contributions 3 3 6 4 Information for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess
Curtailments and settlements (3) (3) — — of plan assets was:
Actuarial (gain)/loss 533 382 (78) 59 December 31,
Plan amendments (4) 38 (17) (13) Dollars in Millions 2004 2003
Benefits paid (399) (344) (68) (65)
Exchange rate losses 121 88 — 2 Projected benefit obligation $1,313 $918
Benefit obligation Accumulated benefit obligation 1,139 791
at end of year $5,481 $4,755 $ 646 $ 758 Fair value of plan assets 742 427
Fair value of plan assets This is attributable primarily to an unfunded U.S. benefit equalization plan
at beginning of year $4,085 $3,318 $ 205 $164 and several plans in the international markets. The unfunded U.S. benefit equal-
Actual return on plan assets 456 707 25 41 ization plan provides pension benefits for employees with compensation above
Employer contribution 367 332 62 61 IRS limits and cannot be funded in a tax-advantaged manner.
Plan participants’ contributions 3 3 6 4
Settlements — (3) — —
Transfer in/(out) (3) 1 — —
Benefits paid (399) (344) (68) (65)
Exchange rate gains 93 71 — —
Fair value of plan assets
at end of year $4,602 $4,085 $230 $205
Funded status $(879) $(670) $(416) $(553)
Unamortized net obligation
at adoption 3 10 — —
Unrecognized prior service cost 74 94 (31) (16)
Unrecognized net actuarial loss 2,017 1,676 103 188
Net amount recognized $1,215 $1,110 $(344) $(381)
Amounts recognized in the
balance sheet consist of:
Prepaid benefit cost $1,272 $1,279 $ — $ —
Accrued benefit cost (406) (372) (344) (381)
Intangible assets 3 10 — —
Accumulated other
comprehensive income 346 193 — —
Net amount recognized $1,215 $1,110 $(344) $(381)
– 79–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportAdditional information pertaining to the Company’s pension and postretirement plans:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Dollars in Millions 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
Increase in minimum liability, including the impact
of foreign currency fluctuations, included
in other comprehensive income $153 $53 $132 $ —- $ —- $ —-
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31, were:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2004 2003 2004 2003
Discount rate 5.57% 6.08% 5.52% 6.01%
Rate of compensation increase 3.59% 3.57% 3.59% 3.58%
Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December 31, were:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
Discount rate 6.08% 6.56% 7.02% 6.01% 6.75% 7.23%
Expected long-term return on plan assets 8.73% 8.81% 9.74% 9.00% 9.00% 10.00%
Rate of compensation increase 3.57% 3.33% 3.59% 3.58% 3.29% 3.57%
At December 31, 2004, the Company’s expected long-term rate of return on Assumed health care cost trend rates do have an effect on the amounts
U.S. pension plan assets is 9%. The target asset allocation is 70% public equity reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed
(58% U.S., 12% international), 8% private equity and 22% fixed income. The 9% health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
is approximated by applying expected returns of 9% on public equity, 15% on
private equity and 6% on fixed income to the target allocation. The actual histor- 1-Percentage 1-Percentage
ical returns are also relevant. Annualized returns for periods ended December Dollars in Millions Point Increase Point Decrease
31, 2004 were 10.8% for 10 years, 10.0% for 15 years and 11.2% for 20 years.
U.S. pension plan assets represented approximately 83% of total Company Effect on total of service and interest cost $2 $(2)
pension plan assets at December 31, 2003. The 8.73% disclosed above for Effect on postretirement benefit obligation 31 (27)
total Company expected return on assets for 2004 is below the 9.0% for U.S.
pension plans due to the impact of international pension plans, which typically The Company’s asset allocation for pension and postretirement benefits at
employ a less aggressive asset allocation. December 31, 2004 and 2003, were:
A 9% expected return is disclosed for Other Benefits in 2004 because the
relevant assets are invested in the same manner as U.S. pension plan assets Pension Benefits Other Benefits
and there are no international plan assets. 2004 2003 2004 2003
Assumed health care cost trend rates at December 31 were:
Public equity securities 68.9% 69.7% 69.9% 70.7%
2004 2003 2002 Debt securities (including cash) 25.5 25.1 23.4 23.1
Private equity 5.2 5.0 6.5 6.0
Health care cost trend rate Other 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.2
assumed for next year 8.93% 9.96% 10.88% Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Rate to which the cost trend rate is
assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate) 4.51% 4.50% 4.48% The Company’s investment strategy emphasizes equities in order to achieve
Year that the rate reaches high expected returns and, in the long run, low expense and low required cash
the ultimate trend rate 2012 2010 2010 contributions. For the U.S. pension plans, a target asset allocation of 70% public
equity (58% U.S., 12% international), 8% private equity and 22% fixed income is
maintained and cash flow (i.e., cash contributions, benefit payments) are used
to rebalance back to the targets as necessary. Investments are very well diversi-
fied within each of the three major asset categories. About 40% of the U.S. equity
is passively managed. Otherwise, all investments are actively managed.
Investment strategies for international pension plans are typically similar,
although the asset allocations are usually more conservative.
– 80–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportBristol-Myers Squibb Company common stock represents less than 1% of insurance outweighs the benefits of coverage protection against losses and as
the plan assets at December 31, 2004 and 2003. such, is self-insured for product liabilities effective July 1, 2004. The Company
Assets for postretirement benefits are commingled with U.S. pension plan will continue to evaluate these risks and benefits to determine its insurance
assets and, therefore, the investment strategy is identical to that described needs in the future.
above for U.S. pension plans.
Plavix Litigation
Contributions United States
Although no minimum contributions will be required, the Company plans to The Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is a
make cash contributions to the U.S. pension plans in 2005. plaintiff in three pending patent infringement lawsuits instituted in the U.S.
When contributions are made to the U.S. pension plans, the Company may District Court for the Southern District of New York entitled Sanofi-Synthelabo,
make tax-deductible contributions to the 401(h) account for retiree medical Sanofi-Synthelabo Inc., and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals
benefits equal to a portion of the pension normal cost. Holding Partnership v. Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp., 02-CV-2255 (SHS);
Contributions to the international pension plans are now expected to be in Sanofi-Synthelabo, Sanofi-Synthelabo Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi
the $70 to $90 million range. Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership v. Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, LTD, and Dr.
Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc., 02-CV-3672 (SHS); and Sanofi-Synthelabo, Sanofi-
Estimated Future Benefit Payments Synthelabo Inc., and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding
The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as Partnership vs. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceuticals
appropriate, are expected to be paid: Industries, Ltd., 04-CV-7458. Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries, Ltd. has since
Other Benefits been dismissed from the case. Proceedings involving Plavix also have been
Pension Medicare
instituted outside the United States. The most significant of these proceedings
Dollars in Millions Benefits Gross Subsidy Net
is pending in Canada and is described below.
2005 $252 $61 $ — $61 The U.S. suits were filed on March 21, 2002, May 14, 2002, and September
2006 267 61 5 56 23, 2004, respectively, and were based on U.S. Patent No. 4,847,265, a compo-
2007 289 60 5 55 sition of matter patent, which discloses and claims, among other things, the
2008 308 59 5 54 hydrogen sulfate salt of clopidogrel, which is marketed as Plavix. The first two
2009 327 58 5 53 suits were also based on U.S. Patent No. 5,576,328, which discloses and
Years 2010 - 2014 1,997 280 23 257 claims, among other things, the use of clopidogrel to prevent a secondary
ischemic event. The plaintiffs later withdrew Patent No. 5,576,328 from the two
Savings Plan lawsuits. Plaintiffs’ infringement position is based on defendants’ filing of their
The principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDA) with the FDA, seeking approval to
and Investment Program. The Company’s contribution is based on employee sell generic clopidogrel bisulfate prior to the expiration of the composition of
contributions and the level of Company match. The Company’s contributions to matter patent in 2011. The defendants responded by alleging that the patent is
the plan were $53 million in 2004, $51 million in 2003 and $50 million in 2002. invalid and/or unenforceable. Apotex has added antitrust counterclaims. The
first two cases were consolidated for discovery. Fact discovery closed on
Note 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND October 15, 2003 and expert discovery was completed in November 2004; the
CONTINGENCIES trial could occur as early as the second quarter of 2005, although it may occur
Legal Proceedings and Contingencies later. Discovery has not yet commenced in the third action.
Various lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations are pending The Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is a
against the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In accordance with SFAS plaintiff in another pending patent infringement lawsuit instituted in the U.S.
No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, the Company records accruals for such District Court for the District of New Jersey entitled Sanofi-Synthelabo, Sanofi-
contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount Synthelabo Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding
of loss can be reasonably estimated. These matters involve antitrust, securities, Partnership v. Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Watson Laboratories, Inc.
patent infringement, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as 2:04-CV-4926. The suit was filed October 7, 2004 and was based on U.S. patent
amended (ERISA), pricing, sales and marketing practices, environmental, 6,429,210, which discloses and claims a particular crystalline or polymorph
health and safety matters, product liability and insurance coverage. The most form of the hydrogen sulfate salt of clopidogrel, which is marketed as Plavix.
significant of these matters are described below. There can be no assurance The case is in early stages and discovery has not yet begun.
that there will not be an increase in the scope of these matters or that any Plavixis currently the Company’s largest product ranked by net sales. Net
future lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations will not be material. sales of Plavix were approximately $3.3 billion and $2.5 billion for the years
Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other Currently, the Company expects Plavix to have market exclusivity in the
legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the United States until 2011. If the composition of matter patent for Plavix is found
Company’s results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its not infringed, invalid and/or unenforceable at the district court level, the FDA
financial condition and liquidity. could then approve the defendants’ ANDAs to sell generic clopidogrel, and
The Company’s decision to obtain insurance coverage is dependent on generic competition for Plavix could begin before the Company has exhausted
market conditions, including cost and availability, existing at the time such its appeals. Such generic competition would likely result in substantial
decisions are made. As a result of external factors, the availability of insurance decreases in the sales of Plavix in the United States.
has become more restrictive while the cost has increased significantly. The Although the plaintiffs intend to vigorously pursue enforcement of their
Company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining patent rights in Plavix, it is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the out-
– 81–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportcome of these lawsuits, or, if the Company were not to prevail in these lawsuits, Teva’s generic product until June 2007, unless there is a court decision adverse
the timing of potential generic competition for Plavix. However, if generic com- to the Company and Kyorin before that date.
petition in the U.S. were to occur, the Company believes it is very unlikely to ERBITUX. On October 28, 2003, a complaint was filed by Yeda Research
occur before the second half of 2005. It also is not possible reasonably to esti- and Development Company Ltd. (Yeda) against ImClone and Aventis
mate the impact of these lawsuits on the Company. Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
However, loss of market exclusivity of Plavix and the subsequent develop- York. This action alleges and seeks that three individuals associated with Yeda
ment of generic competition would be material to the Company’s sales of Plavix should also be named as co-inventors on U.S. Patent No. 6,217,866, which cov-
and results of operations and cash flows and could be material to its financial ers the therapeutic combination of any EGFR-specific monoclonal antibody
condition and liquidity. and anti-neoplastic agents, such as chemotherapeutic agents, for use in the
treatment of cancer. If Yeda’s action were successful, Yeda could be in a posi-
Canada tion to practice, or to license others to practice, the invention. This could result
Sanofi-Synthelabo and Sanofi-Synthelabo Canada Inc. have instituted a pro- in product competition for ERBITUX that might not otherwise occur. The
hibition action in the Federal Court of Canada against Apotex Inc. (Apotex) and Company, which is not a party to this action, is unable to predict the outcome at
the Minister of Health in response to a Notice of Allegation from Apotex directed this stage in the proceedings.
against Canadian Patent 1,336,777 covering clopidogrel bisulfate. Apotex’s On May 5, 2004, RepliGen Corporation (Repligen) and Massachusetts
Notice of Allegation (NOA) indicated that it had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Institute of Technology (MIT) filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for
Submission (ANDS) for clopidogrel bisulfate tablets and that it sought approval the District of Massachusetts against ImClone claiming that ImClone’s manu-
(a Notice of Compliance) of that ANDS before the expiration of Canadian Patent facture and sale of ERBITUX infringes a patent which generally covers a
1,336,777, which expires August 12, 2012. Apotex’s NOA further alleged that process for protein production in mammalian cells. Repligen and MIT seek
the ’777 patent was invalid or not infringed. A hearing was held from February damages based on sales of ERBITUX which commenced in February 2004.
21 to February 25, 2005 and a decision is expected before April 28, 2005, The patent expired on May 5, 2004, although Repligen and MIT are seeking
the date the statutory 24-month stay imposed on the approval of Apotex’s extension of the patent. The Company, which is not a party to this action, is
ANDS expires. unable to predict the outcome at this stage in the proceedings.
If the decision is favorable to Apotex, it could result in a generic product on Abilify.On August 11, 2004, Otsuka filed with the United States Patent and
the market in Canada in the second quarter of 2005. The Company believes Trademark Office (USPTO) a Request for Reexamination of U.S. composition of
that any outcome in Canada should not be predictive of the outcome in the U.S. matter patent covering Abilify, an antipsychotic agent used for the treatment of
in light of different procedural and substantive rules in the two jurisdictions. schizophrenia (U.S. Patent Number No. 5,006,528, the “528 Patent”) that
Sanofi-Aventis and Sanofi-Synthelabo Canada Inc. have also instituted a expires in 2009, and may be extended until 2014 if pending supplemental
prohibition action in the Federal Court of Canada against Novopharm Limited protection extensions are granted. Otsuka has determined that the original ’528
(Novopharm) and the Minister of Health in response to a Notice of Allegation Patent application contained an error in that the description of a prior art refer-
from Novopharm directed against Canadian Patent 1,336,777 covering clopido- ence was identified by the wrong patent number. In addition, Otsuka has taken
grel bisulfate. Novopharm’s NOA indicated that it had filed an ANDS for clopidogrel the opportunity to bring other citations to the attention of the USPTO. The
bisulfate tablets and that it sought approval (a Notice of Compliance) of that USPTO has granted the Request for Reexamination,and the reexamination
ANDS before the expiration of Canadian Patent 1,336,777, which expires proceeding is ongoing. The reexamination proceeding will allow the USPTO
August 12, 2012. Novopharm’s NOA further alleged that the ’777 patent was to consider the patentability of the patent claims in light of the corrected patent
invalid. The action is in its early stages and no hearing date has been set. number and newly cited documents. The USPTO is expected to make a final
decision on the reexamination within the next ten to fifteen months.
United Kingdom The Company and Otsuka believe that the invention claimed in the ’528
In December 2004, Aircoat Limited (Aircoat) filed a nullity petition in the Patent is patentable over the prior art and expect that the USPTO will reconfirm
Court of Session in Glasgow, Scotland. By its nullity petition, Aircoat seeks revo- that in the reexamination. However, there can be no guarantee as to the out-
cation of European Patent 0 281 459 , which has been registered in the United come. If the patentability of the ’528 Patent were not reconfirmed following a
Kingdom. European Patent 0 281 459 covers, inter alia, clopidogrel bisulfate, reexamination, there may be sooner than expected loss of market exclusivity of
the active ingredient in Plavix. Aircoat specifically alleges that the claims of Abilify and the subsequent development of generic competition, which would
European Patent 0 281 459 are invalid and should be revoked on the grounds be material to the Company.
of lack of novelty and/or lack of inventive step. Avalide.Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited (Ranbaxy) has served notice that it
filed an ANDA with a P(IV) certification directed against U.S. Patent 5,994,348,
Other Patent Litigation which is a formulation patent that expires in June 2015. Ranbaxy’s P(IV) notice
Tequin.The Company and Kyorin Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. (Kyorin) com- asserts that its proposed generic formulation does not infringe Patent
menced a patent infringement action on March 23, 2004, against Teva USA 5,993,348. Ranbaxy’s P(IV) notice did not include a challenge to the composi-
and Teva Industries in the United States District Court for the Southern District tion of matter patent that currently expires in September 2011. The Company
of New York, relating to the antibiotic gatifloxacin, for which Kyorin holds the and its partner, Sanofi, are currently evaluating Ranbaxy’s P(IV) notice.
composition of matter patent and which the Company sells as Tequin. Teva Avapro.Ranbaxy has served notice that it filed an ANDA with a P(IV) certifi-
Industries has since been dismissed from the case. This action relates to Teva’s cation directed against U.S. Patent 6,342,247, which is a formulation patent that
filing of an ANDA for a generic version of gatifloxacin tablets with a certification expires in June 2015. Ranbaxy’s P(IV) notice asserts that its proposed generic
that the composition of matter patent, which expires in December 2007, is formulation does not infringe the Patent 6,342,247. Ranbaxy’s P(IV) notice did
invalid or not infringed. The filing of the suit places a stay on the approval of not include a challenge to the composition of matter patent that currently
expires in September 2011. The Company and its partner, Sanofi, are currently
evaluating Ranbaxy’s P(IV) notice.
– 82–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportTequin (injectable form). Apotex Corp. (Apotex), SICOR Pharmaceuticals, It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of this
Inc. (SICOR) and American Pharmaceutical Partners, Inc. (APP) have all served litigation or reasonably to estimate the possible loss or range of loss with
notice that they filed abbreviated NDAs with P(IV) certifications directed against respect to this litigation. If the Company were not to prevail in final, nonappeal-
U.S. Patent 5,880,283. Apotex and SICOR also submitted P(IV) certifications able determinations of this litigation, the impact could be material.
against U.S. Patent 4,980,470. Patent 4,980,470 is a composition of matter
patent that expires in December 2007 (and for which a patent term extension Other Securities Matters
has been applied for to December 2009). U.S. Patent 5,880,283 covers the spe- During the period March through May 2002, the Company and a number of
cific form of gatifloxacin used in Tequin. Apotex and SICOR allege in their P(IV) its current and former officers were named as defendants in a number of securi-
notices that U.S. Patent 4,980,470 is invalid. Apotex, SICOR and APP allege that ties class action suits. The suits variously alleged violations of federal securities
their proposed generic formulations would not infringe U.S. Patent 5,880,283. laws and regulations in connection with three different matters: (1) Vanlev (as
The Company is currently evaluating these P(IV) notices. discussed above), (2) sales incentives and wholesaler inventory levels, and (3)
ImClone, and ImClone’s product, ERBITUX. As discussed above, the allega-
Vanlev Litigation tions concerning Vanlev have been transferred to the U.S. District Court for the
In April, May and June 2000, the Company, its former Chairman of the District of New Jersey and consolidated with the action pending there. The
Board and Chief Executive Officer, Charles A. Heimbold, Jr., and its former remaining actions have been consolidated and are pending in the U.S. District
Chief Scientific Officer, Peter S. Ringrose, Ph.D., were named as defendants in Court for the Southern District of New York. Plaintiffs filed a consolidated class
a number of class action lawsuits alleging violations of federal securities laws action complaint on April 11, 2003 against the Company and certain current
and regulations. These actions have been consolidated into one action in the and former officers alleging a class period of October 19, 1999 through March
U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. The plaintiff claims that the 10, 2003. The consolidated class action complaint alleges violations of federal
defendants disseminated materially false and misleading statements and/or securities laws in connection with, among other things, the Company’s invest-
failed to disclose material information concerning the safety, efficacy and com- ment in and relationship with ImClone and ImClone’s product, ERBITUX, and
mercial viability of its product Vanlev during the period November 8, 1999 certain accounting issues, including issues related to wholesaler inventory and
through April 19, 2000. sales incentives, the establishment of reserves, and accounting for certain asset
In May 2002, the plaintiff submitted an amended complaint adding allega- and other sales. The plaintiffs seek compensatory damages, costs and
tions that the Company, its present Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive expenses. On March 29, 2004, the U.S. District Court granted the Company’s
Officer, Peter R. Dolan, its former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive motion to dismiss the consolidated class action complaint and dismissed the
Officer, Charles A. Heimbold, Jr., and its former Chief Scientific Officer, Peter S. case with prejudice. Plaintiffs appealed that dismissal to the Second Circuit
Ringrose, Ph.D., disseminated materially false and misleading statements Court of Appeals (Court of Appeals). While that appeal was pending, the par-
and/or failed to disclose material information concerning the safety, efficacy, ties reached an agreement in principle to settle the action. On July 26, 2004,
and commercial viability of Vanlev during the period April 19, 2000 through the Court of Appeals stayed the appeal and remanded the action to the District
March 20, 2002. A number of related class actions, making essentially the Court so that the District Court could consider the settlement. On July 30, 2004,
same allegations, were also filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern the District Court vacated the Clerk’s Judgment in order to consider the settle-
District of New York. These actions have been transferred to the U.S. District ment. Also on that day, the District Court entered an order preliminarily approv-
Court for the District of New Jersey. ing the settlement and certifying a class for settlement purposes only. Pursuant
The Company filed a motion for partial judgment in its favor based upon the to the terms of the proposed settlement, all claims in the action will be dis-
pleadings. The plaintiff opposed the motion, in part by seeking again to amend missed, the litigation will be terminated, the defendants will receive releases,
its complaint. The court granted in part and denied in part the Company’s and the Company will pay $300 million to a fund for class members. On
motion and ruled that the plaintiff may amend its complaint to challenge certain November 9, 2004, after a fairness hearing, the District Court approved the set-
alleged misstatements. tlement and a judgment dismissing the case with prejudice. The settlement has
The court has certified two separate classes: a class relating to the period become final. The Company is discussing recovering under its insurance poli-
from November 8, 1999 to April 19, 2000 and a class relating to the period from cies, not reflected in the financial statements, of a portion of the $300 million
March 22, 2001 to March 20, 2002. The class certification and proposed class settlement. Approximately 58 million shares have been excluded from the set-
certification are without prejudice to defendants’ rights to fully contest the mer- tlement pursuant to requests for exclusion. Of those, approximately 51 million
its of plaintiff’s claims. The plaintiff purports to seek compensatory damages, shares are held by plaintiffs in the four pending actions discussed below, which
costs and expense on behalf of shareholders with respect to the class period the Company has established reserves for liabilities. It is not possible at this time
and proposed class period. to reasonably assess the final outcome of these lawsuits. In accordance with
On December 17, 2004, the Company and the other defendants made a GAAP, the Company has determined that the above amounts represent mini-
motion for summary judgment as to all of plaintiff’s claims. The final pre-trial mum expected probable losses with respect to these lawsuits. Eventual losses
conference in this matter commenced on December 15, 2004 and is sched- related to these lawsuits may exceed these reserves, and the further impact
uled to be completed on May 4, 2005. No trial date has been set. could be material. The Company does not believe that the top-end of the range
In January 2005, the plaintiff moved for leave to file a third amended complaint, for these losses can be estimated.
seeking to combine the two class periods into one expanded class period from In addition, an action was filed in early October 2003, in New York State
October 19, 1999 through March 19, 2002 and to add further allegations that Supreme Court, making similar factual allegations and asserting a variety of
the Company, Peter R. Dolan, Charles A. Heimbold, Jr., and Peter S. Ringrose, claims including, among others, common law fraud and negligent misrepresen-
Ph.D. disseminated materially false and misleading statements and or failed to tation. No discovery has been taken in this matter. On January 9, 2004, the
disclose material information concerning the safety, efficacy and commercial Company moved to dismiss the complaint. The plaintiffs filed an amended
viability of Vanlev. Defendants have opposed the plaintiff's motion, and the complaint on December 16, 2004, making similar allegations but also adding
Court is scheduled to hear oral argument on the motion on April 4, 2005. allegations from the SEC Complaint issued in August 2004. The Company filed
– 83–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reporta motion to dismiss the amended complaint on February 11, 2005. Plaintiffs’ The consolidated amended complaint alleges, among other things, violations
opposition to the motion to dismiss is due March 15, 2005. The Company’s of federal securities laws and breaches of fiduciary duty by certain individual
reply is due April 8, 2005. Three related actions were filed, one in September defendants in connection with the Company’s conduct concerning, among
2004, one in November 2004 and one in December 2004 all making similar other things: safety, efficacy and commercial viability of Vanlev (as discussed
factual allegations and asserting claims similar to those made in the amended above); the Company’s sales incentives to certain wholesalers and the inventory
complaint for the New York State Supreme Court action filed in October 2003. levels of those wholesalers; the Company’s investment in and relations with
The Company intends to file a motion to dismiss each of the related actions, ImClone and ImClone’s product ERBITUX; and alleged anticompetitive behav-
which have a briefing schedule identical to the action filed in October 2003. It is ior in connection with BuSparand TAXOL®. The lawsuit also alleges malprac-
not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of this litigation tice (negligent misrepresentation and negligence) by PwC. The plaintiffs seek
or reasonably to estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to this restitution and rescission of certain officers’ and directors’ compensation and
litigation. If the Company were not to prevail in final, non-appealable determina- alleged improper insider trading proceeds; injunctive relief; fees, costs and
tions of this litigation, the impact could be material. expenses; contribution from certain officers for alleged liability in the consoli-
The Company and a number of the Company’s current and former officers dated securities class action pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
were named as defendants in a purported class action filed on October 6, 2004 District of New York (as discussed above); and contribution and indemnification
in the State Court in Cook County, Illinois. The complaint makes factual allega- from PwC. No discovery has been taken in this matter. On December 19, 2003,
tions similar to those made in the settled federal class action in the Southern the Company moved to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint. The
District of New York and asserts common law fraud and breach of fiduciary motion to dismiss has been administratively withdrawn without prejudice. Any
duty claims. The complaint purports to assert those claims on behalf of stock- party has the right to have it reinstated upon request. Two similar actions are
holders who purchased the Company’s stock before October 19, 1999 and pending in New York State Court. Plaintiffs seek equitable relief, damages,
held onto their stock through March 10, 2003. The Company removed the costs and attorneys’ fees. The parties are currently engaged in discussions
action to the Northern District of Illinois on February 10, 2005. Plaintiffs' motion regarding potential settlement of the action.
to remand is due March 17, 2005. The Company's opposition is due April 18, As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, the Company entered into a
2005 and plaintiffs' reply is due May 18, 2005. It is not possible at this time rea- final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning certain
sonably to assess the final outcome of this litigation or reasonably to estimate wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached
the possible loss or range of loss with respect to this litigation. If the Company through a Consent, a copy of which was attached as Exhibit 10s to the
were not to prevail in final, non-appealable determinations of this litigation, the Company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30,
impact could be material. 2004. In the Consent, the Company agreed, without admitting or denying any
On November 18, 2004, a class action complaint was filed in United States liability, not to violate certain provisions of the securities laws. The Company
District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri against the Company, D & K also agreed to establish a $150 million fund for a class of shareholders to be
Healthcare Resources, Inc. (D & K) and several current and former D & K directors distributed under the court’s supervision. The $150 million fund, which
and officers on behalf of purchasers of D & K stock between August 10, 2000 included a $100 million civil penalty, will be distributed to certain Company
and September 16, 2002. The class action complaint alleges that the Company shareholders under a plan of distribution established by the SEC.
participated in fraudulently inflating the value of D & K stock by allegedly engag- The settlement does not resolve the ongoing investigation by the SEC of the
ing in improper “channel-stuffing” agreements with D & K. The Company filed a activities of certain current and former members of the Company’s manage-
motion to dismiss this case on January 28, 2005. The plaintiff’s opposition to ment in connection with the wholesaler inventory issues and other accounting
the motion to dismiss is due March 21, 2005, and the Company’s reply is due matters, which investigation is ongoing. In addition, an investigation by the U.S.
April 11, 2005. Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, discovery is Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey concerning the inventory and
automatically stayed pending the outcome of the motion to dismiss. The plain- accounting matters covered by the Company’s settlement with the SEC is con-
tiff filed a motion to partially lift the automatic discovery stay on February 22, tinuing. The Company is continuing to cooperate with those investigations.
2005. The Company's opposition to the motion is due March 4, 2005 and
plaintiff's reply is due March 16, 2005. The impact is not expected to be material. ERISA Litigation
Beginning in October 2002, a number of the Company’s current and former In December 2002 and the first quarter of 2003, the Company and others
officers and directors were named as defendants in three shareholder deriva- were named as defendants in five class actions brought under the ERISA in the
tive suits pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. U.S. District Courts for the Southern District of New York and the District of New
A number of the Company’s current and former officers and directors were Jersey. These actions have been consolidated in the Southern District of New
named as defendants in three shareholder derivative suits filed during the York under the caption In re Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. ERISA Litigation, 02 CV
period March 2003 through May 2003 in the U.S. District Court for the District 10129 (LAP). An Amended Consolidated Complaint alleging a class period of
of New Jersey. In July 2003 the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey January 1, 1999 through March 10, 2003 was served on August 18, 2003. The
ordered the three shareholder derivative lawsuits that were filed in that court Amended Consolidated Complaint was brought on behalf of four named plain-
transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. tiffs and a putative class consisting of all participants in the Bristol-Myers
Subsequently, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York Squibb Company Savings and Investment Program (Savings Plan) and their
ordered all six federal shareholder derivative suits consolidated. Plaintiffs beneficiaries for whose benefit the Savings Plan held and/or acquired Company
have filed a consolidated, amended, verified shareholder complaint against stock at any time during the class period (excluding the defendants, their heirs,
certain members of the board of directors, current and former officers and predecessors, successors and assigns). The named defendants are the
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), an independent registered public accounting Company, the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Savings Plan Committee
firm. As is customary in derivative suits, the Company has been named as a (Committee), thirteen individuals who presently serve on the Committee or who
defendant in this action. As a nominal defendant, the Company is not liable for served on the Committee in the recent past, Charles A. Heimbold, Jr. and Peter R.
any damages in the suit nor is any specific relief sought against the Company. Dolan (the past and present Chief Executive Officers, respectively, and the
– 84–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportCompany). The Amended Consolidated Complaint generally alleges that the Amended Master Complaint asserts claims under the federal RICO and
defendants breached their fiduciary duties under ERISA during the class period antitrust statutes and state consumer protection and fair trade statutes.
by, among other things, continuing to offer the Company Stock Fund and The Amended Master Complaint is brought on behalf of two main proposed
Company stock as investment alternatives under the Savings Plan; continuing classes, whose definitions have been subject to further amendment as the case
to invest Company matching contributions in the Company Stock Fund and has progressed. As of December 17, 2004, those proposed classes may be sum-
Company stock; and failing to disclose that investments in Company stock marized as: (1) all persons or entities who, from 1991 forward, paid or reimbursed
were (allegedly) imprudent. The Savings Plan’s purchases of Company stock all or part of a listed drug under Medicare Part B or under a private contract that
after January 1, 1999 are alleged to have been transactions prohibited by expressly used AWP as a pricing standard and (2) all persons or entities who,
ERISA. Finally, Defendants Heimbold and Dolan are alleged to have breached from 2002 forward, paid or reimbursed any portion of the purchase price of
their fiduciary duties under ERISA by failing to monitor the actions of the a drug covered by the Together Rx Card Program based in whole or in part
Committee. These ERISA claims are predicated upon factual allegations on AWP. The first class is further divided into several proposed subclasses
similar to those raised in “Other Securities Matters” above, concerning, among depending on whether the listed drug in question is physician-administered,
other things: the safety, efficacy and commercial viability of Vanlev; the Company’s self-administered, sold through a pharmacy benefits manager or specialty phar-
sales incentives to certain wholesalers and the inventory levels of those whole- macy, or is a brand-name or generic drug. On September 3, 2004, plaintiffs in the
salers; the Company’s investment in and relations with ImClone and ImClone’s AWP Multidistrict Litigation moved for certification of a proposed plaintiff class.
product ERBITUX; and alleged anticompetitive behavior in connection with The parties briefed that motion, as it related to the amended proposed definition
BuSparand TAXOL®. of the first main class and sub-classes discussed above, and motion was heard by
There has not been significant discovery to date and discovery is currently the Court on February 10, 2005.
stayed. On October 2, 2003, the Company and all other defendants moved to The Company and other defendants moved to dismiss the Amended Master
dismiss the Amended Consolidated Complaint. The plaintiffs have opposed the Complaint on the grounds that it fails to state claims under the applicable statutes.
motion to dismiss, and the defendants have replied. The motions to dismiss On February 24, 2004, the Court denied this motion in large part, although the
were administratively withdrawn without prejudice. Plaintiffs have now Court dismissed one of the plaintiffs’ claims for failure to plead a cognizable RICO
requested a pre-motion conference and intend to ask the Court for leave to file a “enterprise”. Accordingly, the Court required that the Company and the other
Second Amendment Complaint. In the second quarter of 2004, the Company defendants answer the Amended Master Complaint. The court subsequently
established reserves for liabilities for this litigation of $20 million. It is not possi- ordered that five defendants, including the Company, engage in accelerated
ble at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of this litigation. In accor- discovery with respect to the remaining allegations of the Amended Master
dance with GAAP, the Company has determined that the reserves established Complaint, other than the allegations related to Together Rx, which are on a more
represent the minimum expected probable losses with respect to this litigation. extended discovery schedule. This accelerated discovery closed as to these five
Eventual losses related to this litigation may exceed reserves, and the further defendants on January 30, 2005. In addition, the Company and the other defen-
impact could be material. The Company does not believe that the top-end of the dants have obtained discovery of the named plaintiffs and of several non-parties,
range for these losses can be estimated. If the Company were not to prevail in such as benefits consultants, the federal government and health insurers. The
final, non-appealable determination of this matter, the impact could be material current schedule calls for expert reports, expert depositions and summary judg-
to its results of operations. ment briefing on liability issues during the first half of 2005.
The cases commenced by the Nevada, Montana, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin,
Pricing, Sales and Promotional Practices Litigation and Investigations Illinois, Alabama and Kentucky Attorneys General (the Attorneys General
The Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufactur- AWP Cases) and the cases commenced by New York City and four New York
ers, is a defendant in several private class actions and in actions brought by the counties (the New York City & County AWP Cases) include fraud and consumer
Nevada, Montana, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Kentucky, Illinois and Alabama protection claims similar to those in the Amended Master Complaint. Certain of
Attorneys General, the City of New York and four New York counties that are the states, city and counties also have made additional allegations that defen-
pending in federal and state courts relating to the pricing of certain Company dants, including the Company, have violated state Medicaid statutes by, among
products. The federal cases, and some related state court cases that were other things, failing to provide the states with adequate rebates required under
removed to federal courts, have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes under federal law. The Attorneys’ General AWP Cases, other than the Montana action,
the caption In re Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation, are proceeding in their respective state courts.
MDL No. 1456, Civ. Action No. 01-CV-12257-PBS, before United States District In a series of decisions in June, September, and October 2004, affecting the
Court Judge Patti B. Saris in the United States District Court for the District of Montana Attorney General’s case and the New York City & County AWP Cases,
Massachusetts (AWP Multidistrict Litigation). On June 18, 2003 , the private which are proceeding in the AWP Multidistrict Litigation in coordination with the
plaintiffs in the AWP Multidistrict Litigation filed an Amended Master private class actions, the Court declined to find that the Medicaid rebate claims
Consolidated Complaint (Amended Master Complaint). The Amended Master were preempted by federal law, but nevertheless dismissed many of the claims
Complaint contains two sets of allegations against the Company. First, it alleges relating to “rebate” payments made by several drug manufacturers, including
that the Company’s and many other pharmaceutical manufacturers’ reporting those claims relating to the Company, as insufficiently pled. The Court allowed
of prices for certain drug products (20 listed drugs in the Company’s case) had to proceed the state law claims that allege that the Company misreported
the effect of falsely overstating the Average Wholesale Price (AWP) published in AWPs. The Company has filed its answer to the claims remaining in the
industry compendia, which in turn improperly inflated the reimbursement paid Montana Attorney General’s complaint.
to medical providers, pharmacists, and others who prescribed, administered or The Company also has joined with other defendants in a motion to dismiss
sold those products to consumers. Second, it alleges that the Company and the Pennsylvania Attorney General’s action. In a decision filed February 1, 2005,
certain other defendant pharmaceutical manufacturers conspired with one the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court granted the motion to dismiss on the
another in a program called the “Together Rx Card Program” to fix AWPs for ground that the plaintiff had failed to plead the complaint with the requisite par-
certain drugs made available to consumers through the Program. The ticularity. The Court gave the Attorney General 30 days to replead. On July 16,
– 85–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Report2004, the Nevada court denied the Company’s and other defendants’ motions As previously disclosed, in mid-2003, the Company initiated an internal
to dismiss the complaint except as to the state RICO claim and granted the review of certain of its sales and marketing practices, focusing on whether
Attorney General leave to replead, in an opinion that was based on the prior rul- these practices comply with applicable anti-kickback laws and analyzing these
ings of the AWP Multidistrict Litigation Court. The Company and other defen- practices with respect to compliance with (1) Best Price reporting and rebate
dants also have made, or may soon make, motions to dismiss in the other requirements under the Medicaid program and certain other U.S. governmental
Attorneys General AWP Cases. programs, which reference the Medicaid rebate program and (2) applicable
The Company is also one of a number of defendants in a private class action FDA requirements. The Company has met with representatives of the U.S.
making AWP-based claims that was remanded from the AWP Multidistrict Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts to discuss the review and has
Litigation to Arizona state court. An individual, Robert J. Swanston, asserts received related subpoenas from that U.S. Attorney’s Office. The Company’s
claims under Arizona state law on behalf of himself and an alleged class of per- internal review is expected to continue until resolution of pending governmental
sons and entities in Arizona who paid for prescription drugs based on AWP (the investigations of related matters.
Swanston Action), which claims generally allege that the defendant drug manu- The Company is producing documents and actively cooperating in the inves-
facturers have conspired to inflate AWPs. By order dated August 5, 2004, the tigations, which could result in the assertion of civil and/or criminal claims. In
Arizona Court denied defendants’ motions to dismiss or stay the proceedings. the second quarter of 2004, the Company increased reserves for liabilities in
The parties are currently briefing plaintiff’s motion for class certification and relation to pharmaceutical pricing and sales and marketing practices described
defendants’ papers are due February 11, 2005. The Court in the Swanston in this section by $34 million, bringing the total reserves for liabilities for these
Action has ordered that discovery in that matter should be coordinated with dis- matters to $134 million. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the
covery in the AWP Multidistrict Litigation. final outcome of these matters. In accordance with GAAP, the Company has
On or about October 8, 2004, the Company was added as a defendant in a determined that the above amount represents minimum expected probable
putative class action previously commenced against other drug manufacturers losses with respect to these matters, which losses could include the imposition
in federal court in Alabama . The case was brought by two health care providers of fines, penalties, administrative remedies and/or liability for additional rebate
that are allegedly entitled under a federal statute, Section 340B of the Public amounts. Eventual losses related to these matters may exceed these reserves,
Health Service Act, to discounted prices on prescription drugs dispensed to the and the further impact could be material. The Company does not believe that
poor in the providers’ local areas. The plaintiff health care providers contend the top-end of the range for these losses can be estimated. If the Company were
that they and an alleged class of other providers authorized to obtain discounted not to prevail in final, nonappealable determinations of these litigations and
prices under the statute may in fact not have received the level of discounts to investigations, the impact could be material.
which they are entitled. The Amended Complaint against the Company and the As previously disclosed, in 2004 the Company undertook an analysis of its
other manufacturers asserts claims directly under the federal statute, as well as methods and processes for calculating prices for reporting under governmental
under state law, for unjust enrichment and for an accounting. The Company has rebate and pricing programs related to its U.S. Pharmaceuticals business. The
joined in a motion to dismiss the Complaint that was filed by the original manu- analysis was completed in early 2005. Based on the analysis, the Company
facturer defendants and that has, with the court’s approval, been made applica- identified the need for revisions to the methodology and processes used for cal-
ble to the Amended Complaint. culating reported pricing and related rebate amounts and expects to implement
Finally, the Company is a defendant in related state court proceedings com- these revised methodologies and processes beginning with its reporting to the
menced in New York, New Jersey, California, and Tennessee. Those proceed- Federal government agency with primary responsibility for these rebate and
ings were transferred to the AWP Multidistrict Litigation for pre-trial purposes. price reporting obligations, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
The plaintiffs in the California and New Jersey actions sought to remand their (CMS) in the first quarter of 2005. In addition, using the revised methodologies
cases to the state courts. The California remand motions were denied, and the and processes, the Company also has recalculated the “Best Price” and
New Jersey remand motion remains pending. “Average Manufacturer’s Price” required to be reported under the Company’s
These cases are at a very preliminary stage, and the Company is unable to federal Medicaid rebate agreement and certain state agreements, and the cor-
assess the outcome and any possible effects on its business and profitability, or responding revised rebate liability amounts under those programs for the three-
reasonably estimate possible loss or range of loss with respect to these cases. If year period 2002 to 2004. In the third quarter of 2004, based on the results of
the Company were not to prevail in final, nonappealable determinations of these the Company’s analysis at that time, the Company recorded an additional
litigations and investigations, the impact could be material. liability equal to the then estimated additional rebate liability resulting from the
The Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufactur- proposed revisions, which was not material. Upon completion of the analysis in
ers, also has received subpoenas and other document requests from various early 2005, the Company has finally determined that the estimated rebate liabil-
government agencies seeking records relating to its pricing, sales and market- ity for those programs for the three-year period 2002 to 2004 was actually less
ing practices, and “Best Price” reporting for drugs covered by Medicare and/or than the rebates that had been paid by the Company for such period.
Medicaid. The requests for records have come from the U.S. Attorneys’ Offices Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company reversed the additional
for the District of Massachusetts, the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and the rebate liability that was recorded in the third quarter of 2003 and recorded an
Northern District of Texas, the Civil Division of the Department of Justice, the additional reduction to the rebate liability in the amount of the estimated over-
Offices of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human payment. The Company’s proposed revisions and its updated estimate will be
Services and the Office of Personnel Management (each in conjunction with submitted for review to CMS. The Company anticipates that the submission to
the Civil Division of the Department of Justice), and several states. In addition, CMS also will likely be reviewed by the Department of Justice (DOJ) in conjunc-
requests for information have come from the House Committee on Energy & tion with the previously disclosed subpoena received by the Company from the
Commerce and the Senate Finance Committee in connection with investiga- DOJ relating to, among other things, “Best Price” reporting for drugs covered
tions that the committees are currently conducting into Medicaid Best by Medicaid as discussed in more detail above. These agencies may take the
Price issues. position that further revisions to the Company’s methodologies and calcula-
tions are required. Upon completion of governmental review, the Company will
– 86–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportdetermine whether any further recalculation of the liability from the Company PPA.In May 2000, Yale University published the results of its Hemorrhagic
under the identified programs for any period or under any other similar pro- Stroke Project, which concluded that there was evidence of a suggestion that
grams is necessary or appropriate. The Company believes, based on current PPA may increase the risk of hemorrhagic stroke in a limited population. In
information, that any such recalculation is not likely to result in material rebate November 2000, the FDA issued a Public Health Advisory and requested that
liability. However, due to the uncertainty surrounding the recoverability of the manufacturers of PPA-containing products voluntarily cease manufacturing
Company’s estimated overpayment arising from the review process described and marketing them. At that time, the only PPA-containing products manufac-
above, the Company has also recorded a reserve in an amount equal to the esti- tured or sold by the Company were Comtrex(liqui-gel formulations only) and
mated overpayment. The Company has remediated its internal controls over the Naldecon.On or about November 6, 2000, the Company, as well as other man-
processes and procedures the Company believes resulted in these proposed ufacturers of PPA- containing products, discontinued the manufacture and mar-
revisions and will continue to strengthen its internal controls. keting of PPA-containing products and allowed customers to return any unused
The Company received a civil investigative demand from the Attorney product that they had in their possession.
General of the State of Missouri relating to direct-to-consumer advertising for In January 2001, the Company was served with its first PPA lawsuit. The
Pravacholfor the period of 2001-2003. The Company received written confir- Company currently is a defendant in approximately 50 personal injury lawsuits,
mation from the Attorney General in July 2004 concluding its investigation with filed on behalf of approximately 50 plaintiffs, in federal and state courts through-
no action taken against the Company. The Company also received notice of a out the United States. Many of these lawsuits involve multiple defendants.
putative class action lawsuit involving issues related to the direct-to consumer Among other claims, plaintiffs allege that PPA causes hemorrhagic and
advertising, filed on February 23, 2004, in circuit court of Jackson County ischemic strokes, that the defendants were aware of the risk, failed to warn con-
Missouri at Kansas City, caption Richard Summers v. Bristol-Myers Squibb sumers and failed to remove PPA from their products. Plaintiffs seek compen-
Company. The Company was served with this complaint on March 23, 2004 satory and punitive damages. All of the federal cases have been transferred to
and removed the action to federal court. The action has been remanded to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington, In re
state court. The impact is not expected to be material. Phenylpropanolamine (PPA) Products Liability Litigation, MDL No. 1407. The
The Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufactur- District Court has denied all motions for class certification and there are no
ers, has been named as a defendant in an action filed in California State class action lawsuits pending against the Company in this litigation.
Superior Court in Oakland,James Clayworth et al. v. Bristol-Myers Squibb On June 18, 2003, the District Court issued a ruling effectively limiting the
Company, et al., alleging that the defendants have conspired to fix the prices of plaintiffs’ claims to hemorrhagic and ischemic strokes. Rulings favorable for the
pharmaceuticals by preventing the importation of foreign drugs into the United defendants included the inadmissibility of expert testimony in cases alleging
States and asserting claims under California’s Cartwright Act and unfair compe- injuries occurring more than three days after ingestion of a PPA-containing
tition law. The plaintiffs seek treble damages for any damages they have sus- product and cases involving psychoses, seizures and cardiac injuries. The
tained; restitution of any profit obtained by defendants through charging Company expects to be dismissed from additional cases in which its products
artificially higher prices to plaintiffs; an injunction barring the defendants from were never used by the plaintiffs and where plaintiffs’ alleged injury occurred
charging the plaintiffs higher prices offered to other customers; an award of rea- more than three days after ingestion of a PPA-containing product or where a
sonable attorneys’ fees and costs; and any other relief the Court deems proper. plaintiff suffered from cardiac injuries or psychoses.
The plaintiffs have propounded interrogatories and the defendants served Serzone. Serzone(nefazodone hydrochloride) is an antidepressant that was
objections and responses on January 10, 2005. The parties are in the process launched by the Company in May 1994 in Canada and in March 1995 in the
of meeting and conferring to resolve disputes over the defendants’ responses United States. In December 2001, the Company added a black box warning to
and objections. The plaintiffs also have propounded form interrogatories, itsSerzonelabel warning of the potential risk of severe hepatic events including
requests for admission and a request for the production of documents. The possible liver failure and the need for transplantation and risk of death. Within
Company is preparing responses and objections to each of those discovery several months of the black box warning being added to the package insert for
requests. On November 22, 2004, the Company filed a demurrer to this action. Serzone, a number of lawsuits, including several class actions, were filed
The plaintiffs filed an opposition brief on December 20, 2004, and the against the Company. Plaintiffs allege that the Company knew or should have
Company filed a reply brief on January 20, 2005. Oral argument on the demur- known about the hepatic risks posed bySerzoneand failed to adequately warn
rer was held on February 1, 2005. In an order dated February 4, 2005, the physicians and users of the risks. They seek compensatory and punitive dam-
Court sustained the demurrer. The Court also granted plaintiffs leave to file a ages, medical monitoring, and refunds for the costs of purchasingSerzone. In
Second Amended Complaint, which they have already done. Defendants’ May 2004, the Company announced that, following an evaluation of the com-
response to the Second Amended Complaint is to be filed by March 15, 2005. mercial potential of the product after generic entry into the marketplace and
This case is at a very preliminary stage, and the Company is unable to assess rapidly declining brand sales, it had decided to discontinue the manufacture
the outcome and any possible effect on its business and profitability, or reason- and sale of the product effective June 14, 2004.
ably estimate possible loss or range of loss with respect to this case. If the At present, the Company has approximately 213 lawsuits, on behalf of
Company were not to prevail in a final, non-appealable determination of this liti- approximately 2,114 plaintiffs, pending against it in federal and state courts
gation, the impact could be material. throughout the United States. Twenty-seven of these cases are pending in New
York State Court and have been consolidated for pretrial discovery. In addition,
Product Liability Litigation there are approximately 761 alleged, but unfiled, claims of injury associated
The Company is a party to product liability lawsuits involving allegations of withSerzone. In August 2002, the federal cases were transferred to the U.S.
injury caused by the Company’s pharmaceutical and over-the-counter medica- District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia, In Re SerzoneProducts
tions. The majority of these lawsuits involve certain over-the-counter medica- Liability Litigation, MDL 1477. Although discovery is still at a very early stage it
tions containing phenylpropanolamine (PPA), or the Company’sSerzoneand appears that very few of these cases involve liver failure. In June 2003, the
Stadol NS prescription drugs. In addition to lawsuits, the Company also faces District Court dismissed the class claims in all but two of the class action com-
unfiled claims involving the same products. plaints. A purported class action has also been filed in Illinois. Although a num-
– 87–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual Reportber of the class action complaints filed against the Company had sought the Breast Implant Litigation. The Company, together with its subsidiary
certification of one or more personal injury classes, the remaining class action Medical Engineering Corporation (MEC) and certain other companies, remains
complaints do not seek the certification of personal injury classes. In addition to a defendant in a number of claims and lawsuits alleging damages for personal
the cases filed in the United States, there are four national class actions filed injuries of various types resulting from polyurethane-covered breast implants
in Canada. and smooth-walled breast implants formerly manufactured by MEC or a related
Without admitting any wrongdoing or liability, on or around October 15, company. The vast majority of claims against the Company in direct lawsuits
2004, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with respect to all have been resolved through settlements or trial.
claims in the United States and its territories regardingSerzone. The settlement Likewise, claims or potential claims against the Company registered in the
agreement embodies a schedule of payments dependent upon whether the nationwide class action settlement approved by the Federal District Court in
class member has developed a qualifying medical condition, whether he or she Birmingham, Alabama (Revised Settlement), have been or will be resolved
can demonstrate that they purchased or tookSerzone, and whether certain other through the Revised Settlement. The Company has established accruals in
criteria apply. The settlement is subject to final approval by the District Court and respect of breast implant product liability litigation. The Company believes that
any appeals therefrom. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, plaintiffs’ class any possible loss in addition to the amounts accrued will not be material.
counsel filed a class action complaint seeing relief for the settlement class. On
November 18, 2004, the District Court conditionally certified the temporary settle- Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT) Litigation.In 1991, The National
ment class and preliminarily approved the settlement. The opt-out period ends on Institute of Health began some clinical trials involving Prempro (estrogen and
April 8, 2005. The fairness hearing is scheduled for June 30, 2005. Pursuant to progestin) and Premarin (estrogen), both of which are manufactured by Wyeth.
the terms of the proposed settlement, all claims will be dismissed, the litigation A July 2002 JAMA article reported that among the Prempro subjects, there
will be terminated, the defendants will receive releases, and the Company com- were increased risks of breast cancer, heart attacks, blood clots and strokes.
mits to paying at least $70 million to funds for class members. Class Counsel will The Prempro phase of the study was stopped on July 9, 2002. In July 2003, the
have the right to petition the court for an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and Company was served with its first HRT lawsuit. The Company products involved
expenses; the fees will be paid by the Company and will not reduce the amount of in this litigation are: Estrace (an estrogen-only tablet); estradiol (generic estro-
money paid to class members as part of the settlement. The Company may termi- gen-only tablet); Delestrogen(an injectable estrogen); and Ovcon (an oral con-
nate the settlement based upon the number of claims submitted or the number traceptive containing both estrogen and progestin). All of these products were
of purported class members who opt not to participate in the settlement and sold to other companies between January 2000, and August 2001, but the
instead pursue individual claims. Company maintains the Estrace ANDA.
In the second quarter of 2004, the Company established reserves for liabili- The Company currently is a defendant in approximately 846 lawsuits involving
ties for these lawsuits of $75 million. It is not possible at this time to reasonably the above mentioned products, filed on behalf of approximately1,182 plaintiffs,
assess the final outcome of these lawsuits. In accordance with GAAP, the in federal and state courts throughout the United States. A majority of these law-
Company has determined that the above amounts represent minimum suits involve multiple defendants. The Company expects to be dismissed from
expected probable losses with respect to these lawsuits. Eventual losses related many cases in which its products were never used. Plaintiffs allege, among
to these lawsuits may exceed these reserves, and the further impact could be other things, that these products cause breast cancer, stroke, blood clots, car-
material. The Company does not believe that the top-end of the range for these diac and other injuries in women, that the defendants were aware of these risks
losses can be estimated. and failed to warn consumers. The federal cases are being transferred to the
Stadol NS. Stadol NS was approved in 1992 by the FDA as an unscheduled U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas, In re Prempro (Wyeth)
opioid analgesic nasal spray. In February 1995 the Company asked the FDA to Products Liability Litigation, MDL No., 1507.
schedule Stadol NS as a Schedule IV, low potential for abuse, drug due to post- The Company is vigorously defending its product liability lawsuits and
marketing reports suggestive of inappropriate use of the product. On October believes that the majority of these cases and claims are without merit. While
31, 1997, it became a Schedule IV drug. Since 1997, the Company has received it is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of the
a number of lawsuits involving Stadol. In late 2002, the number of filed suits Company’s pending product liability lawsuits and unfiled claims with cer-
increased due to newly passed tort reform legislation, which became effective tainty, management is of the opinion that the ultimate disposition of these
on January 1, 2003. Most, if not all, of the plaintiffs in these new suits had previ- matters should not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
ously asserted claims against the Company for their alleged injuries. In May position, except as otherwise indicated above. The Company believes that it
2004, the Company announced that, following an evaluation of the commercial has adequate self-insurance reserves and commercially available excess
potential of the product after generic entry in the marketplace and rapidly insurance to cover potential material losses related to its product liability
declining brand sales, it had decided to discontinue the manufacture and sale cases and claims.
of the product effective June 14, 2004.
The Company is a party in approximately 32 cases pending, on behalf of a Environmental Proceedings
total of approximately 565 plaintiffs, in federal and state courts throughout the The following discussion describes (1) environmental proceedings with a
United States. Plaintiffs claim that the Company committed fraud on the FDA governmental authority which may involve potential monetary sanctions of
and wrongfully promoted Stadol NS as non-addictive. Further, plaintiffs allege $100,000 or more (the threshold prescribed by specific SEC rule), (2) a civil
that the Company failed to adequately warn of the addiction and dependency action or an environmental claim that could result in significant liabilities, (3)
risk associated with the use of Stadol NS. The Company has reached an agree- updates of ongoing matters, or the resolution of other matters, disclosed in
ment in principle to settle 31 of the lawsuits involving approximately 564 plain- recent public filings and (4) a summary of environmental remediation costs.
tiffs. In addition to these lawsuits, there are approximately 25 active, alleged and The results of an internal audit performed at the Company’s facility in
unfiled claims. The majority of the cases and claims are pending in Mississippi. Hopewell, N.J. indicate that operations at the site’s wastewater treatment plant
In the second quarter of 2004, the Company recovered insurance proceeds and related discharges were not always in compliance with the New Jersey
of $25 million with respect to the Stadol NS case. Water Pollution Control Act and its implementing regulations or the terms of the
– 88–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportCompany’s discharge permits. The Company reported its findings to the New finance a portion of that study. The EPA estimates this study will cost $20 mil-
Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) in February 2004, lion, of which roughly half will be financed by this private party group. This study
entered a settlement agreement with NJDEP on November 16, 2004, and paid may also lead to clean-up actions, directed by the EPA and the Army Corps of
a penalty of $44,500. None of the results of the audit suggests that there has Engineers. The Company is working cooperatively with a group of the parties
been any adverse impact to public health. The Company has taken, and will that received the NJDEP Directive and/or the EPA notice to explore potential
continue to take, corrective actions to address identified deficiencies and to resolutions of the Directive and to address the risk of collateral claims. Although
prevent future occurrences. the Company does not believe it has caused or contributed to any contamina-
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is investigating industrial tion in the Lower Passaic River watershed, the Company has informed the
and commercial facilities throughout the U.S. that use refrigeration equipment NJDEP that it is willing to discuss their allegations against the Company. In the
containing ozone-depleting substances (ODS) and enforcing compliance with Directive and in more recent communications to the cooperating group, NJDEP
regulations governing the prevention, service and repair of leaks (ODS require- has stated that if the responsible parties do not cooperate, the NJDEP may per-
ments). Recently, the Company performed a voluntary corporate-wide audit at form the damage assessment and restoration and take civil action to recover its
its facilities in the U.S. and Puerto Rico that use ODS-containing refrigeration remedial costs, and treble damages for administrative costs and penalties. In
equipment. The Company submitted an audit report to the EPA in November late 2004, a group of federal agencies designated as trustees of natural
2004, identifying potential violations of the ODS requirements at several of its resources affected by contamination in the Passaic River watershed
facilities, and is currently in discussions with EPA to resolve such matters. In approached the cooperating group to solicit interest in funding a cooperative
addition to the matters covered in the Company’s audit report letter to the EPA, study of possible natural resources damages (NRD) in the area. This study pre-
the EPA previously sent the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Mead sumably would dovetail with the ongoing EPA study, and ideally would be
Johnson, a request for information regarding compliance with ODS require- joined by the NJDEP, to coordinate actions NJDEP may seek under the
ments at its facility in Evansville, Indiana. The Company responded to the Directive. Discussions with the federal trustees are ongoing. The extent of any
request in June 2004, and the EPA currently is in the process of reviewing the liability the Company may face, under either the Directive, the EPA’s notice let-
information that the Company provided. If the EPA determines that the ter, or with respect to future NRD actions or claims by the federal trustees, or in
Evansville facility, or any other facilities, was, or is, in violation of applicable ODS contribution to other responsible parties, can not yet be determined.
requirements, the Company could be subject to penalties and/or be required to On October 16, 2003 the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
convert or replace refrigeration equipment to use non-ODS approved substitutes. (MDEQ) sent the Company a Letter of Violation (LOV) alleging that, over an
In January 2004, the NJDEP sent the Company and approximately five other unspecified period of time, emissions from certain digestion tanks at Mead
companies an information request letter relating to a site in North Brunswick Johnson’s Zeeland, Michigan facility exceeded an applicable limit in the facil-
Township, N.J. where waste materials from E.R. Squibb & Sons (Squibb), a ity’s renewable operating air permit. The LOV requires the Company to take cor-
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, may have been disposed from the rective action and to submit a compliance program report. Although the MDEQ
1940s through the 1960s. Fill material containing industrial waste and heavy has not demanded fines or penalties, further enforcement action could result in
metals in excess of residential standards was discovered in Fall 2003 during an penalties or injunctive relief. The Company is contesting the allegations in the
expansion project at the North Brunswick Township High School, as well as at a LOV and the Company and the MDEQ are also working on revisions to the
number of neighboring residential properties and adjacent public park areas. Company’s air use permit. Although we can not predict the ultimate outcome
The school board and the Township, who are the current owners of the site, are with certainty, these permit revisions may resolve the matter without additional
conducting and jointly financing soil remediation work under a work plan enforcement action or the need to continue contesting the LOV.
approved by the NJDEP, and have asked the Company to contribute to the cost On December 1, 2003, the Company and the NJDEP entered an
of remediation. The Company is in discussions with the NJDEP, the site owners Administrative Consent Order (ACO) concerning alleged violations of the
and other potentially responsible parties regarding the scope and costs of work New Jersey Air Pollution Control Act and its implementing regulations at the
required to address the known conditions of concern, and recently has offered Company’s New Brunswick facility. Pursuant to the ACO, the Company agreed
to negotiate with the school board and Township on the terms of a cooperative to submit a permit application creating a facility-wide emissions cap and to pay
funding agreement and allocation process. The Company also is actively inves- an administrative fine of approximately $28,000. Both of these obligations were
tigating the historic use of the site, including the Company’s possible connec- satisfied in early 2004. Subsequently, on February 15, 2005, the ACO was
tion. To date, no claims have been asserted against the Company. amended to provide that the Company would install a new cogeneration turbine
In September 2003, the NJDEP issued an administrative enforcement at its New Brunswick facility by December 31, 2006, and would obtain air per-
Directive and Notice under the New Jersey Spill Compensation and Control Act mits, including those required for the cogeneration turbine, by December 31,
requiring the Company and approximately 65 other companies to perform an 2005. The estimated cost of the new cogeneration turbine is approximately
assessment of natural resource damages and to implement unspecified interim $3.5 million.
remedial measures to restore conditions in the Lower Passaic River. The The Company is one of several defendants in a class action suit filed in supe-
Directive alleges that the Company is liable because it historically sent bulk rior court in Puerto Rico in February 2000 by residents of three wards from the
waste to the former Inland Chemical Company facility in Newark, N.J. for repro- Municipality of Barceloneta, alleging that air emissions from a government
cessing, and that releases of hazardous substances from this facility have owned and operated wastewater treatment facility in said Municipality have
migrated into Newark Bay and continue to have an adverse impact on the caused respiratory and other ailments and violated local air rules. The
Lower Passaic River watershed. Subsequently, the EPA also issued a notice Company believes its wastewater discharges to the treatment facility are in
letter under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and material compliance with the terms of the Company’s permit. The Company
Liability Act (CERCLA) to numerous parties, but not including the Company, believes that this litigation will be resolved for an immaterial amount; however,
seeking their cooperation in a study of conditions in substantially the same although this suit is now five years old, it is still at an initial stage with even the
stretch of the Passaic River that is the subject of the NJDEP’s Directive. A group issue of class certification still pending. In the event of an adverse judgment, the
of these other parties entered into a consent agreement with EPA in 2004 to Company’s ultimate financial liability could be greater than anticipated.
– 89–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportThe Company is also responsible under various state, federal and foreign by the aforementioned indemnity and if applicable, certain prior period insur-
laws, including CERCLA, for certain costs of investigating or remediating con- ance policies. However, certain indemnification payments may not be covered
tamination resulting from past industrial activity at the Company’s current or for- under the Company’s directors and officers insurance coverage. The Company
mer sites or at waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third cannot predict with certainty the extent to which the Company will recover from
parties. The Company typically estimates these costs based on information its insurers the indemnification payments made in connection with the litigation
obtained from the EPA, or counterpart state agency, and/or studies prepared matters and regulatory actions described above.
by independent consultants, including the total estimated costs for the site and On July 31, 2003, one of the Company’s insurers, Federal Insurance
the expected cost-sharing, if any, with other potentially responsible parties Company (Federal), filed a lawsuit in New York Supreme Court against the
(PRP). The Company accrues liabilities when they are probable and reasonably Company and several current and former officers and members of the board of
estimable. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company estimated its directors, seeking rescission, or in the alternative, declarations allowing Federal
share of the total future costs for these sites to be approximately $60 million and to avoid payment under certain Directors and Officers insurance policies and
$58 million, respectively, recorded as other liabilities, which represents the sum certain Fiduciary Liability insurance policies with respect to potential liability
of best estimates or, where no simple estimate can reasonably be made, estimates arising in connection with the matters described under the “Vanlev Litigation,”
of the minimal probable amount among a range of such costs (without taking “Other Securities Matters” and “ERISA Litigation” sections above. No discovery
into account any potential recoveries from other parties, which are not currently has been taken in this matter. The parties are currently engaged in discussions
expected). The Company has paid less than $4 million (excluding legal fees) in regarding potential settlement of the action.
each of the last five years for investigation and remediation of such matters, On October 3, 2003, another of the Company’s insurers, SR International
including liabilities under CERCLA and for other on-site remedial obligations. Business Insurance Co. Ltd. (SRI), informed the Company that it intended to try
Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these envi- to avoid certain insurance policies issued to the Company on grounds of
ronmental proceedings or the ultimate costs of remediation, the Company does alleged material misrepresentation or non-disclosure, and that it had initiated
not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that the Company may arbitration proceedings in London, England. SRI has indicated that it intends to
incur in excess of existing reserves will have a material adverse effect on its rely upon allegations similar to those described in the “Other Securities Matters”
business, financial position or results of operations. section above in support of its avoidance action.
Other Matters
On October 25, 2004, the SEC notified the Company that it is conducting an Note 22 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
informal inquiry into the activities of certain of the Company’s German pharma- In January 2005, the Company announced plans to divest the U.S. and
ceutical subsidiaries and its employees and/or agents. The Company believes Canadian consumer medicines business. For the year ended December 31,
the SEC’s informal inquiry may encompass matters currently under investiga- 2004, sales of consumer medicines brands in the U.S. and Canada totaled
tion by the Staatsanwaltin prosecutor in Munich, Germany. Although uncertain approximately $270 million. The Company’s consumer medicines businesses
at this time, the Company believes the inquiry and investigation may concern in Japan, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Europe, Middle East and Africa are not
potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and/or German law. included in this planned divestiture.
The Company is cooperating with both the SEC and the German authorities. It In November 2004, the Company and Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) entered into a
is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these mat- worldwide collaboration to develop and commercialize MDX-010, a fully human
ters or to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss. antibody investigational product targeting the CTLA-4 receptor. MDX-010 was
The Company is conducting an internal review of its pharmaceutical opera- developed by Medarex and is currently in Phase III clinical development for the
tions in Mexico, which had total sales of $422 million for the twelve months treatment of metastatic melanoma. The collaboration agreement became effec-
ended December 31, 2004. This broad review includes areas of compliance tive in January 2005, at which time the Company made a cash payment of $25
with legal, financial and regulatory requirements and the Company’s Standards million to Medarex which was expensed as research and development, and an
of Business Conduct and Ethics. The reviews are ongoing. At this time, the additional $25 million equity investment in Medarex.
Company is unable to assess the impact, if any, of the results these investiga-
tions may have on the Company.
Indemnification of Officers and Directors
The Company’s corporate by-laws require that, to the extent permitted by law,
the Company shall indemnify its officers and directors against judgments, fines,
penalties and amounts paid in settlement, including legal fees and all appeals,
incurred in connection with civil or criminal actions or proceedings, as it relates
to their services to the Company and its subsidiaries. The by-laws provide no
limit on the amount of indemnification. Indemnification is not permitted in the
case of willful misconduct, knowing violation of criminal law, or improper per-
sonal benefit. As permitted under the laws of the state of Delaware, the
Company has for many years purchased directors and officers insurance cover-
age to cover claims made against the directors and officers. The amounts and
types of coverage have varied from period to period as dictated by market con-
ditions. There are various excess policies that provide additional coverage. The
litigation matters and regulatory actions described above involve certain of the
Company’s current and former directors and officers, all of whom are covered
– 90–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportNote 23 Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
2004: Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Data First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
Net Sales $4,626 $4,819 $4,778 $5,157 $19,380
Gross Margin 3,269 3,320 3,310 3,492 13,391
Earnings from Continuing Operations(1) 961 523 755 139 2,378
Discontinued Operations, net 3 4 3 — 10
Net Earnings 964 527 758 139 2,388
Earnings per common share:
Basic
Earnings from Continuing Operations(1) $0.50 $0.27 $0.39 $0.07 $1.23
Discontinued Operations, net — — — — —
Net Earnings $0.50 $0.27 $0.39 $0.07 $1.23
Diluted(3)
Earnings from Continuing Operations(1) $0.49 $0.27 $0.38 $0.07 $1.21
Discontinued Operations, net — — — — —
Net Earnings $0.49 $0.27 $0.38 $0.07 $1.21
Dividends declared per Common Share $0.28 $0.28 $0.28 $0.28 $1.12
Cash and cash equivalents $3,173 $3,227 $3,446 $3,680 $3,680
Marketable securities 3,552 3,686 3,872 3,794 3,794
2003: Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Data
Net Sales $4,208 $4,571 $4,798 $5,076 $18,653
Gross Margin 3,007 3,261 3,428 3,551 13,247
Earnings from Continuing Operations(2) 790 899 902 506 3,097
Discontinued Operations, net 2 3 4 —- 9
Net Earnings 792 902 906 506 3,106
Earnings per common share:
Basic
Earnings from Continuing Operations(2) $0.41 $0.47 $0.47 $0.26 $1.60
Discontinued Operations, net — — — — —
Net Earnings $0.41 $0.47 $0.47 $0.26 $1.60
Diluted(3)
Earnings from Continuing Operations(2) $0.41 $0.46 $0.47 $0.26 $1.59
Discontinued Operations, net — — — — —
Net Earnings $0.41 $0.46 $0.47 $0.26 $1.59
Dividends declared per Common Share $0.28 $0.28 $0.28 $0.28 $1.12
Cash and cash equivalents $2,443 $2,449 $2,763 $2,549 $2,549
Marketable securities 1,991 2,079 2,361 3,013 3,013
Note: Earnings per share for the quarters may not add to the amounts for the year, as each period is computed on a discrete basis.
(1)2004 includes litigation charges of $480 million, $36 million and $16 million in the second, third, and fourth quarters, respectively. The second quarter includes litigation settlement income of
$25 million. The first, second, third, and fourth quarters include the gain on the sale of the Mead Johnson Adult Nutritionals business of $295 million, $18 million, $3 million, and $4 million,
respectively. The first, second, third, and fourth quarters include provisions for restructuring and other items of $29 million, $17 million, $105 million, and $61 million, respectively. The first, sec-
ond, third, and fourth quarters include upfront payments for licensing agreements of $5 million, $25 million, $10 million, and $15 million, respectively. The second and third quarters include
write-offs for acquired in-process research and development of $62 million and $1 million, respectively.
(2)2003 includes litigation settlement charges of $16 million and $265 million in the second and fourth quarters, respectively. The first, second and third quarters include litigation settlement
income of $21 million, $57 million and $4 million, respectively. The first, second, third and fourth quarters include provisions for restructuring and other items of $26 million, $29 million, $37
million and $39 million, respectively. The second, third and fourth quarters include reversals of prior period restructuring and other items of $25 million, $3 million and $10 million, respectively.
The third and fourth quarters include upfront payments for licensing agreements of $21 million and $81 million, respectively.
(3) Common equivalent shares excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share, because the effect would be antidilutive, were as follows (in millions):
First Second Third Fourth
Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year
2004 133 130 129 126 126
2003 120 117 116 114 114
– 91–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportReports of Management
Management’s Responsibility for Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation, presentation and integrity of the financial information presented in this Annual Report. The
accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America (GAAP), applying certain estimates and judgments as required. In management’s opinion, the consolidated financial state-
ments present fairly the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors meets regularly with the internal auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), the Company’s
independent registered public accounting firm and management to review accounting, internal control structure and financial reporting mat-
ters. The internal auditors and PwC have full and free access to the Audit Committee. As set forth in the Company’s Standards of Business
Conduct and Ethics, the Company is firmly committed to adhering to the highest standards of moral and ethical behavior in all of its business
activities.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is also responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the supervision and
with the participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management assessed the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Frameworkissued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that assessment, management has concluded that the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2004 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliabili-
ty of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. Due to its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of com-
pliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s consolidated financial
statements included in this Annual Report and has issued its report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting which appears on page 93 in this Annual Report.
Peter R. Dolan
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer
Andrew R.J. Bonfield
Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
March 3, 2005
– 92 –
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors
and Stockholders of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company:
We have completed an integrated audit of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company’s (the Company) 2004 consolidated financial statements and of its internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, and audits of its 2003 and 2002 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.
Consolidated Financial Statements
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004 in con-
formity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s manage-
ment. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain rea-
sonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by manage-
ment, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing on page 92 in this
Annual Report, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Frameworkissued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) is fairly stated, in all material respects,
based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Frameworkissued by the COSO. The Company’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
is to express opinions on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We
conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting
was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other pro-
cedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over finan-
cial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transac-
tions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effec-
tiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Philadelphia, PA
March 3, 2005
– 93 –
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportControls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
As of December 31, 2004, management carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its chief executive officer and chief finan-
cial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e).
Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that as of December 31, 2004, such disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reason-
able assurance that the Company records, processes, summarizes and reports the information the Company must disclose in reports that the Company files or
submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the supervision and with the participation
of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2004 based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Frameworkissued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. Based on that assessment, management has concluded that the Company's internal control over financial reporting was effective at
December 31, 2004 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inade-
quate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company's financial statements included in this Annual
Report and issued its report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004,
which appears on page 93 in this Annual Report.
Status of Previously Disclosed Internal Control Items
In making its evaluation over the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures, management has considered the signifi-
cant resources devoted and substantial actions taken by the Company over the past two years to remediate the “reportable condition” (as defined under standards
established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants) relating to its internal control over its financial reporting for income taxes that was initially
identified and communicated to the Company and its Audit Committee by PwC in connection with their audit of the Company's consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2002 and repeated for the year ended December 31, 2003. The reportable condition identified by PwC was the need to enhance
the income tax accounting function to provide for timely analysis and reconciliation of the income tax provision and related income tax assets and liabilities. In
2003, the actions taken by the Company included engaging an outside consultant to assist the Company's personnel to conduct a comprehensive and detailed
review of certain of the Company's income tax reporting and accounting. Throughout 2004, the Company continued to strengthen its internal control over financial
reporting for income taxes. These efforts included continuing to work with outside consultants, making significant personnel changes including, hiring a new vice
president of taxes and increasing the number of tax department key personnel, as well as implementing policies and procedures to enhance communication
between business unit, tax department and financial reporting personnel to ensure comprehensive, appropriate and timely review of matters and implementing
new, and updating existing tax accounting policies and providing training on these policies. Based on their evaluation, the chief executive officer and the chief
financial officer have concluded that as of December 31, 2004, internal control over financial reporting for income taxes issues have been sufficiently remediated.
As discussed under Note 21, “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,” during 2004, management identified the need to remediate deficiencies in internal con-
trol over its methodology and processes to calculate prices for reporting under governmental rebate and pricing programs related to its U.S. Pharmaceuticals busi-
ness. In conducting their evaluation, the chief executive officer and chief financial officer also considered the substantial efforts undertaken by the Company to
remediate such internal control deficiencies, which included, retaining several outside consultants with subject matter expertise, conducting an exhaustive review
of existing methodologies and processes and training employees on the implementation of the revised methodologies and processes. Based on their review, the
chief executive officer and the chief financial officer have concluded that the Company's internal control over its methodology and processes to calculate prices as
described above have been sufficiently remediated.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2004 that have materially affected, or
is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
– 94 –
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportFive-Year Financial Summary
Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Data 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
Income Statement Data:(1)(2)
Net Sales $19,380 $18,653 $16,208 $16,612 $16,438
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before
Minority Interest and Income Taxes 4,418 4,680 2,748 2,252 5,244
Earnings from Continuing Operations 2,378 3,097 2,059 1,866 3,675
Earnings from Continuing Operations per Common Share:
Basic $ 1.23 $ 1.60 $ 1.07 $ .96 $ 1.87
Diluted $ 1.21 $ 1.59 $ 1.06 $ .95 $ 1.84
Average common shares outstanding
Basic 1,942 1,937 1,936 1,940 1,965
Diluted 1,976 1,950 1,942 1,965 1,997
Dividends paid on common and preferred stock $ 2,174 $ 2,169 $ 2,168 $ 2,137 $ 1,930
Dividends declared per Common Share $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.11 $ 1.01
Financial Position Data at December 31:(3)
Total Assets $30,435 $27,448 $25,106 $27,864 $17,924
Cash and cash equivalents 3,680 2,549 2,451 4,552 3,085
Marketable securities 3,794 3,013 1,622 1,102 300
Long-term debt 8,463 8,522 6,261 6,237 1,336
Stockholders’ Equity 10,202 9,786 8,756 8,762 7,634
(1)The Company recorded items that affected the comparability of results, which are set forth in the table under Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—
Expenses for the years 2004, 2003 and 2002. For a discussion of these items, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Expenses, Note 2, “Alliances
and Investments”; Note 3, “Restructuring and Other Items”; Note 4, “Acquisitions and Divestitures”; and Note 5, “Discontinued Operations”.
(2) Excludes discontinued operations of OTN in all years; and Clairol and Zimmer in 2000 through 2002.
(3)Includes discontinued operations for all years.
– 95–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportBoard of Directors and Management Executive Committee
Board of Directors Management Executive Committee
ROBERT E. ALLEN PETER R. DOLAN
Retired Chairman and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive Officer, AT&T Corporation (a,b,d)
LAMBERTO ANDREOTTI
LEWIS B. CAMPBELL Senior Vice President and President, International
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer,
STEPHEN E. BEAR
Textron Inc. (a,b,c)
Senior Vice President, Human Resources
VANCE D. COFFMAN
ANDREW G. BODNAR, M.D.
Chairman and Retired Chief Executive Officer,
Senior Vice President, Strategy and
Lockheed Martin Corporation (a,c)
Medical and External Affairs
JAMES M. CORNELIUS
ANDREW R. J. BONFIELD
Nonexecutive Chairman,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Guidant Corporation (a)
CIRM
CARLO DE NOTARISTEFANI,
PETER R. DOLAN
President, Technical Operations
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (d) WENDY L. DIXON, PH.D.
President, Global Marketing, and
ELLEN V. FUTTER
Chief Marketing Officer
President,
American Museum of Natural History (b) DONALD J. HAYDEN, JR.
Executive Vice President and President, Americas
LOUIS V. GERSTNER, JR.
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ANTHONY C. HOOPER
IBM Corporation (b,d) President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals
LAURIE H. GLIMCHER, M.D. TAMAR D. HOWSON
Irene Heinz Given Professor of Immunology, Senior Vice President, Corporate and
Harvard School of Public Health, and Business Development
Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School (a,b)
JOHN L. MCGOLDRICK
LEIF JOHANSSON Executive Vice President and General Counsel
President, AB Volvo, and Chief Executive Officer,
The Volvo Group (a,b)
ELLIOTT SIGAL, M.D., PH.D.
Chief Scientific Officer and President,
JAMES D. ROBINSON III Pharmaceutical Research Institute
Co-Founder and General Partner,
ROBERT T. ZITO
RRE Ventures (b,c,d)
Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs
LOUIS W. SULLIVAN, M.D.
President Emeritus,
Morehouse School of Medicine (a,c)
(a) Audit Committee
(b) Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance
(c) Compensation and Management Development Committee
(d) Executive Committee
– 96–
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2004 Annual ReportStockholder Information
PRODUCT NAMESand company COMMON STOCK FORM 10-K
programs appearing throughout in Ticker symbol: BMY For a free copy of the Company’s Annual
italics are trademarks of Bristol-Myers New York Stock Exchange Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
Squibb Company or one of its sub- Pacific Stock Exchange ended December 31, 2004, contact:
sidiary companies. Global products Secretary
are referred to herein by their registered ANNUAL MEETING OF Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
and approved U.S. trademarks, unless STOCKHOLDERS 345 Park Avenue
specifically noted otherwise. Tuesday, May 3, 2005 New York, NY 10154-0037
9:45 a.m., Hotel duPont
Abilifyis a trademark of Otsuka
11th and Market Streets Form 10-K is also available on
Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd.
Wilmington, DE 19801 www.bms.com/investors
Avapro, Avalide, Plavixand Iscover
are trademarks of Sanofi-Aventis. STOCKHOLDER SERVICES The most recent certifications by the
Delestrogenis a trademark of AND PROGRAMS Company’s chief executive officer and
King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. All inquiries concerning stockholder chief financial officer pursuant to Section
accounts and stock transfer matters 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Estraceis a trademark of Galen
including address changes, the elimination are filed as exhibits to the Company’s
(Chemicals) Ltd.
of duplicate mailings, dividend reinvest- Form 10-K. The Company has also filed
EMSAMis a trademark of Somerset ment (see below) and direct deposit with the New York Stock Exchange the
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of dividends should be directed to the most recent Annual CEOCertification
Company’s Transfer Agent and Registrar: as required by Section 303A.12(a) of
ERBITUXis a trademark of ImClone
the New York Stock Exchange Listed
Systems Incorporated.
MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES Company Manual.
Gleevec is a trademark of Novartis AG. 85 Challenger Road
Glucophage IR, Glucophage XRand Ridgefield Park, NJ 07660 THE FOLLOWING REPORTS ARE
Glucovanceare trademarks of Merck www.melloninvestor.com AVAILABLE BY WRITING TO:
Santé S.A.S., an associate of Merck 800-356-2026 (within the U.S.) Corporate Affairs
KGaA of Darmstadt, Germany. 201-329-8660 (outside the U.S.) Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
TDD telephone service for the 345 Park Avenue
Javloris a trademark of Pierre Fabre
hearing impaired: New York, NY 10154-0037
Médicament S.A.
800-231-5469 (within the U.S.)
Kaletrais a trademark of 201-329-8354 (outside the U.S.) •Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation
Abbott Laboratories, Inc. •Sustainability/Environmental Programs
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN •Political Contributions
Ovconis a trademark of
Registered stockholders (stock must be •EEO-1 Report
Warner Chilcott, Inc.
held in your name) who hold 50 or more
Premarinand Premproare trademarks
shares of the Company’s stock may partic-
of Wyeth.
ipate in its stockholder-paid Dividend
SHAPEDOWN,developed at the Reinvestment Plan (DRIP), which
on the back cover
University of California. includes a safekeeping and sale-of-stock
feature. If you hold fewer than 50 shares,
Truvadais a trademark of Gilead
you are still eligible to participate in the On October 1, 2004, a team of
Sciences, Inc.
safekeeping and sale-of-stock features as 20 cyclists, composed of cancer
well as the direct registration option. survivors, physicians, nurses, care-
givers and researchers, began an
eight-day transcontinental odyssey
from Los Angeles to Washington, D.C.
They were joined at points along the
Copyright © 2005
way by cancer survivor and six-time
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
Tour de France champion Lance
All rights reserved.
Armstrong. The Bristol-Myers Squibb
Tour of HopeTeam helped to educate
Designed, photographed and written
Americans nationwide about the
by the Bristol-Myers Squibb
promise of cancer clinical trials and
Corporate Affairs Department.
the importance of cancer research
Printed on recycled paper. to help speed the search for a cure.LOPQR
Hope,Triumph and the Miracle of Medicine™
345 Park Avenue • New York, NY 10154-0037 • Telephone: 212 546-4000 • www.bms.com