10-K 1 d10k.htm QUARTERLY REPORT FOR THE PERIOD ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008
Table of Contents
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008
Commission File Number 1-1136
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 22-0790350
(State or other jurisdiction of (IRS Employer
incorporation or organization) Identification No.)
345 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10154
(Address of principal executive offices)
Telephone: (212) 546-4000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, $0.10 Par Value New York Stock Exchange
$2 Convertible Preferred Stock, $1 Par Value New York Stock Exchange
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes x No ¨
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ¨ No x
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes x No ¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-
K. ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See
definitions of “accelerated filer”, “large accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer x Accelerated filer ¨ Non-accelerated filer ¨ Smaller reporting company ¨
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ¨ No x
The aggregate market value of the 1,978,967,503 shares of voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing
price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2008) was
approximately $40,628,202,837. Bristol-Myers Squibb has no non-voting common equity. At February 6, 2009, there were 1,979,509,306 shares of common stock
outstanding.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: Portions of the Proxy Statement for the registrant’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 5, 2009
are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Table of Contents
PART I
Item 1. BUSINESS.
General
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS or the Company) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware
in August 1933 under the name Bristol-Myers Company, as successor to a New York business started in 1887. In 1989, Bristol-Myers Company changed its name to
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company as a result of a merger. The Company, through its divisions and subsidiaries, is engaged in the discovery, development, licensing,
manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical and nutritional products.
Acquisitions and Divestitures
In January 2008, the Company completed the divestiture of Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging (Medical Imaging) to Avista Capital Partners L.P. (Avista) for a
gross purchase price of approximately $525 million, excluding post-closing adjustments. As a result of the transaction the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $25
million and an after-tax loss of $43 million, which are included in discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of earnings.
In June 2008, the Company acquired Kosan Biosciences, Inc., a developer of novel oncology products, for a net purchase price of approximately $191 million. In
connection with the transaction, the Company recorded approximately $32 million in acquisition-related in-process research and development charges.
In August 2008, the Company completed the divestiture of its ConvaTec business to Cidron Healthcare Limited, an affiliate of Nordic Capital Fund VII and Avista, for
$4.1 billion. As a result of the transaction, the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $3.4 billion, $2.0 billion net of tax, subject to certain post-closing adjustments,
which are included in discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of earnings.
In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of its mature brand business in Egypt to GlaxoSmithKline for $209 million. As a result of the transaction, the
Company recognized a pre-tax gain of $144 million, $88 million net of tax, in the fourth quarter of 2008.
Business Segments
The Company reports financial and operating information in two segments—Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals. The Nutritionals segment is operated through the
Company’s subsidiary Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (Mead Johnson). In August 2008, the Company completed the divestiture of its ConvaTec business to
Cidron Healthcare Limited and Avista. The results of the ConvaTec business, previously presented as the former ConvaTec operating segment, are included in
discontinued operations in all periods presented. In January 2008, the Company completed the divestiture of its Medical Imaging business to Avista, the results of
which are included in discontinued operations in all periods presented.
For additional information about business segments, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 22. Segment Information.”
Pharmaceuticals Segment
The Pharmaceuticals segment competes with other worldwide research-based drug companies, smaller research companies and generic drug manufacturers. These
products are sold worldwide, primarily to wholesalers, retail pharmacies, hospitals, government entities and the medical profession. The Company manufactures these
products in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and in 11 foreign countries.
The Pharmaceuticals segment is comprised of the global pharmaceutical and international consumer medicines businesses. The Pharmaceuticals segment accounted
for 86% of the Company’s net sales in each of 2008, 2007 and 2006.
U.S. pharmaceutical net sales accounted for 60%, 58% and 54% of total pharmaceutical net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, while pharmaceutical net sales
in Europe, Middle East and Africa accounted for 24%, 25% and 28% of total pharmaceutical net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Pharmaceutical net sales in
Japan accounted for 3% of total pharmaceutical net sales in 2008 and 4% in each of 2007 and 2006.
2Table of Contents
Products
Most of the Company’s pharmaceutical revenues come from products in the following therapeutic classes: cardiovascular; virology, including human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; oncology; affective and other (psychiatric) disorders; and immunoscience.
In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market
exclusivity. Market exclusivity is based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when these patent
rights and other forms of exclusivity expire and generic versions of a medicine are approved and marketed, there are often very substantial and rapid declines in the
sales of the original innovative product. The Company’s business is focused on innovative pharmaceutical products, and the Company relies on patent rights and
other forms of protection to maintain the market exclusivity of its products. For further discussion of patents rights and regulatory forms of exclusivity, see “—
Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” below. For further discussion of the impact of generic competition on the Company’s business, see “—Generic
Competition” below.
An increasing portion of the Company’s innovative pharmaceutical products are biological products, or biologics. Currently, generic versions of biological products
cannot be approved under U.S. law. However, the law could change in the future. Even in the absence of new legislation, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) is taking steps toward allowing generic versions of certain biologics. Competitors seeking approval of biological products must file their own safety and
efficacy data, and address the challenges of biologics manufacturing, which involve more complex processes and are more costly than those of traditional
pharmaceutical operations.
The chart below shows key products in the Pharmaceuticals segment, together with the year in which the basic exclusivity loss (patent rights or data exclusivity)
occurred or is currently estimated to occur in the U.S., the European Union (EU) and Japan. The Company also sells its pharmaceutical products in other countries;
however, data is not provided on a country-by-country basis because individual country sales are not significant outside the U.S., the EU and Japan. In many
instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed below is the expiration date of the patent that claims the active ingredient of the drug or the method of using the drug
for the approved indication. In some instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed in the chart is the expiration date of the data exclusivity period. In situations
where there is only data exclusivity without patent protection, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing
approval prior to the expiration of data exclusivity.
The Company estimates the market exclusivity period for each of its products on a case-by-case basis for the purposes of business planning only. The length of
market exclusivity for any of the Company’s products is impossible to predict with certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms
of exclusivity and the inherent uncertainties regarding patent litigation. Although the Company provides these estimates for business planning purposes, these are
not intended as an indication of how the Company’s patents might fare in any particular patent litigation brought against potential infringers. There can be no
assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimate or that the exclusivity will be limited to the
estimate.
3Table of Contents
The following schedule details sales of key products and estimated basic exclusivity loss in the U.S., EU and Japanese markets for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006:
Past or Currently Past or Currently Past or Currently
Estimated Estimated Estimated
Year of Year of Year of
U.S. Basic EU Basic Japanese Basic
Net Sales by Products Exclusivity Loss Exclusivity Loss (a) Exclusivity Loss
Key Pharmaceutical Products 2008 2007 2006
Dollars in Millions
Cardiovascular
PLAVIX* $ 5,603 $ 4,755 $ 3,257 2011 2008-2013(b) ++
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 1,290 1,204 1,097 2012 2007-2013 ++
PRAVACHOL 203 443 1,197 2006 2002-2008 ++
Virology
REYATAZ 1,292 1,124 931 2017 2017(c) 2017
SUSTIVA Franchise (total revenue) 1,149 956 791 2013(d) 2013(d) ++
BARACLUDE 541 275 83 2015 2011-2016 2016
Oncology
ERBITUX* 749 692 652 2017(e) ++ 2009(j)
TAXOL 385 422 563 2000 2003 2006
SPRYCEL 310 158 25 2020 2020(f) ++
IXEMPRA 101 15 — 2018 2018 ++
Affective (Psychiatric) Disorders
ABILIFY* 2,153 1,660 1,282 2014(g) 2014(h) ++
Immunoscience
ORENCIA 441 231 89 2019(e) 2017(i) ++
Note: The currently estimated year of basic exclusivity loss includes any statutory extensions of exclusivity that have been earned, but not those that are speculative. In some instances, there may be later-expiring
patents that cover particular forms or compositions of the drug, as well as methods of manufacturing or methods of using the drug. Such patents may sometimes result in a favorable market position for the
Company’s product, but product exclusivity cannot be predicted or assured. Note also that, for products filed under a Biologics License Application (BLA) in the U.S., the year of exclusivity is listed as the year
of patent expiration even though there is currently not a regulatory pathway for the approval of follow-on biologic products, as described in more detail in “—Intellectual Property” and “—Product Exclusivity”
below.
* Indicates brand names of products which are registered trademarks not owned by the Company or its subsidiaries. Specific trademark ownership information can be found on page 138.
++ The Company does not currently market the product in the jurisdiction indicated.
(a) References to the EU throughout this Form 10-K include all 27 member states that were members of the European Union during the year ended December 31, 2008. Basic patent applications have not been filed in
all 27 current member states for all of the listed products. In some instances the date of basic exclusivity loss will be different in various EU member states. In such instances, the earliest and latest dates of basic
exclusivity loss are listed. For those EU countries where the basic patent was not obtained, there may be data protection available.
(b) Data exclusivity in the EU expired in July 2008. In most of the major markets within Europe, the product has national patents, expiring in 2013, which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel.
(c) Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2014.
(d) Exclusivity period relates to SUSTIVA brand only.
(e) Biologic product approved under a BLA. In the U.S., there is currently no regulatory approval path for generic biologics.
(f) Pending application. EU patent application was not filed in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Slovakia and Slovenia.
(g) The Company’s rights to commercialize aripiprazole in the U.S. terminate in 2012.
(h) The Company’s rights to commercialize aripiprazole in the EU terminate in 2014. Patent protection in Romania and Denmark expires in 2009.
(i) Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2017.
(j) Data exclusivity in Japan expires 2016.
4Table of Contents
Below is a summary of the indication, intellectual property position, licensing arrangements, if any, and third-party manufacturing arrangements, if any, for each of the
above products in the U.S. and, where applicable, the EU and Japan.
Cardiovascular
PLAVIX* Clopidogrel bisulfate is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, which is approved for protection against fatal or non-fatal heart attack or stroke in
patients with a history of heart attack, stroke, peripheral arterial disease or acute coronary syndrome.
Clopidogrel bisulfate was codeveloped and is jointly marketed with Sanofi-Aventis (Sanofi). The worldwide alliance operates under the
framework of two geographic territories: one in the Americas and Australia (the Company’s primary territory) and the other in Europe and
Asia (Sanofi’s primary territory).
The composition of matter patent in the U.S. expires in 2011 (which includes a statutory patent term extension), and is currently the
subject of patent litigation in the U.S. with Apotex and other generic companies, as well as in other less significant jurisdictions. The
District Court has upheld the validity and enforceability of the composition of matter patent and the Circuit Court has upheld the District
Court’s decision sustaining the validity of the patent. Apotex has filed a petition with the Circuit Court to reconsider its decision en banc.
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the appeal by Apotex and/or the timing of any renewed generic
competition from Apotex or potential additional generic competition from other generic pharmaceutical companies. However, if Apotex
were to prevail in its appeal, the Company would expect renewed generic competition promptly thereafter. For more information about
these litigation matters, as well as the generic launch by Apotex, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 25. Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies.”
In the EU, regulatory data exclusivity protection expired in July 2008. In most of the major markets within Europe, PLAVIX* benefits from
national patents, expiring in 2013, which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel. In the remainder of EU member countries,
however, where there is no composition of matter patent covering clopidogrel bisulfate, competitors are seeking regulatory approval to
enter those markets with generic clopidogrel bisulfate. In addition, at least one group of competitor companies has received marketing
authorization for, and has started to market, an alternative salt form of clopidogrel in Germany. The competitor companies have
announced that they plan to seek marketing authorization in other EU countries in addition to Germany.
The Company obtains its bulk requirements for clopidogrel bisulfate from Sanofi and a third-party. Both the Company and Sanofi finish
the product in their own facilities. For more information about the Company’s arrangements with Sanofi, see “—Strategic Alliances”
below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* Irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension and
diabetic nephropathy.
Irbesartan was codeveloped and is jointly marketed with Sanofi. The global alliance operates under the framework of two geographic
territories: one in the Americas and Australia (the Company’s primary territory) and the other in Europe and Asia (Sanofi’s primary
territory).
The basic composition of matter patent in the U.S. expires in 2012 (including pediatric extension) and in most countries in the EU in 2012-
2013. Data exclusivity in the EU expired in August 2007 for AVAPRO* and in October 2008 for AVALIDE*.
Irbesartan is manufactured by both the Company and Sanofi. The Company manufactures its bulk requirements for irbesartan and
finishes AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in its own facilities. For AVALIDE*, the Company purchases bulk requirements for hydrochlorothiazide
from a third-party.
For more information about the Company’s arrangements with Sanofi, see “—Strategic Alliances” below and “Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”
PRAVACHOL Pravastatin sodium is an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise for patients with primary
hypercholesterolemia, for lowering the risk of a first heart attack in people without clinically evident coronary heart disease who have
elevated cholesterol, and for reducing the risk of heart attack and stroke in patients with clinically evident coronary heart disease.
5Table of Contents
The Company has licensed a patent covering pravastatin, marketed by the Company in the U.S. as PRAVACHOL, from Sankyo Company,
Ltd. (Sankyo) of Japan, with key provisions of the agreement expiring as exclusivity expires on a market-by-market basis.
The composition of matter patent has expired in all major markets.
The Company obtains its bulk requirements for pravastatin from Sankyo and finishes the product in its own facilities.
Virology
REYATAZ Atazanavir sulfate is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV. REYATAZ was launched in the U.S. in July 2003.
The Company developed atazanavir under a worldwide license from Novartis for which it pays a royalty based on a percentage of net
sales. The Company is entitled to promote REYATAZ for use in combination with NORVIR* (ritonavir) under a Non-Exclusive License
Agreement between Abbott Laboratories and the Company dated July 30, 2003, as amended, for which it pays a royalty based on a
percentage of net sales.
Market exclusivity for REYATAZ is expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., in the major EU member countries and Japan. Data exclusivity
in the EU expires in 2014.
The Company manufactures its bulk requirements for atazanavir and finishes the product in its own facilities.
SUSTIVA Franchise Efavirenz, the active ingredient in SUSTIVA, is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) for the treatment of HIV. The
SUSTIVA Franchise includes SUSTIVA, an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV, and as well as bulk efavirenz included in the
combination therapy, ATRIPLA*, which is sold through a joint venture with Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead). In the U.S., the Company and
Gilead share responsibility for commercializing ATRIPLA*. Gilead records 100% of ATRIPLA* revenues and consolidates the results of
the joint venture in its operating results. The Company records revenue for the bulk efavirenz component of ATRIPLA* upon sales of
that product by the Gilead joint venture to third-party customers. The Company’s revenue for the efavirenz component is determined by
applying a percentage to ATRIPLA* revenue, which approximates revenue for the SUSTIVA brand. In Europe, the Company and Gilead
share responsibility for commercializing ATRIPLA* throughout the EU and certain other European countries. Gilead records revenues
from net sales of ATRIPLA* in most countries in Europe, and the Company records revenues at a percentage relative to the contribution
represented by SUSTIVA. In December 2007, the European Commission granted marketing authorization for ATRIPLA*. For more
information about the Company’s arrangement with Gilead, see “—Strategic Alliances” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2.
Alliances and Collaborations.”
Rights to market efavirenz in the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom (UK), France, Germany, Ireland, Italy and Spain are licensed from
Merck & Co., Inc. for a royalty based on a percentage of net sales.
The composition of matter patent for efavirenz in the U.S. expires in 2013, but a method of use patent for the treatment of HIV infection
expires in 2014 with a possible six month pediatic extension. Market exclusivity for SUSTIVA is expected to expire in 2013 in countries in
the EU; the Company does not, but another company does, market efavirenz in Japan.
The Company obtains its bulk requirements for efavirenz from third parties and produces finished goods in its own facilities. The
Company provides bulk efavirenz to Gilead, who is responsible for producing ATRIPLA* finished goods.
BARACLUDE Entecavir is a potent and selective inhibitor of hepatitis B virus that was approved by the FDA in March 2005 for the treatment of chronic
hepatitis B infection. BARACLUDE was discovered and developed internally. It has also been approved and marketed in over 50
countries outside of the U.S. including China, Japan and the EU.
The Company has a composition of matter patent that expires in the U.S. in 2015. The composition of matter patent expires in the EU
between 2011 and 2016 and in Japan in 2016. There is uncertainty about China’s exclusivity’s laws and, due to this uncertainty, it is
possible that one or more companies in China could receive marketing authorization from China’s health authority at any time.
The Company manufactures its bulk requirements for entecavir and finishes the product in its own facilities.
6Table of Contents
Oncology
ERBITUX* ERBITUX* (cetuximab) is an IgG1 monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor
(EGFR), which is expressed on the surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as some normal cells. ERBITUX*, a
biological product, is approved for the treatment in combination with irinotecan of patients with EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal
cancer (mCRC) who had failed an irinotecan-based regimen and as monotherapy for patients who are intolerant of irinotecan. In March
2006, the FDA approved ERBITUX* for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Specifically, ERBITUX*
was approved for use in combination with radiation therapy, for the treatment of locally or regionally advanced squamous cell carcinoma
of the head and neck and, as a single agent, for the treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head
and neck for whom prior platinum-based therapy has failed.
Also, in October 2007, the Company received FDA approval for a supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) filing to update the
ERBITUX* product labeling to include overall survival data as a single agent in EGFR-expressing mCRC patients after failure of both
irinotecan-based and oxaliplatin-based regimens.
ERBITUX* is marketed in North America by the Company under a distribution and copromotion agreement with ImClone Systems
Incorporated (ImClone), the predecessor company of ImClone LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly). The
Company shares copromotion rights to ERBITUX* with Merck KGaA in Japan under a codevelopment and cocommercialization
agreement signed in October 2007 among the Company, ImClone, Merck KGaA and Merck Japan. ERBITUX* received marketing
approval in Japan in July 2008 for the use of ERBITUX* in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer. For a
description of the Company’s alliance with ImClone, see “—Strategic Alliances” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2.
Alliances and Collaborations.”
There is no patent that specifically claims the composition of matter of cetuximab, the active molecule in ERBITUX*. ERBITUX* has been
approved by the FDA and other health authorities for monotherapy, for which there is no use patent. The use of ERBITUX* in
combination with an anti-neoplastic agent is approved by the FDA. Such combination use is claimed in a granted U.S. patent that expires
in 2017. The inventorship of this use patent was challenged by three researchers from Yeda Research and Development Company Ltd.
(Yeda). Pursuant to a settlement agreement executed and announced in December 2007 by ImClone, Sanofi and Yeda to end worldwide
litigation related to the use patent, Sanofi and Yeda granted ImClone a worldwide license under the use patent. The settlement agreement
did not change the royalty the Company pays to ImClone on ERBITUX* sales.
Yeda has the right to license the use patent to others. Yeda’s license of the patent to third parties could result in product competition for
ERBITUX* that might not otherwise occur. It is too early to assess whether and to what extent any such competitive impact will occur or
to quantify any such impact. However, Yeda has granted Amgen Inc. (Amgen) a license under the use patent. Amgen received FDA
approval to market an EGFR-product that competes with ERBITUX*.
The Company obtains its finished goods requirements for cetuximab for use in North America from ImClone. ImClone manufactures bulk
requirements for cetuximab in its own facilities and finishing is performed by a third-party for ImClone. For a description of the
Company’s supply agreement with ImClone, see “—Manufacturing and Quality Assurance” below.
TAXOL TAXOL (paclitaxel) is used in the treatment of refractory ovarian cancer, first-line treatment of ovarian cancer in combination with
cisplatin, second-line treatment of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related Kaposi’s Sarcoma, treatment of metastatic breast
cancer after failure of combination chemotherapy, adjuvant treatment of node-positive breast cancer and in the treatment of non-small cell
lung carcinoma with cisplatin.
The market exclusivity for TAXOL has expired in all major markets.
The Company manufactures its bulk requirements for paclitaxel and finishes the product in its own facilities.
7Table of Contents
SPRYCEL Dasatinib is a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor that was approved by the FDA in June 2006 for treatment of adults with chronic,
accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy including
imatinib, and for the treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia with resistance or
intolerance to prior therapy. Dasatinib was approved in the EU in November 2006. SPRYCEL was discovered and developed internally.
Market exclusively for SPRYCEL is expected to expire in 2020 in the U.S. In several EU countries, the patent is pending and upon grant,
would expire in April 2020 (excluding term extensions). An EU patent application was not filed in Cyprus, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania,
Malta, Netherlands, Slovakia or Slovenia. In the U.S., New Chemical Entity regulatory exclusivity protection expires in 2011, and Orphan
Drug Exclusivity expires in 2013, which protects the product from generic applications for the currently approved orphan indications
only.
The Company manufactures its bulk requirements for dasatinib and finishes the product in its own facilities.
IXEMPRA IXEMPRA (ixabepilone) is a microtubule inhibitor belonging to a class of antineoplastic agents, the epothilones and their analogs. In
October 2007, the FDA approved ixabepilone in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of patients with metastatic or locally
advanced breast cancer resistant to treatment with an anthracycline and a taxane, or whose cancer is taxane resistant and for whom
further anthracycline therapy is contraindicated, and in monotherapy for the treatment of metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer in
patients whose tumors are resistant or refractory to anthracyclines, taxanes, and capecitabine. Marketing authorization is currently being
sought in the EU and other countries.
The basic composition of matter patent protecting ixabepilone in the U.S. is due to expire in May 2018, and a patent term extension has
been requested which, upon grant, would extend the patent term until September 2020. A corresponding patent also has been granted in
EU countries which is due to expire in June 2018 (excluding term extensions). In the U.S., New Chemical Entity regulatory exclusivity
protection expires in 2012.
Ixabepilone was developed by the Company, but is subject to a license agreement with Helmholtz Zentrum fur Infektionsforschung GmbH
(HZI), relating to epothilone technologies. Under the agreement, HZI is entitled to royalties of 0.5% of net sales in all countries in which
the product is sold.
The Company manufactures its bulk requirements for ixabepilone in its own facilities including the manufacturing of the active ingredient.
The drug product which comprises a pharmaceutical kit is finished by Baxter Oncology GmbH.
Affective (Psychiatric) Disorders
ABILIFY* Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic agent for patients with schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder.
Aripiprazole is copromoted in the U.S. by the Company and Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka). The Company’s rights to
commercialize aripiprazole in the U.S. terminate in 2012. Thereafter, Otsuka has the sole right to commercialize aripiprazole in the U.S. In
Germany and Spain, the Company copromotes with an Otsuka affiliate. In the UK and France, the Company currently acts as distributor
for the product and copromotes with an Otsuka affiliate. In all other European markets, the Company acts as exclusive distributor. The
Company is the exclusive licensee for the product in the rest of the world, excluding Japan and certain other countries. In the U.S., Spain
and Germany, the Company records alliance revenue for its contractual share of the net sales and records all expenses related to the
product. Alliance revenue is recorded by the Company as net sales based upon 65% of third-party customer net sales in the copromotion
countries. The Company recognizes this alliance revenue when ABILIFY* is shipped and all risks and rewards of ownership have
transferred to third-party customers. In the UK, France and Italy, the Company currently records 100% of the net sales and related cost of
products sold. In countries where the Company has an exclusive right to sell ABILIFY*, the Company also records 100% of the net sales
and related cost of products sold. For more information about the Company’s arrangement with Otsuka, see “—Strategic Alliances”
below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”
The basic U.S. composition of matter patent for ABILIFY* expires in 2014 (including the granted patent term extension). In 2004, Otsuka
filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) a Request for Reexamination of a U.S. composition of matter patent, U.S. Patent
No. 5,006,528 (the ‘528 Patent), covering ABILIFY*. In June 2006, the USPTO issued an Ex Parte Reexamination Certificate for the ‘528
Patent confirming the patentability of the original claims and approving additional new claims.
8Table of Contents
Otsuka has received formal notices from each of Teva Pharmaceuticals USA (Teva), Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Barr), Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz),
Synthon Laboratories, Inc. (Synthon), Sun Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (Sun) and Apotex stating that each has filed an Abbreviated New Drug
Application (aNDA) with the FDA for various dosage forms of aripiprazole, which the Company and Otsuka comarket in the U.S. as
ABILIFY*. Each of the notices further state that its aNDA contains a p(IV) certification directed to ‘528 Patent, which covers aripiprazole
and expires in October 2014. In addition, each of the notices purport to provide Otsuka with the respective p(IV) certification. These
certifications contain various allegations regarding the enforceability of the ‘528 Patent and/or the validity and/or infringement of some or
all of the claims therein. Otsuka has filed patent infringement actions based on the ‘528 Patent against Teva, Barr, Sandoz, Sun and Apotex
in the U.S. District Court of New Jersey and against Synthon in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina. Otsuka has
sole rights to enforce the ‘528 Patent.
A composition of matter patent is in force in Germany, the UK, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Romania, Sweden, Switzerland, Spain and
Denmark. The original expiration date of 2009 has been extended to 2014 by grant of a supplementary protection certificate in all of the
above countries except Romania and Denmark. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2014. There is no composition of matter patent in
Austria, Belgium, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Portugal, Latvia, Hungary, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia, Poland,
Malta, Lithuania, Bulgaria and Estonia.
The Company obtains its bulk requirements for aripiprazole from Otsuka. Both Otsuka and the Company finish the product in their own
facilities.
Immunoscience
ORENCIA Abatacept, a biological product, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted initially at adult patients with moderate
to severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had an inadequate response to certain currently available treatments. Abatacept was approved by
the FDA in December 2005 and made commercially available in the U.S. in February 2006.
ORENCIA was discovered and developed internally.
The Company has a series of patents covering abatacept and its method of use. A patent term extension has been granted for one of the
composition of matter patents, extending the term of the patent to 2019. In the majority of the EU countries, the Company has a patent
covering abatacept that expires in 2012. In a majority of these EU countries, the Company has applied for supplementary protection
certificates, which would extend the term of the patent if granted. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2017.
The Company obtains bulk abatacept from a third-party and from its own manufacturing facilities. The Company finishes the product in its
own facilities.
In addition to the products discussed above, the Company’s Pharmaceuticals segment also includes the Company’s wholly-owned UPSA Consumer Medicines
business in Europe, which includes EFFERALGAN, as well as ASPIRINE UPSA, DAFALGAN and FERVEX in Europe and other overseas markets.
Strategic Alliances and Arrangements
The Company enters into strategic alliances and arrangements with third parties, which give the Company rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell
pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are owned by such third parties. The Company also enters into strategic alliances and arrangements with third parties,
which give such third parties the rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are owned by the Company. These
alliances and arrangements can take many forms, including licensing arrangements, codevelopment and comarketing agreements, copromotion arrangements and joint
ventures. In general, the Company’s strategic alliances and arrangements are for periods co-extensive with the periods of market exclusivity protection on a country-
by-country basis. Such alliances and arrangements reduce the risk of incurring all research and development expenses that do not lead to revenue-generating
products; however, the gross margins on alliance products are generally lower, sometimes substantially so, than the gross margins on the Company’s own products
that are not partnered because profits from alliance products are shared with the Company’s alliance partners. While there can be no assurance that new alliances will
be formed, the Company actively pursues such arrangements and views alliances as an important complement to its own discovery and development activities.
Each of the Company’s strategic alliances and arrangements with third parties who own the rights to manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products contain
customary early termination provisions typically found in agreements of this kind and are generally
9Table of Contents
based on the other party’s material breach or bankruptcy (voluntary or involuntary) and product safety concerns. The amount of notice required for early termination
generally ranges from immediately upon notice to 180 days after receipt of notice. Termination immediately upon notice is generally available where the other party
files a voluntary bankruptcy petition or if a material safety issue arises with a product such that the medical risk/benefit is incompatible with the welfare of patients to
continue to develop or commercialize this product. Termination upon 30 to 90 days notice is generally available where an involuntary bankruptcy petition has been
filed (and has not been dismissed) or a material breach by the other party has occurred (and not been cured). Early termination due to product safety concerns
typically arises when a product is determined to create significant risk of harm to patients due to concerns regarding the product’s efficacy or level of toxicity. The
Company’s strategic alliances and arrangements typically do not otherwise contain provisions that provide the other party the right to terminate the alliance on short
notice.
In general, where the other party to the Company’s strategic alliance and arrangement will continue to have exclusivity protection upon the expiration or termination
of the alliance, the Company does not retain any rights to the product or to the other party’s intellectual property. The loss of rights to one or more products that are
marketed and sold by the Company pursuant to strategic alliance arrangements with third parties in one or more countries or territories could be material to the
Company’s results of operations and cash flows, and, in the case of PLAVIX*, could be material to its financial condition and liquidity. As is customary in the
pharmaceutical industry, the terms of the Company’s strategic alliances and arrangements generally are co-extensive with the exclusivity period (with the exception of
the commercialization agreement with Otsuka, as discussed below) and may vary on a country-by-country basis.
The Company’s most significant current alliances and arrangements for both currently marketed products and investigational compounds are noted below.
Current Marketed Products
Sanofi The Company has agreements for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for
the treatment of hypertension and diabetic nephropathy, which is copromoted in certain countries outside the U.S. under the tradename APROVEL*/COAPROVEL*
and comarketed in certain countries outside the U.S. by the Company under the tradename KARVEA*/KARVEZIDE*; and PLAVIX*, a platelet aggregation inhibitor,
which is copromoted in certain countries outside the U.S. under the tradename PLAVIX* and comarketed in certain countries outside the U.S. by the Company under
the tradename ISCOVER*.
The worldwide alliance operates under the framework of two geographic regions, one covering certain European and Asian countries, defined as Territory A, and one
covering the U.S., Puerto Rico, Canada, Australia and certain Latin American countries, defined as Territory B. The region covering the U.S., Puerto Rico, Canada,
Australia, and certain Latin American countries is managed by two separate territory agreements, one for U.S. and Puerto Rico AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* only, and a
second agreement for U.S. and Puerto Rico PLAVIX* only, plus Canada, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia and Argentina for both products. Within each of
Territories A and B, a Territory Partnership exists to supply product to the countries within each territory and to manage certain central expenses such as marketing,
research and development and royalties. Countries within Territories A and B are structured so that the Company’s local affiliate and Sanofi either comarket separate
brands (e.g., each affiliate operates independently and sells a competing brand), or copromote a single brand.
Within Territory A, the comarketing countries include Germany, Spain, Italy (irbesartan only), Greece and China (clopidogrel bisulfate only). The Company sells
ISCOVER* and KARVEA*/KARVEZIDE* and Sanofi sells PLAVIX* and APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* in these countries, except China, where the Company retains
the right to, but does not currently comarket ISCOVER*. The Company and Sanofi copromote PLAVIX* and APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* in France, the UK, Belgium,
Netherlands, Switzerland and Portugal. In addition, the Company and Sanofi copromote PLAVIX* in Austria, Italy, Ireland, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden,
Turkey, Taiwan, Korea, Singapore, Malaysia and Hong Kong, and APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* in certain French export countries. Sanofi acts as the operating partner
for Territory A and owns a 50.1% majority financial controlling interest in this territory. The Company’s ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. The Company
accounts for the investment in partnership entities in this territory under the equity method and records its share of the results in equity in net income of affiliates in
the consolidated statements of earnings. The Company’s share of net income from these partnership entities before taxes was $632 million in 2008, $526 million in 2007
and $439 million in 2006.
Within Territory B, the Company and Sanofi copromote PLAVIX* in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in Canada. The other Territory B
countries, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia (clopidogrel bisulfate only) and Argentina are comarketing countries. In 2001, the Company and Sanofi modified their
previous exclusive license to the Company for AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in the U.S. and Puerto Rico to form a copromotion joint venture, as part of which the Company
contributed the AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* intellectual property and Sanofi agreed to pay the Company $200 million in 2001 and $150 million in 2002. The Company
accounts for these payments as a sale of an interest in a license and defers and amortizes the total amount of $350 million into other income over the expected useful
life of the license, which is approximately 11 years from the date of the formation of the copromotion joint venture. The Company acts as the operating partner for
Territory B and the U.S./Puerto Rico
10Table of Contents
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* Territory and owns a 50.1% majority controlling interest in these territories. As such, the Company consolidates all partnership results in
these territories and records Sanofi’s share of the results as a minority interest, net of taxes, which was $976 million in 2008, $746 million in 2007 and $428 million in
2006.
The Company recorded net sales in Territory B, the U.S./Puerto Rico AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* Territory, and Territory A comarketing countries of $6.9 billion in 2008,
$6.0 billion in 2007 and $4.4 billion in 2006.
The territory partnerships are governed by a series of committees with enumerated functions, powers and responsibilities. Each territory has two senior committees
(Senior Committees) which have final decision making authority with respect to that territory as to the enumerated functions, powers and responsibilities within their
jurisdictions.
The agreements with Sanofi expire on the later of (i) with respect to PLAVIX*, 2013 and, with respect to AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, 2012 in the Americas and Australia
and 2013 in Europe and Asia, and (ii) the expiration of all patents and other exclusivity rights in the applicable territory.
The alliance arrangements may be terminated by the Company or Sanofi, either in whole or in any affected country or Territory, depending on the circumstances, in
the event of (i) voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or insolvency, which in the case of involuntary bankruptcy continues for 60 days or an order or decree
approving same continues unstayed and in effect for 30 days; (ii) a material breach of an obligation under a major alliance agreement that remains uncured for 30 days
following notice of the breach except where commencement and diligent prosecution of cure has occurred within 30 days after notice; (iii) deadlocks of one of the
Senior Committees which render the continued commercialization of the product impossible in a given country or Territory or, in the case of AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in
the U.S., with respect to advertising and promotion spending levels or the amount of sales force commitment; (iv) an increase in the combined cost of goods and
royalty which exceeds a specified percentage of the net selling price of the product; or (v) a good faith determination by the terminating party that commercialization
of a product should be terminated for reasons of patient safety.
In the case of each of these termination rights, the agreements include provisions for the termination of the relevant alliance with respect to the applicable product in
the applicable country or territory or, in the case of a termination due to bankruptcy or insolvency or material breach, both products in the applicable territory. Each of
these termination procedures is slightly different; however, in all events, the Company could lose all rights to either or both products, as applicable, in the relevant
country or territory even in the case of a bankruptcy or insolvency or material breach where the Company is not the defaulting party.
For further discussion of the Company’s strategic alliance with Sanofi, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”
Otsuka The Company maintains a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka, to codevelop and copromote ABILIFY* for the treatment of schizophrenia
and related psychiatric disorders, except in Japan, China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan and Egypt; and
copromote the product with Otsuka in the U.S., Puerto Rico, the UK, Germany, France and Spain. In the U.S., Germany and Spain, where the product is invoiced to
third-party customers by the Company on behalf of Otsuka, the Company records alliance revenue for its 65% contractual share of third-party net sales and records
all expenses related to the product. The Company recognizes this alliance revenue when ABILIFY* is shipped and all risks and rewards of ownership have transferred
to third-party customers. In the UK, France and Italy, where the Company is presently the exclusive distributor for the product, the Company records 100% of the net
sales and related cost of products sold and expenses. The Company also has an exclusive right to sell ABILIFY* in other countries in Europe, the Americas and a
number of countries in Asia. In these countries the Company records 100% of the net sales and related cost of products sold.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Company purchases the product from Otsuka and performs finish manufacturing for sale by the Company or Otsuka to third-
party customers. The agreement expires in November 2012 in the U.S. For the entire EU, the agreement expires in June 2014. In each other country where the Company
has the exclusive right to sell ABILIFY*, the agreement expires on the later of the 10th anniversary of the first commercial sale in such country or expiration of the
applicable patent in such country. Early termination is available based on the other party’s voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy, failure to make minimum payments,
failure to commence the first commercial sale within three months after receipt of all necessary approvals and material breach. Early termination of the strategic
alliance is immediate upon notice in the case of (i) voluntary bankruptcy, (ii) where minimum payments are not made to Otsuka, or (iii) first commercial sale has not
occurred within three months after receipt of all necessary approvals, 30 days where a material breach has occurred (and not been cured or commencement of cure
has not occurred within 90 days after notice of such material breach) and 90 days in the case where an involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and not been
dismissed). In addition, termination is available to Otsuka upon 30 days notice in the event that the Company were to challenge Otsuka’s patent rights or, on a
market-by-market basis, the Company were to market a product in direct competition with ABILIFY*. Upon termination or expiration of the alliance, the Company
does not retain any rights to ABILIFY*.
The Company recorded net sales for ABILIFY* of $2.2 billion in 2008, $1.7 billion in 2007 and $1.3 billion in 2006. Total milestone payments made to Otsuka under the
agreement through 2008 were $217 million.
11Table of Contents
For further discussion of the Company’s strategic alliance with Otsuka, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”
ImClone The Company has a commercialization agreement with ImClone, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lilly, for the codevelopment and copromotion of ERBITUX* in
the U.S. as well as codevelopment and copromotion rights in Canada and Japan to the extent the product is commercialized in such countries. ERBITUX* is indicated
for use in the treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Under the
agreement, covering North America, ImClone receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of net sales in North America. The Company purchases all of its
commercial requirements for bulk ERBITUX* from ImClone at a price equal to ImClone’s manufacturing cost plus 10%. The agreement expires as to ERBITUX* in
North America in September 2018.
Early termination is available based on material breach and is effective 60 days after notice of the material breach (and such material breach has not been cured or
commencement of cure has not occurred), or upon six months notice from the Company if there exists a significant concern regarding a regulatory or patient safety
issue that would seriously impact the long-term viability of the product. Upon termination or expiration of the alliance, the Company does not retain any rights to
ERBITUX*.
The Company sells ERBITUX* to intermediaries (such as wholesalers and specialty oncology distributors) and ships ERBITUX* directly to the end-users of the
product who are the customers of those intermediaries. Beginning in the third quarter of 2006, the Company began expanding its distribution model to include
wholesalers and distributors who hold ERBITUX* inventory. The Company recognizes revenue upon such shipment consistent with its revenue recognition policy.
In July 2007, the Company and ImClone amended the terms of their agreement for the codevelopment and copromotion of ERBITUX* in North America and have
jointly agreed to expand the investment in the ongoing clinical development plan for ERBITUX* by up to several hundred million dollars. Development costs, up to a
threshold value, will be the sole responsibility of the Company; costs in excess of this threshold will be shared by both companies according to a predetermined ratio.
The Company shares copromotion rights to ERBITUX* with Merck KGaA in Japan under a codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement signed in October
2007, and expiring in 2032, among BMS, BMKK, E.R. Squibb & Sons, LLC, ImClone, Merck KGaA and Merck Japan. ImClone has the ability to terminate the
agreement after 2018 if it determines that it is commercially unreasonable for ImClone to continue. ERBITUX* received marketing approval in Japan in July 2008 for
the use of ERBITUX* in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer.
The Company recorded net sales for ERBITUX* of $749 million, $692 million and $652 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Upon initial execution of the commercialization agreement, the Company acquired an ownership interest in ImClone, which approximated 17% at the time of the
transaction noted below, and had been accounting for its investment under the equity method. The Company received approximately $1.0 billion in cash from the sale
of its shares of ImClone to Lilly.
For further discussion of the Company’s strategic alliance with ImClone, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”
Gilead The Company and Gilead have a joint venture to develop and commercialize ATRIPLA* (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate
300 mg), a once-daily single tablet three-drug regimen combining the Company’s SUSTIVA (efavirenz) and Gilead’s TRUVADA* (emtricitabine and tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate), in the U.S., Canada and Europe. In July 2006, the FDA granted approval of ATRIPLA*, which is the first complete Highly Active Antiretroviral
Therapy treatment product for HIV available in the U.S. in a fixed-dose combination taken once daily. Fixed-dose combinations contain multiple medicines formulated
together and may help simplify HIV therapy for patients and providers. Guidelines issued by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services list the combination
of emtricitabine, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and efavirenz as one of the preferred non-NNRTI-based treatments for use in appropriate patients that have never taken
anti-HIV medicines before ATRIPLA* was approved by Health Canada in October 2007 and by the European Commission in December 2007 for commercialization in
the 27 countries of the EU, as well as Norway and Iceland.
The Company and Gilead share responsibility for commercializing ATRIPLA* in the U.S., Canada, throughout the EU and certain other European countries, and both
provide funding and field-based sales representatives in support of promotional efforts for ATRIPLA*. Gilead records 100% of ATRIPLA* revenues in the U.S.,
Canada and most countries in Europe. The Company records revenue for the bulk efavirenz component of ATRIPLA* upon sales of that product by the joint venture
with Gilead to third-party customers. The Company’s revenue for the efavirenz component is determined by applying a percentage to ATRIPLA* revenue, which
approximates revenue for the SUSTIVA brand. In a limited number of EU countries, the Company records revenue for ATRIPLA* where the Company agreed to
purchase the product from Gilead and distribute it to third-party customers. The Company recorded efavirenz revenues of $582 million, $335 million and $76 million in
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, related to ATRIPLA* sales.
12Table of Contents
Gilead consolidates the results of the joint venture in their operating results and the Company accounts for its participation in the U.S. joint venture under the equity
method of accounting and records its share of the joint venture results in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated statements of earnings.
The joint venture between the Company and Gilead will continue until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties or otherwise as described below. In the event of
a material breach by one party, the non-breaching party may terminate the joint venture only if both parties agree that it is both desirable and practicable to withdraw
the combination product from the markets where it is commercialized. At such time as one or more generic versions of SUSTIVA appear on the market in the U.S.,
Gilead will have the right to terminate the joint venture and thereby acquire all the rights to the combination product, both in the U.S. and Canada; however, the
Company will continue for three years to receive a percentage of the net sales based on the contribution of bulk efavirenz to ATRIPLA*, and otherwise retains all
rights to SUSTIVA.
For further discussion of the Company’s strategic alliance with Gilead, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”
Investigational Compounds Under Development
Medarex The Company maintains a worldwide collaboration and share purchase agreement with Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) to codevelop and copromote ipilimumab, a
fully human antibody currently in Phase III development for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. The FDA has granted Fast Track status to ipilimumab in
combination with MDX–1379 (gp100), a vaccine that is being developed in combination with ipilimumab, for treatment of patients with late stage unresectable
metastatic melanoma who have failed or are intolerant to first-line therapy.
Future milestone payments are expected to be made by the Company to Medarex based upon the successful achievement of various regulatory and sales-related
stages. The Company and Medarex will also share in future development and commercialization costs. Medarex could receive up to $205 million if all regulatory
milestones are met, and up to $275 million in sales-related milestones. Medarex will have an option to copromote and receive up to 45% of the profits with the
Company in the U.S. The Company will receive an exclusive license outside of the U.S. and pay royalties to Medarex.
The Company maintains a $16 million equity investment in Medarex, representing 2.4% of their outstanding shares.
The agreement with Medarex does not expire unless and until one of the following events occurs: (1) the Company voluntarily terminates the agreement in its entirety
or on a country-by-country basis by providing Medarex with six months prior written notice; (2) the Company voluntarily terminates the agreement on a product-by-
product basis (but only if a second product is then in GLP toxicology studies or later) or a country-by-country basis by providing Medarex with six months prior
written notice depending on the circumstances; (3) the Company terminates Medarex’s copromotion option and rights in the U.S. on 60 days written notice after the
end of the second calendar year in the event Medarex provides less than 60 percent of certain performance obligations in any two out of three consecutive calendar
years (such termination right to be exercised only with respect to those indications as to which Medarex failed to meet such performance obligation). Upon any such
termination by the Company via any of the scenarios in (1) – (3) above, Medarex will no longer have a right to share in the profits and losses of the product for the
terminated indication(s) and, instead the Company will pay Medarex royalties on net sales of the product; or (4) Medarex terminates the agreement with respect to all
products on 60 days written notice if the Company provides less than 60 percent of certain performance obligations in any two out of three consecutive calendar
years. Generally, upon termination in (4), the Company will assign all rights to the product to Medarex and receive a royalty thereafter on intellectual property
licensed by the Company to Medarex. Medarex may also elect not to copromote a product for one or more indications in the U.S., in which event it will receive a
royalty on sales of the product for such indication. If there is a material breach as to manufacturing by a party, then the other party shall be limited to termination of
such party’s manufacturing rights only.
AstraZeneca In January 2007, the Company entered into two worldwide (except for Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization agreements with AstraZeneca,
one for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of saxagliptin, a DPP-IV inhibitor (Saxagliptin Agreement), and one for the codevelopment and
cocommercialization of dapagliflozin, a SGLT2 inhibitor (SGLT2 Agreement). Both compounds are being studied for the treatment of diabetes and were discovered by
the Company. Under the terms of the agreements, the Company received from AstraZeneca an upfront payment of $100 million in January 2007. In October 2008, the
Company received from AstraZeneca a milestone payment of $50 million for the June 2008 filing of the New Drug Application to the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) for ONGLYZA. The companies have proposed the name ONGLYZA which, if approved by the FDA and the European Medicines Evaluation Agency will serve
as the trade name for saxagliptin in the countries where it has been approved.
Milestone payments are expected to be received by the Company upon the successful achievement of various development and regulatory events, as well as sales-
related milestones. Under the Saxagliptin Agreement, the Company could receive up to $300 million if all development and regulatory milestones are met and up to an
additional $300 million if all sales-based milestones are met. Under the SGLT2 Agreement, the Company could receive up to $350 million if all development and
regulatory milestones are
13Table of Contents
met and up to an additional $300 million if all sales-based milestones are met. Under each agreement, the Company and AstraZeneca also share in future development
and commercialization costs. The majority of development costs under the initial development plans through 2009 will be paid by AstraZeneca and any additional
development costs will generally be shared equally. The Company records in research and development expenses saxagliptin and dapagliflozin development costs
net of its alliance partner’s share. Under each agreement, the two companies will jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy and share commercialization
expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis, excluding Japan, (in the case of Saxagliptin), and the Company will manufacture both products and, with
certain limited exceptions, record net sales in most key markets.
In December 2008, the Company and AstraZeneca executed an amendment to the SGLT Agreement to include the development and commercialization of dapagliflozin
in Japan, with AstraZeneca having operational and cost responsibility for all development and regulatory activities on behalf of the collaboration. The two companies
will jointly market the product in Japan, sharing all commercialization expenses and activities and splitting profits and losses equally. Bristol-Myers Squibb will
manufacture dapagliflozin and also record sales. Dapagliflozin is currently being studied in Phase II clinical trials in Japan.
Otsuka In January 2007, the Company granted Otsuka exclusive rights in Japan to develop and commercialize saxagliptin. The Company will receive milestone
payments based on certain regulatory events, as well as sales-based payments following regulatory approval of saxagliptin in Japan, and retained rights to co-
promote saxagliptin with Otsuka in Japan. Otsuka is responsible for all development costs in Japan.
Pfizer In April 2007, the Company and Pfizer entered into a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement for apixaban, an anticoagulant discovered
by the Company being studied for the prevention and treatment of a broad range of venous and arterial thrombotic conditions. In accordance with the terms of the
agreement, Pfizer made an upfront payment of $250 million to the Company in May 2007. In December 2007, the Company and Pfizer agreed to include Japan in the
worldwide agreement. Pfizer made an upfront payment of $40 million in December 2007. Pfizer will fund 60% of all development costs effective January 1, 2007 going
forward, and the Company will fund 40%. The Company records expenses for apixaban development costs, net of its alliance partner’s share, in research and
development. The Company may also receive additional payments of up to $780 million from Pfizer based on development and regulatory milestones. The companies
will jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy of apixaban, and will share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis.
Exelixis In December 2008, the Company and Exelixis, Inc. (Exelixis) entered into a global codevelopment and cocommercialization arrangement for XL-184 (a
MET/VEG/RET inhibitor), an oral anti-cancer compound, and a license for XL-281 with utility in RAS and RAF mutant tumors under development by Exelixis. Under
the terms of the arrangement, the Company agreed to pay Exelixis $195 million in 2008 upon execution of the agreement and an additional $45 million in 2009. The
Company expensed as research and development the $240 million upon execution of the agreement in 2008. Exelixis will fund the first $100 million of development for
XL-184. If Exelixis elects to continue sharing development costs and elects to copromote in the U.S., Exelixis will fund 35% of future global development costs
(excluding Japan) and share U.S. profits and losses equally; failing such elections, Exelixis receives milestones and royalties. The Company will fund 100% of
development costs in Japan. In addition to double-digit royalties on ex-U.S. sales, the Company could pay up to $610 million if all development and regulatory
milestones are met and up to an additional $300 million if all sales-based milestones are met.
In addition, the Company and Exelixis have a history of collaborations to identify, develop and promote oncology targets. During December 2006, the Company and
Exelixis entered into an oncology collaboration and license agreement under which Exelixis is pursuing the development of three small molecule INDs for
codevelopment and copromotion. Under the terms of this agreement, the Company paid Exelixis $60 million of upfront fees in 2006. During 2008, the Company paid
Exelixis $40 million in IND acceptance milestones. If Exelixis elects to fund development costs and copromote in the U.S., both parties will equally share development
costs and profits. If Exelixis opts out of the codevelopment and copromotion agreement, BMS will take over full development and U.S. commercial rights, and if
successful will pay Exelixis development and regulatory milestones up to $190 million and up to an additional $90 million of sales based milestones, as well as double
digit royalties.
Since July 2001, the Company has held an equity interest in Exelixis, which at December 31, 2008 was less than 1%.
Other Additionally, the Company has other licensing arrangements such as with Novartis for REYATAZ and with HZI for IXEMPRA, a novel microtubule-stabilizing
agent for the treatment of breast cancer. Based on the Company’s current expectations with respect to the expiration of market exclusivity in the Company’s
significant markets, the licensing arrangements with Novartis for REYATAZ are expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., the EU and Japan; and arrangements with HZI
for IXEMPRA are expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., and on the 10th anniversary of the first commercial sale in the EU and Japan. For further discussion of market
exclusivity protection, including a chart showing net sales of key products together with the year in which basic exclusivity loss occurred or is expected to occur in
the U.S., the EU and Japan, see “—Products” above and “—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” below.
14Table of Contents
For further information on alliances relating to products under development and drug discovery, see “—Research and Development” below.
Nutritionals Segment
Infant formulas and toddler/children’s nutritionals, representing 97%, 96% and 96% of total nutritional net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were as follows:
Net Sales % Change
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006
Infant Formulas $ 1,932 $ 1,786 $ 1,637 8% 9%
ENFAMIL 1,157 1,082 1,007 7% 7%
Toddler/Children’s Nutritionals 856 693 606 24% 14%
The Nutritionals segment, through Mead Johnson, manufactures, markets, distributes and sells infant formulas and other nutritional products, including the entire
line of ENFAMIL products. The ENFAMIL LIPIL product is the first infant formula in the U.S. to contain the nutrients docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and arachidonic
acid (ARA). Also naturally found in breast milk, DHA and ARA are believed to support infant brain and eye development. The Company obtains these nutrients from
a sole provider pursuant to a non-exclusive worldwide license and supply agreement. The supply agreement, in force until at least 2011, provides no firm guarantee of
supply and pricing is subject to change pursuant to a pricing formula. The license expires beginning in 2024 on a country-by-country basis 25 years after the
Company commenced sales in a country.
The Company’s nutritionals products are generally sold by wholesalers and retailers and are promoted primarily to health care professionals. The Company also
promotes Nutritionals products directly to consumers worldwide through advertising. The Company manufactures these products in the U.S. and in five foreign
countries. Nutritional net sales accounted for 14% of the Company’s net sales in each of 2008, 2007 and 2006. U.S. nutritional net sales accounted for 38%, 44% and
46% of total nutritional net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, while international nutritional net sales accounted for 62%, 56% and 54% of total nutritional net
sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Approximately one-half of U.S. gross sales of infant formula are subject to rebates issued under the Women, Infants and
Children (WIC) program. Sales subject to WIC rebates have much lower margins than those of non-WIC program sales. For further information on key Nutritionals
product lines and their sales, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations.”
Productivity Transformation Initiative
In December 2007 and July 2008, the Company announced productivity transformation initiatives (PTI) designed to fundamentally change the way it runs its business
to meet the challenges of a changing business environment and to take advantage of the diverse opportunities in the marketplace as the Company is transformed into
a next-generation biopharmaceutical company, and to create a total of $2.5 billion in annual productivity cost savings and cost avoidance by 2012. In connection with
PTI, the Company aims to achieve a culture of continuous improvement to enhance its efficiency, effectiveness and competitiveness and substantially improve its
cost base.
Key productivity initiatives include reducing general and administrative operations by simplifying, standardizing and outsourcing, where appropriate, processes and
services, rationalizing the Company’s mature brands portfolio, consolidating its global manufacturing network while eliminating complexity and enhancing
profitability, simplifying its geographic footprint and implementing a more efficient go-to-market model.
The charges associated with the previously announced PTI are estimated to be an aggregate range of $1.3 billion to $1.6 billion, which includes $695 million of costs
already incurred. The incurred costs are net of $159 million of gains related to the sale of mature product lines and business. Also, included in these charges are net
termination benefits of $174 million and $182 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and other exit costs of $44 million and $1 million for
the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The exact timing of the recognition of PTI charges cannot be predicted with certainty and will be affected
by the existence of triggering events for expense recognition, among other factors.
Sources and Availability of Raw Materials
In general, the Company purchases its raw materials, medical devices and supplies required for the production of the Company’s products in the open market. For
some products, the Company purchases its raw materials, medical devices and supplies from a single source, which in certain circumstances is specified in the
Company’s product registrations, thereby requiring the Company to obtain such raw materials and supplies from that particular source. The Company attempts, if
possible, to mitigate raw material supply risks to the Company, through inventory management and alternative sourcing strategies. For further discussion of
sourcing, see “—Manufacturing and Quality Assurance” below and discussions of particular products.
15Table of Contents
Manufacturing and Quality Assurance
To meet all expected product demand, the Company operates and manages its manufacturing network, including its third-party contract manufacturers, and the
inventory related thereto, in a manner that permits the Company to improve efficiency while maintaining flexibility in its ability to reallocate manufacturing capacity.
Pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product. Given that shifting or adding manufacturing capacity
can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital and out-of-pocket expenditures and regulatory approvals, the Company maintains and operates its flexible
manufacturing network, consisting of internal and external resources, that minimizes unnecessary product transfers and inefficient uses of manufacturing capacity.
For further discussion of the regulatory impact on the Company’s manufacturing, see “—Government Regulation and Price Constraints” below.
Pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities require significant ongoing capital investment for both maintenance and compliance with increasing regulatory requirements.
In addition, as the Company adds to its product line and realigns its focus over the next several years, the Company expects to modify its existing manufacturing
network to meet complex processing standards that may be required for newly introduced products, including biologics. Biologics manufacturing involves more
complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. During 2006, the Board of Directors approved capital expenditures of approximately $750
million for a bulk biologics manufacturing facility in the U.S. In February 2007, the Company completed the land purchase of an 89-acre site to locate its large scale
multi-product bulk biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts. Construction of the Devens, Massachusetts facility began in early 2007, and the
facility is projected to be operationally complete by the end of 2009. The Company expects to submit the site for regulatory approval in 2010. Commercial production
of biologic compounds is anticipated to begin by 2011.
The Company relies on third parties to manufacture, or to supply it with active ingredients necessary for it to manufacture certain products, including PLAVIX*,
BARACLUDE, AVALIDE*, REYATAZ, PRAVACHOL, ABILIFY*, ERBITUX*, the SUSTIVA Franchise and, ORENCIA. To maintain a stable supply of these
products, the Company takes a variety of actions including inventory management and maintenance of additional quantities of materials, when possible, designed to
provide for is a reasonable level of these ingredients held by the third-party supplier, the Company or both, so that the Company’s manufacturing operations are not
interrupted. As an additional protection, in some cases, the Company takes steps to maintain an approved back-up source where available. For example, the Company
will rely on the combined capacity of its Devens, Massachusetts, Syracuse, New York, and Manati, Puerto Rico, facilities, and the capacity available at its third-party
contract manufacturers to manufacture ORENCIA and the commercial quantities of the Company’s other investigational biologics compounds in late-stage
development should those compounds receive regulatory approval.
If the Company or any third-party manufacturer that the Company relies on for existing or future products is unable to maintain a stable supply of products, operate
at sufficient capacity to meet its order requirements, comply with government regulations for manufacturing pharmaceuticals or meet the heightened processing
requirements for biologics, the Company’s business performance and prospects could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if the Company or any of its third-party
suppliers were to experience extended plant shutdowns or substantial unplanned increases in demand or suspension of manufacturing for regulatory reasons, the
Company could experience an interruption in supply of certain products or product shortages until production could be resumed or expanded.
In connection with divestitures, licensing arrangements or distribution agreements of certain of the Company’s products, or in certain other circumstances, the
Company has entered into agreements under which the Company has agreed to supply such products to third parties. In addition to liabilities that could arise from
the Company’s failure to supply such products under the agreements, these arrangements could require the Company to invest in facilities for the production of non-
strategic products, result in additional regulatory filings and obligations or cause an interruption in the manufacturing of its own products.
The Company’s success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in the quality of its products and in the integrity of the data that support their safety
and effectiveness. Product quality arises from a total commitment to quality in all parts of the Company’s operations, including research and development,
purchasing, facilities planning, manufacturing, and distribution. The Company maintains quality-assurance procedures relating to the quality and integrity of
technical information and production processes.
Control of production processes involves detailed specifications for ingredients, equipment and facilities, manufacturing methods, processes, packaging materials,
and labeling. The Company performs tests at various stages of production processes and on the final product to ensure that the product meets regulatory
requirements and the Company’s standards. These tests may involve chemical and
16Table of Contents
physical chemical analyses, microbiological testing, or a combination of these along with other analyses. Quality control is provided by business unit/site quality
assurance groups that monitor existing manufacturing procedures and systems used by the Company, its subsidiaries and third-party suppliers.
Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity
The Company owns or licenses a number of patents in the U.S. and foreign countries primarily covering its products. The Company has also developed many brand
names and trademarks for products in all areas. The Company considers the overall protection of its patent, trademark, license and other intellectual property rights to
be of material value and acts to protect these rights from infringement.
In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market
exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there can often be
substantial and rapid declines in the product’s sales. The rate of this decline varies by country and by therapeutic category. For a discussion of how generic versions
of a product can impact that product’s sales, see “—Generic Competition” below.
A product’s market exclusivity is generally determined by two forms of intellectual property: patent rights held by the innovator company and any regulatory forms
of exclusivity to which the innovative drug is entitled.
Patents are a key determinant of market exclusivity for most branded pharmaceuticals. Patents provide the innovator with the right to exclude others from practicing
an invention related to the medicine. Patents may cover, among other things, the active ingredient(s), various uses of a drug product, pharmaceutical formulations,
drug delivery mechanisms and processes for (or intermediates useful in) the manufacture of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods
in accordance with the expiration dates of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the
type of patent, its scope of coverage and the availability of meaningful legal remedies in the country.
Market exclusivity is also sometimes influenced by regulatory intellectual property rights. Many developed countries provide certain non-patent incentives for the
development of medicines. For example, the U.S., the EU and Japan each provide for a minimum period of time after the approval of a new drug during which the
regulatory agency may not rely upon the innovator’s data to approve a competitor’s generic copy. Regulatory intellectual property rights are also available in certain
markets as incentives for research on new indications, on orphan drugs and on medicines useful in treating pediatric patients.
Regulatory intellectual property rights are independent of any patent rights that the Company may possess and can be particularly important when a drug lacks
broad patent protection. However, most regulatory forms of exclusivity do not prevent a competitor from gaining regulatory approval prior to the expiration of
regulatory data exclusivity on the basis of the competitor’s own safety and efficacy data on its drug, even when that drug is identical to that marketed by the
innovator.
The Company estimates the likely market exclusivity period for each of its products on a case-by-case basis. It is not possible to predict the length of market
exclusivity for any of the Company’s products with certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity, and inherent
uncertainties concerning patent litigation. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that the
Company currently estimates or that the exclusivity will be limited to the estimate. For a discussion on market exclusivity, see “—Pharmaceuticals Segment” above.
In addition to patents and regulatory forms of exclusivity, the Company also holds intellectual property in the form of trademarks on products such as ENFAMIL.
Trademarks have no effect on market exclusivity for a product, but are considered to have marketing value. Worldwide, all of the Company’s important products are
sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other
countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely.
Specific aspects of the law governing market exclusivity for pharmaceuticals vary from country to country. The following summarizes key exclusivity rules in markets
representing significant Company sales:
United States
A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical in the U.S. must file a complete set of safety and efficacy data to the FDA. The type of application filed
depends on whether the drug is a chemical (a small molecule) or a biological product (a large molecule). If the innovative pharmaceutical is a chemical, the company
files a New Drug Application (NDA). If the medicine is a biological product, a Biologic License Application (BLA) is filed. The type of application filed affects
regulatory exclusivity rights.
17Table of Contents
A competitor seeking to launch a generic substitute of a chemical innovative drug in the U.S. must file an aNDA with the FDA. In the aNDA, the generic
manufacturer needs to demonstrate only “bioequivalence” between the generic substitute and the approved NDA drug. The aNDA relies upon the safety and
efficacy data previously filed by the innovator in its NDA.
Medicines approved under a NDA can receive several types of regulatory data protection. An innovative chemical pharmaceutical (also known as a new chemical
entity) is entitled to five years of regulatory data protection in the U.S., during which an aNDA cannot be filed with the FDA. If an innovator’s patent is challenged,
as described below, the generic manufacturer may file its aNDA after the fourth year of the five-year data protection period. A pharmaceutical drug product that
contains an active ingredient that has been previously approved in a NDA, but is approved in a new formulation or for a new indication on the basis of new clinical
trials, receives three years of data protection. Finally, a NDA that is designated as an Orphan Drug, which is a drug that gains an indication for treatment of a
condition that occurs only rarely in the U.S., can receive seven years of exclusivity for the orphan indication. During this time period, neither NDAs nor aNDAs for
the same drug product can be approved for the same orphan use.
Because a significant portion of patent life can be lost during the time it takes to obtain regulatory approval, the innovator can extend one patent to compensate the
innovator for the lost patent term, at least in part. More specifically, the innovator may identify one patent, which claims the product or its approved method of use,
and, depending on a number of factors, may extend the expiration date of that patent. There are two limits to these extensions. First, the maximum term a patent can be
extended is five years, and second, the extension cannot cause the patent to be in effect for more than 14 years from the date of NDA approval.
A company may also earn six months of additional exclusivity for a drug where specific clinical trials are conducted at the written request of the FDA to study the use
of the medicine to treat pediatric patients, and submission to the FDA is made prior to the loss of basic exclusivity. This six-month period extends most forms of
exclusivity (patent and regulatory) that are listed with the FDA at the time the studies are completed and submitted to the FDA, but not against products already
finally approved.
Currently, generic versions of biological products cannot be approved under U.S. law. However, the law could change in the future. Even in the absence of new
legislation, the FDA is taking steps toward allowing generic versions of certain biologics. Competitors seeking approval of biological products must file their own
safety and efficacy data, and address the challenges of biologics manufacturing, which involves more complex processes and are more costly than those of
traditional pharmaceutical operations.
Many (but not all) innovative drugs are also covered by patents held by the NDA sponsor beyond the minimum period of regulatory exclusivity provided by U.S.
law.
The innovator company is required to list certain of its patents covering the medicine with the FDA in what is commonly known as the Orange Book. Absent a
successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an aNDA until after the innovator’s listed patents expire. However, after the innovator has marketed its
product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an aNDA and allege that one or more of the patents listed in the Orange Book under an innovator’s NDA is
either invalid or not infringed. This allegation is commonly known as a “Paragraph IV certification.” The innovator then must decide whether to file a patent
infringement suit against the generic manufacturer. If one or more of the NDA-listed patents are successfully challenged, or if the innovator chooses not to sue, the
first filer of a Paragraph IV certification (or first filers if more than one generic qualifies) may be entitled to a 180-day period of market exclusivity against all other
generic manufacturers. From time to time, aNDAs, including Paragraph IV certifications, are filed with respect to certain of the Company’s products. The Company
evaluates these aNDAs on a case-by-case basis and, where warranted, files suit against the generic manufacturer to protect its patent rights.
In the U.S., the increased likelihood of generic challenges to innovators’ intellectual property has increased the risk of loss of innovators’ market exclusivity. First,
generic companies have increasingly sought to challenge innovators’ basic patents covering major pharmaceutical products. For a discussion of one such litigation
related to patent challenges by generic companies, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 25. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies—PLAVIX* Litigation,” and
“—Other Intellectual Property Litigation.” Second, statutory and regulatory provisions in the U.S. limit the ability of an innovator company to prevent generic drugs
from being approved and launched while patent litigation is ongoing. Third, the FDA is actively considering ways to expand the use of a regulatory mechanism that
allows for regulatory approval of drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required for a full
NDA. As a result of all of these developments, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular Company product with certainty based
solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. For more information about new legislation, see “—Government
Regulation and Price Constraints” below.
European Union
Recent pharmaceutical legislation in the EU has an impact on the procedures for authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU under both the centralized and
mutual recognition procedures. In particular, the legislation contains new data protection provisions. All products (regardless of whether they have been approved
under the centralized or the mutual recognition procedures) will be subject to an “8+2+1” regime. Eight years after the innovator has received its first community
authorization for a medicinal product, a
18Table of Contents
generic company may file a marketing authorization application for that product with the health authorities. However, the generic company may not commercialize the
product until after either 10 or 11 years have elapsed from the initial marketing authorization granted to the innovator. The possible one-year extension is available if
the innovator, during the first eight years of the marketing authorization, obtains an additional indication that is of significant clinical benefit in comparison with
existing treatments. There is a transitional provision for these new data protection requirements, and these provisions will apply as new marketing authorization
applications are submitted under the new legislation. For those products that continue to be covered under the old law, there is a 10-year period of data protection
under the centralized procedures and a period of either six or 10 years under the mutual recognition procedure (depending on the member state). Regardless of the
procedure used to obtain marketing authorization approval, a company then must obtain pricing and reimbursement for the pharmaceutical product, which is typically
subject to member state law. The pricing and reimbursement procedure can take months and sometimes years to obtain.
Patents on pharmaceutical products are generally enforceable in the EU. However, in contrast to the U.S., patents are not listed with regulatory authorities. Generic
copies can be approved after data protection expires, regardless of whether the innovator holds patents covering its drug. Thus, it is possible that an innovator may
be seeking to enforce its patents against a generic competitor that is already marketing its product. Also, the European patent system has an opposition procedure in
which generic manufacturers may challenge the validity of patents covering innovator products within nine months of grant. As in the U.S., patents in the EU may be
extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. Such extensions are granted on a country-by-country basis.
In general, EU law treats chemically-synthesized drugs and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity. The
European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA) has issued a guideline that outlines what additional information has to be provided for biosimilar products, also
known as generic biologics, in order for the EMEA to review an application for marketing approval.
Japan
In Japan, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded eight years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical
products are enforceable. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data exclusivity and patent expirations. As in the U.S., patents in Japan may be
extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process.
In general, Japanese law treats chemically-synthesized and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity.
Rest of World
In countries outside of the U.S., the EU and Japan, there is a wide variety of legal systems with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity of
pharmaceuticals. Most other developed countries utilize systems similar to either the U.S. (e.g., Canada) or the EU (e.g., Switzerland). Among developing countries,
some have adopted patent laws and/or regulatory exclusivity laws, while others have not. Some developing countries have formally adopted laws in order to comply
with World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments, but have not taken steps to implement these laws in a meaningful way. Enforcement of WTO actions is a long
process between governments, and there is no assurance of the outcome. Thus, in assessing the likely future market exclusivity of the Company’s innovative drugs
in developing countries, the Company takes into account not only formal legal rights but political and other factors as well.
Marketing, Distribution and Customers
The Company promotes its products in medical journals and directly to health care providers such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists,
technologists, hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs), Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) and government agencies. The Company also markets directly
to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer print, radio and television advertising. In addition, the Company sponsors general advertising to educate the
public about its innovative medical research. For a discussion of the regulation of promotion and marketing of pharmaceuticals, see “—Government Regulation and
Price Constraints” below.
Through the Company’s sales and marketing organizations, the Company explains the approved uses and advantages of its products to medical professionals. The
Company works to gain access to health authority, PBM and MCO formularies (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products), including Medicare
Part D plans and reimbursement lists by demonstrating the qualities and treatment benefits of its products. Marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals is limited to the
approved uses of the particular product, but the Company continues to develop information about its products and provides such information in response to
unsolicited inquiries from doctors and other medical professionals. All drugs must complete clinical trials required by regulatory authorities to show they are safe and
effective for treating one or more medical problems. A manufacturer may choose, however, to
19Table of Contents
undertake additional studies, including comparative clinical trials with competitive products, to demonstrate additional advantages of a compound. Those studies can
be costly and take years to complete, and the results are uncertain. Balancing these considerations makes it difficult to decide whether and when to undertake such
additional studies. But, when they are successful, such studies can have a major impact on approved marketing claims and strategies.
The Company’s operations include several pharmaceutical marketing and sales organizations. Each organization markets a distinct group of products supported by a
sales force and is typically based on particular therapeutic areas or physician groups. These sales forces often focus on selling new products when they are
introduced, and promotion to physicians is increasingly targeted at specialists and high value primary care physicians.
The Company’s prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but the Company also sells directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals,
clinics, government agencies and pharmacies. In 2008, gross sales to three pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S., McKesson, Cardinal Health, Inc. (Cardinal) and
AmerisourceBergen Corporation (AmerisourceBergen), accounted for approximately 20%, 16% and 12%, respectively, of the Company’s total gross sales. In 2007,
gross sales to McKesson, Cardinal and AmerisourceBergen accounted for approximately 18%, 15% and 11%, respectively, of the Company’s total gross sales. In
2006, gross sales to McKesson, Cardinal and AmerisourceBergen accounted for approximately 17%, 15% and 10%, respectively, of the Company’s total gross sales.
Gross sales to these U.S. wholesalers were concentrated in the Pharmaceuticals segment.
The Company’s U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, through the Inventory Management Agreements (IMAs), has arrangements with substantially all of its direct
wholesaler and distributor customers that allow the Company to monitor U.S. wholesaler inventory levels and require those wholesalers to maintain inventory levels
that are no more than one month of their demand. The IMAs have a two-year term, through December 31, 2009, subject to certain termination provisions.
The Company sells ERBITUX* to intermediaries (such as wholesalers and specialty oncology distributors) and ships ERBITUX* directly to the end users of the
product who are the customers of those intermediaries. The Company also sells ERBITUX* in the U.S. to other wholesalers and distributors who then hold
ERBITUX* inventory. The Company recognizes revenue upon such shipment consistent with its revenue recognition policy.
For information on sales and marketing of Nutritionals products, see “—Nutritionals Segment” above.
Competition
The markets in which the Company competes are generally broad-based and highly competitive. The principal means of competition vary among product categories
and business groups.
The Company’s Pharmaceuticals segment competes with other worldwide research-based drug companies, many smaller research companies with more limited
therapeutic focus and generic drug manufacturers. Important competitive factors include product efficacy, safety and ease of use, price and demonstrated cost-
effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, service and research and development of new products and processes. Sales of the Company’s products
can be impacted by new studies that indicate a competitor’s product has greater efficacy for treating a disease or particular form of disease than one of the
Company’s products. The Company’s sales also can be impacted by additional labeling requirements relating to safety or convenience that may be imposed on its
products by the FDA or by similar regulatory agencies in different countries. If competitors introduce new products and processes with therapeutic or cost
advantages, the Company’s products can be subject to progressive price reductions or decreased volume of sales, or both.
To successfully compete for business with MCOs and PBMs, the Company must often demonstrate that its products offer not only medical benefits but also cost
advantages as compared with other forms of care. Most new products that the Company introduces must compete with other products already on the market or
products that are later developed by competitors. Manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals typically invest far less in research and development than research-
based pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product loses its
market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. In certain countries outside the U.S., patent protection is weak or
nonexistent and the Company must compete with generic versions shortly after it launches its innovative product. In addition, generic pharmaceutical companies may
introduce a generic product before exclusivity has expired, and before the resolution of any related patent litigation. For a discussion of the generic launch of a
clopidogrel bisulfate product that competes with PLAVIX*, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 25. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies—PLAVIX*
Litigation.”
Many other companies, large and small, manufacture and sell one or more products that are similar to those marketed by the Company’s Nutritionals segment.
Sources of competitive advantage include patents and trademarks, product quality and efficacy, brand identity, advertising and promotion, product innovation, broad
distribution capabilities, customer satisfaction and price. Significant expenditures for advertising, promotion and marketing are generally required to achieve both
consumer and trade acceptance of these products.
20Table of Contents
The Company believes its long-term competitive position depends upon its success in discovering and developing innovative, cost-effective products that serve
unmet medical need, together with its ability to manufacture the products efficiently and to market them effectively in a highly competitive environment. There can be
no assurance that the Company’s research and development efforts will result in commercially successful products or that its products or processes will not become
outmoded from time to time as a result of products or processes developed by its competitors.
Managed Care Organizations
The growth of MCOs in the U.S. has been a major factor in the competitive make-up of the health care marketplace. Over half of the U.S. population now participates
in some version of managed care. Because of the size of the patient population covered by MCOs, marketing of prescription drugs to them and the PBMs that serve
many of those organizations has become important to the Company’s business. MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-
maintenance organizations, Medicare Part D formularies, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. Those organizations have been
consolidating into fewer, even larger entities, enhancing their purchasing strength and importance to the Company.
A major objective of MCOs is to contain and, where possible, reduce health care expenditures. They typically use formularies, volume purchases and long-term
contracts to negotiate discounts from pharmaceutical providers. MCOs and PBMs typically develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. Formularies can
be based on the prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines are often favored. The breadth of the
products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one MCO to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of
particular medical problems. MCOs use a variety of means to encourage patients’ use of products listed on their formularies.
Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete
aggressively to have their products included. Where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as greater
efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects. A lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic
advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. The Company has been generally, although not universally, successful in having its major products
included on MCO formularies.
Generic Competition
One of the biggest competitive challenges that the Company faces in the U.S. and, to a lesser extent, internationally is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers.
Upon the expiration or loss of market exclusivity on a product, the Company can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period of time. In the
U.S., the FDA approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, and allows generic
manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the innovator product. Therefore, generic competitors operate without the Company’s large research and
development expenses and its costs of conveying medical information about the product to the medical community. For more information about market exclusivity,
see “—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” above.
The rate of sales decline of a product after the expiration of exclusivity varies by country. In general, the decline in the U.S. market is more rapid than in most other
developed countries. Also, the declines in developed countries tend to be more rapid than in developing countries.
The rate of sales decline after the expiration of exclusivity has also historically been influenced by product characteristics. For example, drugs that are used in a large
patient population (e.g., those prescribed by primary care physicians) tend to experience more rapid declines than drugs in specialized areas of medicine (e.g.,
oncology). Drugs that are more complex to manufacture (e.g., sterile injectable products) usually experience a slower decline than those that are simpler to
manufacture.
As noted above, MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. Many governments also encourage the use
of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their health care programs. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in many cases require, pharmacists to substitute
generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to a brand-name drug. The substitution must be made unless the
prescribing physician expressly forbids it. These laws and policies provide an added incentive for generic manufacturers to seek marketing approval as the automatic
substitution removes the need for generic manufacturers to incur many of the sales and marketing costs, which innovators must incur.
Research and Development
The Company invests heavily in research and development because it believes it is critical to its long-term competitiveness. The Company has major facilities in
Princeton, Hopewell and New Brunswick, New Jersey and Wallingford, Connecticut. Pharmaceutical research and development is also carried out at various other
facilities in the U.S. and in Belgium, Canada, the UK and India. Management continues to emphasize leadership, innovation, productivity and quality as strategies for
success in our research and development activities.
21Table of Contents
The Company spent $3.6 billion in 2008, $3.2 billion in 2007 and $3.0 billion in 2006 on Company-sponsored research and development activities. The Company-
sponsored pharmaceutical research and development spending includes certain payments under third-party collaborations and contracts. At the end of 2008, the
Company employed approximately 7,800 people in research and development throughout the Company, including a substantial number of physicians, scientists
holding graduate or postgraduate degrees and higher-skilled technical personnel.
The Company concentrates its pharmaceutical research and development efforts in the following disease areas with significant unmet medical need: Affective
(psychiatric) disorders, Alzheimer’s/dementia, atherosclerosis/thrombosis, diabetes, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS, obesity, oncology, rheumatoid arthritis and related diseases
and solid organ transplant. However, the Company continues to analyze and may selectively pursue promising leads in other areas. In addition to discovering and
developing new molecular entities, the Company looks for ways to expand the value of existing products through new uses and formulations that can provide
additional benefits to patients.
To supplement the Company’s internal efforts, the Company collaborates with independent research organizations, including educational institutions and research-
based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and contracts with others for the performance of research in their facilities. The Company’s drug discovery
program includes many alliances and collaborative agreements. These agreements bring new products into the pipeline or help the Company remain on the cutting
edge of technology in the search for novel medicines. In drug development, the Company engages the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools and other
research organizations worldwide to conduct clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of new products.
Drug development is time consuming, expensive and risky. In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations, in the U.S.
and most foreign countries, provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new molecular entities through preclinical tests and controlled clinical
evaluation. Before a new drug may be marketed in the U.S., recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the NDA or the BLA to the FDA for the
required approval. There can be no assurance that a compound developed as a result of any program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be
marketed for any particular disease indication.
On average, only about one in 10,000 chemical compounds discovered by pharmaceutical industry researchers proves to be both medically effective and safe enough
to become an approved medicine. The process from discovery to regulatory approval typically takes 12 years or longer. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the
process, and even late-stage product candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval. The Company believes its investments in research, both internally and
in collaboration with others, have been rewarded by the number of new pharmaceutical compounds and indications it has in all stages of development.
Listed below are several investigational compounds that the Company has in the later stages of development. All of these compounds are in Phase III clinical trials.
Whether or not any of these investigational compounds ultimately becomes one of the Company’s marketed products depends on the results of pre-clinical and
clinical studies, the competitive landscape of the potential product’s market and the manufacturing processes necessary to produce the potential product on a
commercial scale, among other factors. However, as noted above, there can be no assurance that the Company will seek regulatory approval of any of these
compounds or that, if such approval is sought, it will be obtained. At this stage of development, the Company cannot determine all intellectual property issues or all
the patent protection that may, or may not, be available for these investigational compounds. The patent coverage highlighted below does not include potential
patent term extensions.
Apixaban Apixaban is an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, which was discovered internally and is in Phase III clinical trials for the prevention of thromboembolic
disorders. In April 2007, the Company entered into a worldwide agreement with Pfizer for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of apixaban.
The Company owns a patent covering apixaban as composition of matter that expires in 2022 (extended to 2023 via patent term adjustment) in the
U.S.
Saxagliptin Saxagliptin is an oral compound for the potential treatment of diabetes, which was discovered internally and is currently under regulatory review
in the U.S. and Europe. In January 2007, the Company entered into an agreement with AstraZeneca for the codevelopment and
cocommercialization of saxagliptin. The Company owns a patent covering saxagliptin as composition of matter that expires in 2021 in the U.S.
Dapagliflozin Dapagliflozin is an oral compound for the potential treatment of diabetes, which was discovered internally and is currently in Phase III clinical
trials. The Company has entered into an agreement with AstraZeneca for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of dapagliflozin worldwide.
The Company owns a patent covering dapagliflozin as composition of matter that expires in 2020 in the U.S.
22Table of Contents
Ipilimumab Ipilimumab, a biologic product, which is being codeveloped with Medarex and is currently in Phase III clinical trials, is a monoclonal antibody
being investigated as an anticancer treatment. It is in a novel class of agents intended to potentiate elements of the immunologic response. The
Company owns a patent covering ipilimumab as composition of matter that expires in 2016 in the U.S. and has rights to method of use patents
licensed by Medarex that expire in 2015 in the U.S. The Company also has rights to a Medarex patent covering ipilimumab as composition of
matter that expires in 2020 (extended to 2022 via patent term adjustment) in the U.S.
Belatacept Belatacept, a biological product, which is being developed internally and is in Phase III clinical trials, is a fusion protein with novel
immunosuppressive activity targeted at prevention of solid organ transplant rejection. The Company owns a patent covering belatacept as
composition of matter that expires in 2021 in the U.S.
XL-184 XL-184 is an oral anticancer compound, which was discovered by and licensed from Exelixis and is in Phase III clinical testing. XL-184 targets
three enzymes: MET, which encourages tumor cell survival and movement, VEGF2, which helps tumors develop new blood vessels, and RET,
which is also involved in cell growth and migration and is found in many thyroid cancers. This compound is currently in Phase III clinical trials for
medullary thyroid cancer.
Tanespimycin Tanespimycin is an Hsp90 inhibitor currently in Phase III trials for the treatment of multiple myeloma. There is no composition of matter patent
that specifically covers Tanespimycin. Tanespimycin has been granted approval for filing as an orphan drug for the treatment of chronic
myelogenous leukemia and will obtain 7 years of exclusivity upon approval.
Brivanib Brivanib is an oral small molecule dual kinase inhibitor that blocks both the VEGF receptor and the FGF receptor which is currently in Phase III
trials as an anti-cancer treatment. The Company owns a patent covering brivanib as composition of matter that expires in 2023 in the U.S.
In September 2008, the Company terminated its collaboration agreement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals B.V. that included the Phase II compound ibipinabant, a
cannabinoid-1 receptor antagonist, which was in Phase II clinical trials.
The Company sometimes enters into agreements with respect to its own investigational compounds in order to share the costs and risks of development, and in some
cases, facilitate their commercialization. These agreements can take many forms, including codevelopment, comarketing, copromotion and/or joint venture
arrangements.
The Company’s competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to research and development. In addition, the consolidation that has occurred in the
pharmaceutical industry has created companies with substantial research and development resources. The extent to which the Company’s competitors are successful
in their research could result in erosion of the sales of its products and unanticipated product obsolescence.
Government Regulation and Price Constraints
The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive global regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDC
Act), other Federal statutes and regulations, various state statutes and regulations, and laws and regulations of foreign governments govern to varying degrees the
testing, approval, production, labeling, distribution, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, and promotion of the Company’s products.
The lengthy process of laboratory and clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing, development, and regulatory review necessary for required governmental
approvals is extremely costly and can significantly delay product introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing and distribution of
pharmaceutical products are extensively regulated in all major world markets. In addition, the Company’s operations are subject to complex Federal, state, local, and
foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations. The Company anticipates that the laws and regulations affecting the manufacture and sale of
current products and the introduction of new products will continue to require substantial scientific and technical effort, time, expense and significant capital
investment.
Of particular importance is the FDA in the U.S. It has jurisdiction over virtually all of the Company’s businesses and imposes requirements covering the testing,
safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of the Company’s pharmaceutical products. The FDA also
regulates most of the Company’s Nutritionals products. In many cases, the FDA’s requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop
new products and bring them to market in the U.S.
The Company’s pharmaceuticals products are subject to pre-market approval requirements in the U.S. New drugs are approved under, and are subject to, the FDC
Act and related regulations. Biological drugs are subject to both the FDC Act and the Public Health Service Act (PHS Act), and related regulations. Biological drugs
are licensed under the PHS Act. Medical devices are subject to the FDC Act including Medical Device Amendments. The Company’s Nutritionals products are
regulated by the FDA, primarily under the Infant Formula Act of 1980 and its amendments.
23Table of Contents
The FDA mandates that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) established by the FDA. In
complying with cGMP regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to ensure that the
product meets applicable specifications and other requirements to ensure product safety and efficacy. The FDA periodically inspects drug manufacturing facilities to
ensure compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements subjects the manufacturer to possible legal
or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. Adverse experiences with the use of products must be
reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restrictions through labeling changes or in product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if
compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product occur following approval.
The Federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, including authority to withdraw
product approvals, commence actions to seize and prohibit the sale of unapproved or non-complying products, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in
compliance with cGMPs, and to impose or seek injunctions, voluntary recalls, and civil monetary and criminal penalties. Such a restriction or prohibition on sales or
withdrawal of approval of products marketed by the Company could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations and cash
flows. The Federal government has similar powers with respect to the manufacturing operations of the Nutritionals business.
Marketing authorization for the Company’s products is subject to revocation by the applicable governmental agencies. In addition, modifications or enhancements of
approved products or changes in manufacturing locations are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals, which may or may not be received and
which may be subject to a lengthy application process.
The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act (PDMA) as part of the FDC Act, which regulates such activities at
both the Federal and state level. Under the PDMA and its implementing regulations, states are permitted to require registration of manufacturers and distributors who
provide pharmaceuticals even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. States are also permitted to adopt regulations limiting
the distribution of product samples to licensed practitioners. The PDMA also imposes extensive licensing, personnel recordkeeping, packaging, quantity, labeling,
product handling and facility storage and security requirements intended to prevent the sale of pharmaceutical product samples or other diversions. For discussion
of recent settlement of certain investigations of drug pricing and sales and marketing activities, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 25. Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies.”
The FDA Amendments Act of 2007 imposed additional obligations on pharmaceutical companies and delegated more enforcement authority to the FDA in the area of
drug safety. Key elements of this legislation give the FDA new authority to (1) require that companies conduct post-marketing safety studies of drugs, (2) impose
certain drug labeling changes relating to safety, (3) mandate risk mitigation measures such as the education of healthcare providers and the restricted distribution of
medicines, (4) require companies to publicly disclose data from clinical trials and (5) pre-review television advertisements.
The marketing practices of all U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturers are subject to Federal and state health care laws that are used to protect the integrity of government
health care programs. The Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (OIG) oversees compliance with applicable Federal laws,
in connection with the payment for products by government funded programs (primarily Medicaid and Medicare). These laws include the Federal anti-kickback
statute, which criminalizes the offering of something of value to induce the recommendation, order or purchase of products or services reimbursed under a
government health care program. The OIG has issued a series of Guidances to segments of the health care industry, including the 2003 Compliance Program Guidance
for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers (the OIG Guidance), which includes a recommendation that pharmaceutical manufacturers, at a minimum, adhere to the PhRMA
Code, a voluntary industry code of marketing practices. The Company subscribes to the PhRMA Code, and has implemented a compliance program to address the
requirements set forth in the OIG Guidance and the Company’s compliance with the health care laws. Failure to comply with these health care laws could subject the
Company to administrative and legal proceedings, including actions by the state and Federal government agencies. Such actions could result in the imposition of
civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive remedies, the impact of which could materially adversely affect the Company’s
business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.
The Company is also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal and state regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Federal Trade
Commission, the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services in the U.S. The Company is also licensed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Agency to procure and produce controlled substances. The Company is, therefore, subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by those
organizations. Such actions may result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies.
The Company’s activities outside the U.S. are also subject to regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling
and marketing of the Company’s products. These regulatory requirements vary from country to country. In the EU, there are two ways that a company can obtain
marketing authorization for a pharmaceutical product. The first route is the “centralized procedure.” This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical
products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, but also is available for certain new chemical compounds and products. The second route to obtain
marketing authorization in the EU is the “mutual recognition procedure.” Applications are made to a single member state, and if the
24Table of Contents
member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of
some or all other member states. As set forth above, pricing and reimbursement of the product continues to be the subject of member state law.
Whether or not FDA approval or approval of the EMEA has been obtained for a product, approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of countries
outside of the U.S. or the EU, as the case may be, must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process may be more or less
rigorous from country to country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the U.S. Approval in one country does not assure
that such product will be approved in another country.
In many markets outside the U.S., the Company operates in an environment of government-mandated, cost-containment programs. Several governments have placed
restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and/or enacted across-the-board price cuts as
methods of cost control. Most European countries do not provide market pricing for new medicines, except the UK and Germany. Pricing freedom is limited in the UK
by the operation of a profit control plan and in Germany by the operation of a reference price system. Companies also face significant delays, mainly in France, Spain,
Italy and Belgium, in market access for new products, and more than two years can elapse before new medicines become available on some national markets.
Additionally, member states of the EU have regularly imposed new or additional cost containment measures for pharmaceuticals. In recent years, Italy, for example,
has imposed mandatory price decreases. The existence of price differentials within Europe due to the different national pricing and reimbursement laws leads to
significant parallel trade flows.
In recent years, Congress and some state legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have enacted laws that could effect major changes in the health
care system, either nationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid access and reimbursement restrictions have been implemented in
some states and proposed in many others. Similar cost containment issues exist in many foreign countries where the Company does business.
Federal and state governments also have pursued direct methods to reduce the cost of drugs for which they pay. The Company participates in state government-
managed Medicaid programs, as well as certain other qualifying Federal and state government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating
state and local government entities. Rebates under Medicaid and related state programs reduced revenues by $205 million in 2008, $169 million in 2007 and $174
million in 2006. The Company also participates in prime vendor programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense
and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. These entities receive minimum discounts based off a defined “non-federal average manufacturer price” for purchases.
Other prime vendor programs in which the Company participates provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and
other hospitals meeting certain criteria. The Company recorded discounts related to the prime vendor programs of $529 million in 2008, $551 million in 2007 and $624
million in 2006.
In the U.S., governmental cost containment efforts have extended to the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for WIC. All states participate in
the WIC program and have sought and obtained rebates from manufacturers of infant formula whose products are used in the program. All states have conducted
competitive bidding for infant formula contracts, which require the use of specific infant formula products by the state WIC program, unless a physician requests a
non-contract formula for a WIC customer. States participating in the WIC program are required to engage in competitive bidding or to use other cost containment
measures that yield savings equal to or greater than the savings generated by a competitive bidding system. Mead Johnson participates in this program and
approximately half of its gross U.S. sales are subject to rebates under the WIC program. Rebates under the WIC program reduced revenues by $796 million in 2008,
$848 million in 2007 and $872 million in 2006.
For further discussion of these rebates and programs, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—
Results of Operations.”
Environmental Regulation
The Company’s facilities and operations are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and
safety, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous, radioactive and biological
materials and wastes, and the cleanup of contamination. Pollution controls and permits are required for many of the Company’s operations, and these permits are
subject to modification, renewal or revocation by the issuing authorities.
An environment, health and safety group within the Company monitors operations around the world, providing the Company with an overview of regulatory
requirements and overseeing the implementation of Company standards for compliance. The Company also incurs operating and capital costs for such matters on an
ongoing basis. The Company expended approximately $43 million, $45 million and $50 million on capital environmental projects undertaken specifically to meet
environmental requirements in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and expects to spend approximately $39 million in 2009. Although the Company believes that it is in
substantial compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements and the permits required for its operations, the Company nevertheless could
incur additional costs, including civil or criminal fines or penalties, clean-up costs, or third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, for violations or
liabilities under these laws.
25Table of Contents
Many of the Company’s current and former facilities have been in operation for many years, and, over time, the Company and other operators of those facilities have
generated, used, stored or disposed of substances or wastes that are considered hazardous under Federal, state and foreign environmental laws, including the U.S.
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). As a result, the soil and groundwater at or under certain of these facilities is or
may be contaminated, and the Company may be required to make significant expenditures to investigate, control and remediate such contamination, and in some
cases to provide compensation and/or restoration for damages to natural resources. Currently, the Company is involved in investigation and remediation at 14 current
or former Company facilities. The Company has also been identified as a “potentially responsible party” (PRP) under applicable laws for environmental conditions at
approximately 30 former waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties at which investigation and/or remediation activities are ongoing.
The Company may face liability under CERCLA and other Federal, state and foreign laws for the entire cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites, or
for natural resource damages, regardless of fault or ownership at the time of the disposal or release. In addition, at certain sites the Company bears remediation
responsibility pursuant to contract obligations. Generally, at third-party operator sites involving multiple PRPs, liability has been or is expected to be apportioned
based on the nature and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable PRPs. For additional information
about these matters, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 25. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Employees
As of December 31, 2008, the Company employed approximately 35,000 people.
During 2008, the Company continued to implement its comprehensive cost reduction program that included work force reduction in some areas and the rationalization
of some facilities. Also, during 2008, the Company sold its ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses, which employed approximately 4,000 people.
For further discussion about PTI and restructuring activities, see “—Productivity Transformation Initiative” above and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3.
Restructuring.”
Foreign Operations
The Company has significant operations outside the U.S. They are conducted both through the Company’s subsidiaries and through distributors, and involve both
of the same business segments as the Company’s U.S. operations —Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals.
For a geographic breakdown of net sales, see the table captioned Geographic Areas in “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 22. Segment Information” and for further
discussion of the Company’s sales by geographic area see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—
Geographic Areas.”
International operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business abroad, including, but not limited to, currency fluctuations, possible
nationalization or expropriation, price and exchange controls, counterfeit products, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises and other restrictive
governmental actions. The Company’s international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws on pricing or reimbursement for
use of products.
Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or reduce the reported dollar value of the Company’s net assets
and results of operations. In 2008, the change in foreign exchange rates had a net favorable impact on the growth rate of revenues, however the trend changed during
the latter half of the year. While the Company cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on it, the Company
attempts to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments. See the discussions under “Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 21. Financial Instruments.”
Bristol-Myers Squibb Website
The Company’s internet website address is www.bms.com. On its website, the Company makes available, free of charge, its annual, quarterly and current reports,
including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the
SEC.
Information relating to corporate governance at Bristol-Myers Squibb, including the Company’s Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior
Financial Officers, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, (collectively, the “Codes”), Corporate Governance Guidelines, and information concerning the
Company’s Executive Committee, Board of Directors, including
26Table of Contents
Board Committees and Committee charters, and transactions in Bristol-Myers Squibb securities by Directors and executive officers, is available on the Company’s
website under the “Investors—Corporate Governance” caption and in print to any stockholder upon request. Any waivers to the Codes by directors or executive
officers and any material amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers will be posted
promptly on the Company’s website. Information relating to stockholder services, including the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan and direct deposit of
dividends, is available on the Company’s website under the “Investors—Stockholder Services” caption.
The Company incorporates by reference certain information from parts of its proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The SEC allows the
Company to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. The Company’s proxy statement for the 2009 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders and 2008 Annual Report will be available on the Company’s website under the “Investors—SEC Filings” caption on or after March 23, 2009.
27Table of Contents
Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.
Any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, or credit
ratings, which could cause the trading price of the Company’s common stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company, or
risks that the Company currently considers immaterial, may also impair the Company’s operations.
The Company faces intense competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers, including from lower-priced generic products.
Competition from manufacturers of competing products, including lower-priced generic versions of the Company’s products is a major challenge, both within the
United States (U.S.) and internationally. Our Pharmaceuticals Segment is confronted by a record level of industry patent expirations and increasingly aggressive
generic competition. Such competition may include (i) new products developed by competitors that have lower prices or superior performance features or that are
otherwise competitive with the Company’s current products; (ii) technological advances and patents attained by competitors; (iii) results of clinical studies
related to the Company’s products or a competitor’s products; and (iv) business combinations among the Company’s competitors and major customers.
The Company depends on key products for most of its net sales, cash flows and earnings.
The Company derives a majority of our revenue from a few key products. In 2008, net sales of PLAVIX* contributed $5.6 billion, representing 27% of total net
sales, and net sales of ABILIFY* contributed approximately $2.2 billion, representing approximately 10% of total net sales. Three other products
(AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, REYATAZ and the SUSTIVA Franchise) each contributed more than $1.0 billion in net sales. A reduction in sales of these products could
significantly negatively impact the Company’s net sales, cash flows and earnings.
It is possible that the Company may lose market exclusivity of a product earlier than expected.
In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market
exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there are often
very substantial and rapid declines in the product’s sales. The rate of this decline varies by country and by therapeutic category.
Market exclusivity for the Company’s products is based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. The scope of the Company’s patent
rights may vary from country to country. In some countries, including in certain European Union member states, basic patent protection for the Company’s
products may not exist because historically certain countries did not offer the right to obtain certain types of patents and/or the Company (or its licensors) did
not file in those markets. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once the data exclusivity period expires, generic versions of the product can be
approved and marketed, such as generic clopidogrel bisulfate in certain EU markets. In addition, prior to the expiration of data exclusivity, a competitor could
seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval. Manufacturers of generic products are also increasingly seeking
to challenge patents before they expire, and may in some cases launch a generic product before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final
resolution of related patent litigation. The length of market exclusivity for any of the Company’s products is impossible to predict with certainty and there can be
no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimates disclosed in this Form 10-K.
Data protection for PLAVIX* has expired in the EU and PLAVIX* faces competition in European markets.
Data protection for PLAVIX* expired on July 15, 2008 in the European Union (EU). In most of the major markets within Europe, the product benefits from
national patents, expiring in 2013, which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel. In the remainder of EU member states, however, where there is no
composition of matter patent covering clopidogrel bisulfate, competitors are seeking regulatory authority to enter those markets with generic clopidogrel
bisulfate. In addition, at least one group of competitor companies has received marketing authorization for, and has started to market, an alternate salt form of
clopidogrel in Germany. The Company is aware that alternate salt applications have been filed in the EU. At this time, the Company cannot estimate reliably the
impact of any such competition on the Company’s financial results.
U.S. and foreign laws and regulations may negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins.
The Company could become subject to new government laws and regulations, such as (i) health care reform initiatives in the U.S. at the state and Federal level
and in other countries; (ii) changes in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and foreign
28Table of Contents
regulatory approval processes that may cause delays in approving, or preventing the approval of, new products; (iii) tax changes such as the phasing out of tax
benefits heretofore available in the U.S. and certain foreign countries; (iv) new laws, regulations and judicial or other governmental decisions affecting pricing,
reimbursement or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (v) changes in intellectual property law; and (vi) other matters such as compulsory licenses that could
alter the protections afforded one or more of its products.
The Company faces increased pricing pressure in the U.S. and abroad from managed care organizations, institutional purchasers, and government agencies and
programs that could negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins.
Pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing price pressures and other restrictions in the U.S. and worldwide, including (i) rules and practices of managed
care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, (ii) judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and
healthcare reform, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, (iii) the potential impact of importation restrictions,
legislative and/or regulatory changes, pharmaceutical reimbursement, Medicare Part D Formularies and product pricing in general, and (iv) other developments
in technology and/or industry practices that could directly or indirectly impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers.
The Company may experience difficulties and delays in the manufacturing and sale of its products.
The Company may experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing and sale, such as (i) seizure or recalls of pharmaceutical products or forced
closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) the failure to obtain, the imposition of limitations on the use of, or loss of patent and other intellectual property rights;
(iii) supply chain continuity including the failure of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and
other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product
manufacturing; (iv) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support
future demand for the Company’s biologics products; and (v) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites
and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, such as biologics, or physical limitations that could
impact continuous supply.
The Company may experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products.
The Company may experience difficulties and delays in the development and commercialization of new products, including the inherent risks and uncertainties
associated with product development, such as (i) compounds or products that may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected
or optimal timeframe, or fail ever to reach market, or to be approved for additional indications for any number of reasons, including efficacy or safety concerns,
the delay or denial of necessary regulatory approvals and the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture; (ii) failure to enter into or successfully implement
optimal alliances where appropriate for the discovery and/or commercialization of products, or otherwise to maintain a consistent scope and variety of promising
late-stage products; (iii) failure of one or more of the Company’s products to achieve or maintain commercial viability.
There are legal matters in which adverse outcomes could negatively affect the Company’s business.
The Company is currently involved in various lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations, any of which can preclude or delay
commercialization of products or adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, including (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) sales
and marketing practices in the U.S. and internationally; (iii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product liability and commercial cases; (iv) recalls or
withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the
government and other customers which may result in liability; (vi) product pricing and promotion matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting violations of
securities, antitrust, federal and state pricing and other laws; (viii) environmental, health and safety matters; and (ix) tax liabilities. There can be no assurance
that there will not be an increase in scope of these matters or there will not be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future; nor is there
any assurance that these matters will not have a material adverse impact on the Company.
The Company relies on third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations.
The Company relies on vendors, partners, including alliances with other pharmaceutical companies for the development and commercialization of products, and
other third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations in relation to their arrangements with the Company. The failure of these parties to
meet their obligations, and/or the development of significant disagreements or other factors that materially disrupt the ongoing commercial relationship and
prevent optimal alignment between the partners and their activities, could have a material adverse impact on the Company.
29Table of Contents
Failure to execute the Company’s business strategy could adversely impact its growth and profitability.
As part of its strategy, the Company currently is implementing a comprehensive cost reduction program that includes workforce reductions in some areas and the
rationalization of some facilities. The Company expects to incur restructuring and other charges in connection with this program in the aggregate range of $1.3
billion to $1.6 billion on a pre-tax basis until 2012, with $695 million of those charges having been incurred in 2008 and 2007.
The Company may not be able to fully execute the strategic transformation of its business to attain a new period of sustainable revenue and earnings growth. The
Company continues to invest in its key products and pipeline as part of a focus on addressing areas of significant unmet medical need. Failure to realize the
expected cost savings in 2009, to achieve and maintain a competitive cost base, or to successfully transition the product portfolio, however, could materially and
adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, the Company’s failure to hire and retain personnel with the right expertise and experience in
operations that are critical to its business functions could adversely impact the execution of its business strategy. Changes in the Company’s structure,
operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, could result in
greater than expected costs and other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approvals, as appropriate.
The Company is increasingly dependent on its information technology and outsourcing arrangements.
The Company is increasingly dependent on information technology systems and any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems
could negatively impact operations. The Company is also increasing its dependence on third-party providers for certain services, including information
technology systems, certain financial outsourcing arrangements and certain human resource functions. The failure of these service providers to meet their
obligations and/or the development of significant disagreements or other factors that materially disrupt the Company’s ongoing relationship with these providers
could negatively affect operations.
Recent adverse changes in U.S., global, or regional economic conditions could have a continuing adverse effect on the profitability of some or all of our
businesses.
Recent turmoil in the financial markets has adversely affected economic activity in the United States and other regions of the world in which we do business.
Although we believe that based on our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances and expected operating cash flows, the current lack of
liquidity in the credit markets will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow, or financial flexibility, continued deterioration of the credit and capital
markets could cause additional impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively impact our financial condition and reported earnings. The
continued decline in economic activity could adversely affect demand for our products, thus reducing our revenue and earnings as well as have an adverse impact
on our customers, distributors, alliance partners, suppliers, service providers and counterparties to certain financial instruments such as marketable securities
and derivatives. The severe decline in equity markets have resulted in a decline in our pension plan assets which will increase future funding requirements.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
We have significant operations outside of the U.S. Revenues from operations outside of the U.S. accounted for 42% of the Company’s revenues in 2008. As such, we
are exposed to changes in fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates. We also have significant borrowings which are exposed to changes in interest rates. At
December 31, 2008, the Company had short-term borrowings and long-term debt of $6.7 billion. The Company is also exposed to other economic factors over
which the Company has no control.
The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of the Company’s products could have a negative impact on our reputation.
Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet the rigorous manufacturing and testing standards that our
products undergo. A patient who receives a counterfeit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation could suffer harm as a
result of counterfeit drugs sold under the name of one of our products.
30Table of Contents
Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.
None.
Item 2. PROPERTIES.
The Company’s world headquarters is located at 345 Park Avenue, New York, NY, where it leases approximately 275,000 square feet of floor space, approximately
215,000 square feet of which is sublet to others.
The Company manufactures products at 27 major worldwide locations with an aggregate floor space of approximately 5.6 million square feet. All facilities are owned
by the Company. The following table illustrates the geographic location of the Company’s significant manufacturing facilities by business segment.
Total
Pharmaceuticals Nutritionals Company
United States 4 2 6
Europe, Middle East and Africa 8 1 9
Other Western Hemisphere 4 1 5
Pacific 4 3 7
Total 20 7 27
Portions of these facilities and other facilities owned or leased by the Company in the U.S. and elsewhere are used for research, administration, storage and
distribution. For further information about the Company’s facilities, see “Item 1. Business—Manufacturing and Quality Assurance.”
As part of the Company’s PTI, it has reduced and expects to continue to reduce the number of its manufacturing facilities.
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 25. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies” and is incorporated by
reference herein.
Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2008.
31Table of Contents
PART IA
Executive Officers of the Registrant
Listed below is information on executive officers of the Company as of February 20, 2009. Executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors for an initial term,
which continues until the first Board meeting following the next annual meeting of stockholders and thereafter are elected for a one-year term or until their successors
have been elected. All executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
Name and Current Position Age Employment History for the Past 5 Years
James M. Cornelius 65 2000 to 2005 – Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Guidant
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Corporation.
Member of the Management Council 2005 to 2006 – Interim Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board,
Guidant Corporation.
2006 to 2007 – Interim Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company.
2007 to 2008 – Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company.
2008 to present – Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company.
Lamberto Andreotti 58 2002 to 2005 – Senior Vice President and President International, Worldwide
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Medicines Group, a division of the Company.
Worldwide Pharmaceuticals 2005 to 2007 – Executive Vice President and President, Worldwide
Member of the Management Council Pharmaceuticals, a division of the Company.
2007 to present – Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer,
Worldwide Pharmaceuticals, a division of the Company.
Joseph C. Caldarella 53 1998 to 2005 – Vice President, Finance, Pharmaceutical Research Institute, a
Vice President and Corporate Controller, division of the Company.
Corporate Staff 2005 to present – Vice President and Corporate Controller, Corporate Staff
of the Company.
John E. Celentano 49 2002 to 2005 – President, Latin America and Canada, Worldwide Medicines
Senior Vice President, Strategy and Productivity Group, a division of the Company.
Transformation 2005 to 2008 – President, Health Care Group, a division of the Company.
Member of the Management Council 2008 to present – Senior Vice President, Strategy and Productivity
Transformation, Corporate Staff of the Company.
Brian Daniels, M.D. 49 2004 to 2008 – Senior Vice President, Global Clinical Development, Research
Senior Vice President, Global Development and and Development, a division of the Company.
Medical Affairs, Research and Development 2008 to present – Senior Vice President, Global Development and Medical
Member of the Management Council Affairs, Research and Development, a division of the Company.
Carlo de Notaristefani 51 2004 to 2004 – Senior Vice President, International Finishing Operations,
President, Technical Operations, Worldwide Worldwide Medicines Group, a division of the Company.
Pharmaceuticals 2004 to present – President, Technical Operations, Worldwide
Member of the Management Council Pharmaceuticals, a division of the Company.
Anthony C. Hooper 54 2004 to present – President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals, Worldwide
President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals Group, a division of the Company.
Member of the Management Council
32Table of Contents
Jean-Marc Huet 39 2003 to 2007 – Chief Financial Officer, Royal Numico N.V. 2008 to present –
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Staff of the Company.
Corporate Staff
Member of the Management Council
Sandra Leung 48 2002 to 2006 – Vice President and Corporate Secretary, Corporate Staff of the
Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Company.
Corporate Staff 2006 to 2007 – Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Acting General
Member of the Management Council Counsel, Corporate Staff of the Company.
2007 to present – Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Corporate Staff
of the Company.
Anthony A. McBride 45 2002 to 2005 – Vice President, Human Resources, International & Global
Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Marketing, a division of the Company,
Corporate Staff 2005 to 2008 – Vice President, Human Resources, Pharmaceutical Commercial
Member of the Management Council Operations, a division of the Company.
2008 to present – Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Corporate Staff of
the Company.
Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D. 57 2002 to 2004 – Senior Vice President, Global Clinical and Pharmaceutical
Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer Development, Research Institute, a division of the Company.
and President, Research and Development 2004 to present – Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research and
Member of the Management Council Development, a division of the Company.
Robert T. Zito 55 1999 to 2004 – Executive Vice President, Communications, New York Stock
Senior Vice President, Corporate and Business Exchange.
Communications and Chief Communications Officer 2004 to present – Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Corporate Staff of
Member of the Management Council the Company.
33Table of Contents
PART II
Item 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON STOCK AND OTHER STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
Market Prices
Bristol-Myers Squibb common and preferred stocks are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and were traded on the NYSE Arca, Inc, formerly the Pacific
Exchange, Inc. (symbols: BMY; BMYPR). A quarterly summary of the high and low market prices is presented below:
Common:
2008 2007
High Low High Low
First Quarter $ 27.37 $ 20.05 $ 29.39 $ 25.73
Second Quarter 23.60 19.43 32.25 27.00
Third Quarter 22.93 19.70 32.35 26.38
Fourth Quarter 23.82 16.00 30.35 26.52
Preferred:
2008 2007
High Low High Low
First Quarter $ 500.00 $ 500.00 $ 600.00 $ 460.00
Second Quarter * * 500.00 500.00
Third Quarter * * 503.00 475.00
Fourth Quarter * * 475.37 450.00
* During the second, third and fourth quarters of 2008, there were no trades of the Company’s preferred stock. The preferred stock pays a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share.
Holders of Common Stock
The number of record holders of common stock at December 31, 2008 was 66,305.
The number of record holders is based upon the actual number of holders registered on the books of the Company at such date and does not include holders of
shares in “street names” or persons, partnerships, associations, corporations or other entities identified in security position listings maintained by depository trust
companies.
Voting Securities and Principal Holders
Reference is made to the 2009 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2009 with respect to voting securities and principal holders, which is incorporated
herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by this Item 5.
34Table of Contents
Dividends
The Board of Directors of the Company declared the following dividends per share, which were paid in 2008 and 2007 in the quarters indicated below:
Common Preferred
2008 2007 2008 2007
First Quarter $ 0.31 $ 0.28 $ 0.50 $ 0.50
Second Quarter 0.31 0.28 0.50 0.50
Third Quarter 0.31 0.28 0.50 0.50
Fourth Quarter 0.31 0.28 0.50 0.50
$ 1.24 $ 1.12 $ 2.00 $ 2.00
In December 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $0.31 per share on the common stock of the Company which was paid on
February 2, 2009 to shareholders of record as of January 2, 2009. The Board of Directors also declared a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share on the preferred stock of
the Company, payable on March 2, 2009 to shareholders of record as of February 6, 2009.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
The following table summarizes the surrenders of the Company’s equity securities in connection with stock option and restricted stock programs during the 12 month
period ended December 31, 2008:
Total Number of Approximate Dollar
Total Number Shares Purchased as Value of Shares that
of Average Price Part of Publicly May Yet Be
Shares Paid per Announced Plans or Purchased Under the
Period Purchased(a) Share(a) Programs(b) Plans or Programs(b)
Dollars in Millions, except per share data
January 1 to 31, 2008 13,431 $ 26.14 — $ 2,220
February 1 to 29, 2008 16,142 $ 24.13 — $ 2,220
March 1 to 31, 2008 530,289 $ 22.07 — $ 2,220
Three months ended March 31, 2008 559,862
April 1 to 30, 2008 13,019 $ 22.28 — $ 2,220
May 1 to 31, 2008 34,544 $ 22.16 — $ 2,220
June 1 to 30, 2008 11,098 $ 22.59 — $ 2,220
Three months ended June 30, 2008 58,661
July 1 to 31, 2008 9,889 $ 20.80 — $ 2,220
August 1 to 31, 2008 5,932 $ 21.11 — $ 2,220
September 1 to 30, 2008 60,781 $ 21.24 — $ 2,220
Three months ended September 30, 2008 76,602
October 1 to 31, 2008 334,477 $ 20.53 — $ 2,220
November 1 to 30, 2008 24,174 $ 20.53 — $ 2,220
December 1 to 31, 2008 14,084 $ 20.54 — $ 2,220
Three months ended December 31, 2008 372,735
Twelve months ended December 31, 2008 1,067,860
(a) Reflects transaction during the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 for the surrender to the Company of 1,067,860 shares of common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of
restricted stock issued to employees.
(b) In June 2001, the Company announced that the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to $14.0 billion of the Company’s common stock. During the 12 months ended December 31, 2008, no shares
were repurchased pursuant to this program.
35Table of Contents
Performance Graph
The following performance graph compares the performance of Bristol-Myers Squibb for the periods indicated with the performance of the Standard & Poor’s 500
Stock Index (S&P 500) and the average performance of a group consisting of our peer corporations on a line-of-business basis. The corporations making up our peer
companies group are Abbott Laboratories, AstraZeneca PLC, Eli Lilly and Company, GlaxoSmithKline plc, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., Inc., Novartis AG,
Pfizer, Inc., Sanofi-Aventis (including the performance of Aventis prior to its merger with Sanofi), Schering-Plough Corporation and Wyeth.
Total return indices reflect reinvested dividends and are weighted using beginning-period market capitalization for each of the reported time periods. We measured
our performance against this same group in the 2008 Proxy Statement.
Comparison of Five Year Cumulative Total Return
December 31,
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Bristol-Myers Squibb $ 100 $ 93 $ 87 $ 104 $ 109 $ 101
S&P 500 Index $ 100 $ 109 $ 112 $ 128 $ 132 $ 81
Peer Group $ 100 $ 97 $ 99 $ 112 $ 114 $ 95
Assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2003 in Bristol-Myers Squibb Common Stock, S&P 500 Index and Peer Group. Values are as of December 31 of specified year
assuming dividends are reinvested.
36Table of Contents
Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
Five Year Financial Summary
Amounts in Millions, except per share data 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Income Statement Data:(1)
Net Sales $ 20,597 $ 18,193 $ 16,208 $ 17,613 $ 17,837
Earning from Continuing Operations Before
Income Taxes and Minority Interest 5,471 3,186 2,085 4,016 3,911
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations 3,155 1,741 1,214 2,652 2,017
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations per Common Share:
Basic $ 1.60 $ 0.88 $ 0.62 $ 1.36 $ 1.04
Diluted $ 1.59 $ 0.88 $ 0.62 $ 1.35 $ 1.02
Average common shares outstanding:
Basic 1,977 1,970 1,960 1,952 1,942
Diluted 2,001 1,980 1,963 1,983 1,976
Dividends paid on common and preferred stock $ 2,461 $ 2,213 $ 2,199 $ 2,186 $ 2,174
Dividends declared per common share $ 1.24 $ 1.15 $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.12
Financial Position Data at December 31:
Total Assets $ 29,552 $ 25,926 $ 25,271 $ 28,068 $ 30,435
Cash and cash equivalents 7,976 1,801 2,018 3,050 3,680
Marketable securities 289 424 1,995 2,749 3,794
Long-term debt 6,585 4,381 7,248 8,364 8,463
Stockholders’ Equity 12,241 10,562 9,991 11,208 10,202
(1) The Company recorded items that affected the comparability of results. For a discussion of these items for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations—Expenses/Gains.”
37Table of Contents
Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
About the Company
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS or the Company) is a global biopharmaceutical and nutritional products
company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life by providing the highest quality pharmaceutical and nutritional products. The Company is engaged in
the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceuticals and nutritional products. The Company has two reportable
segments—Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals. The Pharmaceuticals segment consists of the global pharmaceutical/biotechnology and international consumer
medicines business, which accounted for approximately 86% of the Company’s 2008 net sales. The Nutritionals segment consists of Mead Johnson Nutrition
Company (Mead Johnson), primarily an infant formula and children’s nutritionals business, which accounted for approximately 14% of the Company’s 2008 net sales.
2008 Financial Highlights
The following table is a summary of operating activity:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Net Sales $ 20,597 $ 18,193
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations 3,155 1,741
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations 2,092 424
Net Earnings 5,247 2,165
Net Cash/(Debt) 1,526 (4,047)
Net Sales
The Company’s net sales from continuing operations increased 13%. PLAVIX* (clopidogrel bisulfate) and ABILIFY* continue to drive worldwide sales growth with
sales increases of 18% and 30%, respectively. Significant contributions to sales growth are also provided by other key products including ORENCIA, SPRYCEL and
the HIV and Hepatitis portfolio.
Net Earnings from Continued Operations
The increases in net earnings from continuing operations is attributed to increased sales growth and favorability in gross margins, a portion of which is attributed to
a favorable product mix as well as cost savings and avoidances resulting from the Company’s productivity transformation initiative (PTI). The $582 million after-tax
gain related to the tendering of the Company’s shares in ImClone also had a significant impact on net earnings from continuing operations amongst other specified
items discussed in “—Expenses/Gains” below.
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations
In 2008, the Company completed the divestitures of its Medical Imaging business for a gross purchase price of $525 million resulting in an after-tax loss of $43 million
as well as the ConvaTec business for gross purchase price of approximately $4.1 billion resulting in an after-tax gain of $2.0 billion. The results of the Medical Imaging
and ConvaTec businesses and the related gains and losses are included in discontinued operations for all years presented.
Net Cash/(Debt)
Net cash/(debt) position as of December 31, 2008 improved due to proceeds of $4.6 billion from the divestiture of the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses and
proceeds of $1.0 billion from the sale of our ImClone shares. Cash generated from operating activities of $3.7 billion was more than adequate to fund dividend
payments of $2.5 billion as well as capital expenditure payments of $941 million.
Business Environment
The Company conducts its business primarily within the pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry, which is highly competitive and subject to numerous government
regulations. Many competitive factors may significantly affect the Company’s sales of its products, including product efficacy, safety, price and cost-effectiveness,
marketing effectiveness, product labeling, quality control and quality assurance of its manufacturing operations, and research and development of new products. To
successfully compete for business in
38Table of Contents
the health care industry, the Company must demonstrate that its products offer medical benefits as well as cost advantages. Currently, most of the Company’s new
product introductions compete with other products already on the market in the same therapeutic category, in addition to potential competition of new products that
competitors may introduce in the future. The Company manufactures branded products, which are priced higher than generic products. Generic competition is one of
the Company’s leading challenges globally.
In the pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period that the product has
market exclusivity. When a product loses exclusivity, it is no longer protected by a patent and is subject to new competing products in the form of generic brands.
Upon exclusivity loss, the Company can lose a major portion of that product’s sales in a short period of time. Currently, generic versions of biological products
cannot be approved under United States (U.S.) law. However, the law could change in the future. Even in the absence of new legislation, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) is taking steps toward allowing generic versions of certain biologics. Competitors seeking approval of biological products must file their own
safety and efficacy data and address the challenges of biologics manufacturing, which involves more complex processes that are more costly than those of traditional
pharmaceutical operations.
Both in the U.S. and internationally, the health care industry is subject to various government-imposed regulations authorizing prices or price controls that have and
will continue to have an impact on the Company’s sales. In the U.S., Congress and some state legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have enacted
laws that could result in major changes in the current health care system, either nationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid access
and reimbursement restrictions have been implemented in some states and proposed in many others. In addition, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
Modernization Act provides outpatient prescription drug coverage to senior citizens in the U.S. This legislation has had a modest favorable impact on the Company
as a result of an increase in the number of seniors with drug coverage. At the same time, there continues to be a potential negative impact on the U.S. pharmaceutical
business that could result from pricing pressures or controls. In many markets outside the U.S., the Company operates in environments of government-mandated,
cost-containment programs, or under other regulatory bodies or groups that can exert downward pressure on pricing. Pricing freedom is limited in the United
Kingdom (UK), for instance, by the operation of a profit control plan and in Germany by the operation of a reference price system. Companies also face significant
delays in market access for new products as more than two years can elapse after drug approval before new medicines become available in some countries.
The growth of Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) in the U.S. has played a large role in the competition that surrounds the health care industry. MCOs seek to
reduce health care expenditures for participants by making volume purchases and entering into long-term contracts to negotiate discounts with various
pharmaceutical providers. Because of the market potential created by the large pool of participants, marketing prescription drugs to MCOs has become an important
part of the Company’s strategy. Companies compete for inclusion in MCO formularies and the Company generally has been successful in having its major products
included. The Company believes that developments in the managed care industry, including continued consolidation, have had and will continue to have a generally
downward pressure on prices.
Pharmaceutical/biotechnology production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product. Shifting or adding manufacturing
capacity can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital expenditures and regulatory approvals. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes
than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. As biologics become more important to the Company’s product portfolio, the Company will continue to make
arrangements with third-party manufacturers and to make substantial investments to increase its internal capacity to produce biologics on a commercial scale. One
such investment is a new, state-of-the-art manufacturing facility for the production of biologics in Devens, Massachusetts, the construction of which began in May
2007.
The Company has maintained a competitive position in the market and strives to uphold this position, which is dependent on its success in discovering and
developing innovative, cost-effective products that serve unmet medical need. The Company has expanded PTI activities in order to achieve additional savings in
order to further reduce costs, streamline operations and rationalize global manufacturing to become a more productive and competitive biopharmaceutical company.
The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time
reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. For additional discussion of legal matters, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 25.
Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Strategy
The Company’s multi-year strategy is transformation into a next-generation biopharmaceutical company. The strategy encompasses all aspects and all geographies
of the business and will yield substantial cost savings and cost avoidance and increase the Company’s financial flexibility to take advantage of attractive market
opportunities that may arise.
39Table of Contents
Managing costs is one part of the Company’s overall strategy as it transitions to a next-generation biopharmaceutical company, focused on delivering its present
commitments, maximizing near-term growth opportunities and improving its earnings base in 2012-2013. The Company announced PTI designed to create a total of
$2.5 billion in annual productivity savings and cost avoidance by 2012. The first wave, announced in December 2007, targets $1.5 billion in savings and cost
avoidance by 2010. The second wave, announced in July 2008, targets an additional $1.0 billion in savings and cost avoidance by 2012.
The Company will continue to focus on the development of our biopharmaceutical business and will maintain its growth by investing in research and development of
new product pipeline. The Company will continue to invest in key growth products, including specialty and biologic medicines, and cardiovascular and metabolic
drugs. The Company is seeking to reallocate resources to continue its string of pearls strategy and enable strategic transactions, such as the acquisition of Kosan
Biosciences, Inc. (Kosan) and strategic alliances, such as the global codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with Exelixis, Inc. (Exelixis) and a global
collaboration agreement with ZymoGenetics, both entered in 2008. The Company will continue pursuing partnerships and expanding other collaborative arrangements
with biopharmaceutical companies and will continue entering into strategic alliances with third parties in order to obtain rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or
sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are owned by such third parties.
The Company will continue to maximize the value of our non-core businesses. In 2008, the Company completed the divestiture of its ConvaTec and Medical Imaging
businesses. The Company has also sold its mature brands business located in Egypt.
New Product and Pipeline Developments
SPRYCEL
• In January 2009, the Company announced the approval of SPRYCEL in Japan.
IXEMPRA
• In December 2008, the Company announced new data from studies of IXEMPRA (ixabepilone) plus capecitabine compared to capecitabine alone,
including a pre-specified sub set analysis demonstrating a significant increase in progression free survival in patients with triple negative breast cancer.
• In November 2008, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) in Europe issued a negative opinion on the marketing authorization
application for IXEMPRA in the treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer. The Company requested a re-examination of the case, which is
currently under consideration by CHMP.
Exelixis
• In December 2008, the Company announced a global collaboration with Exelixis covering two novel molecules for cancer with their associated
development programs: Exelixis’ XL184, a small molecule inhibitor of MET, VEGFR2 and RET, which is currently in Phase III development for medullary
thyroid cancer; and, Exelixis’ XL281, a small molecule inhibitor of RAF kinase, which is currently in Phase I development for the treatment of patients
with advanced solid tumor malignancies. Under the agreement, the Company receives development and commercialization rights to both programs.
Dapagliflozin
• In December 2008, the Company and AstraZeneca announced expansion of their worldwide collaboration to include the development and
commercialization of dapagliflozin in Japan. Dapagliflozin, one of two investigational drugs under joint development by the companies, is currently being
studied in Phase III clinical trials in several countries, including the U.S., to assess its efficacy and safety as a once-daily treatment for type 2 diabetes.
ERBITUX*
• In January 2009, the Company and its marketing partner ImClone Systems, Inc. (ImClone), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly),
announced, that the companies will withdraw, and eventually resubmit, an application with the FDA to broaden the use of ERBITUX* to include first-
line treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy (cisplatin/vinorelbine).
• In October 2008, the FDA has accepted for filing and priority review, the supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) to broaden the indication
for ERBITUX* to include use in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic
squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
• In October 2008, publication of study results showing that metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients with wild-type or “normal” K-ras tumors who
were treated with ERBITUX* plus best supportive care (BSC) had a statistically significant increase in overall survival and progression-free survival
compared to those treated with BSC alone. Specifically, patients whose tumors had the normal (mutant negative) K-ras gene achieved a near two-fold
improvement in overall survival and progression-free survival over patients treated with BSC alone. In patients with mutated K-ras tumors, there was no
significant difference in overall or progression-free survival between those treated with ERBITUX* plus BSC and those treated with BSC alone. The
Company and the FDA are in discussions regarding possible label changes related to this study.
40Table of Contents
• In September 2008, the announcement of five year data showing significant improvements in overall survival for patients with locally or regionally
advanced head and neck cancer and the EXTREME study was published in the New England Journal of Medicine showing that ERBITUX* improved
survival in first-line recurrent and/or metastatic head and neck cancer.
• In July 2008, ERBITUX* received marketing approval in Japan for treatment of patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer.
• In May 2008, at the annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO), a landmark Phase III study (FLEX) showed that the addition
of ERBITUX* to platinum-based chemotherapy significantly increased overall survival in the first-line treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell
lung cancer, when compared to platinum-based chemotherapy alone.
ABILIFY*
• A supplemental New Drug Application for ABILIFY* was approved by the FDA in February 2008 for the acute treatment of manic and mixed episodes
associated with certain pediatric patients (age 10-17) with Bipolar I Disorder.
• FDA approval was received in May 2008 for new ABILIFY* indications for pediatric bipolar (ages 10-17) maintenance therapy, pediatric schizophrenia
(ages 10-17) maintenance therapy, and as add-on treatment to lithium or valproate for acute treatment of bipolar disorder in both pediatric (age 10-17) and
adult patients.
• The European Commission authorized marketing of ABILIFY* in March 2008 in the treatment of moderate to severe manic episodes in Bipolar I Disorder
and for the prevention of a new manic episode in patients who experienced predominantly manic episodes and whose manic episodes responded to
ABILIFY* treatment.
ORENCIA
• In October 2008, the Company announced results from a 10-month study, which showed that ORENCIA, compared to placebo (PBO), significantly
improved multiple aspects of health-related quality of life: physical and psychosocial well being, pain and sleep quality in juvenile idiopathic arthritis
(JIA) patients between the ages 6 and 17 years. These results were part of a study looking at the safety and efficacy of ORENCIA in children with JIA
who had failed on previous treatments such as methotrexate (MTX) or biologics.
• In October 2008, the Company announced results from a Phase IIIb study in adult patients with early moderate-to-severe erosive rheumatoid arthritis
(RA) who had never received previous MTX treatment. This study showed that ORENCIA in combination with MTX had significantly more patients
achieve a Disease Activity Score 28 using C-reactive protein-defined remission, compared with MTX plus PBO. The safety profile of ORENCIA in
combination with MTX was similar to that of MTX plus PBO. Also, in the same quarter, the Company filed an sBLA with the FDA for the use of
ORENCIA for patients with early RA.
• In June 2008, new Phase II data presented at the European League Against Rheumatism demonstrated that ORENCIA may delay the development of RA
in people with undifferentiated inflammatory arthritis.
• In April 2008, ORENCIA was approved by the FDA for treatment of juvenile RA. Additionally, the U.S. label for ORENCIA was revised with an
indication that means ORENCIA is now an appropriate option for patients with moderate-to-severe RA, regardless of prior treatment received.
REYATAZ
• In October 2008, the Company announced 96-week data from the CASTLE study, in which 74% of the 440 patients in the REYATAZ/r arm achieved an
undetectable viral load, defined as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 RNA less than 50 copies/mL, compared with 68% of the 443 patients in the
lopinavir/r arm. The difference between treatment arms may have been related to the 16% discontinuation rate in the REYATAZ/r arm and the 21%
discontinuation rate in the lopinavir/r arm.
• In October 2008, the FDA approved the use of REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate) 300 milligram once-daily boosted with ritonavir 100 milligram as part of
combination therapy in previously untreated (treatment-naïve) HIV-1 infected patients. This use of once-daily REYATAZ/ritonavir in HIV-1 infected
treatment-naïve adult patients is based upon 48-week results from the CASTLE study, which demonstrated similar antiviral efficacy of
REYATAZ/ritonavir to twice-daily lopinavir/ritonavir, each as part of HIV combination therapy in treatment-naïve HIV-1 infected adult patients. Data
from the CASTLE study was published in the August 23 issue of The Lancet.
• In June 2008, European approval was received for an expanded indication for REYATAZ 300 mg once-daily boosted with ritonavir 100 mg as part of
combination therapy in treatment-naïve HIV-1 infected patients.
• In February 2008, the first data comparing boosted REYATAZ (REYATAZ plus ritonavir) and lopinavir/ritonavir was presented at the Congress on
Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections.
41Table of Contents
BARACLUDE
• The Company announced in November 2008 data from two separate cohort evaluations, in which long-term treatment with BARACLUDE was associated
with improved liver histology, including improvement in fibrosis, in chronic hepatitis B patients. The histology data were presented at the 59th Annual
Meeting of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
• New data at the March 2008 Asian Pacific Association for the Study of the Liver meeting, demonstrated a continued low incidence of resistance to
BARACLUDE in nucleoside-naive patients through five years of treatment, which is important for many chronic hepatitis B patients requiring long-term
treatment.
Apixaban
• In September 2008, the Company and its development partner Pfizer announced a Phase II study (APPRAISE-1) of apixaban – a novel anticoagulant –
provided encouraging trends suggesting that anticoagulation with apixaban on top of current standards of care and continued beyond the initial
hospitalization may reduce the risk of a second heart attack, stroke or death.
• The primary endpoint was not met in a Phase III study of apixaban for prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients undergoing total knee
replacement. The results of the trial do not necessitate any changes in protocols of any other ongoing apixaban studies. The companies are considering
further studies in preventing VTE in knee surgery and will not submit the U.S. regulatory filing for VTE prevention in the second half of 2009, as
previously communicated. Programs directed toward prevention of VTE, including European Medicines Evaluation Agency registration studies,
treatment of VTE, Acute Coronary Systems and in the prevention of stroke in atrial fibrillation continue as planned.
Ipilimumab
• Favorable updated survival data was announced in September 2008 from three Phase II studies of ipilimumab.
Saxagliptin
• Favorable results were announced in September 2008 of Phase III studies of ONGLYZA (saxagliptin).
• Regulatory submissions for ONGLYZA were made in both the U.S. and in Europe on June 30 and July 1, respectively.
• At the annual scientific sessions of the American Diabetes Association, a Phase III study demonstrated that saxagliptin produced significant reductions
in key measures of glucose control in treatment-naïve people with type 2 diabetes compared to placebo.
Elotuzumab
• The Company entered into an agreement with PDL BioPharma, Inc. in August 2008, for the global development and commercialization of elotuzumab, an
anti-CS1 antibody currently in Phase I development for multiple myeloma.
KAI-9803
• In May 2008, the Company entered into an agreement with KAI to develop and commercialize KAI’s novel acute heart attack medicine, KAI-9803.
Kosan
• In June 2008, Bristol-Myers Squibb completed the acquisition of Kosan, a cancer therapeutics company with a library of novel compounds, including
Hsp90 inhibitors for cancer and microtubule stabilizers, which may have additional potential in neurodegenerative diseases.
ZymoGenetics
• In January 2009, the Company and ZymoGenetics announced a global collaboration for PEG-Interferon lambda, a novel type 3 interferon currently in
Phase Ib development for the treatment of Hepatitis C, and its related development program.
PLAVIX*
• The European Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use in March 2008 issued a positive opinion recommending approval of the 300 milligram
loading dose tablet of PLAVIX*. This positive opinion was ratified by the European Commission.
42Table of Contents
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussions of the Company’s results of continuing operations exclude the results related to the Medical Imaging business prior to its divestiture in
January 2008, and the ConvaTec business prior to its divestiture in August 2008. Both Medical Imaging and ConvaTec were previously presented as a component of
the former Other Health Care operating segment, which was renamed the ConvaTec operating segment subsequent to the Medical Imaging divestiture. These
businesses have been segregated from continuing operations and included in discontinued operations for all periods presented.
The Company’s results of operations were as follows:
% Change
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006
Net Sales $ 20,597 $ 18,193 $ 16,208 13% 12%
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Minority
Interest $ 5,471 $ 3,186 $ 2,085 72% 53%
% of net sales 26.6% 17.5% 12.9%
Provision for Income Taxes $ 1,320 $ 682 $ 431 94% 58%
Effective tax rate 24.1% 21.4% 20.7%
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 3,155 $ 1,741 $ 1,214 81% 43%
% of net sales 15.3% 9.6% 7.5%
Net Sales
The composition of the changes in net sales was as follows:
2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006
Net Sales Analysis of % Change Analysis of % Change
Foreign Foreign
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 Total Change Volume Price Exchange Total Change Volume Price Exchange
U.S. $ 12,042 $ 10,422 $ 8,785 16% 9% 7% — 19% 15% 4% —
Non-U.S. 8,555 7,771 7,423 10% 4% 1% 5% 5% (1)% — 6%
Total $ 20,597 $ 18,193 $ 16,208 13% 7% 4% 2% 12% 7% 2% 3%
The 2008 and 2007 increase in U.S. net sales is primarily driven by growth in key U.S. pharmaceutical products which are described below in further detail. Increases
in international net sales in 2008 and 2007 were aided by a weakened U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies, especially the euro and U.K. pound.
In general, the Company’s business is not seasonal. For information on U.S. pharmaceutical prescriber demand, reference is made to the table within “—
Pharmaceuticals” below, which sets forth a comparison of changes in net sales to the estimated total prescription growth (for both retail and mail order customers) for
certain of the Company’s key pharmaceuticals products and new products sold by the U.S. pharmaceuticals business. The U.S. and non-U.S. net sales are based
upon the location of the customer.
43Table of Contents
The Company’s net sales by segment were as follows:
Net Sales % Change % of Total Net Sales
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 2008 2007 2006
Pharmaceuticals $ 17,715 $ 15,622 $ 13,861 13% 13% 86% 86% 86%
Nutritionals 2,882 2,571 2,347 12% 10% 14% 14% 14%
Total $ 20,597 $ 18,193 $ 16,208 13% 12% 100 % 100 % 100 %
The Company recognizes revenue net of various sales adjustments to arrive at net sales as reported on the consolidated statements of earnings. These adjustments
are referred to as gross-to-net sales adjustments and are further described in “—Critical Accounting Policies” below.
The reconciliations of the Company’s gross sales to net sales by each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustments were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Gross Sales $ 23,344 $ 20,814 $ 18,909
Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments
Prime Vendor Charge-Backs (529) (551) (624)
Women, Infants and Children (WIC) Rebates (796) (848) (872)
Managed Health Care Rebates and Other Contract Discounts (376) (333) (274)
Medicaid Rebates (205) (169) (174)
Cash Discounts (282) (239) (214)
Sales Returns (228) (155) (224)
Other Adjustments (331) (326) (319)
Total Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments (2,747 ) (2,621 ) (2,701 )
Net Sales $ 20,597 $ 18,193 $ 16,208
The gross-to-net adjustments are primarily a function of gross sales and activity is typically correlated with current sales trends as is the case with managed health
care rebates and other contract discounts, Medicaid rebates, cash discounts, and other adjustments in 2008, 2007 and 2006. Managed health care rebates and other
contract discounts and Medicaid rebates are also affected by changes to sales mix and contractual and legislative discount rates. The 2007 increases in managed
health care rebates and other contract discounts were also impacted by the reduction of reserves in 2006 related to the TRICARE Retail Pharmacy Refund Program.
Prime vendor charge-backs decreased throughout 2008 and 2007 as a result lower sales of TAXOL attributed to the loss of exclusivity. The Women, Infant and
Children (WIC) rebates decrease is related to the net impact of several WIC contract transactions.
The 2008 increase in sales returns is primarily attributed to increased provisions for PRAVACHOL, driven by higher retail sales returns than previously assumed, and
the loss of exclusivity of ZERIT. The 2007 variance in sales returns when compared to the prior year is attributed to higher provisions in 2006 for cardiovascular non-
exclusive brands and from the discontinued commercialization of TEQUIN (gatifloxacin).
44Table of Contents
The activities and ending balances of each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustments were as follows:
Managed
Health Care
Women, Rebates and
Infants and Other
Prime Vendor Children Contract Medicaid Cash Sales Other
Dollars in Millions Charge-Backs (WIC) Rebates Discounts Rebates Discounts Returns Adjustments Total
Balance at January 1, 2007 $ 63 230 $ 111 $ 137 $ 18 $ 221 $ 124 $ 904
Provision related to sales made in current period 551 845 340 176 238 137 328 2,615
Provision related to sales made in prior periods — 3 (7) (7) 1 18 (2) 6
Returns and payments (551) (880) (306) (181) (234) (201) (334) (2,687)
Impact of foreign currency translation — — 6 — — 4 10 20
Discontinued operations 7 — (10) — 1 (1) 2 (1)
Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 70 $ 198 $ 134 $ 125 $ 24 $ 178 $ 128 $ 857
Provision related to sales made in current period 529 799 383 213 281 136 338 2,679
Provision related to sales made in prior periods — (3) (7) (8) 1 92 (7) 68
Returns and payments (531) (799) (357) (197) (274) (189) (333) (2,680)
Impact of foreign currency translation — — 2 — (1) (5) (3) (7)
Discontinued operations (23) — (1) — — (3) (8) (35)
Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 45 $ 195 $ 154 $ 133 $ 31 $ 209 $ 115 $ 882
In 2008 and 2007, the Company recorded gross-to-net sales adjustments related to sales made in prior periods. The significant items included charges for sales returns
of $92 million in 2008 and $18 million in 2007, primarily resulting from higher than expected returns of certain non-exclusive products.
No other significant revisions were made to the estimates for gross-to-net sales adjustments in 2008 and 2007.
Pharmaceuticals
The composition of the changes in pharmaceutical net sales was as follows:
2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006
Net Sales Analysis of % Change Analysis of % Change
Foreign Foreign
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 Total Change Volume Price Exchange Total Change Volume Price Exchange
U.S. $ 10,611 $ 8,992 $ 7,417 18% 11% 7% — 21% 16% 5% —
Non-U.S. 7,104 6,630 6,444 7% 3% (1)% 5% 3% (2)% (1)% 6%
Total $ 17,715 $ 15,622 $ 13,861 13% 8% 3% 2% 13% 8% 2% 3%
In 2008, most of the key U.S. pharmaceutical products contributed to the growth in sales. PLAVIX* and ABILIFY*, represented approximately 46% and 16%, of total
U.S. pharmaceuticals net sales and represented approximately 53% and 23% of the total growth in pharmaceuticals sales when compared to prior year. In 2007,
PLAVIX* and ABILIFY* represented approximately 45% and 15%, of total U.S. pharmaceuticals net sales and contributed approximately 89% and 16%, of total
growth in U.S. pharmaceuticals net sales. This growth more than offsets decreases in U.S. net sales attributed to generic competition for PRAVACHOL.
Both 2008 and 2007 international pharmaceuticals sales were aided by a weakened U.S. dollar against many foreign currencies when compared to the previous period.
The Company’s reported international net sales do not include copromotion sales reported by its alliance partner, Sanofi-Aventis (Sanofi) for PLAVIX* and
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, which continued to show growth in 2008.
Net sales of key pharmaceutical products represent 80%, 76% and 72% of total pharmaceutical net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The following table
details U.S. and international pharmaceuticals net sales by key products, the percentage change from prior year as well as the foreign exchange impact when
compared to the prior year. Commentary detailing the reasons for significant variances by key product is provided below.
45Table of Contents
% Change Attributable to Foreign
Net Sales % Change Exchange
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006
Cardiovascular
PLAVIX*
U.S. $ 4,920 $ 4,060 $ 2,655 21% 53% — —
Non-U.S. 683 695 602 (2)% 15% 3% 8%
Total 5,603 4,755 3,257 18% 46% 1% 1%
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*
U.S. 735 692 647 6% 7% — —
Non-U.S. 555 512 450 8% 14% 4% 8%
Total 1,290 1,204 1,097 7% 10% 2% 3%
PRAVACHOL
U.S. (10)(a) 139 553 (107)% (75)% — —
Non-U.S. 213 304 644 (30)% (53)% 4% 3%
Total 203 443 1,197 (54)% (63)% 2% 2%
Virology
REYATAZ
U.S. 667 587 514 14% 14% — —
Non-U.S. 625 537 417 16% 29% 5% 8%
Total 1,292 1,124 931 15% 21% 2% 4%
SUSTIVA Franchise (total revenue)
U.S. 724 604 495 20% 22% — —
Non-U.S. 425 352 296 21% 19% 4% 10%
Total 1,149 956 791 20% 21% 2% 4%
BARACLUDE
U.S. 140 88 50 59% 76% — —
Non-U.S. 401 187 33 114% ** 9% N/A
Total 541 275 83 97% ** 6% N/A
Oncology
ERBITUX*
U.S. 739 683 646 8% 6% — —
Non-U.S. 10 9 6 11% 50% — 2%
Total 749 692 652 8% 6% — —
TAXOL
U.S. 6 14 12 (57)% 17% — —
Non-U.S. 379 408 551 (7)% (26)% 8% 1%
Total 385 422 563 (9)% (25)% 8% 1%
SPRYCEL
U.S. 92 58 22 59% 164% — —
Non-U.S. 218 100 3 118% ** 8% N/A
Total 310 158 25 96% ** 5% N/A
IXEMPRA
U.S. 98 15 — ** — N/A —
Non-U.S. 3 — — — — — —
Total 101 15 — ** — N/A —
Affective (Psychiatric) Disorders
ABILIFY*
U.S. 1,676 1,305 1,052 28% 24% — —
Non-U.S. 477 355 230 34% 54% 7% 12%
Total 2,153 1,660 1,282 30% 29% 1% 2%
Immunoscience
ORENCIA
U.S. 363 216 88 68% 145% — —
Non-U.S. 78 15 1 ** ** N/A N/A
Total 441 231 89 91% 160% 1% 1%
(a) Negative PRAVACHOL U.S. sales in 2008 reflect higher retail sales returns than previously assumed.
** Change is in excess of 200%.
PLAVIX* - a platelet aggregation inhibitor that is part of the Company’s alliance with Sanofi
• U.S. sales increases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily attributed to increased prescription demand and higher average selling prices. Demand was
negatively affected beginning in the third quarter of 2006 through the second quarter of 2007 by the launch of a generic clopidogrel bisulfate. The
generic in the distribution channel was substantially depleted by June 30, 2007. In 2008 and 2007, estimated total U.S. prescription demand for
clopidogrel bisulfate (branded and generic) increased approximately 4% and 8%, respectively, whereas estimated U.S. prescription demand for branded
PLAVIX* increased 19% and 34% respectively.
46Table of Contents
• International net sales in 2008 were negatively impacted by the August 2008 launch of a clopidogrel alternative salt (clopidogrel beyslate) launched in
Germany.
• See “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 25. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies—PLAVIX* Litigation,” for further discussion on PLAVIX*
exclusivity litigation in both the U.S. and EU.
AVAPRO* /AVALIDE* (known in the EU as APROVEL*/KARVEA*) - an angiotensin II receptor blocker for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic
nephropathy that is also part of the Sanofi alliance
• Worldwide sales increases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily attributed to higher average selling prices which more than offset declines in overall demand.
Total U.S. prescription demand for AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* decreased approximately 7% in 2008 and approximately 4% in 2007.
PRAVACHOL - an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia and reducing the risk of heart attack
• Worldwide sales decreases in 2008 and 2007 were attributed to continued generic competition in the U.S. and key European markets. Market exclusivity
ended in the U.S in April 2006 and in 2004 for most EU countries.
• U.S. sales in 2008 were negatively impacted by higher retail sales returns than previously assumed.
REYATAZ - a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV
• U.S. sales increases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily due to a higher prescription demand of 14% and 13%, respectively.
• The international sales increase in 2008 was primarily due to higher demand across most markets with Europe being the key driver due to the June 2008
approval for front-line treatment. Growth in 2007 international revenue was attributed to increased demand in Europe and Latin America.
SUSTIVA Franchise - a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, which includes SUSTIVA, an antiretroviral drug, and bulk
efavirenz, which is also included in the combination therapy, ATRIPLA* (efavirenez 600mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg),
a product sold through a joint venture with Gilead Sciences, Inc.
• Worldwide sales increases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily due to higher demand attributed to the successful launch of ATRIPLA* in the U.S. in July
2006; in the EU in December 2007; and in Canada in October 2007. U.S. prescription demand for the Sustiva franchise increased approximately 14% in
2008 and 20% in 2007. To a lesser extent, higher average selling prices contributed to the increase in net revenues.
BARACLUDE - an oral antiviral agent for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B
• Worldwide sales increases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily due to the continued growth across all markets, particularly international markets, due to the
successful launch in various countries including China in February 2006, the UK and Germany in July 2006, France and Japan in September 2006 and the
U.S. in April 2005.
• There continues to be increased awareness and acceptance of its long-term efficacy, safety and resistance data as evidenced by the American
Association for the Study of Liver Disease treatment guidelines that recommended BARACLUDE as a first line treatment option.
ERBITUX* - a monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor, which is expressed on the surface of certain
cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as normal cells and is currently indicated for use against colorectal cancer and head and neck cancer.
ERBITUX* is part of the Company’s strategic alliance with ImClone
• Sold by the Company almost exclusively in the U.S., the sales increases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily due to increased demand for a recent indication
for usage in the treatment of head and neck cancer.
• Sales in 2007 were also positively impacted by a transition to a broader distribution model resulting in higher sales associated with initial shipments of
inventory to distributors.
TAXOL - an anti-cancer agent, currently sold almost exclusively in non-U.S. markets
• Sales decreases in 2008 and 2007 were due primarily to generic competition in Japan.
47Table of Contents
SPRYCEL - an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinases, for the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid
leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including GLEEVEC* (imatinib meslylate)
• Worldwide sales increases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily due to higher demand associated with the successful launch in the U.S. in July 2006 and in
most European markets beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, higher U.S. selling prices and continued launches in Russia and Turkey in 2008.
IXEMPRA - a microtubule inhibitor for the treatment of patients with metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer
• The sales increase in 2008 reflects the launch of the product in the U.S. in October 2007.
ABILIFY* - an antipsychotic agent for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder and is part of the Company’s strategic
alliance with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka)
• U.S. sales increases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily attributed to increased demand and higher average selling prices. Prescription demand increased
approximately 23% in 2008 and approximately 12% in 2007. Contributing to the prescription growth are new indications in 2008 and 2007 for certain
patients with bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder.
• International sales increases in 2008 and 2007 were also primarily attributed to increased prescription demand. 2008 sales growth was aided by a new
bipolar indication in the second quarter of 2008 in the EU.
ORENCIA - a fusion protein indicated for adult patients with moderate to severe RA who have had an inadequate response to one or more currently available
treatments, such as MTX or anti-tumor necrosis factor therapy
• U.S. sales increases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily due to the continued growth since the launch of this biologic product in the U.S. in February 2006.
• International sales increase in 2008 reflects the European launch in May 2007.
The estimated U.S. prescription change data provided throughout this Form 10-K includes information only from the retail and mail order channels and does not
reflect information from other channels, such as hospitals, institutions and long-term care, among others. The estimated prescription data is based on the Next-
Generation Prescription Service (NGPS) version 2.0 of the National Prescription Audit provided by IMS Health (IMS), a supplier of market research for the
pharmaceutical industry, as described below. The data provided by IMS is a product of IMS’ own recordkeeping process and is an estimate based on IMS’ sampling
procedures. The data is subject to the inherent limitations of estimates based on sampling and may include a margin of error.
The Company has calculated the estimated total U.S. prescription change based on NGPS data on a weighted-average basis to reflect the fact that mail order
prescriptions include a greater volume of product supplied compared to retail prescriptions. Mail order prescriptions typically reflect a 90-day prescription whereas
retail prescriptions typically reflect a 30-day prescription. The calculation is derived by multiplying NGPS mail order prescription data by a factor that approximates
three and adding to this the NGPS retail prescriptions. The Company believes that this calculation of the estimated total U.S. prescription change based on the
weighted-average approach with respect to the retail and mail order channels provides a superior estimate of total prescription demand. The Company uses this
methodology for its internal demand forecasts.
The Company continuously seeks to improve the quality of its estimates of prescription change amounts and ultimate patient/consumer demand through review of its
methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and review and analysis of its own and third parties data used in such calculations. The Company
expects that it will continue to review and refine its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and will continue to review and analyze its own
and third parties’ data used in such calculations.
48Table of Contents
Estimated End-User Demand
The following tables set forth for each of the Company’s key pharmaceutical products sold by the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006: (i) total U.S. net sales for the period; (ii) change in reported U.S. net sales for the period; (iii) estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail
and mail order channels calculated by the Company based on NGPS data on a weighted-average basis and (iv) months of inventory on hand in the wholesale
distribution channel.
Year Ended December 31, At December 31,
% Change in U.S. % Change in U.S. Months on
Total U.S. Net Sales Net Sales(a) Total Prescriptions (b) Hand
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
PLAVIX* $ 4,920 $ 4,060 $ 2,655 21% 53% (18)% 19% 34% (21)% 0.4 0.5 0.6
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 735 692 647 6% 7% 13% (7)% (4)% 2% 0.5 0.5 0.5
PRAVACHOL(h) (10) 139 553 (107)% (75)% (57)% (75)% (82)% (59)% 0.8 0.7 0.6
REYATAZ 667 587 514 14% 14% 27% 14% 13% 14% 0.5 0.6 0.7
SUSTIVA Franchise (c) 724 604 495 20% 22% 23% 14% 20% 9% 0.6 0.6 0.7
BARACLUDE 140 88 50 59% 76% ** 55% 77% ** 0.7 0.6 0.7
ERBITUX* (d) 739 683 646 8% 6% 57% N/A N/A N/A 0.5 0.5 0.4
SPRYCEL (e) 92 58 22 59% 164% — 36% ** — 0.8 0.9 1.4
IXEMPRA(d, f) 98 15 — ** — — N/A N/A N/A 0.7 0.9 —
ABILIFY* 1,676 1,305 1,052 28% 24% 40% 23% 12% 21% 0.5 0.5 0.5
ORENCIA (d, g) 363 216 88 68% 145% — N/A N/A N/A 0.5 0.5 0.4
(a) Reflects percentage change in net sales in dollar terms.
(b) Derived by multiplying NGPS mail order prescription data by a factor that approximates three and adding to this the NGPS retail prescriptions.
(c) Beginning in the third quarter of 2006, the SUSTIVA Franchise (total revenue) includes sales of SUSTIVA, as well as revenue of bulk efavirenz included in the combination therapy, ATRIPLA*. The change in
U.S. total prescriptions growth for the SUSTIVA Franchise includes both branded SUSTIVA and ATRIPLA* prescription units.
(d) ERBITUX*, ORENCIA and IXEMPRA are parenterally administered products and do not have prescription-level data as physicians do not write prescriptions for these products.
(e) SPRYCEL was launched in the U.S. in July 2006.
(f) IXEMPRA was launched in the U.S. in October 2007.
(g) ORENCIA was launched in the U.S. in February 2006.
(h) Negative net sales attributed to higher retail returns than previously assumed.
** Change is in excess of 200%.
Pursuant to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Consent Order described below under “—SEC Consent Order”, the Company monitors the level of
inventory on hand in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel and outside of the U.S. in the direct customer distribution channel. The Company is obligated to
disclose products with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception. The following products had
estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand (1) in the case of the Company’s U.S. Pharmaceuticals products,
December 31, 2008 and (2) in the case of the Company’s international Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals products, September 30, 2008.
At September 30, 2008, BUFFERIN, a salicylatate drug, had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers compared to approximately 0.9 months
of inventory on hand at December 31, 2007. The increased level of inventory on hand was due primarily to increased inventory levels in China caused by distributors’
preparations for national holidays.
At September 30, 2008, DAFALGAN, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand as compared to 1.2 months
of inventory on hand at December 31, 2007. The previously stated level of inventory on hand as of September 30, 2008 was due primarily to private pharmacists
purchasing DAFALGAN approximately once every eight weeks and the seasonality of the product.
At September 30, 2008, VIDEX/VIDEX EC, an antiviral product, had approximately 1.3 months of inventory on hand at direct customers compared to 1.3 months of
inventory on hand at December 31, 2007. The previously stated level of inventory on hand was due primarily to government purchasing patterns in Brazil. The
Company is contractually obligated to provide VIDEX/VIDEX EC to the Brazilian government upon placement of an order for product by the government. Under the
terms of the contract, the Company has no control over the inventory levels relating to such orders.
49Table of Contents
In the U.S., for all products sold exclusively through wholesalers or through distributors, the Company determines its months on hand estimates using information
with respect to inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out-movement of products provided by the Company’s three largest wholesalers, which
accounted for approximately 90% of total gross sales of U.S. Pharmaceuticals products in 2008, and provided by the Company’s distributors. Factors that may
influence the Company’s estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new
product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third-party
data, which represent their own record-keeping processes and may also reflect estimates.
For pharmaceutical products in the U.S. that are not sold exclusively through wholesalers or distributors and for the Company’s Pharmaceuticals business outside of
the U.S. and Nutritionals business units around the world, the Company has significantly more direct customers. Limited information on direct customer product level
inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where available, varies widely. In cases where direct
customer product level inventory, ultimate patient/consumer demand or out-movement data does not exist or is otherwise not available, the Company has developed
a variety of other methodologies to calculate estimates of such data, including using such factors as historical sales made to direct customers and third-party market
research data related to prescription trends and end-user demand. Accordingly, the Company relies on a variety of methods to estimate direct customer product level
inventory and to calculate months on hand for these business units. Factors that may affect the Company’s estimates include generic competition, seasonality of
products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product or product presentation launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new
customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations.
Nutritionals
The composition of the change in nutritional net sales was as follows:
2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006
Net Sales Analysis of % Change Analysis of % Change
Total Foreign Total Foreign
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 Change Volume Price Exchange Change Volume Price Exchange
U.S. $ 1,108 $ 1,128 $ 1,091 (2)% (6)% 4% — 3% 1% 2% —
Non-U.S. 1,774 1,443 1,256 23% 8% 12% 3% 15% 4% 5% 6%
Total $ 2,882 $ 2,571 $ 2,347 12% 2% 8% 2% 10% 3% 4% 3%
Infant formulas and toddler/children’s nutritionals, representing 97%, 96% and 96% of total nutritional net sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were as follows:
Net Sales % Change
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006
Infant Formulas $ 1,932 $ 1,786 $ 1,637 8% 9%
ENFAMIL 1,157 1,082 1,007 7% 7%
Toddler/Children’s Nutritionals 856 693 606 24% 14%
In 2008, the decrease in U.S. nutritional net sales was primarily due to decreased sales of infant formulas. The increase in international nutritionals net sales was
primarily due to growth in both infant formulas and children’s nutritionals.
In 2007, the increase in U.S. nutritional net sales was primarily due to increased sales of infant formulas. International nutritional net sales increased primarily due to
growth in both infant formulas and children’s nutritionals.
50Table of Contents
Geographic Areas
In general, the Company’s products are available in most countries in the world. The largest markets are in the U.S., France, Spain, Canada, China, Japan, Italy,
Mexico and Germany. The Company’s sales by geographic areas based on the location of the entity selling the product were as follows:
Net Sales % Change % of Total Net Sales
2008 vs. 2007 vs.
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
United States $ 12,042 $ 10,422 $ 8,785 16% 19% 58% 57% 54%
Europe, Middle East and Africa 4,514 4,036 3,979 12% 1% 22% 22% 25%
Other Western Hemisphere 1,622 1,628 1,517 — 7% 8% 9% 9%
Pacific 2,419 2,107 1,927 15% 9% 12% 12% 12%
Total $ 20,597 $ 18,193 $ 16,208 13% 12% 100 % 100 % 100 %
See items previously discussed in “—Item 1. Pharmaceuticals” for items impacting the increase in U.S. net sales for 2008 and 2007.
Europe, Middle East and Africa sales increases in 2008 are primarily due to sales growth in major European markets for ABILIFY*, SPRYCEL, and the HIV and
hepatitis portfolio in addition to a favorable foreign exchange impact of 6%. Sales in 2007 were essentially flat as sales growth in major European markets for
SPRYCEL, ABILIFY* and the HIV and hepatitis portfolio, and a favorable foreign exchange impact of 8%, was offset by generic competition for PRAVACHOL and
TAXOL.
Other Western Hemisphere countries sales in 2008 were essentially flat with a minimum foreign exchange impact. Sales increases in 2007 are primarily due to increased
sales of PLAVIX* in Canada and Mexico, key nutritional products and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in Canada, and a favorable foreign exchange impact of 4%. These
increases were partially offset by the discontinued commercialization of TEQUIN.
Pacific region sales increases in 2008 and 2007 are primarily due to sales growth of BARACLUDE in China, Japan, and Korea and key nutritional products throughout
the region in addition to favorable foreign exchange impacts of 6% and 5%, respectively. In addition, sales in 2007 were negatively impacted by increased generic
competition for TAXOL and PRAVACHOL.
No single country outside the U.S. contributed more than 10% of the Company’s total revenues in 2008, 2007 or 2006. Net sales in France, Canada, Spain and Japan
exceeded $500 million in both 2008 and 2007. Net sales in China and Italy exceeded $500 million in 2008, while Mexico had more than $500 million in sales in 2007.
51Table of Contents
Expenses/Gains
% Change % of Net Sales
2008 vs. 2007 vs.
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
Costs of products sold $ 6,396 $ 5,868 $ 5,420 9% 8% 31% 32% 33%
Marketing, selling and administrative 4,792 4,516 4,469 6% 1% 23% 25% 28%
Advertising and product promotion 1,550 1,415 1,304 10% 9% 8% 8% 8%
Research and development 3,585 3,227 2,951 11% 9% 17% 18% 18%
Acquired in-process research and development 32 230 — (86)% 100% — 1% —
Provision for restructuring, net 218 183 59 19% ** 1% 1% —
Litigation expense, net 33 14 302 136% (95)% — — 2%
Gain on sale of product lines and businesses (159) (273) (200) 42% (37)% (1)% (2)% (1)%
Equity in net income of affiliates (617) (524) (474) (18)% (11)% (3)% (3)% (3)%
Gain on sale of ImClone shares (895) — — (100)% — (4)% — —
Other expense, net 191 351 292 (46)% 20% 1% 2% 2%
Total Expenses, net $ 15,126 $ 15,007 $ 14,123 1% 6% 73 % 82 % 87 %
** Change is in excess of 200%.
Costs of products sold
• The improvement in costs of products sold as a percentage of net sales in 2008 was primarily attributed to a more favorable worldwide pharmaceuticals
product sales mix, higher U.S. pharmaceuticals average selling prices, and realized manufacturing savings from PTI. These factors were partially offset by
product and material price increases. The 2008 costs include manufacturing rationalization charges of $249 million related to the implementation of PTI in
2008, or 1.2% of net sales, compared to $179 million of rationalization charges recorded in 2007, or 1.0% of net sales.
• The improvement in costs of products sold as a percentage of sales in 2007 was primarily due to sales growth in higher margin products including
PLAVIX*.
Marketing, selling and administrative
• The increase in 2008 was primarily related to $104 million of increased process standardization costs incurred as part of PTI when compared to the prior
period, $41 million of costs incurred as part of the initial public offering for Mead Johnson, higher selling expenses in support of key products, and an
unfavorable 2% foreign exchange impact.
• The increase in 2007 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange and higher marketing expenses, partially offset by lower sales force
expenses.
• The decrease in marketing, selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales was the result of increased sales growth outpacing expenses
which are being managed through PTI.
Advertising and product promotion
• The increase in 2008 was primarily related to increased promotions for new indications of ABILIFY* in the U.S., increased promotion for ORENCIA,
increased expenses in the international Nutritionals business, and an unfavorable foreign exchange impact.
• The increase in 2007 was primarily related to increased spending for direct-to-customer advertising for PLAVIX*, ABILIFY* and ORENCIA, expenses to
support the launch of IXEMPRA, higher spending on newer products in Europe, and an unfavorable foreign exchange impact.
Research and development
• The increase in 2008 was primarily related to increased licensing and upfront and milestone payments, increased spending for pipeline compounds, and
an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. The 2008 increase was partially offset by sharing of codevelopment costs with alliance partners AstraZeneca
and Pfizer.
52Table of Contents
• The increase in 2007 was primarily attributed to continued investment in late-stage compounds and developing a pipeline in disease areas that address
significant unmet medical needs, as well as increased upfront and milestone payments in 2007 when compared to 2006 as detailed below. The 2007
increase was partially offset by sharing of codevelopment costs with alliance partners AstraZeneca and Pfizer.
• Upfront and milestone payments made in 2008 and expensed to research and development totaled $348 million and were paid primarily to Exelixis, PDL
BioPharma, Inc., and KAI. The 2007 charges totaled $162 million and were paid to Exelixis, Pfizer, Adnexus and Isis. The 2006 charges totaled $70 million
and were paid to Exelixis and Solvay Global.
• Research and development expenses dedicated to pharmaceutical products were 19.6%, 20.0% and 20.3% of pharmaceutical net sales in 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively.
Acquired in-process research and development
• Acquired in-process research and development costs (IPRD) consisted of the estimated fair value of research and development acquired as part of an
acquisition which, through December 31, 2008, were immediately expensed at the acquisition date.
• The 2008 charge related to IPRD from the acquisition of Kosan whereas the 2007 charge related to IPRD obtained from the acquisition of Adnexus
Therapeutics, Inc. (Adnexus).
Provision for restructuring, net
• The increase in provision for restructuring, net was attributed to the timing of the implementation of PTI, which was announced in December 2007 and
expanded in July 2008.
• The increase in 2007 was attributed to the charges, primarily severance related, associated with the announcement of the PTI in December 2007. See
“Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Restructuring.”
Litigation expense, net
• Litigation expenses in 2006 related to reserves for the settlement in principle of certain pricing and sales investigations, partially offset by insurance
recoveries from an unrelated matter and positive settlement of a litigation matter. For additional information on litigation matters, see “Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 25. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Gain on sale of product lines and businesses
• The gain in 2008 was primarily attributable to the sale of the mature brands businesses in Egypt.
• The gain in 2007 was attributed to the sale of the BUFFERIN* and EXCEDRIN* brands in Japan, Asia (excluding China and Taiwan) and certain Oceanic
countries, as well as certain assets related to U.S. dermatology products.
• The gain in 2006 was attributed to the sale of inventory, patent and intellectual property rights related to DOVONEX*.
• For additional information on these transactions, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures.”
Equity in net income of affiliates
• Equity in net income of affiliates was principally related to the Company’s international joint venture with Sanofi. The increases in 2008 and 2007 are
correlated with increases in international PLAVIX* sales. For additional information on equity in net income of affiliates, see “Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”
Gain on sale of ImClone shares
• The gain on sale of ImClone shares was attributed to the Company’s receipt of approximately $1.0 billion in cash for the tendering of its investment in
ImClone. See “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations” for further detail.
53Table of Contents
Other expense, net
• The components of other expense, net are as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Interest expense $310 $422 $498
Interest income (130) (241) (274)
ARS impairment charge 305 275 —
(Gain)/loss on debt buyback and termination of interest rate swap agreements (57) — 220
Foreign exchange transaction (gains)/losses (76) 15 —
Other, net (161) (120) (152)
Other expense, net $ 191 $ 351 $ 292
• Interest expense decreases in 2008 and 2007 were primarily due to decreases in interest rates.
• Interest income relates primarily to interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities. The decrease in interest
income in 2008 was primarily due to the change in mix in the Company’s short-term investment portfolio as well as a decrease in the rate of return
on short-term investments, including U.S. Treasury Bills, when compared to the prior year.
• ARS impairment charge was attributed to the Company’s auction rate securities (ARS). In addition, a $19 million loss on the sale of ARS in 2008
was recognized and is included in other, net. See “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 11. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities” for
further detail.
• The gain on debt buyback in 2008 is attributed to the repurchase of certain debt and the monetization of certain interest rate swaps due to the
recent appreciation of value. See “Item 8. Financial Statements —Note 18. Short-Term Borrowing and Long-Term Debt” for further information.
• Foreign exchange transaction gains in 2008 were attributed to a strengthening U.S. dollar impact on non-qualifying foreign exchange hedges and
on the re-measurement of non-functional currency denominated transactions when compared to the prior year.
• Other, net includes income from third-party contract manufacturing, certain royalty income and expense, debt retirement costs, gains and losses
on sale of property, plant and equipment, gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities, insurance recoveries, deferred income
recognized, certain other litigation matters, ConvaTec and Medical Imaging net transitional service fees, amortization of certain upfront
payments related to the Company’s alliances, proceeds from swap terminations, and pension curtailments. See “Item 8. Financial Statements—
Note 8. Other Expense, Net” for further information.
54Table of Contents
During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company recorded the following specified expense/(income) items that affected the comparability of
results of the periods presented herein. For a discussion of these items, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations;” “—Note 3.
Restructuring;” “—Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures;” “—Note 9. Income Taxes;” “—Note 11. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities;” “—Note 18.
Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt;” and “—Note 25. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Acquired Gain
Marketing, in-process Provision on sale of Gain
Dollars in Millions Cost of selling Research research for Litigation product on sale of Other
products and and and restructuring, expense, lines and ImClone expense,
Year Ended December 31, 2008 sold administrative development development net net businesses shares net Total
Productivity Transformation Initiative:
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 189 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 189
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other
shutdown costs 213 — — — 20 — — — 8 241
Pension settlements/curtailments 9 — — — — — — — 8 17
Process standardization implementation costs — 109 — — — — — — — 109
Gain on sale and leaseback of properties — — — — — — — — (9) (9)
Termination of lease contracts — — — — 9 — — — 6 15
Gain on sale of product lines and businesses — — — — — — (159) — — (159)
222 109 — — 218 — (159 ) — 13 403
Other:
Litigation settlement — — — — — 33 — — — 33
Insurance recovery — — — — — — — — (20) (20)
Mead Johnson charges — 41 — — — — — — 3 44
Product liability — — — — — — — — 18 18
Upfront and milestone payments and acquired in-process
research and development — — 348 32 — — — — — 380
Asset impairment 27 — 13 — — — — — — 40
ARS impairment charges and loss on sale — — — — — — — — 324 324
Debt buyback and swap terminations — — — — — — — — (57) (57)
Gain on sale of ImClone shares — — — — — — — (895) — (895)
$ 249 $ 150 $ 361 $ 32 $ 218 $ 33 $ (159 ) $ (895 ) $ 281 270
Income taxes on items above 39
Decrease to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 309
55Table of Contents
Dollars in Millions Gain
Marketing, Acquired Provision on sale of
Cost of selling Research in-process for Litigation product Other
products and and research and restructuring, expense, lines and expense,
Year Ended December 31, 2007 sold administrative development development net net businesses net Total
Productivity Transformation Initiative:
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 139 $ — $ — $ 6 $ 145
Accelerated depreciation and asset impairment 102 8 — — — — — — 110
Process standardization implementation costs — 5 — — — — — 32 37
102 13 — — 139 — — 38 292
Other:
Litigation settlement — — — — — 14 — — 14
Insurance recovery — — — — — — — (11) (11)
Product liability — — — — — — — 15 15
Upfront and milestone payments and acquired in-process
research and development — — 162 230 — — — — 392
ARS impairment charges — — — — — — — 275 275
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations — — — — 44 — — — 44
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and contract
termination 77 — — — — — — 23 100
Gain on sale of properties and product lines and businesses — — — — — — (273) (9) (282)
$ 179 $ 13 $ 162 $ 230 $ 183 $ 14 $ (273 ) $ 331 839
Income taxes on items above (33)
Change in estimate for taxes on a prior year specified item (39)
Decrease to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 767
Dollars in Millions Gain on
sale of
Cost of Marketing, Research Provision for Litigation product Other
products selling and and restructuring, expense, lines and expense,
Year Ended December 31, 2006 sold administrative development net net businesses net Total
Litigation Matters:
Pharmaceutical pricing and sales litigation $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 353 $ — $ — $ 353
Product liability — — — — — — 11 11
Claim for damages — — — — — — 13 13
Commercial litigations — — — — (14) — — (14)
Insurance recovery — — — — (37) — — (37)
— — — — 302 — 24 326
Other:
Debt retirement costs — — — — — — 220 220
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and contract termination 167 4 15 — — — — 186
Upfront and milestone payments — — 70 — — — — 70
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations — — — 59 — — — 59
Gain on sale of product lines and businesses — — — — — (200) — (200)
$ 167 $ 4 $ 85 $ 59 $ 302 $ (200 ) $ 244 661
Income taxes on items above (149)
Change in estimate for taxes on prior year specified items 39
Decrease to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 551
The specified items presented above were reflected in the segment results as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Pharmaceuticals $ 673 $ 579 $ 208
Nutritionals 17 — 16
Total segments 690 579 224
Corporate/Other (420)(1) 260 437
Total $ 270 $ 839 $ 661
(1) Includes $895 million gain on sale of ImClone shares.
56Table of Contents
Earnings From Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Minority Interest
Earnings From Continuing Operations
Before Income Taxes and Minority
Interest % Change % Segment Net Sales
2008 vs. 2007 vs.
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
Pharmaceuticals $ 4,988 $ 3,471 $ 2,569 44% 35% 28% 22% 19%
Nutritionals 830 708 696 17% 2% 29% 28% 30%
Total segments 5,818 4,179 3,265 39% 28% 28% 23% 20%
Corporate/Other (347) (993) (1,180) 65% 16%
Total $ 5,471 $ 3,186 $ 2,085 72% 53% 27% 18% 13%
Pharmaceuticals
Earnings increased in 2008 primarily due to increased sales of PLAVIX*, ABILIFY*, the HIV and hepatitis portfolio and ORENCIA. The increase in segment income
as a percentage of segment net sales in 2008 was primarily due to similar factors discussed in the analysis of consolidated expenses. A more favorable product sales
mix, higher average selling prices and realized manufacturing savings from PTI contributed to a reduction of costs of products sold as a percentage of net sales. The
results of PTI also contributed to a reduction of marketing, selling and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales.
Earnings increased in 2007 primarily due to increased PLAVIX* sales and strong sales growth of other key products. The increase in segment income as a percentage
of segment net sales in 2007 was similar to the reasons discussed above although to a lesser extent as PTI was beginning in 2007.
Nutritionals
Earnings increased in 2008 primarily due to increased international net sales. The increase in segment income as a percentage of segment net sales in 2008 was
primarily due to the growth rate in net sales exceeding the growth rate for marketing, selling and administrative expenses and research and development as well as a
2007 bad debt charge for a distributor insolvency. These factors were partially offset by higher dairy prices, advertising and promotion expenses and additional legal,
accounting and consulting expenses incurred in preparation of the initial public offering.
Earnings increased in 2007 primarily due to growth of key products. The decrease in segment income as a percentage of segment net sales in 2007 was primarily due
to higher dairy prices, unfavorable product mix and a bad debt charge for a distributor insolvency.
Corporate/Other
Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest reported in Corporate/Other consists of:
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Corporate administrative expense $ (532) $ (556) $ (558)
Stock-based compensation expense (181) (133) (112)
Provision for restructuring, net (218) (183) (59)
Litigation expense, net (33) (14) (302)
Interest expense (310) (422) (498)
Interest income 130 241 274
ARS impairment charge (305) (275) —
Gain on sale of ImClone shares 895 — —
Gain on sale of product lines and businesses 159 273 200
Gain/(loss) on debt buyback and termination of interest rate swap agreements 57 — (220)
Other (9) 76 95
Total Corporate/Other earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and
minority interest $ (347) $ (993) $ (1,180)
57Table of Contents
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest was 24.1% in 2008, compared with 21.4% in 2007 and
20.7% in 2006.
The increase in the 2008 effective tax rate from 2007 was primarily due to higher pre-tax income in the U.S., including the gain on sale of ImClone, and earnings mix in
high tax jurisdictions in 2008. Partially off-setting these impacts were lower non-deductible charges in 2008 for acquired in-process research and development
expenses and lower ARS impairment charges with little or no tax benefit. The tax rate in 2008 was favorably impacted by a benefit of $91 million of tax related to the
final settlement of the 2002-2003 audit with the Internal Revenue Service.
The 2007 tax rate was unfavorably impacted by the impairment on the Company’s investment in certain ARS with little tax benefit and the non-deductible write-off of
acquired in-process research and development expenses related to the acquisition of Adnexus, partially offset by a tax benefit of $105 million in the first quarter of
2007 due to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters with the Internal Revenue Service related to the deductibility of litigation settlement expenses and U.S
foreign tax credits claimed. The effective tax rate for 2006 was unfavorably impacted by the elimination of tax benefits under Section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code,
the treatment of provisions for a portion of certain litigation reserves as non-deductible, partially offset by favorable U.S. tax legislation enacted in 2006 related to the
tax treatment of certain intercompany transactions amongst the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, and the implementation of tax planning strategies related to the
utilization of certain charitable contributions.
The Company has recognized significant deferred tax assets at December 31, 2008 related to U.S. Federal foreign tax credit carryforwards of approximately $451 million
and U.S. Federal research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $271 million. The U.S. Federal charitable contribution carryforwards were fully
utilized during 2008 due to gains related to the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging divestitures, while the foreign tax credit and research and development tax credit
carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2014. The foreign tax credit and research and development tax credit carryforwards have been reduced due to
derecognition under FIN No. 48. The ConvaTec and Medical Imaging divestitures have resulted in a significant reduction to the foreign tax credit and research and
development tax credit carryforwards in 2008. The realization of the foreign tax credit and research and development tax credit carryforwards is dependent on
generating sufficient domestic-sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that
these deferred tax assets will be realized.
Minority Interest
Minority interest is primarily related to the Company’s partnership with Sanofi for the territory covering the Americas related to PLAVIX* sales. Increases of minority
interest correspond to the increased sales of PLAVIX*.
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Sanofi partnership $ 1,444 $ 1,106 $ 609
Others 24 26 19
Minority interest, pre-tax 1,468 1,132 628
Income taxes 472 369 188
Minority interest, net of taxes $ 996 $ 763 $ 440
Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources
The Company continues to maintain a sufficient level of working capital, which was approximately $8.1 billion at December 31, 2008 and $1.7 billion at December 31,
2007. In 2008 and future periods, the Company expects cash generated by its U.S. operations, together with existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and
borrowings from the capital markets, to be sufficient to cover cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures (which the Company expects to include investments
in facilities to increase and maintain the Company’s capacity to provide biologics on a commercial scale), strategic alliances and acquisitions, milestone payments and
dividends paid in the U.S. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, the conversion of other working capital items and borrowings are expected to fund near-
term operations outside the U.S.
In December 2006, the Company obtained a $2.0 billion five year revolving credit facility from a syndicate of lenders, which is extendable on the anniversary date with
the consent of the lenders. This facility contains customary terms and conditions, including a financial covenant whereby the ratio of consolidated debt to
consolidated capital cannot exceed 50% at the end of each quarter. The Company has been in compliance with this covenant since the inception of this new facility.
There were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility at December 31, 2008.
On February 17, 2009, Mead Johnson entered into a three year syndicated revolving credit facility agreement. The credit facility is unsecured and provides for
borrowings and letters of credit up to $410 million.
58Table of Contents
Net Financial Assets
Net financial asset position at December 31 was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Financial assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 7,976 $ 1,801
Marketable securities-current 289 424
Total financial assets 8,265 2,225
Debt:
Short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 154 1,891
Long-term debt 6,585 4,381
Total debt 6,739 6,272
Net cash/(debt) $ 1,526 $ (4,047)
Net Cash/(Debt)
Net cash/(debt) position at December 31, 2008 improved due to proceeds of $4.6 billion from the divestiture of the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses and
proceeds of $1.0 billion from the sale of our ImClone shares. Cash generated from operating activities of $3.7 billion was more than adequate to fund dividend
payments of $2.5 billion as well as capital expenditure payments of $941 million.
Investments
The following table summarizes the Company’s carrying value and related unrealized (loss)/gain position of its current and non-current marketable securities, which
include U.S. dollar-denominated floating rate securities (FRS) and ARS, both of which are accounted for as “available for sale” debt securities. See “Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 11. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities,” for further discussion on the Company FRS and ARS portfolio including the related cost
basis and fair value for each investment.
December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007
Unrealized Unrealized
Carrying (Loss)/Gain in Carrying (Loss)/Gain in
Value Accumulated OCI Value Accumulated OCI
Dollars in Millions
Current:
Available for sale
Floating rate securities $ 109 $ (6) $ 337 $ (25)
U.S. Treasury Bills 180 1 — —
Other — — 87 —
Total current $ 289 $ (5 ) $ 424 $ (25 )
Non-current:
Available for sale
Auction rate securities $ 94 $ — $ 419 $ (117)
Floating rate securities 94 (45) — —
Total non-current $ 188 $ (45 ) $ 419 $ (117 )
During 2008, the Company received $108 million of principal at par primarily on a FRS that matured in March 2008 and temporarily reduced the carrying value of the
remaining FRS by $26 million to $203 million as an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI). In addition, during 2008 the Company
reclassified $94 million of the remaining FRS with maturity dates beyond 2009 from current assets to non-current other assets due to liquidity concerns and the
continued uncertainty in the capital markets.
During 2008, the Company received $118 million primarily in connection with the sale of ARS with a carrying value of $137 million, resulting in a loss of $19 million. In
addition, a $305 million other-than-temporary impairment charge was recognized, including $117 million that was previously determined to be temporary at
December 31, 2007. The 2008 impairment charge was required after an analysis of other-than-temporary impairment factors, including the severity and duration of the
decline in value, future prospects of the issuer and the Company’s ability and intent to hold the securities to recovery. The ARS sold were securities generally
backed by sub-prime mortgages, collateralized debt obligations and structured credit. The ARS remaining at December 31, 2008 represents interests in insurance
securitizations and to a lesser extent, structured credit.
59Table of Contents
If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue, these markets deteriorate further or the Company experiences any additional ratings downgrades on any
investments in its portfolio (including FRS and ARS), the Company may incur additional impairments to its investment portfolio, which could negatively affect the
Company’s financial condition and reported earnings. The Company believes that, based on the Company’s current level of cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities and expected operating cash flows, the current lack of liquidity in the credit and capital markets will not have a material impact on the Company’s liquidity,
cash flow, financial flexibility or its ability to fund its operations, including the dividend.
Credit Ratings
The Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) long-term and short-term credit ratings for the Company are currently A2 and Prime-1, respectively. Moody’s revised the
long-term credit rating outlook to negative from stable. Standard & Poor’s (S&P) long-term and short-term credit ratings for the Company are currently A+ and A-1,
respectively. S&P’s long-term credit rating remains on stable outlook. Fitch Ratings (Fitch) long-term and short-term credit ratings for the Company are currently A+
and F1, respectively. Fitch’s long-term credit rating remains on stable outlook.
Working Capital
The following is a discussion of working capital:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Working capital $ 8,053 $ 1,704
The increase in working capital of $6.3 billion from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008 was impacted by:
• Proceeds from the sale of the ConvaTec business ($4.1 billion);
• Proceeds from the sale of our ImClone shares ($1.0 billion); and
• Proceeds from issuance of 6.125% Notes due 2038 ($1.0 billion) and 5.45% Notes due 2018 ($600 million).
Cash Flows
The following is a discussion of cash flow activities:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Cash flow provided by/(used in):
Operating activities $3,707 $3,153 $2,083
Investing activities 5,079 (202) 206
Financing activities (2,582) (3,213) (3,351)
Operating Activities
Cash flow from operating activities represents the cash receipts and cash disbursements related to all activities of the Company other than to investing activities and
financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting net earnings for:
• Non-cash operating items such as depreciation and amortization; impairment charges; stock-based compensation charges;
• Gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities such as gains and losses on the sale of product lines and businesses; and
• Changes in operating assets and liabilities which reflect timing differences between the receipt and payment of cash associated with transactions and
when they are recognized in results of operations.
The Company’s operating cash flow has grown consistently throughout the three years ended December 31, 2008 as the increases in net income, attributed to
reasons noted throughout this MD&A, continue to directly impact operating cash flows. This is evident as the net income adjusted for non-cash operating items as
well as gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities amounted to $3.6 billion in 2008, $3.2 billion in 2007 and $2.5 billion in 2006. These amounts
exclude the changes in operating assets and liabilities, discussed below.
The net impact of the changes in operating assets and liabilities, which are discussed in more detail below, include the impact of changes in receivables, inventories,
deferred income, accounts payable, income taxes receivable/payable and other operating assets and liabilities. The Company continues to maximize its operating cash
flows with its recently announced working capital initiative designed to continue to improve those working capital items that are most directly affected by changes in
sales volume, such as accounts receivable, inventories and accounts payable.
60Table of Contents
In 2008, changes in operating assets resulted in a net cash inflow of $117 million which was impacted by:
• Cash inflows from income tax payable/receivable ($371 million) which includes the impact of the receipt of a $432 million tax refund, including interest,
related to a prior year foreign tax credit carryback claim;
• Cash inflows from accounts payables ($253 million) which are primarily attributed to the timing of vendor and alliance payments;
• Cash inflows from inventory ($130 million) which is primarily attributed to the utilization of inventories which were built up in the prior year for new
product launches and strategic builds for existing products launches including for new indications of ABILIFY*;
• Cash inflows from deferred income ($61 million) which are primarily due to receipt of upfront and milestone payments from alliance partners;
• Cash outflows from other operating assets and liabilities ($333 million) which are primarily due to net litigation related payments made in the current
period ($190 million) attributed to the settlement of certain pricing and sales litigation accrued in prior periods; pension funding in excess of current year
expense ($120 million); and increase in non-current inventory ($112 million); and
• Cash outflows from accounts receivables ($365 million) which are attributed to increased sales.
In 2007, changes in operating assets resulted in a net cash outflow of $7 million which was impacted by:
• Cash outflows from accounts receivable ($519 million) which are primarily attributed to increased sales;
• Cash outflows from U.S and foreign income taxes payable ($199 million) which are primarily attributed to tax payments which included settlement
payments associated with various tax issues for the 2002-2003 IRS audit;
• Cash inflows from deferred income ($454 million) which are primarily due to receipt of upfront and milestone payments from alliance partners including
Pfizer and AstraZeneca;
• Cash inflows from other operating assets and liabilities ($170 million) which are primarily due to increases in accrued royalties attributed to increased
PLAVIX* sales; and increases in accrued salaries and bonuses due to the timing of payments; partially offset by cash outflows primarily related to
litigation related payments ($318 million) for the settlement of pricing and sales litigation accrued in prior periods; and
• Cash inflows from accounts payables ($141 million) which include the impact of increased purchases of raw materials for planned inventory buildup.
In 2006, changes in operating assets resulted in a net cash outflow of $464 million which was impacted by:
• Cash outflows from other operating assets and liabilities ($573 million) which are primarily due to the pay down of accrued rebates and returns primarily
resulting from exclusivity loss of PRAVACHOL, volume erosion on highly rebated PARAPLATIN and TAXOL and lower PLAVIX* volumes; and
reduced royalties from lower PLAVIX* sales; Additions in the litigation settlement accrual related to the pricing and sales litigation settlements are
primarily offset by net litigation related payments related to other matters accrued in prior years ($272 million);
• Cash outflows from accounts payable ($349 million) which are primarily due to lower purchases of PRAVACHOL raw materials, due to the loss of
PRAVACHOL exclusivity and a significant reduction of payables in early 2006 resulting from lower payment of invoices in December 2005; and
• Cash inflows from accounts receivables ($444 million) are primarily due to lower PLAVIX* sales and the loss of exclusivity of PRAVACHOL.
61Table of Contents
Investing Activities
Net cash provided by investing activities was $5.1 billion in 2008 and included:
• Proceeds from the divestiture of ConvaTec ($4.1 billion); Medical Imaging ($483 million); and mature brands business in Egypt ($209 million);
• Proceeds from the tendering of the Company’s shares in ImClone ($1.0 billion);
• Proceeds from the sale and leaseback of the Paris, France facility ($227 million);
• Capital expenditures ($941 million) which included expenditures associated with the construction of the Company’s biologic facility in Devens,
Massachusetts; and
• Acquisition of Kosan ($191 million).
Net cash used in investing activities was $202 million in 2007 and included:
• Capital expenditures ($843 million);
• Acquisition of Adnexus ($432 million);
• Net proceeds from the sale of marketable securities ($756 million); and
• Proceeds from the sales of the BUFFERIN* and EXCEDRIN* brands in Japan, Asia (excluding China and Taiwan) and certain Oceanic countries and U.S.
dermatology products ($273 million).
Net cash provided by investing activities was $206 million in 2006 and included:
• Net proceeds from the sale of marketable securities ($762 million);
• Proceeds from the disposal of properties in connection with sale and lease back of administrative facilities in New Jersey ($281 million);
• Proceeds from the sale of various product assets primarily from the sale of several assets related to DOVONEX ($226 million);
• Capital expenditures ($785 million); and
• Milestone payments primarily related to ImClone ($280 million).
Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $2.6 billion in 2008 and included:
• Dividend payments ($2.5 billion);
• Redemption of Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2023 ($1.2 billion);
• Repayment of 4.00% Notes due August 2008 ($400 million) and 1.10% Yen Notes due 2008 ($117 million);
• Repurchase of some of the Company’s Notes ($228 million);
• Net proceeds from the issuance of 5.45% Notes due 2018 ($600 million) and 6.125% Notes due 2038 ($1.0 billion);
• Net proceeds from the termination of interest rate swap agreements ($211 million); and
• Net proceeds from stock option exercises in 2008 ($5 million) reflects the exercise of fewer stock options in 2008 due to the decrease in the average stock
price when compared to the prior periods.
Net cash used in financing activities was $3.2 billion in 2007 and included:
• Dividend payments ($2.2 billion);
• Repayment of the floating rate bank facility ($1.3 billion); and
• Proceeds from the exercise of stock options ($333 million).
Net cash used in financing activities was $3.4 billion in 2006 and included:
• Debt payments associated with the early retirement of 5.75% Notes due 2011 ($2.5 billion) and floating rate bank facility ($1.2 billion);
• Dividend payments ($2.2 billion); and
• Proceeds from the issuance of 5.87% Notes due 2036 ($1.3 billion), and Euro Notes ($1.3 billion).
62Table of Contents
Dividends declared per common share were $1.24 for 2008, $1.15 for 2007 and $1.12 for 2006. In December 2008, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $0.31
per common share and indicated a dividend for the full year 2009 of $1.24 per share. Dividend decisions are made on a quarterly basis by the Company’s Board of
Directors.
Contractual Obligations
Payments due by period for the Company’s contractual obligations at December 31, 2008 were as follows:
Obligations Expiring by Period
Dollars in Millions Total 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Later Years
Short-term borrowings $ 154 $ 154 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Long-term debt (1) 5,737 — 45 — — 647 5,045
Interest on long-term debt(2) 6,360 246 251 271 278 272 5,042
Operating leases 674 136 110 93 79 73 183
Purchase obligations 2,907 621 409 401 406 411 659
Stand-by letters of credit/performance guarantees 168 96 33 11 15 3 10
Uncertain tax positions(3) 120 120 — — — — —
Other long-term liabilities(4) 381 — 120 57 34 25 145
Total(5) $ 16,501 $ 1,373 $ 968 $ 833 $ 812 $ 1,431 $ 11,084
(1) The current portion of long-term debt obligations is included in short-term borrowings on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008 and all balances approximate the outstanding nominal
long-term debt values.
(2) Includes estimated future interest payments on our short-term and long-term debt. Also includes accrued interest payable recorded on our consolidated balance sheets, which consists primarily of the accrual of
interest on short-term and long-term debt as well as the accrual of periodic cash settlements of derivatives, netted by counterparty.
(3) Due to the uncertainty related to the timing of the reversal of uncertain tax positions, only the short-term uncertain tax benefits have been provided in the table above.
(4) Does not include minority interest of $33 million.
(5) The table above excludes future contributions by the Company to its pension, postretirement and postemployment benefit plans. Required contributions are contingent upon numerous factors including minimum
regulatory funding requirements and the funded status of each plan. Due to the uncertainty of such future obligations, they are excluded from the table. Contributions for both U.S. and international plans are
expected to be up to $690 million in 2009. See “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 24 Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Benefits” for further detail.
In addition to the above, the Company has committed to make approximately $3.0 billion potential future research and development milestone payments to third
parties as part of in-licensing and development programs. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain
developmental and regulatory milestones, for which the specific timing cannot be predicted. Because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor
reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.
For a discussion of contractual obligations, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 18. Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt,” “—Note 21. Financial
Instruments,” “—Note 23. Leases,” and “—Note 24. Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities.”
SEC Consent Order
As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, the Company entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning certain wholesaler
inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which was attached as Exhibit 10 to the Company’s quarterly report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.
Under the terms of the Consent, the Company agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to its direct customers (including
wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and government purchasers) based on expected demand or on amounts that do not exceed
approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a timely public disclosure of any change in practice. The Company also agreed in the Consent to
certain measures that it has implemented including: (a) establishing a formal review and certification process of its annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC;
(b) establishing a business risk and disclosure group; (c) retaining an outside consultant to comprehensively study and help re-engineer the Company’s accounting
and financial reporting processes; (d) publicly disclosing any sales incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose of inducing them to purchase products in
excess of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that the Company’s budget process gives appropriate weight to inputs that come from the bottom to the top, and not
just from the top to the bottom, and adequately documenting that process.
63Table of Contents
The Company has established a company-wide policy to limit its sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the Consent. This policy includes the
adoption of various procedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the terms of the Consent. These procedures include a governance
process to escalate to appropriate management levels potential questions or concerns regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions
or concerns. In addition, compliance with the policy is monitored on a regular basis.
The Company maintains Inventory Management Agreements (IMAs) with most of its U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which account for nearly 100% of total gross
sales of U.S. Pharmaceutical products. Under the current terms of the IMAs, the Company’s three largest wholesaler customers provide the Company with weekly
information with respect to months on hand product-level inventories and the amount of out-movement of products. These three wholesalers currently account for
approximately 90% of total gross sales of U.S. Pharmaceuticals products in 2008, 2007 and 2006. The inventory information received from these wholesalers, together
with the Company’s internal information, is used to estimate months on hand product level inventories at these wholesalers. The Company estimates months on hand
product inventory levels for its U.S. Pharmaceutical business’s wholesaler customers other than the three largest wholesalers by extrapolating from the months on
hand calculated for the three largest wholesalers. In contrast, for the Company’s Pharmaceutical business outside of the U.S. and Nutritionals business units around
the world, the Company has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement
information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, the Company relies on a variety of methods to estimate
months on hand product level inventories for these business units.
The Company believes the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to ensure compliance with the Consent.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
In 2008, the following new accounting pronouncements, critical to the Company’s financial statements, discussed in “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1.
Accounting Policies—Recently Issued Accounting Standards”, have been considered and evaluated for required application and their impact:
• EITF Issue No. 07-3, Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development
Activities
• SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
• SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements
• SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
• EITF Issue No. 07-1, Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements Related to the Development and Commercialization of Intellectual Property
• SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements—an amendment of ARB No. 51
• SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations
Critical Accounting Policies
The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, including disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities, at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and
expenses during the reporting period. The Company’s critical accounting policies are those that are both most important to the Company’s financial condition and
results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to
make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates or judgments used in the
preparation of the consolidated financial statements, actual results may vary from these estimates.
The Company believes that the following discussion represents its critical accounting policies. Management has discussed the Company’s critical accounting
policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, as amended by SAB
No. 104, Revenue Recognition. The Company’s accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on its reported results and relies on certain
estimates that require difficult, subjective and complex judgments on the part of management. The Company recognizes revenue (net of the gross-to-net sales
adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and judgments) when title and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have
transferred to the customer, which generally occurs on the date of shipment.
64Table of Contents
In the case of new products for which the product introduction is not an extension of an existing line of product, where the Company determines that there are not
products in a similar therapeutic category, or where the Company determines the new product has dissimilar characteristics with existing products, such that the
Company cannot reliably estimate expected returns of the new product, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the right of return no longer exists or until
the Company has developed sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns.
For discussions on revenue recognition, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Revenue Recognition and Sales Rebate and Return
Accruals.”
Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments
The Company has the following significant categories of gross-to-net sales adjustments: prime vendor charge-backs, WIC rebates, managed health care rebates and
other contract discounts, Medicaid rebates, cash discounts, sales returns, and other adjustments, all of which involve significant estimates and judgments and
require the Company to use information from external sources. The Company accounts for these gross-to-net sales adjustments in accordance with EITF Issue
No. 01-9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor’s Products), and SFAS No. 48, Revenue Recognition
When Right of Return Exists, as applicable. See “—Net Sales” section above for a reconciliation of the Company’s gross sales to net sales by each significant
category of gross-to-net sales adjustment.
Prime vendor charge-backs
The Company’s U.S. businesses participate in prime vendor programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and
the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties whereby pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price to participating entities. These entities
purchase products through wholesalers at the lower prime vendor price and the wholesalers charge the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower prime
vendor price back to the Company. The Company accounts for prime vendor charge-backs by reducing accounts receivable in an amount equal to the Company’s
estimate of charge-back claims attributable to a sale. The Company determines its estimate of the prime vendor charge-backs primarily based on historical experience
regarding prime vendor charge-backs and current contract prices under the prime vendor programs. The Company considers prime vendor payments, levels of
inventory in the distribution channel, and the Company’s claim processing time lag and adjusts the reduction to accounts receivable periodically throughout each
quarter to reflect actual experience.
WIC rebates
The Company’s U.S. Nutritionals business participates on a competitive bidding basis in nutrition programs sponsored by states, tribal governments, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the U.S. territories for WIC. Under these programs, the Company reimburses these entities for the difference between wholesaler
list price and the contract price on eligible products. The Company accounts for WIC rebates by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s
estimate of WIC rebate claims attributable to a sale. The Company determines its estimate of the WIC rebate accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding
WIC rebates and current contract prices under the WIC programs. The Company considers levels of inventory in the distribution channel, new WIC contracts,
terminated WIC contracts, changes in existing WIC contracts, and WIC participation and adjusts the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual
experience.
Managed health care rebates and other contract discounts
The Company offers rebates and discounts to managed health care organizations in the U.S. which manage prescription drug programs and Medicare Advantage
prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug benefit in addition to their commercial plans, as well as globally to other contract counterparties such as
hospitals and group purchasing organizations. In addition, the Company pays rebates under U.S. Department of Defense TRICARE Retail Pharmacy Refund Program.
The Company accounts for managed health care rebates and other contract discounts by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of
managed health care rebates and other contract discounts attributable to a sale. The Company determines its estimate of the managed health care rebates and other
contract discounts accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding these rebates and discounts and current contract prices. The Company considers the
sales performance of products subject to managed health care rebates and other contract discounts and levels of inventory in the distribution channel and adjusts
the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
65Table of Contents
Medicaid rebates
The Company’s U.S. businesses participate in state government-managed Medicaid programs as well as certain other qualifying Federal and state government
programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating state and local government entities. Discounts and rebates provided through these latter
programs are included in the Company’s Medicaid rebate accrual and are considered Medicaid rebates for the purposes of this discussion. The Company accounts
for Medicaid rebates by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s estimate of Medicaid rebate claims attributable to a sale. The Company
determines its estimate of the Medicaid rebates accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding Medicaid rebates, as well as any expansion on a
prospective basis of its participation in the non-mandatory aspects of the qualifying Federal and state government programs, legal interpretations of applicable laws
related to Medicaid and qualifying Federal and state government programs, and any new information regarding changes in the Medicaid programs’ regulations and
guidelines that would impact the amount of the rebates. The Company considers outstanding Medicaid claims, Medicaid payments, and levels of inventory in the
distribution channel and adjusts the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
Cash discounts
In the U.S. and certain other countries, the Company offers cash discounts, approximating 2% of the sales price, as an incentive for prompt payment. The Company
accounts for cash discounts by reducing accounts receivable by the full amount of the discounts. The Company considers payment performance and adjusts the
accrual to reflect actual experience.
Sales returns
The Company accounts for sales returns in accordance with SFAS No. 48, Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists, by establishing an accrual in an
amount equal to the Company’s estimate of sales recorded for which the related products are expected to be returned. The provision for sales returns was $228 million
in 2008, $155 million in 2007 and $224 million in 2006, which approximates 1% of gross sales for each of the three years.
For returns of established products, the Company determines its estimate of the sales return accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding sales returns,
but also considers other factors that could impact sales returns. These factors include levels of inventory in the distribution channel, estimated shelf life, product
recalls, product discontinuances, price changes of competitive products, introductions of generic products and introductions of competitive new products. The
Company considers all of these factors and adjusts the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
In the event of a product recall or product discontinuance, the Company considers the reasons for and impact of such actions and adjusts the sales return accrual as
appropriate, taking into account historical experience, estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and, for product discontinuances, estimates of
continuing demand.
Sales returns accruals from new products are estimated and primarily based on the historical sales returns experience of similar products, such as those within the
same line of product or those within the same or similar therapeutic category. In limited circumstances, where the new product is not an extension of an existing line of
product or where the Company has no historical experience with products in a similar therapeutic category, such that the Company cannot reliably estimate expected
returns of the new product, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the right of return no longer exists or until the Company has developed sufficient
historical experience to estimate sales returns. The Company also considers the shelf life of new products and determines whether it believes an adjustment to the
sales return accrual is appropriate. The shelf life in connection with new products tends to be shorter than the shelf life for more established products because the
Company may still be developing an optimal manufacturing process for the new product that would lengthen its shelf life. In addition, higher launch quantities may
have been manufactured in advance of the launch date to ensure sufficient supply exists to satisfy market demand. In those cases, the Company assesses the
reduced shelf life, together with estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and projected demand, and determines whether it believes an adjustment to
the sales return accrual is appropriate.
Other adjustments
In addition to the gross-to-net sales adjustments described above, the Company makes other gross-to-net sales adjustments. For example, the Company offers sales
discounts, most significantly in its non-U.S. businesses, and also offers consumer coupons and rebates, most significantly in its U.S. Nutritionals and
Pharmaceuticals businesses. In addition, in a number of countries outside the U.S., including certain major European countries, the Company provides rebates to
government entities. The Company generally accounts for these other gross-to-net adjustments by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to the Company’s
estimate of the adjustments attributable to a sale. The Company generally determines its estimates of the accruals for these other gross-to-net sales adjustments
primarily based on historical experience, performance on commitments to government entities and other relevant factors, including estimated levels of inventory in the
distribution channel, and adjusts the accruals periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.
66Table of Contents
Use of information from external sources
The Company uses information from external sources to estimate its gross-to-net sales adjustments. The Company’s estimates of inventory at the wholesalers are
based on the projected prescription demand-based sales for its products and historical inventory experience, as well as the Company’s analysis of third-party
information, including written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers with respect to their inventory levels and sell-through to customers and third-
party market research data, and the Company’s internal information. The inventory information received from wholesalers is a product of their recordkeeping process
and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals. The Company receives information from IMS, a supplier of market
research to the pharmaceutical industry, which it uses to project the prescription demand-based sales for many of its U.S. Pharmaceutical products. In 2007, IMS
refined and improved its NGPS projection methodology and fully rolled out NGPS Version 2.0 of the National Prescription Audit to all subscribers, which resulted in
newly revised volume estimates for historic time periods. Therefore, since the first quarter of 2007, the Company has used the new IMS standard NGPS Version 2.0
projection methodology and has applied NGPS Version 2.0 data for reporting prescription growth and market shares to all periods presented in the Annual Report on
Form 10-K. The Company has also continued the practice of combining retail and mail prescription volume on a retail-equivalent basis. The Company uses this
methodology for its internal demand forecasts. The Company also uses information from external sources to identify prescription trends, patient demand and average
selling prices. The Company’s estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party information, as certain third-party information was
itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags between the date as of which third-party information is generated and the date on which the
Company receives third-party information.
Retirement Benefits
The Company’s pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are accounted for using actuarial valuations. Management is required to make significant subjective
judgments about a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, salary growth, long-term return on plan assets, retirement, turnover, health care cost
trend rates, and mortality rates. Depending on the assumptions and estimates used, the pension and postretirement benefit expense could vary within a range of
outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. In addition, the assumptions can materially affect projected benefit obligations and future cash funding.
The Company adopted SFAS No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements
No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R), in the year ended December 31, 2006 and the adoption of this accounting pronouncement resulted in a $1.1 billion reduction of
accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity, a $767 million reduction in total assets and a $297 million increase in total liabilities. The adoption
of SFAS No. 158 did not impact the Company’s results of operations or cash flows.
The Company’s key assumptions used in calculating its cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase, and the expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets. The Company, in consultation with its actuaries, evaluates the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating its
cost of pension benefits, such as retirement, turnover and mortality rates, based on expectations or actual experience, as appropriate, and determines such
assumptions on December 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension expense for the following year. Depending on the assumptions
used, the pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. In addition, the assumptions can materially affect
projected benefit obligations and future cash funding. Actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors.
In determining the discount rate, the Company uses the yield on high quality corporate bonds that coincides with the cash flows of its plans’ estimated payouts. The
Citigroup Above Median yield curve is used in determining the discount rate for the U.S. plans. The assumed rate of compensation increase used by the Company
for determining future pension obligations reflects an estimate of the change in actual future compensation levels due to general price levels, productivity, seniority
and other factors.
The U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2008 was determined using a 6.75% assumed discount rate and a 3.56% assumed rate of compensation increase. The present
value of benefit obligations at December 31, 2008 for the U.S. plans was determined using a 6.5% assumed discount rate and a 3.56% assumed rate of compensation
increase. If the assumed discount rate used in determining the U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2008 had been reduced by 0.25%, such expense would have increased
by approximately $17 million. If the assumed rate of compensation increase used in determining the U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2008 had been reduced by 0.25%,
such expense would have decreased by approximately $9 million. If the assumed discount rate used in determining the projected benefit obligation at December 31,
2008 had been reduced by 0.25%, the projected benefit obligation would have increased by $126 million.
67Table of Contents
In determining the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the Company estimates returns for individual asset classes with input from external advisors. The
Company also considers long-term historical returns including actual performance compared to benchmarks for similar investments.
The U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2008 was determined using an 8.75% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. If the expected long-term rate of return on
plan assets used in determining the U.S. plans’ pension expense for 2008 had been reduced by 1%, such expense would have increased by $43 million.
For a more detailed discussion on retirement benefits, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 24. Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities.”
Acquisitions
The Company’s consolidated financial statements and results of operations reflect an acquired business after the completion of the acquisition. Acquired businesses
are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, which requires that the purchase price be allocated to the net assets acquired at their respective fair
values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Amounts allocated to acquired IPRD are
expensed at the date of acquisition.
The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially
impact our results of operations.
There are several methods that can be used to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. For intangible assets, including IPRD, we typically
use the “income method.” This method starts with our forecast of all of the expected future net cash flows. These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by
applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions
inherent in the income method or other methods include: the amount and timing of projected future cash flows; the amount and timing of projected costs to develop
the IPRD into commercially viable products; the discount rate selected to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows; and the assessment of the asset’s life
cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset, including consideration of any technical, legal, regulatory, or economic barriers to entry, as well as expected
changes in standards of practice for indications addressed by the asset.
Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment, as different types of intangible assets will have different useful lives. For example, the useful
life of the right associated with a pharmaceutical product’s exclusive patent will be finite and will result in amortization expense being recognized in the results of
operations over a determinable period.
For a more detailed discussion on acquired in-process research and development, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Acquired In-
Process Research and Development.”
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its depreciable assets to be held and used may not be
recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows produced by the long-lived asset, or the appropriate
grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether impairment exists. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on
the difference between the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. An estimate of the asset’s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if
available. If quoted market prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques, including a discounted value of estimated
future cash flows. The Company reports an asset to be disposed of at the lower of its carrying value or its estimated net realizable value.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment using a two-step process. The first step is to identify a potential impairment, and the second step measures the
amount of the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is deemed to be impaired if the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. All
other long-lived assets are tested for impairment using a one-step process, which consists of a comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the asset. Such
assets are deemed to be impaired if their net book value exceeds their estimated fair value.
The estimates of future cash flows, based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections, require management’s judgment. Any changes in key
assumptions about the Company’s businesses and their prospects, or changes in market conditions, could result in an impairment charge.
68Table of Contents
Impairment charges of long-lived assets were $63 million in 2008, $104 million in 2007 and $120 million in 2006. For discussions on impairment of long-lived assets, see
“Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” and “—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”
Equity Investments
The Company reviews its equity investments for impairment based on its determination of whether the decline in market value of the investment below the
Company’s carrying value is other than temporary. In making this determination, the Company considers APB Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for
Investments in Common Stock and related interpretations, which set forth factors to be evaluated in determining whether a loss in value should be recognized,
including the Company’s ability to hold its investment, the market price and market price fluctuations of the investment’s publicly traded shares and inability of the
investee to sustain an earnings capacity, which would justify the carrying amount of the investment. The Company’s previous investment in ImClone was subject to
this accounting. For a discussion of the Company’s investment in ImClone, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”
For discussions on equity investments, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Investments” and “—Note 2. Alliances and
Collaborations.”
Marketable Securities
The Company’s marketable securities at December 31, 2008 consisted of U.S. Treasury Bills, FRS and ARS.
Due to the lack of availability of observable market quotes on the Company’s investment portfolio of FRS and ARS, the Company utilizes valuation models including
those that are based on expected cash flow streams and collateral values, including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying the security,
discount rates and overall capital market liquidity. The valuation is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Factors that may impact the Company’s
valuation include changes to credit ratings of the securities as well as to the underlying assets supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets,
underlying collateral value, discount rates, counterparty risk and ongoing strength and quality of market credit and liquidity.
A considerable amount of judgment and estimation is applied in the valuation of FRS and ARS. In addition, the Company also applies judgment in determining
whether the marketable securities are other-than-temporarily impaired. The Company typically considers the severity and duration of the decline, future prospects of
the issuer and the Company’s ability and intent to hold the security to recovery.
Other-than-temporary impairment charges related to ARS were $305 million and $275 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The carrying value of ARS was $94 million
at December 31, 2008.
The credit and capital markets have continued to deteriorate in 2009. If uncertainties in these markets continue, these markets deteriorate further or the Company
experiences any additional ratings downgrades on any investments in its portfolio (including on ARS), the Company may incur additional impairment charges.
For discussions on marketable securities, FRS and ARS, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 10. Fair Value Measurement” and “—Note 11. Cash, Cash
Equivalents and Marketable Securities.”
Restructuring
To streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities, the Company has periodically recorded restructuring charges. As a result, the Company has made
estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when the restructuring actions take place.
Actual results could vary from these estimates. Adjustments to reflect changes in estimates for restructuring actions taken in prior periods resulted in an increase of
$1 million in 2008, and a reduction of $6 million in 2007 and $14 million in 2006.
For discussions on restructuring, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Restructuring” and “—Note 3. Restructuring.”
Contingencies
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of its business, that cover a wide range
of matters, including, among others, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability. In accordance with SFAS No. 5,
Accounting for Contingencies, the Company records
69Table of Contents
accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are
subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict and, as such, actual results could vary from these estimates.
For discussions on contingencies, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Contingencies,” “—Note 9. Income Taxes” and “—Note 25.
Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes has been determined using the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes. Under this approach, deferred taxes
represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. The provision for income taxes
represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from differences between the
financial and tax bases of the Company’s assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances
are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance
is required often requires significant judgment including the long-range forecast of future taxable income and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments
to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made. The Company had net deferred tax assets of $2.8 billion
and $3.5 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, net of valuation allowances of $1.8 billion and $2.0 billion.
The Company recognized significant deferred tax assets at December 31, 2008 related to U.S. Federal foreign tax credit carryforwards of $451 million and U.S. Federal
research and development tax credit carryforwards of $271 million. The realization of these tax credit carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic-
sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will
be realized.
The Company establishes liabilities for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing
matters, tax credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be
adjusted over time as more information becomes known.
For discussions on income taxes, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 1. Accounting Policies—Income Taxes” and “—Note 9. Income Taxes.”
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This annual report and other written and oral statements the Company makes from time to time contain certain “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the fact they
use words such as “should”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “target”, “may”, “project”, “guidance”, “intend”, “plan”, “believe” and other words and terms of
similar meaning and expression in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. One can also identify forward-looking statements by
the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and
uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes to differ materially from current expectations. These
statements are likely to relate to, among other things, the Company’s goals, plans and projections regarding its financial position, results of operations, cash flows,
market position, product development, product approvals, sales efforts, expenses, performance or results of current and anticipated products and the outcome of
contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results, which are based on current expectations that involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including
internal or external factors that could delay, divert or change any of them in the next several years. The Company has included important factors in the cautionary
statements included in this annual report, particularly under “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” that the Company believes could cause actual results to differ materially from
any forward-looking statement.
Although the Company believes it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking
statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. The Company
undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
70Table of Contents
Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.
The Company is exposed to market risk due to changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and to a lesser extent natural gas pricing. To reduce that risk, the
Company enters into certain derivative financial instruments, when available on a cost-effective basis, to hedge its underlying economic exposure. The Company’s
primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, and Mexican peso. To manage these exposures, the
Company utilizes foreign currency contracts, which are subject to cash flow hedge accounting treatment. These instruments are managed on a consolidated basis to
efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of any natural offsets.
The Company also uses derivative instruments as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. The derivative instruments used are comprised principally of
fixed-to-floating rate interest swaps, which are subject to fair-value hedge accounting treatment. In addition, all of the Company’s financial instruments, including
derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk which the Company considers as part of the overall fair value measurement. Derivative financial instruments are not
used for speculative purposes.
Foreign Exchange Risk
A significant portion of the Company’s revenues and earnings is exposed to changes in foreign currency rates. In addition, the Company is exposed to foreign
exchange transaction risk that arises from non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities. In order to manage this risk, the Company uses foreign
exchange forward contracts to offset its exposure to certain assets and liabilities and earnings denominated in certain foreign currencies. These foreign exchange
forward contracts are not designated as hedges and, therefore, changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized in earnings in other expense, net, as they
occur. In addition, the Company utilizes foreign currency contracts to manage foreign exchange risk that primarily arises from certain intercompany transactions and
designates these derivative instruments as foreign currency cash flow hedges when appropriate.
The notional amounts of the Company’s foreign exchange derivative contracts were $1.2 billion and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For these
derivatives, in which the majority qualify as hedges of future anticipated cash flows, the effective portion of changes in fair value is temporarily deferred in
accumulated OCI and then recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. The Company estimates that a 10% appreciation or depreciation in the
underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2008, with all other variables held constant, would decrease by $119
million or increase by $109 million, respectively, the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts held at December 31, 2008.
The Company is also exposed to translation risk on its non-U.S. dollar-denominated net assets. In order to manage this risk the Company uses non-U.S. dollar
borrowings, primarily the €500 Million Notes due 2016 and the €500 Million Notes due 2021, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of the Company’s net
investment in certain foreign affiliates. These non-U.S. dollar borrowings are designated as hedges of net investments. The effective portion of foreign exchange
gains or losses on these hedges is recorded as part of the foreign currency translation component of accumulated OCI.
For additional information, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 21. Financial Instruments.”
Interest Rate Risk
The Company uses interest rate swaps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. The interest rate swaps used are principally fixed-to-floating rate swaps,
which are designated as fair-value hedges. SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, requires interest rate swaps that qualify for
fair-value hedge accounting, as well as the underlying debt, to be reported at fair value. As such, the swaps and the underlying debt have been revalued resulting in
a $647 million increase to non-current other assets and long-term debt at December 31, 2008. Swaps are generally held to maturity and intended to create an
appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt for the Company. The Company estimates that an increase or decrease of 100 basis points in short-term or long-
term interest rates would decrease or increase the fair value of the Company’s interest rate swaps by $455 million, excluding the effects of counterparty credit risk.
For additional information, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 10. Fair Value Measurements,” “—Note 11. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities,”
“—Note 18. Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt” and “—Note 21. Financial Instruments.”
71Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
Dollars and Shares in Millions, Except Per Share Data
Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
Year Ended December 31,
2008 2007 2006
EARNINGS
Net Sales $ 20,597 $ 18,193 $ 16,208
Costs of products sold 6,396 5,868 5,420
Marketing, selling and administrative 4,792 4,516 4,469
Advertising and product promotion 1,550 1,415 1,304
Research and development 3,585 3,227 2,951
Acquired in-process research and development 32 230 —
Provision for restructuring, net 218 183 59
Litigation expense, net 33 14 302
Gain on sale of product lines and businesses (159) (273) (200)
Equity in net income of affiliates (617) (524) (474)
Gain on sale of ImClone shares (895) — —
Other expense, net 191 351 292
Total Expenses, net 15,126 15,007 14,123
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Minority Interest 5,471 3,186 2,085
Provision for income taxes 1,320 682 431
Minority interest, net of taxes 996 763 440
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations 3,155 1,741 1,214
Discontinued Operations:
Earnings, net of taxes 113 424 371
Gain on Disposal, net of taxes 1,979 — —
2,092 424 371
Net Earnings $ 5,247 $ 2,165 $ 1,585
Earnings per Common Share
Basic:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 1.60 $ 0.88 $ 0.62
Discontinued Operations:
Earnings, net of taxes 0.05 0.22 0.19
Gain on Disposal, net of taxes 1.00 — —
Net Earnings per Common Share $ 2.65 $ 1.10 $ 0.81
Diluted:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 1.59 $ 0.88 $ 0.62
Discontinued Operations:
Earnings, net of taxes 0.05 0.21 0.19
Gain on Disposal, net of taxes 0.99 — —
Net Earnings per Common Share $ 2.63 $ 1.09 $ 0.81
Average Common Shares Outstanding:
Basic 1,977 1,970 1,960
Diluted 2,001 1,980 1,963
Dividends declared per common share $ 1.24 $ 1.15 $ 1.12
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
72Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME AND RETAINED EARNINGS
Dollars in Millions
Year Ended December 31,
2008 2007 2006
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Net Earnings $ 5,247 $ 2,165 $ 1,585
Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss):
Foreign currency translation (123) 240 159
Foreign currency translation reclassified to net earnings due to business divestitures (12) — —
Foreign currency translation on hedge of a net investment 36 (141) (30)
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges, net of tax of $3 in 2008, $24 in 2007 and $32 in 2006 9 (56) (73)
Derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges reclassified to net earnings, net of tax of $23 in 2008, $15 in 2007 and $22 in
2006 42 42 34
Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax of $44 in 2006 — — 82
Pension and postretirement benefits, net of tax of $697 in 2008 and $52 in 2007 (1,387) 130 —
Pension and postretirement benefits reclassified to net earnings, net of tax of $50 in 2008 and $50 in 2007 102 108 —
Available for sale securities, net of tax of $0 in 2008, $19 in 2007 and $6 in 2006 (37) (139) 12
Available for sale securities reclassified to net earnings, net of tax of $6 in 2008 112 — —
Total Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income (1,258 ) 184 184
Comprehensive Income $ 3,989 $ 2,349 $ 1,769
RETAINED EARNINGS
Retained Earnings at January 1 $ 19,762 $ 19,845 $ 20,464
Cumulative effect of adoption of FIN No. 48 — 27 —
Net earnings 5,247 2,165 1,585
Cash dividends declared (2,460) (2,275) (2,204)
Retained Earnings at December 31 $ 22,549 $ 19,762 $ 19,845
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
73Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Dollars in Millions, Except Share and Per Share Data
December 31,
2008 2007
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 7,976 $ 1,801
Marketable securities 289 424
Receivables, net of allowances of $128 and $180 3,710 3,994
Inventories, net 1,765 2,162
Deferred income taxes, net of valuation allowances 703 851
Prepaid expenses 320 310
Assets held for sale — 560
Total Current Assets 14,763 10,102
Property, plant and equipment, net 5,405 5,650
Goodwill 4,827 4,998
Other intangible assets, net 1,151 1,330
Deferred income taxes, net of valuation allowances 2,137 2,716
Other assets 1,269 1,130
Total Assets $ 29,552 $ 25,926
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Short-term borrowings $ 154 $ 1,891
Accounts payable 1,535 1,442
Accrued expenses 2,936 2,951
Deferred income 277 201
Accrued rebates and returns 806 763
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 347 296
Dividends payable 617 614
Accrued litigation liabilities 38 205
Liabilities related to assets held for sale — 35
Total Current Liabilities 6,710 8,398
Pension, postretirement, and postemployment liabilities 2,285 782
Deferred income 791 714
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 466 537
Other liabilities 474 552
Long-term debt 6,585 4,381
Total Liabilities 17,311 15,364
Commitments and contingencies (Note 25)
STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Preferred stock, $2 convertible series, par value of $1 per share: Authorized 10 million shares; issued and outstanding 5,668 in 2008 and 5,815
in 2007, liquidation value of $50 per share $ — $ —
Common stock, par value of $.10 per share: Authorized 4.5 billion shares; 2.2 billion issued and outstanding in both 2008 and 2007 220 220
Capital in excess of par value of stock 2,828 2,722
Restricted stock (71) (97)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (2,719) (1,461)
Retained earnings 22,549 19,762
22,807 21,146
Less cost of treasury stock — 226 million common shares in 2008 and 2007 (10,566) (10,584)
Total Stockholders’ Equity 12,241 10,562
Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity $ 29,552 $ 25,926
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
74Table of Contents
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Dollars in Millions
Year Ended December 31,
2008 2007 2006
Cash Flows From Operating Activities:
Net earnings $5,247 $ 2,165 $ 1,585
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation 562 542 564
Amortization 254 350 363
Deferred income tax expense/(benefits) 1,430 (416) (236)
Stock-based compensation expense 181 133 112
Acquired in-process research and development 32 230 —
Impairment charges 349 379 120
Gain on sale of product lines and businesses (3,570) (273) (207)
(Gain)/loss on debt buyback/restructuring and interest rate swap termination (57) — 220
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 36 51 33
Gain on sale of ImClone and other investments (874) (1) (7)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Receivables (365) (519) 444
Inventories 130 (54) 78
Deferred income 61 454 27
Accounts payable 253 141 (349)
U.S. and foreign income taxes receivable/payable 371 (199) (91)
Changes in other operating assets and liabilities (333) 170 (573)
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 3,707 3,153 2,083
Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
Proceeds from sale of marketable securities 560 20,634 31,479
Purchases of marketable securities (422) (19,878) (30,717)
Additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized software (941) (843) (785)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and investment in other companies 83 44 2
Proceeds from sale of product lines and businesses 4,756 273 226
Proceeds from sale and leaseback of properties 227 — 281
Milestone payments for intangible assets — — (280)
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired (191) (432) —
Proceeds from sale of ImClone shares 1,007 — —
Net Cash Provided by/(Used in) Investing Activities 5,079 (202 ) 206
Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
Short-term (repayments)/borrowings (1,688) (33) 30
Long-term debt borrowings 1,580 — 2,506
Long-term debt repayments (229) (1,300) (3,796)
Interest rate swap termination 211 — (62)
Issuances of common stock under stock plans and excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements 5 333 170
Dividends paid (2,461) (2,213) (2,199)
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities (2,582 ) (3,213 ) (3,351 )
Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash and Cash Equivalents (29 ) 45 30
Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 6,175 (217 ) (1,032 )
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period 1,801 2,018 3,050
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period $ 7,976 $ 1,801 $ 2,018
The consolidated statements of cash flows include the activities of the discontinued operations.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
75Table of Contents
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements, prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), include the accounts of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS or the Company) and all of its controlled majority-owned subsidiaries. All
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The Company has entered into codevelopment, cocommercialization and license arrangements with other parties for various therapeutic areas with terms including
upfront and contingent payments. All such arrangements with other parties were not determined to be with variable interest entities under the requirements of FIN
No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, primarily due to the Company not providing more than 50% subordinated financial support. As a result, the
Company does not consolidate the financial results of any of these parties.
Reclassifications
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Among other changes, during 2008 the Company reclassified certain
receivables on sale of products to alliance partners. The new presentation also changed the previously reported line items within the consolidated statements of cash
flows, however, the new presentation did not change net cash provided by operating activities. See “—Note 12. Receivables, Net.”
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions, based on complex judgments that are considered reasonable, that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The most significant assumptions are employed in estimates used in determining values of intangible
assets, restructuring charges and accruals, sales rebate and return accruals, legal contingencies, tax assets and tax liabilities, stock-based compensation expense,
retirement and postretirement benefits (including the actuarial assumptions), financial instruments with no observable market quotes, as well as in estimates used in
applying the revenue recognition policy. Actual results may or may not differ from estimated results.
Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes revenue when title and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer. Generally, revenue is
recognized at time of shipment. However, in the case of certain sales made by the Nutritionals business and certain non-U.S. businesses within the Pharmaceuticals
segment, revenue is recognized on the date of receipt by the purchaser, see “—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations” for further discussion of revenue recognition
related to alliances. Revenues are reduced at the time of recognition to reflect expected returns that are estimated based on historical experience and business trends.
Additionally, provisions are made at the time of revenue recognition for discounts, rebates and estimated sales allowances based on historical experience updated for
changes in facts and circumstances, as appropriate. Such provisions are recorded as a reduction of revenue.
In the case of new products for which the product introduction is not an extension of an existing line of product, where the Company determines that there are not
products in a similar therapeutic category, or where the Company determines the new product has dissimilar characteristics with existing products such that the
Company cannot reliably estimate expected returns of the new product, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the right of return no longer exists or until
the Company has developed sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns.
76Table of Contents
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
Sales Rebate and Return Accruals
Sales rebate and return accruals are established in the same period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction to sales and the establishment of a
liability, which is included in accrued rebates and returns. An accrual is recorded based on an estimate of the proportion of recorded revenue that will result in a
rebate or return. Prime vendor charge-back accruals and cash discounts, established in a similar manner, are recorded as a reduction to accounts receivable. The
accrued liabilities and reductions to the trade receivables are as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Medicaid rebates $ 133 $ 125
Women, Infants and Children (WIC) rebates 195 198
Sales returns 209 178
Managed health care rebates and other contract discounts 154 134
Prime vendor charge-backs 45 70
Cash discounts 31 24
Other adjustments 115 128
Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes has been determined using the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes. Under this approach, deferred taxes
represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. The provision for income taxes
represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from differences between the
financial and tax bases of the Company’s assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances
are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance
is required often requires significant judgment including the long-range forecast of future taxable income and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments
to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of U.S. Treasury backed securities, bank deposits, time deposits and money market funds. Cash equivalents are primarily highly
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase and are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value. The Company
maintains cash and cash equivalent balances in U.S. dollars and foreign currencies which are subject to currency rate risk.
Marketable Securities
The Company determined the appropriate classification of all marketable securities was “available for sale” at the time of purchase. As such, all of the Company’s
investments in marketable securities were reported at fair value at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Fair value is determined based on observable market quotes or
valuation models using assessments of counterparty credit worthiness, credit default risk or underlying security and overall capital market liquidity. Declines in fair
value that are considered other than temporary are charged to earnings and those that are considered temporary are reported as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income (OCI) in stockholders’ equity. The Company uses the average cost method of determining the cost basis in computing realized gains and
losses on the sale of its available for sale securities. Realized gains and losses are included in other expense, net.
Inventory Valuation
Inventories are generally stated at average cost, not in excess of market.
Capital Assets and Depreciation
Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalized at cost. Depreciation is generally computed on a straight-line method based on the estimated
useful lives of the related assets. The estimated useful lives of the major classes of depreciable assets are 50 years for buildings and 3 to 40 years for machinery,
equipment and fixtures. The Company periodically evaluates whether current events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its depreciable assets may
not be recoverable.
77Table of Contents
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its depreciable assets to be held and used may not be
recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows produced by the long-lived asset, or the appropriate
grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether impairment exists. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on
the difference between the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. An estimate of the asset’s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if
available. If quoted market prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques, including a discounted value of estimated
future cash flows. The Company reports an asset to be disposed of at the lower of its carrying value or its estimated net realizable value.
Capitalized Software
Certain costs to obtain internal use software for significant systems projects are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software, which ranges
from three to 10 years. Costs to obtain software for projects that are not significant are expensed as incurred. Capitalized software, net of accumulated amortization,
included in other intangible assets, net was $295 million and $248 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Amortization expense was $84 million in 2008,
$116 million in 2007 and $124 million in 2006.
Investments
The Company accounts for 50% or less-owned companies over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence using the equity method of accounting,
otherwise the cost method is used. The Company’s share of net income or losses of equity investments is included in equity in net income of affiliates in the
consolidated statements of earnings. Losses are recognized in other expense, net when a decline in market value is deemed to be other than temporary. The Company
reviews its equity investments for impairment based on its determination of whether the decline in market value of the investment below the Company’s carrying
value is other than temporary. In making this determination, the Company considers factors to be evaluated in determining whether a loss in value should be
recognized, including the Company’s ability to hold its investment, the market price and market price fluctuations of the investment’s publicly traded shares and
inability of the investee to sustain an earnings capacity, which would justify the carrying amount of the investment.
Acquisitions
The Company’s consolidated financial statements and results of operations reflect an acquired business after the completion of the acquisition and are not restated.
Acquired businesses are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, which requires that the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed be recorded at
the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as
goodwill. Amounts allocated to acquired in-process research and development (IPRD) are expensed at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is not recognized when
acquired net assets do not constitute a business.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually using a two-step process. The first step is to identify a potential impairment, and the second step measures the amount of
the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is deemed to be impaired if the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. The
Pharmaceutical segment includes four separate reporting units based on geography. The Nutritionals segment consists of one reporting unit. The Company
completed its annual goodwill impairment assessment in the first quarter of 2008 and monitored for any potential impairment in the remaining quarters of 2008, none of
which indicated an impairment of goodwill.
Other intangible assets, net, consisting of patents/trademarks, licenses, technology and capitalized software, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful
lives, ranging from two to 17 years. Such intangible assets are deemed to be impaired if their net carrying value exceeds their estimated fair value.
Restructuring
The Company has recognized restructuring charges in connection with activities that streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities. As a result, the
Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when the
restructuring actions take place. Actual results may vary from these estimates.
78Table of Contents
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
Product Liability
Accruals for product liability (including associated legal costs) are recorded on an undiscounted basis when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the
amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessment efforts progress or as
additional information becomes available. Receivables for related insurance or other third-party recoveries for product liabilities are recorded, on an undiscounted
basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized and are classified as a reduction of litigation expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings.
Contingencies
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to loss contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of its business, that cover a wide
range of matters, including, among others, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability. The Company records accruals for
such loss contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company does not recognize
gain contingencies until realized. For a discussion of contingencies, see “—Note 25. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”
Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivative financial instruments are used by the Company principally in the management of its interest rate and foreign currency exposures. The Company does not
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Company records all derivative instruments on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in a derivative’s fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific
hedge criteria are met. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of the derivative and of the hedged item attributable to the
hedged risk are recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portions of changes in the
fair value of the derivative are recorded in OCI and are subsequently recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings when the hedged item affects earnings;
cash flows are classified consistent with the underlying hedged item. For purchased foreign currency options, the entire change in fair value is included in the
measurement of hedge effectiveness for cash flow hedges. Ineffective portions of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges, if any, are recognized as a charge or
credit to earnings.
The Company designates and assigns derivatives as hedges of forecasted transactions, specific assets or specific liabilities. When hedged assets or liabilities are
sold or extinguished or the forecasted transactions being hedged are no longer expected to occur, the Company immediately recognizes the gain or loss on the
designated hedging financial instruments in the consolidated statements of earnings.
Shipping and Handling Costs
The Company typically does not charge customers for shipping and handling costs. Therefore, shipping and handling costs are included in marketing, selling and
administrative expenses and were $242 million in 2008, $226 million in 2007 and $211 million in 2006.
Advertising Costs
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense was $570 million in 2008, $503 million in 2007 and $472 million in 2006.
Research and Development
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. The Company from time to time will enter into strategic alliances with third parties, which give the
Company rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are owned by such third parties. As a result of these
alliances, the Company may be obligated to make payments to alliance partners in connection with research and development contingent upon the achievement of
certain pre-determined criteria. For milestones achieved prior to regulatory approval of the product, such payments are expensed as research and development.
Milestone payments made in connection with regulatory approvals, including non-U.S. regulatory approvals and additional indications, are capitalized and amortized
to cost of products sold over the remaining useful life of the asset. All capitalized milestone payments are tested for recoverability periodically or whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The Company records research and development, net of reimbursements, in
connection with collaboration agreements.
79Table of Contents
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
Acquired In-Process Research and Development
The fair value of in-process research and development acquired in a business combination is determined based on the present value of each research project’s
projected cash flows. An income approach is utilized that is consistent with guidance in the practice aid issued by the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants, Assets Acquired in Business Combinations to Be Used in Research and Development Activities: A Focus on Software, Electronic Devices and
Pharmaceutical Industries. Future cash flows are predominately based on the net income forecast of each project, consistent with historical pricing, margins and
expense levels of similar products. Revenues are estimated based on relevant market size and growth factors, expected industry trends, individual project life cycles
and the life of each research project’s underlying patent. In determining the fair value of each research project, expected revenues are first adjusted for technical risk
of completion. The resulting cash flows are then discounted at a rate approximating the Company’s weighted-average cost of capital. Other acquired in-process
research and development is expensed as incurred when the underlying product has not received regulatory approval and does not have any future alternative use.
In addition, costs that are nonrefundable, related to the acquisition or licensing of products that have not yet received regulatory approval to be marketed and that
have no alternative future use, are charged to earnings as incurred.
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per common share are computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per common share are
computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the year plus the incremental shares outstanding assuming the exercise of dilutive stock
options, restricted stock and convertible instruments.
Foreign Currency Translation
The statements of earnings of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of the Company’s
foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries
at changing rates are recorded in the foreign currency translation adjustment account, which is included in accumulated OCI.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 07-3, Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or
Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development Activities. Nonrefundable advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for
future research and development activities should be deferred and capitalized. Such amounts should be recognized as an expense as the related goods are delivered
or the services are performed, or when the goods or services are no longer expected to be provided. The Company’s adoption of EITF No. 07-3 did not have a material
effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting (SFAS) No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities, including an amendment of SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, which permits an entity to measure certain
financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. The objective of SFAS No. 159 is to improve financial reporting by allowing entities to mitigate volatility in
reported earnings caused by the measurement of related assets and liabilities using different attributes, without having to apply complex hedge accounting
provisions. Under SFAS No. 159, entities that elect the fair value option (by instrument) will report unrealized gains and losses in earnings at each subsequent
reporting date. The fair value option election is irrevocable, unless a new election date occurs. SFAS No. 159 establishes presentation and disclosure requirements to
help financial statement users understand the effect of the entity’s election on its earnings, but does not eliminate disclosure requirements of other accounting
standards. Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value must be displayed on the face of the balance sheet. The Company chose not to elect the fair value
option for its financial assets and liabilities existing at January 1, 2008, and did not elect the fair value option on financial assets and liabilities for those assets and
liabilities previously not carried at fair value. Therefore, the adoption of SFAS No. 159 had no impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, for financial assets and liabilities and any other assets
and liabilities carried at fair value. This pronouncement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value
measurements. The implementation of SFAS No. 157 for non-financial assets and liabilities is effective January 1, 2009. The Company’s adoption of SFAS No. 157
relating to financial assets and liabilities did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 with
respect to non-financial assets and liabilities in the future is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as an amendment to SFAS No. 133, Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. SFAS No. 161 requires that objectives for using
80Table of Contents
Note 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
derivative instruments be disclosed in terms of the underlying risk and accounting designation. The fair value of derivative instruments and their gains and losses
will need to be presented in tabular format in order to present a more complete picture of the effects of using derivative instruments. SFAS No. 161 is effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company provided the required disclosures in the December 31, 2008
consolidated financial statements.
At its December 2007 meeting, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the EITF in issue No. 07-1, Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements Related to the
Development and Commercialization of Intellectual Property. The EITF concluded that a collaborative arrangement is one in which the participants are actively
involved and are exposed to significant risks and rewards that depend on the ultimate commercial success of the endeavor. Revenues and costs incurred with third
parties in connection with collaborative arrangements would be presented gross or net based on the criteria in EITF 99-19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal
versus Net as an Agent, and other accounting literature. Payments to or from collaborators would be evaluated and presented based on the nature of the arrangement
and its terms, the nature of the entity’s business, and whether those payments are within the scope of other accounting literature. The nature and purpose of
collaborative arrangements are to be disclosed along with the accounting policies and the classification and amounts of significant financial statement amounts
related to the arrangements. Activities in the arrangement conducted in a separate legal entity should be accounted for under other accounting literature; however,
required disclosure under EITF 07-1 applies to the entire collaborative agreement. This EITF is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and is to
be applied retrospectively to all periods presented for all collaborative arrangements existing as of the effective date. This accounting pronouncement will not have a
material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements—an amendment of ARB No. 51. SFAS No. 160
establishes accounting and reporting standards that require the ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent to be clearly identified,
labeled and presented in the consolidated balance sheets within equity, but separate from the parent’s equity. This FASB also requires the amount of consolidated
net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest to be clearly identified and presented on the face of the consolidated statements of income.
Changes in a parent’s ownership interest while the parent retains its controlling financial interest in its subsidiary must be accounted for consistently, and when a
subsidiary is deconsolidated, any retained noncontrolling equity investment in the former subsidiary must be initially measured at fair value. The FASB also requires
entities to provide sufficient disclosures that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners. This
FASB is effective for the Company on January 1, 2009 and will also change the Company’s consolidated financial statements presentation in 2009.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations, which replaces SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, and requires recognition of
assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date, measured at their fair values as of that date. In a business
combination achieved in stages, this FASB requires recognition of identifiable assets and liabilities, as well as the non-controlling interest in the acquiree, at the full
amounts of their fair values. This FASB also requires the fair value of acquired in-process research and development to be recorded as indefinite lived intangibles,
contingent consideration to be recorded on the acquisition date, and restructuring and acquisition-related deal costs to be expensed as incurred. In addition, any
excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over purchase price and any subsequent changes in estimated contingencies are to be recorded in earnings. This FASB
applies to the Company’s business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009.
In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,
which, in the case of the Company, was effective at January 1, 2007. FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s
financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN No. 48 requires that all tax positions be evaluated using a recognition
threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
Differences between tax positions taken in a tax return and amounts recognized in the financial statements are recorded as adjustments to income taxes payable or
receivable, or adjustments to deferred taxes, or both. FIN No. 48 also requires expanded disclosure at the end of each reporting period including a tabular
reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits. The Company adopted FIN No. 48 on January 1, 2007. As a result of the adoption of this accounting pronouncement, the
Company recognized $27 million of previously unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings. In May
2007, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) FIN No. 48-1, Definition of Settlement in FASB Interpretation No. 48, which is effective retroactively to January 1,
2007. FSP FIN No. 48-1 provides guidance on how to determine whether a tax position is effectively settled for the purpose of recognizing previously unrecognized
tax benefits. The adoption of FSP FIN No. 48-1 did not have any effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
81Table of Contents
Note 2 ALLIANCES AND COLLABORATIONS
Sanofi
The Company has agreements with Sanofi-Aventis (Sanofi) for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* (irbesartan/irbesartan-
hydrochlorothiazide), an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic nephropathy, and PLAVIX* (clopidogrel), a
platelet aggregation inhibitor. The worldwide alliance operates under the framework of two geographic territories; one in the Americas (principally the U.S., Canada,
Puerto Rico and Latin American countries) and Australia and the other in Europe and Asia. Accordingly, two territory partnerships were formed to manage central
expenses, such as marketing, research and development and royalties, and to supply finished product to the individual countries. In general, at the country level,
agreements either to copromote (whereby a partnership was formed between the parties to sell each brand) or to comarket (whereby the parties operate and sell their
brands independently of each other) are in place. The agreements expire on the later of (i) with respect to PLAVIX*, 2013 and, with respect to AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*,
2012 in the Americas and Australia and 2013 in Europe and Asia and (ii) the expiration of all patents and other exclusivity rights in the applicable territory. The
Company acts as the operating partner for the territory covering the Americas and Australia and owns a 50.1% majority controlling interest in this territory. Sanofi’s
ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. As such, the Company consolidates all country partnership results for this territory and records Sanofi’s share of the
results as a minority interest, net of taxes, which was $976 million in 2008, $746 million in 2007 and $428 million in 2006. The Company recorded net sales in this
territory and in comarketing countries outside this territory (Germany, Italy, Spain and Greece) of $6,893 million in 2008, $5,958 million in 2007 and $4,355 million in
2006.
Cash flows from operating activities of the partnerships in the territory covering the Americas and Australia are recorded as operating activities within the
Company’s consolidated statements of cash flows. Distributions of partnership profits to Sanofi and Sanofi’s funding of ongoing partnership operations occur on a
routine basis and are also recorded within operating activities on the Company’s consolidated statements of cash flows.
Sanofi acts as the operating partner of the territory covering Europe and Asia and owns a 50.1% majority financial controlling interest within this territory. The
Company’s ownership interest in the partnerships within this territory is 49.9%. The Company accounts for the investment in partnership entities in this territory
under the equity method and records its share of the results in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated statements of earnings. The Company’s share of
income from these partnership entities before taxes was $632 million in 2008, $526 million in 2007 and $439 million in 2006.
The Company routinely receives distributions of profits and provides funding for the ongoing operations of the partnerships in the territory covering Europe and
Asia. These transactions are recorded as operating activities within the Company’s consolidated statements of cash flows.
The Company and Sanofi have an alliance for the copromotion of irbesartan. The Company recognized other income of $31 million in 2008, $32 million in 2007 and $31
million in 2006, related to the amortization of deferred income associated with Sanofi’s $350 million payment to the Company for their acquisition of an interest in the
irbesartan license for the U.S. upon formation of the alliance. The unrecognized portion of the deferred income amounted to $123 million and $154 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and will continue to amortize through 2012, the expected expiration of the license.
The following is the summarized financial information for the Company’s interests in the partnerships with Sanofi for the territory covering Europe and Asia:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Net sales $ 3,478 $ 3,090 $ 2,785
Gross profit 2,634 2,379 2,156
Net income 1,266 1,070 942
Current assets 1,525 1,727 1,595
Current liabilities 1,525 1,727 1,595
Otsuka
The Company has a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), to codevelop and copromote with Otsuka ABILIFY*
(aripiprazole) for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder, except in Japan, China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the
Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan and Egypt. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company purchases the product from Otsuka and performs finish
manufacturing for sale by the Company or Otsuka to third-party customers. The product is currently copromoted with Otsuka in the U.S., United Kingdom (UK),
Germany, France and Spain. In the U.S., Germany and Spain, where the product is invoiced to third-party customers by the Company
82Table of Contents
Note 2 ALLIANCES AND COLLABORATIONS (Continued)
on behalf of Otsuka, the Company records alliance revenue for its 65% contractual share of third-party net sales and records all expenses related to the product. The
Company recognizes this alliance revenue when ABILIFY* is shipped and all risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to third-party customers. In the UK,
France and Italy, where the Company is presently the exclusive distributor for the product, the Company records 100% of the net sales and related cost of products
sold and expenses. The Company also has an exclusive right to sell ABILIFY* in other countries in Europe, the Americas and a number of countries in Asia. In these
countries, the Company records 100% of the net sales and related cost of products sold.
The agreement expires in November 2012 in the U.S. For the entire European Union (EU), the agreement expires in June 2014. In each other country where the
Company has the exclusive right to sell ABILIFY*, the agreement expires on the later of the 10th anniversary of the first commercial sale in such country or expiration
of the applicable patent in such country.
The Company recorded net sales for ABILIFY* of $2,153 million in 2008, $1,660 million in 2007 and $1,282 million in 2006. Total milestone payments made to Otsuka
under the agreement through December 2008 were $217 million, of which $157 million was expensed as acquired in-process research and development in 1999. The
remaining $60 million was capitalized in other intangible assets, net and is amortized in cost of products sold over the remaining life of the agreement in the U.S. The
Company amortized in cost of products sold $6 million in each of 2008, 2007 and 2006. The unamortized capitalized payment balance was $23 million and $29 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
ImClone
The Company has a commercialization agreement expiring in September 2018 with ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone) for the codevelopment and copromotion
of ERBITUX* (cetuximab) in the U.S., as well as codevelopment and copromotion rights in Canada and Japan to the extent the product is commercialized in such
countries. ERBITUX* is indicated for use in the treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the
head and neck. Under the agreement, covering North America, ImClone receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of net sales in North America.
In October 2007, the Company and ImClone amended their codevelopment agreement with Merck KGaA to provide for cocommercialization of ERBITUX* in Japan,
which expires in 2032. ImClone has the ability to terminate the agreement after 2018 if it determines that it is commercially unreasonable for ImClone to continue.
ERBITUX* received marketing approval in Japan in July 2008 for the use of ERBITUX* in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer.
The Company recorded net sales for ERBITUX* of $749 million in 2008, $692 million in 2007 and $652 million in 2006. The Company amortized into cost of products
sold $37 million in 2008, $38 million in 2007 and $34 million in 2006, for previously capitalized milestone payments, which were accounted for as a license acquisition.
The unamortized portion of the approval payments is recorded in other intangible assets, net, and was $360 million and $397 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, and will continue to amortize through 2018, the remaining term of the agreement.
Upon initial execution of the commercialization agreement, the Company acquired an ownership interest in ImClone, which approximated 17% at the time of the
transaction noted below, and had been accounting for its investment under the equity method. The Company recorded an equity loss in income of affiliates, which
was adjusted for revenue recognized by ImClone for pre-approved milestone payments made by the Company prior to 2004 of $5 million in 2008 and equity in net
income of affiliates of $7 million in 2007 and $43 million in 2006. In November 2008, Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly) acquired ImClone and, as a result, the Company sold
its shares of ImClone for $1.0 billion and recognized a pre-tax gain of $895 million. The Company will continue to have marketing rights to ERBITUX* and believes it
has rights to ImClone’s investigational compound IMC-11F8.
Gilead
The Company and Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) have a joint venture to develop and commercialize ATRIPLA* (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a once-daily single tablet three-drug regimen combining the Company’s SUSTIVA (efavirenz) and Gilead’s TRUVADA* (emtricitabine
and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), in the U.S., Canada and Europe. ATRIPLA* was approved by the FDA in July 2006, Health Canada in October 2007 and by the
European Commission in December 2007 for commercialization in the 27 countries of the EU, as well as Norway and Iceland.
Gilead records all ATRIPLA* revenues in the U.S., Canada and most countries in Europe and consolidates the results of the joint venture in its operating results. The
Company records revenue for the bulk efavirenz component of ATRIPLA* upon sales of that product by the joint venture to third-party customers. The Company’s
net sales for the efavirenz component is determined by applying a percentage to ATRIPLA* revenue, which approximates revenue for the SUSTIVA brand. In a
limited number of EU countries, the Company records revenue for ATRIPLA* where the Company agreed to purchase the product from Gilead and distribute it to
third-party customers. The Company recorded revenues of $582 million in 2008, $335 million in 2007 and $76 million in 2006 related to ATRIPLA* sales. The Company
accounts for its participation in the U.S. joint venture under the equity method of accounting and records its share of the joint venture results in equity in net income
of affiliates in the consolidated statements of earnings. The Company recorded an equity loss on the U.S. joint venture with Gilead of $9 million in 2008 and 2007 and
$6 million in 2006.
83Table of Contents
Note 2 ALLIANCES AND COLLABORATIONS (Continued)
AstraZeneca
In January 2007, the Company entered into two worldwide (except for Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization agreements with AstraZeneca PLC
(AstraZeneca), one for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of saxagliptin, a DPP-IV inhibitor (Saxagliptin Agreement), and one for the codevelopment and
cocommercialization of dapagliflozin, a sodium-glucose contransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitor (SGLT2 Agreement). Both compounds are being studied for the treatment
of diabetes and were discovered by the Company. Under the terms of the agreements, the Company received from AstraZeneca an upfront payment of $100 million in
January 2007. In October 2008, the Company received from AstraZeneca a milestone payment of $50 million for the June 2008 filing of the New Drug Application to
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for ONGLYZA. The companies have proposed the name ONGLYZA which, if approved by the FDA and the European
Medicines Evaluation Agency, will serve as the trade name for saxagliptin.
The upfront and milestone payments were deferred and are being recognized over the useful life of the products into other income. The Company amortized into other
income $9 million of upfront payments in 2008 and $7 million in 2007. The unamortized portion of the upfront and milestone payments was $134 million at
December 31, 2008 and $93 million at December 31, 2007. Additional milestone payments are expected to be received by the Company upon the successful
achievement of various development and regulatory events as well as sales-related milestones. Under the Saxagliptin Agreement, the Company could receive up to
$300 million if all development and regulatory milestones are met and up to an additional $300 million if all sales-based milestones are met. Under the SGLT2
Agreement, the Company could receive up to $350 million if all development and regulatory milestones are met and up to an additional $300 million if all sales-based
milestones are met. Under each agreement, the Company and AstraZeneca also share in development and commercialization costs. The majority of development costs
under the initial development plans through 2009 will be paid by AstraZeneca and any additional development costs will generally be shared equally. The Company
records development costs related to saxagliptin and dapagliflozin net of AstraZeneca’s share in research and development expenses. Under each agreement, the two
companies will jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy and share commercialization expenses and profits/losses equally on a global basis, excluding Japan,
and the Company will manufacture both products.
Pfizer
In April 2007, the Company and Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) entered into a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement for apixaban, an anticoagulant
discovered by the Company being studied for the prevention and treatment of a broad range of venous and arterial thrombotic conditions. In accordance with the
terms of the agreement, Pfizer made an upfront payment of $250 million to the Company in May 2007, which was deferred and is being recognized over the life of the
agreement into other income. In December 2007, the Company and Pfizer agreed to include Japan in the worldwide agreement. In connection with the Japan
agreement, Pfizer made an additional upfront payment of $40 million in December 2007 which was deferred and is being recognized over the useful life of the product
into other income. The Company amortized into other income $18 million of the two upfront payments in 2008 and $11 million in 2007. The unamortized portion of the
upfront payments was $261 million at December 31, 2008 and $279 million at December 31, 2007. Pfizer will fund 60% of all development costs effective January 1, 2007
going forward, and the Company will fund 40%. The Company records apixaban development costs net of Pfizer’s share in research and development expenses. The
Company may also receive additional payments of up to $780 million from Pfizer based on development and regulatory milestones. The companies will jointly develop
the clinical and marketing strategy, will share commercialization expenses and profits/losses equally on a global basis, and will manufacture product under this
arrangement.
Exelixis
In December 2008, the Company and Exelixis, Inc. (Exelixis) entered into a global codevelopment and cocommercialization arrangement for XL-184 (a MET/VEG/RET
inhibitor), an oral anti-cancer compound, and a license for XL-281 with utility in RAS and RAF mutant tumors under development by Exelixis. Under the terms of the
arrangement, the Company agreed to pay Exelixis $195 million in 2008 upon execution of the agreement and an additional $45 million in 2009. The Company expensed
as research and development the $240 million upon execution of the agreement in 2008. Exelixis will fund the first $100 million of development for XL-184. If Exelixis
elects to continue sharing development costs and elects to copromote in the U.S., Exelixis will fund 35% of future global development costs (excluding Japan) and
share U.S. profits/losses equally; failing such elections, Exelixis receives milestones and royalties. The Company will fund 100% of development costs in Japan. In
addition to double-digit royalties on non-U.S. sales, the Company could pay up to $610 million if all development and regulatory milestones are met and up to an
additional $300 million if all sales-based milestones are met.
In addition, the Company and Exelixis have a history of collaborations to identify, develop and promote oncology targets. During December 2006, the Company and
Exelixis entered into an oncology collaboration and license agreement under which Exelixis is
84Table of Contents
Note 2 ALLIANCES AND COLLABORATIONS (Continued)
pursuing the development of three small molecule INDs for codevelopment and copromotion. Under the terms of this agreement, the Company paid Exelixis $60
million of upfront fees in 2006. During 2008, the Company paid Exelixis $40 million in IND acceptance milestones. If Exelixis elects to fund development costs and
copromote in the U.S., both parties will equally share development costs and profits. If Exelixis opts out of the codevelopment and copromotion agreement, BMS will
take over full development and U.S. commercial rights, and, if successful, will pay Exelixis development and regulatory milestones up to $190 million and up to an
additional $90 million of sales-based milestones, as well as double-digit royalties.
Note 3 RESTRUCTURING
In December 2007 and July 2008, the Company announced productivity transformation initiatives (PTI) designed to fundamentally change the way it runs its business
to meet the challenges of a changing business environment and to take advantage of the diverse opportunities in the marketplace as the Company is transformed into
a next-generation biopharmaceutical company, and to create a total of $2.5 billion in annual productivity cost savings and cost avoidance by 2012. In connection with
the PTI, the Company aims to achieve a culture of continuous improvement to enhance its efficiency, effectiveness and competitiveness and substantially improve its
cost base.
The charges associated with the previously announced PTI are estimated to be an aggregate range of $1.3 billion to $1.6 billion, which includes $695 million of costs
already incurred. The incurred costs are net of $159 million of gains related to the sale of mature product lines and businesses. The exact timing of the recognition of
PTI charges cannot be predicted with certainty and will be affected by the existence of triggering events for expense recognition, among other factors. Also, included
in these charges are net termination benefits of $174 million in 2008 and $182 million in 2007 and other exit costs of $44 million in 2008 and $1 million in 2007.
The net restructuring charges include termination benefits for workforce reduction of approximately 2,370 in 2008, 2,800 in 2007 and 1,080 in 2006 manufacturing,
selling, administrative, and research and development personnel across all geographic regions.
The following table presents details of expenses incurred by segment and Corporate/Other in connection with restructuring activities:
2008 2007 2006
Termination Other Exit Termination Other Exit Termination Other Exit
Benefits Costs Total Benefits Costs Total Benefits Costs Total
Dollars in Millions
Pharmaceuticals $ 157 $ 43 $ 200 $ 156 $ — $ 156 $ 62 $ 1 $ 63
Nutritionals 3 — 3 3 — 3 3 1 4
Corporate/Other 14 — 14 29 1 30 6 — 6
Subtotal 174 43 217 188 1 189 71 2 73
Changes in estimates — 1 1 (6) — (6) (13) (1) (14)
Provision for restructuring, net $ 174 $ 44 $ 218 $ 182 $ 1 $ 183 $ 58 $ 1 $ 59
85Table of Contents
Note 3 RESTRUCTURING (Continued)
The following table represents the reconciliation of restructuring liabilities and spending against those liabilities:
Other Exit
Termination Costs
Liability Liability Total
Dollars in Millions
Liability at January 1, 2006 $ 60 $ — $ 60
Charges 71 2 73
Spending (44) — (44)
Changes in estimates (13) (1) (14)
Liability at December 31, 2006 74 1 75
Charges 188 1 189
Spending (88) (3) (91)
Changes in estimates (6) — (6)
Liability at December 31, 2007 168 (1 ) 167
Charges 174 43 217
Spending (152) (22) (174)
Change in estimates — 1 1
ConvaTec divestiture (2) — (2)
Liability at December 31, 2008 $ 188 $ 21 $ 209
In addition to termination and other charges, the Company recognized accelerated depreciation, fixed asset impairment charges and other shutdown costs of $241
million in 2008, $110 million in 2007 and $186 million in 2006. Most of these charges were included in cost of products sold and primarily relate to the rationalization of
the Company’s manufacturing network in the Pharmaceuticals segment. These assets continue to be depreciated until the facility closures are complete.
The remaining costs of PTI were primarily attributed to process standardization activities across the Company and are recognized as incurred.
Note 4 ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES
In June 2008, the Company completed the acquisition of Kosan Biosciences, Inc. (Kosan), a cancer therapeutics company with a library of novel compounds,
including Hsp90 inhibitors for cancer and microtubule stabilizers, which may have additional potential in neurodegenerative diseases, for a net purchase price of
approximately $191 million. The transaction was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price was preliminarily allocated to acquired-
in-process research and development of $32 million, other net assets of $32 million and goodwill of $127 million.
In October 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of Adnexus Therapeutics, Inc. (Adnexus), a developer of a new therapeutic class of biologics called
ADNECTINS, for a net purchase price of $415 million. In addition, in the event that certain future development and regulatory milestones are achieved, the Company
is obligated under the terms of the agreement to pay the former stockholders of Adnexus up to an additional $74 million. The transaction was accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting. The purchase price was allocated to acquired-in-process research and development of $230 million, other identifiable intangible
assets of $27 million (existing process technology to be used in future discovery), other net assets of $9 million and goodwill of $149 million (after reflecting additional
deferred tax assets of $7 million in 2008).
The results of operations for these two acquisitions have been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from their dates of acquisition. Pro
forma supplemental financial information was not included as the impact of the business combinations was not material.
In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of its mature brand business located in Egypt for $209 million in cash to GlaxoSmithKline. As a result of the
transaction, the Company recognized a pre-tax gain of $144 million ($88 million net of tax) in the fourth quarter of 2008.
In August 2008, the Company completed the divestiture of its ConvaTec business. In January 2008, the Company completed the divestiture of Bristol-Myers Squibb
Medical Imaging. See “—Note 6. Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale” for further discussions of these divestitures.
86Table of Contents
Note 4 ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES (Continued)
In July 2007, the Company completed the sale of the BUFFERIN* and EXCEDRIN* brands in Japan, Asia (excluding China and Taiwan) and certain Oceanic countries
to Lion Corporation (Japan) for $247 million in cash. As a result of this transaction, the Company recognized a pre-tax gain of $247 million ($144 million net of tax) in
the third quarter of 2007.
In January 2006, the Company completed the sale of its inventory, trademark, patent and intellectual property rights in the U.S. related to DOVONEX*, a treatment for
psoriasis, to Warner Chilcott Company, Inc. for $200 million in cash. In addition, the Company received a royalty based on 5% of net sales of DOVONEX* through
the end of 2007. As a result of this transaction, the Company recognized a pre-tax gain of $200 million ($130 million net of tax) in the first quarter of 2006.
Note 5 MEAD JOHNSON NUTRITION COMPANY INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING
During February 2009, Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (Mead Johnson) completed an initial public offering (IPO), in which it sold 34.5 million shares of its Class A
common stock at $24 per share. Net proceeds received were approximately $780 million, which will be allocated to minority interest, net of taxes, and capital in excess
of par value of stock within the Company’s stockholders’ equity in accordance with SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
– an amendment of ARB No. 51.
Upon completion of the IPO, the Company held 42.3 million shares of Mead Johnson Class A common stock and 127.7 million shares of Mead Johnson Class B
common stock. The rights of the holders of the shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock are identical, except with regard to voting and
conversion. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes per share and is
convertible at any time at the election of the holder into one share of Class A common stock. The Class B common stock will automatically convert into shares of
Class A common stock in certain circumstances.
Upon completion of the IPO, the Company holds an 83.1% interest in Mead Johnson. Mead Johnson will continue to be consolidated for financial reporting
purposes. The Company has entered into various agreements relating to the separation of Mead Johnson, including, a separation agreement, a transitional services
agreement, a tax matters agreement, a registration rights agreement and an employee matters agreement.
On February 17, 2009, Mead Johnson entered into a three year syndicated revolving credit facility agreement. The credit facility is unsecured and provides for
borrowings and letters of credit up to $410 million.
Note 6 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
In August 2008, the Company completed the divestiture of its ConvaTec business to Cidron Healthcare Limited, an affiliate of Nordic Capital Fund VII and Avista
Capital Partners L.P. (Avista) for a gross purchase price of approximately $4.1 billion, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $3.4 billion, $2.0 billion net of tax, which is included
in discontinued operations. The gross purchase price includes an estimated post-closing purchase price adjustment based on the Company’s estimate of the closing
working capital of the ConvaTec business and therefore the purchase price and transaction gain are subject to future adjustment based on the actual closing working
capital of the ConvaTec business, pursuant to the terms of the Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement, dated May 3, 2008. In addition, in 2008, the Company recorded
in discontinued operations a curtailment loss of $5 million and special termination benefits of $13 million associated with the re-measurement of the U.S. and Japan
pension plans’ obligations and assets triggered by the decision to sell the ConvaTec business. The results of the ConvaTec business, which previously were
reported as a separate operating segment, are included in earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes, for all periods presented.
In January 2008, the Company completed the divestiture of Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging (Medical Imaging) to Avista for a gross purchase price of
approximately $525 million, excluding post closing adjustments, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $25 million and an after-tax loss of $43 million, which are included in
discontinued operations. The results of the Medical Imaging business, which previously were included in the former Other Health Care operating segment, are
included in earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes, for all periods presented. The net assets associated with the Medical Imaging business, totaling
approximately $525 million, were reclassified to assets and liabilities held for sale at December 31, 2007.
For a period of time, the Company will continue to generate cash flows and to report income statement activity in other expense, net associated with both the
ConvaTec and the Medical Imaging businesses. The activities that give rise to these cash flows and income statement activities are transitional in nature and
generally result from agreements that are intended to facilitate the orderly transfer of business operations. The agreements include, among others, services for
accounting, customer service, distribution and manufacturing. These activities for both the ConvaTec and the Medical Imaging businesses are not expected to be
material to the Company’s results of operations or cash flows. The ConvaTec agreements extend for periods generally less than 24 months, with the majority ranging
between six and 18 months from the transaction close date, subject in certain cases to limited extensions. The Medical Imaging agreements extend for periods
generally less than 24 months, with the majority ranging between three and six months from the transaction close date, subject in certain cases to closing extensions.
The transitional service fees, net of identifiable direct costs, are recognized in other expense, net and amounted to $15 million during the year ended December 31,
2008.
87Table of Contents
Note 6 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE (Continued)
The following summarized financial information related to the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses have been segregated from continuing operations and
reported as discontinued operations through the date of disposition and does not reflect the costs of certain services provided to ConvaTec and Medical Imaging by
the Company. Such costs, which were not allocated by the Company to ConvaTec and Medical Imaging, were for services, which included, without limitation, legal
counsel, insurance, external audit fees, payroll processing, certain human resource services and information technology systems support.
Year Ended December 31,
ConvaTec Medical Imaging
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
Net sales $ 735 $ 1,155 $ 1,048 $ 34 $ 629 $ 658
Earnings before incomes taxes $ 193 $ 348 $ 315 $ 2 $ 273 $ 235
Curtailment losses and special termination benefits 18 — — — — —
Provision for income taxes 63 121 107 1 76 72
Earnings, net of taxes $ 112 $ 227 $ 208 $ 1 $ 197 $ 163
Gain on disposal $ 3,387 $ — $ — $ 25 $ — $ —
Provision for income taxes 1,365 — — 68 — —
Gain/(loss) on disposal, net of taxes $ 2,022 $ — $ — $ (43 ) $ — $ —
The consolidated statements of cash flows includes the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses through the date of disposition. The Company uses a centralized
approach to the cash management and financing of its operations and, accordingly, debt was not allocated to these businesses.
The following table includes Medical Imaging assets and liabilities that have been segregated and classified as assets held for sale and liabilities related to assets
held for sale, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2007. The amounts presented below were adjusted to exclude cash and intercompany
receivables and payables between the business held for sale and the Company, which were excluded from the divestiture. In addition, goodwill at December 31, 2007
of $2 million has been excluded from the following summary of net assets held for sale, and was considered in determining the pre-tax gain on sale in the first quarter
of 2008. These assets are not generating operating results or cash flows and were included in the consolidated balance sheet as assets held for sale at December 31,
2007.
Dollars in Millions December 31, 2007
Medical Imaging
Assets
Receivables, net of allowances of $2 $ 62
Inventories, net 20
Other assets 31
Property, plant and equipment, net 174
Other intangible assets, net 273
Total assets held for sale 560
Liabilities
Accounts payable $ 12
Accrued liabilities 23
Total liabilities related to assets held for sale 35
Net assets held for sale $ 525
88Table of Contents
Note 7 EARNINGS PER SHARE
The numerator for basic earnings per share is net earnings available to common stockholders. The numerator for diluted earnings per share is net earnings available
to common stockholders with interest expense added back for the assumed conversion of the convertible debt into common stock. The denominator for basic
earnings per share is the weighted-average number of common stock outstanding during the period. The denominator for diluted earnings per share is weighted-
average shares outstanding adjusted for the effect of dilutive stock options, restricted shares and assumed conversion of the convertible debt into common stock.
The computations for basic and diluted earnings per common share were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2008 2007 2006
Basic:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 3,155 $ 1,741 $ 1,214
Discontinued Operations:
Earnings, net of taxes 113 424 371
Gain on Disposal, net of taxes 1,979 — —
Net Earnings $ 5,247 $ 2,165 $ 1,585
Basic Earnings Per Share:
Average Common Shares Outstanding - Basic 1,977 1,970 1,960
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 1.60 $ 0.88 $ 0.62
Discontinued Operations:
Earnings, net of taxes 0.05 0.22 0.19
Gain on Disposal, net of taxes 1.00 — —
Net Earnings per Common Share $ 2.65 $ 1.10 $ 0.81
Diluted:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 3,155 $ 1,741 $ 1,214
Interest expense on conversion of convertible debt, net of taxes 16 — —
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations used for Diluted Earnings per Common Share Calculation 3,171 1,741 1,214
Discontinued Operations:
Earnings, net of taxes 113 424 371
Gain on Disposal, net of taxes 1,979 — —
Net Earnings $ 5,263 $ 2,165 $ 1,585
Diluted Earnings Per Share:
Average Common Shares Outstanding - Basic 1,977 1,970 1,960
Conversion of convertible debt 21 — —
Incremental shares outstanding assuming the exercise/vesting of dilutive stock options/restricted stock 3 10 3
Average Common Shares Outstanding - Diluted 2,001 1,980 1,963
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 1.59 $ 0.88 $ 0.62
Discontinued Operations:
Earnings, net of taxes 0.05 0.21 0.19
Gain on Disposal, net of taxes 0.99 — —
Net Earnings per Common Share $ 2.63 $ 1.09 $ 0.81
Weighted-average shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options of 139 million in 2008, 107 million in 2007 and 164 million in 2006 were not included in the diluted
earnings per share calculation because they were anti-dilutive. In addition, 29 million shares from the assumed conversion of the convertible debt were not included
in the diluted earnings per share calculation in 2007 and 2006 because they were anti-dilutive.
89Table of Contents
Note 8 OTHER EXPENSE, NET
The components of other expense, net were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Interest expense $ 310 $ 422 $ 498
Interest income (130) (241) (274)
ARS impairment charge 305 275 —
(Gain)/loss on debt buyback and termination of interest rate swap agreements (57) — 220
Foreign exchange transaction (gains)/losses (76) 15 —
Other, net (161) (120) (152)
Other expense, net $ 191 $ 351 $ 292
Interest expense includes $48 million net interest rate swap gains in 2008 and net interest rate swap losses of $13 million in 2007 and $18 million in 2006. See “—Note
21. Financial Instruments” for additional discussion on terminated swap contracts.
Interest income relates primarily to interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities. For further detail on auction rate securities
(ARS) impairment see “—Note 11. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities.”
Other, net includes income from third-party contract manufacturing, certain royalty income and expense, gains and losses on the sale of property, plant and
equipment, gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities (including a $19 million loss on the sale of ARS in 2008), insurance recoveries, certain litigation
charges/recoveries, ConvaTec and Medical Imaging net transitional service fees, and amortization of certain upfront payments related to the Company’s alliances.
See “—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”
Note 9 INCOME TAXES
The components of earnings/(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
U.S. $ 2,446 $ 972 $ (985)
Non-U.S. 3,025 2,214 3,070
$ 5,471 $ 3,186 $ 2,085
The above amounts are categorized based on the location of the taxing authorities.
The provision/(benefit) for income taxes attributable to continuing operations consisted of:
Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Current:
U.S. $ 343 $ 221 $ 33
Non-U.S. 774 683 625
1,117 904 658
Deferred:
U.S. 127 (160) (200)
Non-U.S. 76 (62) (27)
203 (222 ) (227 )
$ 1,320 $ 682 $ 431
90Table of Contents
Note 9 INCOME TAXES (Continued)
Effective Tax Rate
The Company’s provision for income taxes in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was different from the amount computed by applying the statutory U.S. Federal income tax rate to
earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest, as a result of the following:
% of Earnings Before Income Taxes and Minority Interest
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Minority Interest $ 5,471 $ 3,186 $ 2,085
U.S. statutory rate 1,915 35.0% 1,115 35.0% 730 35.0%
Foreign tax effect of operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and Switzerland (586) (10.7)% (492) (15.4)% (616) (29.5)%
State and local taxes (net of valuation allowance) 1 0.0% 10 0.3% 42 2.0%
U.S. Federal and foreign contingent tax matters (40) (0.7)% (60) (1.9)% 87 4.2%
Acquired in-process research and development expense 11 0.2% 81 2.5% — —
U.S. Federal research and development tax credit (84) (1.5)% (98) (3.1)% (85) (4.1)%
U.S. Federal and foreign valuation allowance — — — — (24) (1.2)%
Impairment of financial instruments 51 0.9% 96 3.0% — —
Foreign and other 52 0.9% 30 1.0% 297 14.3%
$ 1,320 24.1 % $ 682 21.4 % $ 431 20.7 %
The increase in the 2008 effective tax rate from 2007 was primarily due to higher pre-tax income in the U.S. including the gain on sale of ImClone, and earnings mix in
high tax jurisdictions in 2008. Partially offsetting these factors were lower non-deductible charges in 2008 for acquired in-process research and development expenses
and lower ARS impairment charges with little or no tax benefit. The tax rate in 2008 was favorably impacted by a benefit of $91 million of tax related to the final
settlement of the 2002-2003 audit with the Internal Revenue Service.
The 2007 tax rate was unfavorably impacted by the impairment on the Company’s investment in certain ARS with little tax benefit and the non-deductible write-off of
acquired in-process research and development expenses related to the acquisition of Adnexus, partially offset by a tax benefit of $105 million in the first quarter of
2007 due to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters with the Internal Revenue Service related to the deductibility of litigation settlement expenses and U.S
foreign tax credits claimed. The effective tax rate for 2006 was unfavorably impacted by the elimination of tax benefits under Section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code,
the treatment of provisions for a portion of certain litigation reserves as non-deductible, partially offset by favorable U.S. tax legislation enacted in 2006 related to the
tax treatment of certain intercompany transactions amongst the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, and the implementation of tax planning strategies related to the
utilization of certain charitable contributions.
91Table of Contents
Note 9 INCOME TAXES (Continued)
Deferred Taxes and Valuation Allowance
The components of current and non-current deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Acquired in-process research and development $ 409 $ 839
Intercompany profit and other inventory items 213 263
U.S. Federal foreign tax credit carryforwards 451 1,140
Deferred income 272 276
U.S. Federal research and development tax credit carryforwards 271 275
U.S. Federal charitable contribution carryforwards — 80
State net operating loss carryforwards 319 451
Foreign net operating loss carryforwards 1,419 1,461
Other foreign deferred tax assets 97 146
Pension and postretirement benefits 768 248
Depreciation (121) (131)
Share-based compensation 96 78
Repatriation of foreign earnings (5) 150
Legal settlements 22 47
Tax deductible goodwill (508) (447)
Milestone payments and license fees 444 333
Other, net 426 224
4,573 5,433
Valuation allowance (1,795) (1,950)
Deferred tax assets, net $ 2,778 $ 3,483
Recognized as:
Deferred income taxes – current $ 703 $ 851
Deferred income taxes – non-current 2,137 2,716
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable (3) (4)
Other liabilities – non-current (59) (80)
Total $ 2,778 $ 3,483
The Company has established a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets where the Company has determined that it is not more likely than not that the
deferred tax assets will be realized. At December 31, 2008, a valuation allowance of $1,795 million has been established for the following items: $77 million of state
deferred tax assets, $1,407 million of foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, $280 million of state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, $14
million related to impaired financial instruments, and $17 million of U.S. Federal and state deferred tax assets related to both the Adnexus and Kosan acquisitions that
were offset against goodwill.
The Company recognized significant deferred tax assets at December 31, 2008 related to U.S. Federal foreign tax credit carryforwards of $451 million and U.S. Federal
research and development tax credit carryforwards of $271 million. The U.S. Federal charitable contribution carryforwards were fully utilized during 2008 due to gains
related to the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging divestitures, while the foreign tax credit and research and development tax credit carryforwards expire in varying
amounts beginning in 2014. The foreign tax credit and research and development tax credit carryforwards have been reduced due to derecognition under FIN No. 48.
The ConvaTec and Medical Imaging divestitures have resulted in a significant reduction to the foreign tax credit and research and development tax credit
carryforwards in 2008. The realization of the foreign tax credit and research and development tax credit carryforwards are dependent on generating sufficient
domestic-sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that these deferred tax
assets will be realized.
Income taxes paid during the year were $636 million in 2008, $994 million in 2007 and $741 million in 2006. As discussed above, the tax rate in 2008 was favorably
impacted by a benefit of $91 million of tax related to the final settlement of the 2002-2003 audit with the Internal Revenue Service. The final settlement was related to
the Joint Committee of Congress approval of a Foreign Tax Credit Carryback Claim to 2000 and 2001. The Company received a $432 million cash refund, including
interest, in 2008.
The current tax benefit realized upon the exercise of stock options is credited to capital in excess of par value of stock and was $5 million in 2007 and $10 million in
2006.
92Table of Contents
Note 9 INCOME TAXES (Continued)
At December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately $15.4 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries for which taxes have not been provided as the
Company has invested or expects to invest these undistributed earnings permanently offshore. If, in the future, these earnings are repatriated to the U.S., or if the
Company determines such earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the
assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that would have to be provided.
The Company conducts business in various countries throughout the world and is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. As a result of its business activities, the
Company files a significant number of tax returns that are subject to examination by various Federal, state and local tax authorities. Tax examinations are often
complex, as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of items reported by the Company and may require several years to resolve. The Company establishes
liabilities for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits and
deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as
more information becomes known. The effect of changes in estimates related to contingent tax liabilities is included in the effective tax rate reconciliation above.
The Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48 on January 1, 2007, resulting in the recognition of $27 million of previously unrecognized tax benefits which were
accounted for as an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings. FIN No. 48 requires expanded disclosure at the end of each annual reporting period
including a tabular reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits and certain information regarding interest and penalty amounts reflected as part of the Company’s
uncertain tax positions. A tabular reconciliation of the Company’s changes in uncertain tax positions from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007 and January 1, 2008
to December 31, 2008 is as follows:
Unrecognized
Income Tax
Benefits,
Unrecognized Including
Income Tax Interest and
Unrecognized Benefits, Penalties,
Federal, State Including Deferred Net of Deferred
and Foreign Interest and Income Tax Income
Dollars in Millions Tax Benefits Interest Penalties Penalties Benefits Tax Benefits
Total uncertain tax positions that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at January 1,
2007 $ 898 $ 72 $ 22 $ 992 $ (56) $ 936
Add tax attributable to deferred tax items at January 1, 2007 242 — — 242 — 242
Balance, gross uncertain tax positions, at January 1, 2007 1,140 72 22 1,234 (56 ) 1,178
Gross additions to tax positions related to current year 208 — 1 209 (3) 206
Gross reductions to tax positions related to current year (4) — — (4) — (4)
Gross additions to tax positions related to prior years 193 79 6 278 (27) 251
Gross reductions to tax positions related to prior years (253) (20) (1) (274) 17 (257)
Settlements (240) (54) (3) (297) 10 (287)
Reductions to tax positions related to lapse of statute (1) — (1) (2) — (2)
Cumulative translation adjustment 15 4 3 22 — 22
Balance, gross uncertain tax positions, at December 31, 2007 1,058 81 27 1,166 (59 ) 1,107
Less tax attributable to deferred tax items at December 31, 2007 (264) — — (264) — (264)
Total uncertain tax positions that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at
December 31, 2007 $ 794 $ 81 $ 27 $ 902 $ (59) $ 843
Total uncertain tax positions that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at January 1,
2008 $ 794 $ 81 $ 27 $ 902 $ (59) $ 843
Add tax attributable to deferred tax items at January 1, 2008 264 — — 264 — 264
Balance, gross uncertain tax positions, at January 1, 2008 1,058 81 27 1,166 (59 ) 1,107
Gross additions to tax positions related to current year 67 — — 67 (1) 66
Gross reductions to tax positions related to current year (28) — — (28) — (28)
Gross additions to tax positions related to prior years 238 48 5 291 (55) 236
Gross reductions to tax positions related to prior years (131) (13) (5) (149) 27 (122)
Settlements (17) (6) (1) (24) 5 (19)
Reductions to tax positions related to lapse of statute (378) (41) (4) (423) 22 (401)
Cumulative translation adjustment (18) (5) (2) (25) — (25)
Balance, gross uncertain tax positions, at December 31, 2008 791 64 20 875 (61 ) 814
Less tax attributable to deferred tax items at December 31, 2008 (116) — — (116) — (116)
Total uncertain tax positions that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at
December 31, 2008 $ 675 $ 64 $ 20 $ 759 $ (61) $ 698
The annual tabular reconciliation required under FIN No. 48 requires a gross presentation of unrecognized tax benefits. On a gross basis (before reductions in
deferred tax assets), the Company’s total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of January 1, 2008, excluding interest and penalties, was $1,058 million.
93Table of Contents
Note 9 INCOME TAXES (Continued)
The uncertain tax benefits at December 31, 2008 are recorded against the Company’s deferred tax assets to the extent the uncertainty directly related to that asset;
otherwise, they are recorded as either current or non-current income taxes payable.
The total amount of gross uncertain tax benefits at December 31, 2008, excluding interest and penalties decreased to $791 million. This reduction is primarily due to
favorable resolution of uncertain tax positions, partially offset by additional uncertain tax benefits accrued during 2008. Included in gross reductions to tax positions
related to prior years is $27 million of uncertain tax positions that are no longer included in the FIN No. 48 table as a result of the disposition of businesses.
Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits was $264 million of uncertain tax positions at January 1, 2008 and $116 million at December 31, 2008, for which the
ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty as to the timing of such deductibility. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, other
than interest and penalties, if applicable, the disallowance of the shorter deductibility period would not affect the annual effective tax rate, but would accelerate the
payment of cash to the taxing authority or utilization of tax attributes to an earlier period.
The amounts of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate were $794 million at January 1, 2008, and $675 million at December 31,
2008.
The Company classifies interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense. These amounts are reflected separately on the
reconciliation above. The total amount of interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions and recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings for 2008
was a net benefit of $6 million for interest and $4 million for penalties. The net benefit for interest was a result of $48 million of additional accrual and $54 million of
reduction in interest. The net benefit for penalties was a result of $5 million of additional accrual and $9 million of reduction in penalties. The total amount of interest
and penalties related to uncertain tax positions and recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2008 was $64 million for interest and $20 million for
penalties.
The Company is currently under examination by a number of tax authorities, including all of the major tax jurisdictions listed in the table below, which have proposed
adjustments to tax for issues such as transfer pricing, certain tax credits and the deductibility of certain expenses. The Company estimates that it is reasonably
possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008 will decrease in the range of approximately $95 million to $125 million in the next
twelve months as a result of the settlement of certain tax audits. Such settlements will involve the payment of additional taxes, the adjustment of certain deferred taxes
and/or the recognition of tax benefits. The Company also anticipates that it is reasonably possible that new issues will be raised by tax authorities which may require
increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits; however, an estimate of such increases cannot reasonably be made. The Company believes that it has
adequately provided for all open tax years by tax jurisdiction under FIN No. 48.
The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. Federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, the Company is subject to U.S.
Federal, state and local, and non-U.S. income tax examinations by tax authorities. The following is a summary of major tax jurisdictions for which tax authorities may
assert additional taxes against the Company based upon tax years currently under audit and subsequent years that will likely be audited:
U.S. 2004 to 2008
Canada 2001 to 2008
France 2004 to 2008
Germany 1999 to 2008
Italy 2003 to 2008
Mexico 2003 to 2008
94Table of Contents
Note 10 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
As stated in “—Note 1. Accounting Policies,” on January 1, 2008, the Company adopted the methods of fair value as described in SFAS No. 157 to value its financial
assets and liabilities. As defined in SFAS No. 157, fair value is based on the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date. In order to increase consistency and comparability in fair value measurements, SFAS No. 157
establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes observable and unobservable inputs used to measure fair value into three broad levels, which are described below:
Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities. The fair value
hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs.
Level 2: Observable prices that are based on inputs not quoted on active markets, but corroborated by market data.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. The fair value hierarchy gives the lowest priority to Level 3 inputs.
In determining fair value, the Company utilizes valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs to the
extent possible as well as considers counterparty credit risk in its assessment of fair value.
The Company chose not to elect the fair value option as prescribed by SFAS No. 159 for its financial assets and liabilities that had not been previously carried at fair
value. Therefore, material financial assets and liabilities not carried at fair value, such as short- and long-term debt obligations and trade accounts receivable and
payable, are still reported at their carrying values. Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value at December 31, 2008 are classified in the table below in one of the
three categories described above:
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Dollars in Millions
Available for Sale:
U.S. Treasury Bills $ 180 $ — $ — $ 180
Equity Securities 21 — — 21
U.S. Treasury-Backed Securities — 7,049 — 7,049
Floating Rate Securities — — 203 203
Auction Rate Securities — — 94 94
Total available for sale assets 201 7,049 297 7,547
Derivatives:
Interest Rate Swap Derivatives — 647 — 647
Foreign Exchange Derivatives — 90 — 90
Total derivative assets — 737 — 737
Total assets at fair value $ 201 $ 7,786 $ 297 $ 8,284
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Dollars in Millions
Derivatives:
Foreign Exchange Derivatives $ — $ 45 $ — $ 45
Natural Gas Contracts — 7 — 7
Total derivative liabilities — 52 — 7
Total liabilities at fair value $ — $ 52 $ — $ 52
The Company’s assets that utilize Level 3 inputs for fair value measurement consist of the auction rate securities and floating rate securities (FRS).
Due to the lack of observable market quotes on the Company’s ARS investment portfolio, the Company utilizes valuation models that rely exclusively on Level 3
inputs including those that are based on expected cash flow streams and collateral values, including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk
underlying the security, discount rates and overall capital market liquidity. The valuation of the Company’s ARS investment portfolio is subject to uncertainties that
are difficult to predict. Factors that may impact the Company’s valuation include changes to credit ratings of the securities as well as to the underlying assets
supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates, counterparty risk and ongoing strength and quality
of market credit and liquidity. The Company’s determination of fair value on its ARS investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 included indicative prices received
from external banks, internally developed valuations that were based in part on indicative bids received on the underlying assets of the securities, and other non-
observable evidence of fair value. Although the ARS continue to pay interest according to their stated terms, due to the continued severity in the capital markets and
the length of time until the ARS mature, the Company believes that full recovery is no longer probable. For further discussion on the Company’s December 31, 2008
fair value, carrying value and rollforward of ARS activity, including sales and other-than-temporary impairment charge recorded during 2008, see “—Note 11. Cash,
Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities.”
95Table of Contents
Note 10 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Continued)
The Company’s FRS are primarily rated ‘A/Baa1’ or better. FRS are long-term debt securities with coupons that are reset periodically against a benchmark interest
rate. The underlying assets of the FRS consist primarily of consumer loans, auto loans, collateralized loan obligations, monoline securities, asset-backed securities,
and corporate bonds and loans. Since the latter part of 2007, the general FRS market became less liquid or active due to the continuing credit and liquidity concerns.
As a result, there is no availability of observable market quotes in the active market (Level 1 inputs) or market quotes on similar or identical assets or liabilities, or
inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means (Level 2 inputs). The Company marks-to-market its
FRS based on indicative pricing. Those indicative price quotes represent the individual broker’s own assessments based on similar assets as well as using valuation
techniques and analyzing the underlying assets of FRS. Due to the current lack of an active market for the Company’s FRS and the general lack of transparency into
their underlying assets, the Company also relies on other qualitative analysis including discussions with brokers and fund managers, default risk underlying the
security and overall capital market liquidity (Level 3 inputs) to value its FRS portfolio. For further discussion on the Company’s December 31, 2008 fair value, carrying
value and rollforward of activity that occurred during 2008, see “—Note 11. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities.”
For financial assets and liabilities that utilize Level 1 and Level 2 inputs, the Company utilizes both direct and indirect observable price quotes, including LIBOR and
EURIBOR yield curves, foreign exchange forward prices, NYMEX futures pricing and common stock price quotes. Below is a summary of valuation techniques for
Level 1 and Level 2 financial assets and liabilities:
• U.S. Treasury Bills and Treasury-Backed Securities – valued at the quoted market price from broker or dealer quotations or transparent pricing
sources at the reporting date.
• Equity securities – valued using quoted stock prices from New York Stock Exchange or National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotation System at the reporting date.
• Interest rate swap derivative assets and liabilities – valued using LIBOR and EURIBOR yield curves, less credit valuation adjustments, at the reporting
date. Counterparties to these contracts are financial institutions, some of which experienced downgrades during 2008. Valuations may fluctuate
considerably from period-to-period due to volatility in underlying interest rates, which is driven by market conditions and the duration of the swap. In
addition, a credit valuation adjustment had a significant impact on the valuation of the Company’s interest rate swaps due to changes in counterparty
credit ratings and credit default swap spreads.
• Foreign exchange derivative assets and liabilities – valued using quoted forward foreign exchange prices at the reporting date. Counterparties to these
contracts are financial institutions, some of which experienced downgrades during 2008. Valuations may fluctuate considerably from period-to-period
due to volatility in the underlying foreign currencies. Due to the short-term maturities of the Company’s foreign exchange derivatives, which are
generally 15 months or less, counterparty credit risk is not significant.
• Natural gas forward contracts – valued using NYMEX futures prices for natural gas at the reporting date. Counterparties to these contracts are financial
institutions, some of which experienced downgrades during 2008. Valuations may fluctuate considerably from period-to-period due to volatility in the
underlying natural gas prices. Due to the short-term maturities of the Company’s natural gas derivatives, which are 15 months or less, counterparty
credit risk is not significant.
Increases or decreases to the aggregate fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value would not have a significant impact on the Company’s
liquidity or financial flexibility. Approximately 87% of the fair value of net financial assets is U.S. Treasury Bills and U.S. Treasury-backed securities.
Although the Company has not elected the fair value option for financial assets and liabilities existing at January 1, 2008 or transacted during 2008, any future
transacted financial asset or liability will be evaluated for the fair value election as prescribed by SFAS No. 159 and will be fair valued under the provisions of SFAS
No. 157. The Company did not elect the fair value option for its $1.6 billion Senior Notes issued on May 1, 2008.
96Table of Contents
Note 11 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2008 of $7,976 million primarily consisted of U.S. Treasury-backed securities. Cash and cash equivalents at December 31,
2007 of $1,801 million primarily consisted of bank deposits, time deposits and money market funds. Cash equivalents are primarily highly liquid investments with
original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase and are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value. The Company maintains cash and cash
equivalent balances in U.S. dollars and foreign currencies which are subject to currency rate risk.
Marketable securities at December 31, 2008 primarily consisted of U.S. Treasury Bills and U.S. dollar-denominated FRS. During 2008, the Company’s FRS holdings
have been downgraded from December 31, 2007 ratings, which were primarily ‘AAA/Aaa’, to ratings that ranged from ‘AAA/Aaa’ to ‘A/Baa1’ at December 31, 2008.
FRS are long-term debt securities with coupons that are reset periodically against a benchmark interest rate. The underlying assets of the Company’s FRS consist
primarily of consumer loans, auto loans, collateralized loan obligations, monoline securities, asset-backed securities, and corporate bonds and loans. The Company
accounts for its marketable securities in accordance with SFAS 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, and classifies them as
“available for sale.” Non-current FRS are classified as non-current other assets at December 31, 2008.
The following tables summarize the Company’s current and non-current marketable securities at December 31, 2008 and 2007, which include U.S. dollar-denominated
FRS and ARS, both of which are accounted for as “available for sale” debt securities:
Unrealized
(Loss)/Gain
in Accumulated
December 31, 2008 Cost Fair Value Carrying Value OCI
Dollars in Millions
Current:
Available for sale
Floating rate securities $ 115 $ 109 $ 109 $ (6)
U.S. Treasury Bills 179 180 180 1
Other — — — —
Total current $ 294 $ 289 $ 289 $ (5 )
Non-current:
Available for sale
Auction rate securities(1) $ 169 $ 94 $ 94 $ —
Floating rate securities 139 94 94 (45)
Total non-current $ 308 $ 188 $ 188 $ (45 )
Unrealized
(Loss)/Gain
in Accumulated
December 31, 2007 Cost Fair Value Carrying Value OCI
Dollars in Millions
Current:
Available for sale
Floating rate securities $ 362 $ 337 $ 337 $ (25)
Other 87 87 87 —
Total current $ 449 $ 424 $ 424 $ (25 )
Non-current:
Available for sale
Auction rate securities(1) $ 811 $ 419 $ 419 $ (117)
Total non-current $ 811 $ 419 $ 419 $ (117 )
(1) The Company recognized a pre-tax other-than-temporary impairment charge of $305 and $275 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively, and a $19 million loss on the sale of certain of these securities.
97Table of Contents
Note 11 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES (Continued)
On December 31, 2007, the Company’s principal value in FRS amounted to $337 million. During 2008, the Company received $108 million of principal at par primarily on
FRS that matured in March 2008 and temporarily reduced the fair value of the remaining FRS by $26 million to $203 million as an unrealized loss in accumulated OCI. In
addition, during 2008, the Company reclassified $94 million of the remaining FRS with maturity dates beyond 2009 from current assets to non-current other assets due
to liquidity concerns and the continued uncertainty in the capital markets.
During 2008, the Company received $118 million in connection with the sale of ARS with a carrying value of $137 million, resulting in a loss of $19 million. In addition,
a $305 million other-than-temporary impairment charge was recognized, including $117 million that was previously determined to be temporary at December 31, 2007.
The 2008 impairment charge was required after an analysis of other-than-temporary impairment factors, including the severity and the duration of the decline in value,
future prospects of the issuer and the Company’s ability and intent to hold the security to recovery. The ARS sold were securities generally backed by sub-prime
mortgages, collateralized debt obligations and structured credit. The ARS remaining at December 31, 2008 primarily represents interests in insurance securitizations
and to a lesser extent, structured credits.
The following table summarizes the activity for those financial assets where fair value measurements are estimated utilizing Level 3 inputs (ARS and FRS):
Non-current
Current FRS FRS ARS Total
Dollars in Millions
Carrying value at January 1, 2008 $ 337 $ — $ 419 $ 756
Settlements (106) (2) (118) (226)
Transfers between current and non-current (104) 104 — —
Total losses
Included in earnings — — (324) (324)
Included in other comprehensive income (18) (8) 117 91
Carrying value at December 31, 2008 $ 109 $ 94 $ 94 $ 297
For a discussion on the fair value of financial instruments, including ARS and FRS, see “—Note 10. Fair Value Measurement.”
The contractual maturities of the carrying value of the “available for sale” debt securities at December 31, 2008 were as follows:
Over 5 to 10
Dollars in Millions Within 1 Year Over 1 to 5 Years Years Over 10 Years Total
Available for Sale
Floating Rate Securities $ 109 $ 94 $ — $ — $ 203
Auction Rate Securities — — — 94 94
U.S. Treasury Bills 180 — — — 180
Total Available for Sale $ 289 $ 94 $ — $ 94 $ 477
98Table of Contents
Note 12 RECEIVABLES, NET
The major categories of receivables were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Trade receivables $ 2,545 $ 2,781
Alliance Partner receivables 870 602
Income tax refund claims 64 472
Miscellaneous receivables 359 319
3,838 4,174
Less allowances 128 180
Receivables, net $ 3,710 $ 3,994
Receivables are netted with deferred income on sales of product to alliance partners until recognition of revenue. As a result, a corresponding reclassification was
made which reduced Alliance Partner receivables and deferred income by $566 million and $246 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For additional
information on the Company’s alliance partners, see “—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”
In the aggregate, receivables due from three pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. represented 35% and 29% of total trade receivables at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively.
Note 13 INVENTORIES, NET
The major categories of inventories were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Finished goods $ 707 $ 904
Work in process 738 834
Raw and packaging materials 320 424
Inventories, net $ 1,765 $ 2,162
Inventories expected to remain on-hand beyond one year were $185 million and $73 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and were included in non-
current other assets.
Note 14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET
The major categories of property, plant and equipment were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Land $ 149 $ 185
Buildings 4,506 4,696
Machinery, equipment and fixtures 4,007 4,418
Construction in progress 787 915
9,449 10,214
Less accumulated depreciation 4,044 4,564
Property, plant and equipment, net $ 5,405 $ 5,650
Capitalized interest was $23 million in 2008, $27 million in 2007 and $18 million in 2006.
99Table of Contents
Note 15 GOODWILL
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:
ConvaTec/
Pharmaceuticals Nutritionals Medical
Dollars in Millions Segment Segment Imaging Total
Balance at January 1, 2007 $ 4,445 $ 113 $ 271 $ 4,829
Acquisition of Adnexus 156 — — 156
Other adjustments 2 — 11 13
Balance at January 1, 2008 $ 4,603 $ 113 $ 282 $ 4,998
Sale of Medical Imaging — — (2) (2)
Sale of ConvaTec — — (280) (280)
Sale of mature brand business in Egypt (9) — — (9)
Acquisition of Kosan 127 — — 127
Adnexus purchase price adjustment (7) — — (7)
Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 4,714 $ 113 $ — $ 4,827
See “— Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures” for further detail.
Note 16 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET
At December 31, 2008 and 2007, other intangible assets consisted of the following:
Total Other Intangible
Patents/Trademarks Licenses Technology Capitalized Software Assets
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Gross carrying amount $ 156 $ 179 $ 650 $ 663 $ 1,107 $ 1,214 $ 1,040 $ 917 $ 2,953 $ 2,973
Less accumulated amortization 103 99 250 215 704 660 745 669 1,802 1,643
Other intangible assets, net $ 53 $ 80 $ 400 $ 448 $ 403 $ 554 $ 295 $ 248 $ 1,151 $ 1,330
The change in the carrying amount of other intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:
Total Other Intangible
Assets
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Other intangible assets, net carrying amount at January 1 $ 1,330 $ 1,852
Additions 138 74
Acquisition of Adnexus — 27
Amortization (254) (350)
Medical Imaging – assets held for sale — (273)
Sale of ConvaTec (21) —
Impairment charges (40) —
Other (2) —
Other intangible assets, net carrying amount at December 31 $ 1,151 $ 1,330
Impairment charges in 2008 relate to certain patent and product rights acquired from Dupont in 2001 and results from development programs that were abandoned and
license terminations. Amortization expense for other intangible assets was $254 million in 2008, $350 million in 2007 and $363 million in 2006. Amortization expense for
other intangible assets related to ConvaTec and Medical Imaging reflected in discontinued operations was $4 million in 2008, $69 million in 2007 and $71 million in
2006.
Expected amortization expense related to the current net carrying amount of other intangible assets follows:
Years Ending December 31, Dollars in Millions
2009 $ 219
2010 228
2011 211
2012 172
2013 90
Later Years 231
100Table of Contents
Note 17 ACCRUED EXPENSES
The major categories of accrued expenses were as follows:
December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Employee compensation and benefits $ 784 $ 784
Royalties 515 492
Accrued research and development 466 399
Restructuring – current 158 105
Pension and postretirement benefits 90 85
Other 923 1,086
$ 2,936 $ 2,951
Note 18 SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND LONG-TERM DEBT
Short-term borrowings were $154 million and $1,891 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
In September 2008, the Company repaid $1,150 million principal amount of the $1,200 million aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Convertible Senior
Debentures due 2023, as a result of a partial redemption by the note holders. All or a portion of the remaining balance of $50 million can be redeemed by the holders at
par on September 15, 2013 and 2018, or if a fundamental change in ownership of the Company occurs. All or part of the remaining debt is callable at par at any time by
the issuer. The Debentures have a conversion price of $41.28, or a conversion rate of 24.2248 shares, subject to certain anti-dilutive adjustments. The maximum
conversion rate is 38.7597 shares. The Debentures pay interest quarterly at an annual rate equal to the three month LIBOR, reset quarterly, minus 0.50% (the yield
never to be less than zero).
In August 2008 and February 2008, the Company repaid the $400 million 4.00% Notes due 2008 and $117 million of the 1.10% Yen Notes due 2008, respectively.
In December 2006, the Company obtained a $2.0 billion five year revolving credit facility from a syndicate of lenders, which is extendable on the anniversary date with
the consent of the lenders. This facility contains customary terms and conditions, including a financial covenant whereby the ratio of consolidated debt to
consolidated capital cannot exceed 50% at the end of each quarter. The Company has been in compliance with this covenant since the inception of this new facility.
There were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility at December 31, 2008.
The components of long-term debt were as follows:
December 31, December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Principal Value
5.875% Notes due 2036 $ 1,023 $ 1,250
6.125% Notes due 2038 1,000 —
4.375% Euro Notes due 2016 698 725
4.625% Euro Notes due 2021 698 725
5.45% Notes due 2018 600 —
5.25% Notes due 2013 597 600
6.80% Debentures due 2026 350 350
7.15% Debentures due 2023 339 350
6.88% Debentures due 2097 287 300
Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2023 50 —
5.75% Industrial Revenue Bonds due 2024 35 35
1.81% Yen Notes due 2010 39 31
Variable Rate Industrial Revenue Bonds due 2030 15 15
Other 6 9
Subtotal $ 5,737 $ 4,390
Adjustments to Principal Value
Fair value of interest rate swaps(1) 647 (24)
Unamortized proceeds from swap terminations 233 37
Unamortized bond discounts (32) (22)
$ 6,585 $ 4,381
(1) For further discussion on Company’s interest rate swaps refer to “—Note 21. Financial Instruments.”
101Table of Contents
Note 18 SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND LONG-TERM DEBT (Continued)
In November and December 2008, the Company repurchased approximately $254 million principal amount of debt and terminated $241 million notional amount of
interest rate swaps, resulting in a gain of $57 million reported in other expense, net. The table below summarizes the debt repurchase and related activity:
Principal Repurchase Gain on Swap Termination Earnings
Dollars in Millions Amount Price Repurchase Proceeds Other Impact
5.875% Notes due 2036 $ 227 $ 201 $ 26 $ 32 $ (3) $ 55
6.88% Debentures due 2097 13 13 — — — —
7.15% Debentures due 2023 11 11 — 2 — 2
5.25% Notes due 2013 3 3 — — — —
Total $ 254 $ 228 $ 26 $ 34 $ (3 ) $ 57
On May 1, 2008, the Company issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of 5.45% Notes due 2018 and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.125% Notes
due 2038 (collectively, the “May 1, 2008 Issued Notes”) in a registered public offering. Interest payments are made May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning on
November 1, 2008. The May 1, 2008 Issued Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and rank equally in right of payment with all of the Company’s
existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. The Company may redeem the May 1, 2008 Issued Notes, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price
equal to the greater of par value or an amount calculated based upon the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments as set forth in the
prospectus supplement dated April 28, 2008.
In December 2008, the Company terminated $550 million notional amount of its 2036 and 2038 fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements related to its Notes due
2036 and 2038 and received proceeds of $197 million. These proceeds are being recognized against interest expense over the remaining life of the underlying debt.
In September 2005, the Company terminated $350 million notional amount of its 2026 fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements related to its $350 million 6.80%
Debentures due 2026 and received proceeds of $39 million. These proceeds are being recognized against interest expense over the remaining life of the underlying
debt, of which approximately $1 million, pre-tax, was recognized in each of the years 2008, 2007 and 2006. For further discussion on the Company’s swap terminations
refer to “—Note 21. Financial Instruments.”
Including payments due to interest rate swaps, cash payments for interest were $539 million in 2008, $610 million in 2007 and $682 million in 2006. Cash receipts from
interest rate swaps were $236 million in 2008, $210 million in 2007 and $205 million in 2006 and were excluded from cash payments for interest.
The Company’s principal value of long-term debt obligations were $5,737 million at December 31, 2008 of which $45 million is due in 2010, $647 million is due in 2013,
and the remaining $5,045 million is due later than 2013.
At December 31, 2008, the Company provided a total of $168 million financial guarantees in the form of stand-by letters of credit and performance bonds. The stand-
by letters of credit are with insurance companies in support of third-party liability programs. The performance bonds have been issued to support a range of ongoing
operating activities, including sale of Company products to hospitals and foreign ministries of health, bonds for customs, duties and value added tax and guarantees
related to miscellaneous legal actions. A significant majority of the Company’s outstanding financial guarantees will expire within the year and are not expected to be
funded.
102Table of Contents
Note 19 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Changes in common shares, treasury stock, capital in excess of par value of stock and restricted stock were as follows:
Cost Capital in Excess
Common Shares Treasury of Treasury of Par Value Restricted
Dollars and Shares in Millions Issued Stock Stock of Stock Stock
Balance at January 1, 2006 2,205 248 $ (11,168) $ 2,528 $ (71)
Employee stock compensation plans — (10) 241 98 (57)
Balance at December 31, 2006 2,205 238 (10,927 ) 2,626 (128 )
Employee stock compensation plans — (12) 343 96 31
Balance at December 31, 2007 2,205 226 (10,584 ) 2,722 (97 )
Employee stock compensation plans — — 18 106 26
Balance at December 31, 2008 2,205 226 $ (10,566 ) $ 2,828 $ (71 )
Each share of the Company’s preferred stock is convertible into 16.96 shares of common stock and is callable at the Company’s option. The reductions in the number
of issued shares of preferred stock in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were due to conversions into shares of common stock.
The accumulated balances related to each component of OCI, net of taxes, were as follows:
Pension and Accumulated
Foreign Derivatives Minimum Other Other
Currency Qualifying as Pension Postretirement Available for Comprehensive
Dollars in Millions Translation Cash Flow Hedges Liability Benefits Sale Securities Income/(Loss)
Balance at January 1, 2006 $ (553) $ 16 $ (229) $ — $ 1 $ (765)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 129 (39) 82 — 12 184
Adjustments on adoption of SFAS No. 158 — — 147 (1,211) — (1,064)
Balance at December 31, 2006 (424 ) (23 ) — (1,211 ) 13 (1,645 )
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 99 (14) — 238 (139) 184
Balance at December 31, 2007 (325 ) (37 ) — (973 ) (126 ) (1,461 )
Other comprehensive income/(loss) (99) 51 — (1,285) 75 (1,258)
Balance at December 31, 2008 $ (424 ) $ 14 $ — $ (2,258 ) $ (51 ) $ (2,719 )
Note 20 EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS
Employee Stock Plans
On May 1, 2007, the stockholders approved the Company’s 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the 2007 Plan). The 2007 Plan replaced the 2002 Stock Incentive
Plan (the 2002 Plan) that expired on May 31, 2007. The 2007 Plan provides for 42 million new shares of common stock reserved for delivery to participants, plus shares
remaining available for new grants under the 2002 Plan and shares recaptured from outstanding awards under the 2002 Plan. Only the number of shares actually
delivered to participants in connection with an award after all restrictions have lapsed will be counted against the number of shares reserved. Shares tendered in a
prior year to pay the purchase price of options and the number of shares previously utilized to satisfy withholding tax obligations upon exercise continue to be
available and reserved. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, 350 million and 352 million shares of common stock, respectively, were reserved for issuance pursuant to
stock plans, options and conversions of preferred stock. There were 100 million and 98 million shares available to be granted for the active plans at December 31, 2008
and 2007, respectively, adjusted for the combination of plans.
Under the Company’s 2007 Plan and the 2002 Plan, executive officers and key employees may be granted options to purchase the Company’s common stock at no
less than 100% of the market price on the date the option is granted. Options generally become exercisable in installments of 25% per year on each of the first through
the fourth anniversaries of the grant date and have a maximum term of 10 years. Generally, the Company issues shares for the stock option exercise from treasury
stock. Additionally, the plan provides for the granting of stock appreciation rights whereby the grantee may surrender exercisable rights and receive common stock
and/or cash measured by the excess of the market price of the common stock over the option exercise price. At December 31, 2008 there were 202 thousand stock
appreciation rights outstanding, all treated as liability awards.
The 2007 Plan and the 2002 Plan provide for the granting of common stock to key employees, subject to restrictions as to continuous employment. Restrictions
generally expire over a four year period from date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized over the restricted period. During the first quarter of 2007, the
Company began granting restricted stock units instead of restricted stock. A stock unit is a right to receive stock at the end of the specified vesting period. A stock
unit has no voting rights.
103Table of Contents
Note 20 EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS (Continued)
The 2007 Plan and the 2002 Plan also incorporate the Company’s long-term performance awards. These awards, which are delivered in the form of a target number of
performance shares, have a three year cycle. For 2008 to 2010 and 2007 to 2009, the awards have annual goals set at the beginning of each performance period and are
based 50% on earnings per share and 50% on sales. Maximum performance will result in a maximum payout of 165% for the 2008 to 2010 award and 220% for the 2007
to 2009 award. In addition, a one-time special performance award was granted for the 2008 to 2010 performance period. This special performance award has annual
goals, set at the beginning of each performance period, based 50% on pre-tax operating margin and 50% on operating cash flow. Maximum performance will result in a
maximum payout of 165%. The goals for the 2005 through 2007 and the 2006 through 2008 awards are set for the three year period and are based 50% on cumulative
earnings per share and 50% on cumulative sales, with the ultimate payout modified by the Company’s total stockholder return versus the 11 companies in its proxy
peer group. Maximum performance for all three measures will result in a maximum payout of 253% of target. If threshold targets are not met for the performance period,
no payment will be made under the plan.
Under the TeamShare Stock Option Plan, which terminated on January 3, 2005, full-time employees, excluding key executives, were granted options to purchase the
Company’s common stock at the market price on the date the options were granted. The Company authorized 66 million shares for issuance under the plan. Individual
grants generally became exercisable evenly on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the grant date and have a maximum term of 10 years. Options on 36 million
shares have been exercised under the plan at December 31, 2008.
The Company’s results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 reflect the impact of SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, which
includes the impact of the expensing of stock options. The Company has elected the alternative method as provided in FSP No. 123(R)-3, Transition Election Related
To Accounting For The Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards, in determining the Company’s pool of excess tax benefits. The following tables summarize
stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options, restricted stock and long-term performance awards for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006:
Years Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Stock options $ 79 $ 72 $ 80
Restricted stock 82 53 34
Long-term performance shares 20 8 (2)
Total stock-based compensation expense $ 181 $ 133 $ 112
Stock-based compensation expense was recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Cost of products sold $ 18 $ 13 $ 11
Marketing, selling and administrative 109 80 67
Research and development 54 40 34
Total stock-based compensation expense 181 133 112
Deferred tax benefit 59 45 39
Stock-based compensation expense, net of taxes $ 122 $ 88 $ 73
Stock-based compensation expense of $5 million in 2008, $7 million in 2007 and $6 million in 2006 is included in discontinued operations.
104Table of Contents
Note 20 EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS (Continued)
Stock Options
A summary of stock option activities were as follows:
Shares of Common
Stock Issued Weighted-Average
Shares in Millions Under Plan Exercise Price of Shares
Balance at January 1, 2006 164 $ 38.45
Granted 16 23.18
Exercised (8) 21.00
Expired or forfeited (9) 33.53
Balance at December 31, 2006 163 38.16
Granted 15 26.31
Exercised (13) 27.02
Expired or forfeited (17) 32.84
Balance at December 31, 2007 148 38.53
Granted 18 22.11
Exercised — 15.90
Expired or forfeited (34) 41.72
Balance at December 31, 2008 132 35.48
Information related to stock option grants and exercises under both the 2007 Plan and the 2002 Plan are summarized as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
Amounts in Millions, except per share data 2008 2007 2006
Stock options granted 18.4 15.3 15.3
Weighted-average grant-date fair value (per share) $ 4.95 $ 6.56 $ 4.74
Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised $ 2 $ 37 $ 17
Cash proceeds from exercise of stock options $ 5 $ 345 $ 167
At December 31, 2008, there was $100 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-
average period of 2.4 years.
The following tables summarize information concerning the Company’s stock compensation plans and currently outstanding and exercisable options:
Number of Securities
to be Issued Upon
Exercise of Weighted-Average
Outstanding Exercise
Options Price of Outstanding
Shares in Millions and Rights Options and Rights
Plan Category
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 124 $ 35.33
Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders(1) 8 37.80
132 35.48
(1) Shares under this plan are no longer being issued.
105Table of Contents
Note 20 EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS (Continued)
The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options at December 31, 2008 (amounts in millions, except per share data):
Options Outstanding Options Exercisable
Weighted- Weighted-
Average Weighted- Average Weighted-
Remaining Average Aggregate Remaining Average Aggregate
Contractual Exercise Intrinsic Contractual Exercise Intrinsic
Number Life Price Per Value Number Life Price Per Value
Range of Exercise Prices Outstanding (in Years) Share (in millions) Exercisable (in Years) Share (in millions)
$1 - $20 — 8.22 $ 4.80 $ 8 — 8.08 $ 3.79 $ 3
$20 - $30 85 6.56 25.00 25 53 5.44 25.73 5
$30 - $40 — 7.32 30.93 — — 5.75 30.61 —
$40 - $50 20 2.27 45.60 — 19 2.27 45.60 —
$50 - $60 10 2.24 58.47 — 10 2.25 58.34 —
$60 and up 17 0.48 63.28 — 17 0.48 63.28 —
132 4.82 35.48 $ 33 99 3.67 39.16 $ 8
Vested or expected to vest 130 4.77 35.63 $ 32
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on the Company’s closing stock price of $23.25 on December 31,
2008, which would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options as of that date. The total number of in-the-money options
exercisable at December 31, 2008 was 17 million. At December 31, 2007, 113 million outstanding options were exercisable and the weighted-average exercise price was
$42.21.
The fair value of employee stock options granted were estimated on the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model for stock options with a
service condition, and the Monte Carlo simulation model for options with service and market conditions. The following table presents the weighted-average
assumptions used in the valuation:
Year Ended December 31,
2008 2007 2006
Expected volatility 31.1% 28.9% 26.7%
Risk-free interest rate 3.3% 4.7% 4.6%
Dividend yield 4.3% 4.5% 4.8%
Expected life 6.7 yrs 6.2 yrs 6.3 yrs
The Company derived the expected volatility assumption required in the Black-Scholes model by calculating a 10-year historical volatility and weighting that equally
with the derived implied volatility. The selection of the blended historical and implied volatility approach was based on the Company’s assessment that this
calculation of expected volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than using only historical volatility.
The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The dividend yield assumption is based on the
Company’s history and expectation of dividend payouts.
The expected life of employee stock options represents the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding and is a derived output of
a lattice-binomial model. The expected life of employee stock options is impacted by all of the underlying assumptions and calibration of the Company’s model. The
lattice-binomial model assumes that employees’ exercise behavior is a function of the option’s remaining vested life and the extent to which the option is in-the-
money. The lattice-binomial model estimates the probability of exercise as a function of these two variables based on the entire history of exercises and cancellations
on all past option grants made by the Company.
Stock-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest. Forfeitures were estimated based on historical experience at the time of grant and
revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
The Company acquired Adnexus on October 19, 2007. As part of the acquisition agreement, the Company assumed 24 million shares of Adnexus incentive stock
options (ISOs) and replaced them with 0.6 million shares of Company ISOs. The converted options retain their original vesting schedules, including the vesting
commencement date, as well as the expiration date. A Black-Scholes model was used to determine the expected term and the individual ISOs valuations. The result
was a weighted-average expected term of 5.2 years and a weighted-average fair value on October 19, 2007 of $20.34.
106Table of Contents
Note 20 EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS (Continued)
Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units
The fair value of nonvested shares of the Company’s common stock is determined based on the average trading price of the Company’s common stock on the grant
date.
Restricted share activities were as follows:
Weighted-Average
Shares in Thousands Number of Shares Grant-Date Fair Value
Nonvested shares at January 1, 2006 4,162 $ 27.36
Granted 4,295 23.45
Vested (645) 32.48
Forfeited (921) 26.64
Nonvested shares at December 31, 2006 6,891 24.58
Granted 3,584 27.14
Vested (1,360) 25.51
Forfeited (892) 25.13
Nonvested shares at December 31, 2007 8,223 25.48
Granted 5,468 22.22
Vested (3,310) 25.37
Forfeited (1,650) 24.22
Nonvested shares at December 31, 2008 8,731 23.73
Expected to vest 8,270 23.73
At December 31, 2008, there was $153 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted stock and that cost is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years. The total fair value of nonvested shares and share units granted that was recognized as compensation
expense was $82 million in 2008, $53 million in 2007 and $34 million in 2006. The total fair value of shares and share units that vested in 2008 was $84 million.
Long-Term Performance Awards
Since the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the fair value of the 2006 through 2008 performance award was estimated on the date of grant using a Monte Carlo simulation
model due to a market condition. The Monte Carlo simulation model utilizes multiple input variables that determine the probability of satisfying each market condition
stipulated in the award grant and calculates the fair market value for the long-term performance awards. For the 2008 to 2010 and the 2007 to 2009 performance awards,
because theses awards do not contain a market condition, the fair value was based on the closing trading price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date.
The valuation model for the 2006 through 2008 award used the following assumptions:
Weighted-Average Expected Risk-Free
Grant Year Grant Date Expected Volatility Dividend Yield Interest Rate
2006 3/7/2006 20.4% 4.9% 4.4%
Weighted-average expected volatility is based on the three year historical volatility levels on the Company’s common stock. Expected dividend yield is based on
historical dividend payments. Risk-free interest rate reflects the yield on five year zero coupon U.S. Treasury bonds, based on the performance shares’ contractual
term. The fair value of the performance awards is amortized over the performance period of the award.
107Table of Contents
Note 20 EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS (Continued)
Information related to performance awards under both the 2007 Plan and the 2002 Plan is summarized as follows:
Shares in Thousands Performance Shares Outstanding
Performance Cycle Weighted-Average
Grant Date Measurement Date Shares Granted Grant-Date Fair Value December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007
3/1/05 12/31/07 1,087 $ 25.45 — 830
3/7/06 12/31/08 640 20.00 348 415
3/6/07 Annually on 12/31 219 27.01 176 209
5/1/07 Annually on 12/31 57 28.68 57 57
3/19/08 Annually on 12/31 878 21.46 786 —
3/25/08 Annually on 12/31 279 21.60 224 —
3/31/08 Annually on 12/31 15 21.30 15 —
4/7/08 Annually on 12/31 15 22.00 15 —
Total outstanding 1,621 1,511
Unrecognized compensation cost related to the performance share plan was $24 million at December 31, 2008 and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-
average period of 1.7 years.
Accuracy of Fair Value Estimates
The Company’s determination of fair value of stock-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by the Company’s stock
price, as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited, to the Company’s expected
stock price volatility over the term of the awards and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Option-pricing models were developed for use in
estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Because the Company’s employee stock options have
certain characteristics that are significantly different from traded options, and because changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated
value, in management’s opinion, the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of the fair value of the Company’s employee stock options.
Although the fair value of employee stock options is determined in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R) and Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 107, Share-Based
Payment, using an option-pricing model, that value may not be indicative of the fair value observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction.
Note 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company is exposed to market risk due to changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and to a lesser extent natural gas pricing. To reduce that risk, the
Company enters into certain derivative financial instruments, when available on a cost-effective basis, to hedge its underlying economic exposure. The Company’s
primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, and Mexican peso. To manage these exposures, the
Company utilizes foreign currency contracts, which are subject to cash flow hedge accounting treatment. These instruments are managed on a consolidated basis to
efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of any natural offsets.
The Company also uses derivative instruments as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. The derivative instruments used are comprised principally of
fixed-to-floating rate interest rate swaps, which are subject to fair-value hedge accounting treatment. Derivative financial instruments are not used for speculative
purposes.
Cash Flow Hedges
Foreign Exchange contracts
The Company utilizes foreign currency contracts to hedge anticipated transactions, primarily intercompany transactions, on certain foreign currencies and designates
these derivative instruments as foreign currency cash flow hedges when appropriate. The notional amounts of the Company’s foreign exchange derivative contracts
at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $1,151 million and $1,225 million, respectively. For these derivatives, in which the majority qualify as hedges of future anticipated
cash flows, the effective portion of changes in fair value is temporarily deferred in accumulated OCI and then recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects
earnings.
The table below summarizes the Company’s outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts at December 31, 2008. The fair value of all foreign exchange forward
contracts is based on year-end currency rates. The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts should be viewed in relation to the fair value of the underlying
hedged transactions and the overall reduction in exposure to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
108Table of Contents
Note 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
Weighted-Average Fair Value
Dollars in Millions, except currency rates Strike Price Notional Amount Asset/(Liability) Maturity
Foreign Exchange Forwards:
Cash Flow Hedges
Australian dollar $ 0.79 $ 56 $ 7 2009
Brazilian real 2.44 9 — 2009
British pound 1.83 94 19 2009
Canadian dollar 1.09 107 12 2009
Euro 1.42 486 11 2009
Japanese yen 101.05 225 (27) 2009
Japanese yen 88.55 10 — 2010
Mexican peso 11.27 100 21 2009
Polish zloty 2.73 30 2 2009
Swedish krona 6.31 14 3 2009
Swiss franc 1.02 20 1 2009
Total Cash Flow Hedges $ 1,151 $ 49
At December 31, 2007 the total notional and fair market value for contracts to buy Japanese yen was $145 million and $1 million, respectively, which are fully offset by
the total notional and fair market value for sell contracts of $145 million and $1 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008, the Company did not hold any foreign
exchange option contracts to buy or sell Japanese yen.
At December 31, 2008, the balance of deferred gains on foreign exchange forward contracts that qualified for cash flow hedge accounting included in accumulated
OCI on a pre-tax basis was $45 million ($35 million net of tax), all of which is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next 14 months.
SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, requires that the Company perform periodic assessments of hedge effectiveness. The
Company assesses effectiveness at the inception of the hedge and on a quarterly basis. These assessments determine whether derivatives designated as qualifying
hedges continue to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of hedged items. Any ineffective portion of fair value can no longer be deferred in
accumulated OCI and is included in current period earnings. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the impact of hedge ineffectiveness on earnings
was not significant. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the impact of discontinued hedges was a pre-tax gain of $6 million and a pre-
tax loss of $12 million and $10 million, respectively.
Natural Gas contracts
The Company utilizes forward contracts to hedge anticipated purchase of natural gas, and designates these derivative instruments as cash flow hedges when
appropriate. For these derivatives, in which the majority qualify as hedges of future anticipated cash flows, the effective portion of changes in fair value is temporarily
deferred in accumulated OCI and then recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the impact of
discontinued natural gas hedges was a pre-tax loss of $4 million and was not material for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Non-Qualifying Foreign Exchange Contracts
In addition to the foreign exchange contracts noted above, the Company utilizes forward contracts to hedge foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and
liabilities. The primary objective of these forward contracts is to protect the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities from the
effects of volatility in foreign exchange rates that might occur prior to their receipt or settlement in U.S. dollars. These forward contracts are not designated as hedges
and are mark-to-market through other expense, net. The notional and fair value amounts of purchased and sold foreign exchange forward contracts at December 31,
2008 and 2007 were not material.
Furthermore, the Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to offset its exposure to certain assets and liabilities and earnings denominated in certain foreign
currencies. These foreign exchange forward contracts are not designated as hedges and, therefore, changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized in
earnings in other expense, net, as they occur. The notional and fair value amounts of these foreign exchange forward contracts at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were
not material.
Hedge of Net Investment
The Company uses non-U.S. dollar borrowings, primarily the €500 Million Notes due 2016 and the €500 Million Notes due 2021, to hedge the foreign currency
exposures of the Company’s net investment in certain foreign affiliates. These non-U.S. dollar borrowings are designated as hedges of net investments. The effective
portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges is recorded as part of the foreign currency translation component of accumulated OCI.
109Table of Contents
Note 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
The Company had unhedged exposures to net foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $1,074 million and $1,902 million at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily in Japan, China, Mexico, Australia, the UK and Thailand.
Fair Value Hedges
Interest Rate contracts
The Company uses derivative instruments as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. The derivative instruments used are comprised principally of fixed-to-
floating rate interest rate swaps, which are subject to fair-value hedge accounting treatment. In November 2006, in connection with the funding of the retirement of
the 2011 fixed rate debt, the Company executed several fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to convert $1.3 billion and €1 billion ($1.3 billion at inception) of the
Company’s newly-issued fixed rate debt to be paid in 2016, 2021, and 2036 to variable rate debt. In 2008, the Company executed additional fixed-to-floating interest
rate swaps to convert $1.2 billion of the Company’s newly-issued fixed rate debt to be paid in 2018 and 2038 to variable rate. The total notional amounts of
outstanding interest rate swaps were $2.6 billion and €1 billion ($1.4 billion) at December 31, 2008, $2.6 billion and €1.0 billion ($1.5 billion) at December 31, 2007 and
$2.6 billion and €1 billion ($1.3 billion) at December 31, 2006. The Company recognized a net decrease in interest expense of $48 million in 2008, and a net increase of
$13 million and $18 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.
The swaps, as well as the underlying debt being hedged, are recorded at fair value. Swaps are generally held to maturity and are intended to create an appropriate
balance of fixed and floating rate debt for the Company. Swaps that qualify as fair value hedges that are terminated prior to their maturity dates are reported as part of
the carrying value of the underlying debt and are amortized to earnings over the remaining life of the debt. Swaps that qualify as cash flow hedges that are terminated
are reported in accumulated OCI and amortized to earnings over the remaining life of the debt. At December 31, 2008, the balance of deferred losses on forward
starting swaps included in accumulated OCI was $19 million, which will be reclassified into earnings over the remaining life of the debt.
In November and December 2008, the Company repurchased approximately $254 million principal amount of debt and terminated $241 million notional amount of
interest rate swaps resulting in a gain of $57 million, reported in other expense, net. Also in 2008, the Company terminated $550 million notional amount of fixed-to-
floating interest rate swap agreements for total proceeds of $197 million. The proceeds from this swap termination are being recognized against interest expense over
the remaining life of the underlying debt. For further discussion on the Company’s debt buyback refer to “—Note 18. Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt.”
110Table of Contents
Note 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
The following tables summarize the interest rate swaps outstanding at December 31, 2008 and the earnings impact from terminated interest rate swaps for 2008, 2007
and 2006:
Interest Rate Swaps Outstanding
Notional
Amount of
Underlying Year of Fair
Interest Rate Swaps Debt Variable Rate Received Transaction Maturity Value
Dollars in Millions
Swaps associated with:
5.25% Notes due 2013 $ 597 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +0.42% 2003 2013 $ 71
5.45% Notes due 2018 600 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +1.065% 2008 2018 87
4.375% €500 Million Notes due 2016 698 3 month EUR € EURIBOR +0.40% 2006 2016 17
4.625% €500 Million Notes due 2021 698 3 month EUR € EURIBOR +0.56% 2006 2021 9
7.15% Notes due 2023 339 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +1.66% 2004 2023 98
5.875% Notes due 2036 573 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +0.62% 2006 2036 200
6.125% Notes due 2038 300 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +1.3255% 2008 2038 95
6.125% Notes due 2038 200 1 month U.S. $ LIBOR +1.292% 2008 2038 70
$ 4,005 $ 647
Earnings Impact from Terminated Interest Rate Swaps
Pre-Tax Income/
Unrecognized Gains/(Losses) (Expense) Recognized
Other
Year of Long-term Comprehensive
Interest Rate Swaps Termination Debt Loss 2008 2007 2006
Dollars in Millions
Interest rate swap lock associated with:
5.75% Notes due 2011 2001 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ (37)
6.125% Notes due 2038 2008 — (19) — — —
Swaps associated with:
5.75% Notes due 2011 2005 — — — — (21)
6.80% Notes due 2026 2005 36 1 1 1
5.75% Notes due 2011 2006 — — — — (62)
5.25% Notes due 2013 2008 — — — — —
7.15% Notes due 2023 2008 — — 3 — —
5.875% Notes due 2036 2008 — — 31 — —
5.875% Notes due 2036 2008 172 — — — —
5.75% Notes due 2038 2008 25 — — — —
$ 233 $ (19 ) $ 35 $ 1 $ (119 )
The following table summarizes the Company’s fair value of outstanding derivatives at December 31, 2008 and 2007:
Balance Sheet Location 2008 2007 Balance Sheet Location 2008 2007
Dollars in Millions
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:
Interest rate contracts Other assets $ 647 $ 72 Accrued expenses $ — $ (96)
Foreign exchange contracts Other assets 89 8 Accrued expenses (40) (64)
Hedge of net investments — — Short-term borrowings — (108)
Hedge of net investments — — Long-term debt (1,319) (1,450)
Natural gas contracts — — Accrued expenses (7) —
736 80 (1,366 ) (1,718 )
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:
Foreign exchange contracts Other assets 1 12 Accrued expenses (5) (3)
Total Derivatives $ 737 $ 92 $ (1,371 ) $ (1,721 )
111Table of Contents
Note 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
The impact on earnings from interest rate swaps that qualified as fair value hedges for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Interest income/(expense) $ 49 $ (12)
Terminated – gain recognized in other expense, net 34 —
Total $ 83 $ (12 )
The impact on OCI and earnings from foreign exchange and natural gas forwards that qualified as cash flow hedges was as follows:
Foreign Forward
Exchange Natural Gas Starting
Contracts Contracts Swap Total Impact
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Gain/(loss) recognized in OCI at December 31 (effective portion) $ 45 $ (54) $ (3) $ — $ (19) $ — $ 23 $ (54)
Loss reclassified from OCI to cost of products sold (effective portion) (65) (56) (2) — — — (67) (56)
Gain/(loss) recognized in other expense, net (discontinued and ineffective portion) 6 (12) (4) — — — 2 (12)
The impact on OCI and earnings from non-derivative debt designated as a hedge of net investment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was as follows:
Net Investment Hedges
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Loss recognized in OCI (effective portion) $ (131) $ (168)
Gain recognized in other expense, net (ineffective portion and amount
excluded from effectiveness testing) 9 —
The impact on earnings from non-qualifying derivatives for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Gain recognized in other expense, net $ 5 $ 4
For a discussion on the fair value of financial instruments, see “—Note 10. Fair Value Measurement.” For a discussion on cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities, see “—Note 11. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities.” For long-term debt, the difference between the fair value and carrying value is not
material.
On January 13, 2009, the Company terminated fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $1,061 million resulting in a $187 million gain which will
be amortized over the remaining life of the debt.
Note 22 SEGMENT INFORMATION
Segment information is consistent with how management reviews the businesses, makes investing and resource allocation decisions and assesses operating
performance. The Company reports financial and operating information in two segments—Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals. The Pharmaceuticals segment is
comprised of the global pharmaceutical and international consumer medicines businesses. The Nutritionals segment consists of Mead Johnson, primarily an infant
formula business and children’s nutritional business.
In January and August 2008, the Company completed the divestiture of its Medical Imaging and ConvaTec businesses, respectively. The results of the Medical
Imaging and ConvaTec businesses, previously included in the former Other Health Care and ConvaTec operating segments, respectively, are included in
discontinued operations. For additional information on the divestitures of Medical Imaging and ConvaTec, see “—Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures” and “—
Note 6. Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale.”
The Company’s products are sold principally to the wholesale and retail trade, both nationally and internationally. Certain products are also sold to other drug
manufacturers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and the medical profession. Gross sales to three pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. accounted for
approximately 20%, 16% and 12% of the Company’s total gross sales in 2008, 18%, 15% and 11% of the Company’s total gross sales in 2007 and 17%, 15% and 10%
of the Company’s total gross sales in 2006.
112Table of Contents
NOTE 22 SEGMENT INFORMATION (Continued)
Earnings From Continuing
Operations Before Income Taxes and
Net Sales Minority Interest Year-End Assets
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007
Pharmaceuticals $ 17,715 $ 15,622 $ 13,861 $ 4,988 $ 3,471 $ 2,569 $ 12,246 $ 12,303
Nutritionals 2,882 2,571 2,347 830 708 696 1,277 1,274
Total segments 20,597 18,193 16,208 5,818 4,179 3,265 13,523 13,577
Corporate/Other — — — (347) (993) (1,180) 16,029 12,349
Total $ 20,597 $ 18,193 $ 16,208 $ 5,471 $ 3,186 $ 2,085 $ 29,552 $ 25,926
Corporate/Other assets include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, assets of discontinued operations and certain other assets. Earnings from
continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest reported in Corporate/Other consists of:
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Corporate administrative expense $ (532) $ (556) $ (558)
Stock-based compensation expense (181) (133) (112)
Provision for restructuring, net (218) (183) (59)
Litigation expense, net (33) (14) (302)
Interest expense (310) (422) (498)
Interest income 130 241 274
ARS impairment charge (305) (275) —
Gain on sale of ImClone shares 895 — —
Gain on sale of product lines and businesses 159 273 200
Gain/(loss) on debt buyback and termination of interest rate swap agreements 57 — (220)
Other (9) 76 95
Total Corporate/Other earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest $ (347 ) $ (993 ) $ (1,180 )
Net sales of the Company’s key products were as follows:
Net Sales by Products
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006
Pharmaceuticals
PLAVIX* $ 5,603 $ 4,755 $ 3,257
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 1,290 1,204 1,097
PRAVACHOL 203 443 1,197
REYATAZ 1,292 1,124 931
SUSTIVA Franchise (total revenue) 1,149 956 791
BARACLUDE 541 275 83
ERBITUX* 749 692 652
TAXOL 385 422 563
SPRYCEL 310 158 25
IXEMPRA 101 15 —
ABILIFY* 2,153 1,660 1,282
ORENCIA 441 231 89
Other Pharmaceuticals 3,498 3,687 3,894
Total Pharmaceuticals 17,715 15,622 13,861
Nutritionals
ENFAMIL 1,157 1,082 1,007
Other Nutritionals 1,725 1,489 1,340
Total Nutritionals 2,882 2,571 2,347
Total $ 20,597 $ 18,193 $ 16,208
113Table of Contents
Note 22 SEGMENT INFORMATION (Continued)
Capital Expenditures Depreciation
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
Pharmaceuticals $ 621 $ 639 $ 538 $ 482 $ 430 $ 453
Nutritionals 66 63 65 44 44 41
Total segments 687 702 603 526 474 494
Corporate/Other(1) 80 99 77 36 68 70
Total $ 767 $ 801 $ 680 $ 562 $ 542 $ 564
(1) The Corporate/Other amounts include the activities of the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses, including capital expenditures of $26 million in 2008, $30 million in 2007 and $33 million in 2006 and
depreciation expense of $6 million, in 2008, $28 million in 2007 and $28 million in 2006.
The Company’s selected geographic area information was as follows:
Net Sales Year-End Assets
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007
United States $ 12,042 $ 10,422 $ 8,785 $ 20,034 $ 17,008
Europe, Middle East and Africa 4,514 4,036 3,979 4,592 5,198
Other Western Hemisphere 1,622 1,628 1,517 3,467 2,300
Pacific 2,419 2,107 1,927 1,459 1,420
Total $ 20,597 $ 18,193 $ 16,208 $ 29,552 $ 25,926
Note 23 LEASES
Minimum rental commitments under all non-cancelable operating leases, primarily real estate and motor vehicles, in effect at December 31, 2008, were as follows:
Years Ending December 31, Dollars in Millions
2009 $ 136
2010 110
2011 93
2012 79
2013 73
Later years 183
Total minimum payments 674
Less total minimum sublease rentals 36
Net minimum rental commitments $ 638
Operating lease rental expense was $179 million in 2008, $166 million in 2007 and $149 million in 2006 (net of sublease rental income of $16 million in 2008, $17 million in
2007 and $21 million in 2006).
In February 2008, the Company completed the sale and leaseback of an administrative facility in Paris, France for $227 million (€155 million), resulting in a pre-tax gain
from the transaction of $111 million, of which $102 million was deferred and will reduce future lease rental costs over the lease period of 9 years.
In December 2006, the Company completed the sale and leaseback of several administrative facilities in New Jersey for $283 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain from the
transaction of $154 million, of which $145 million was deferred and will reduce future lease rental costs over the lease periods ranging from 8 to 12 years.
114Table of Contents
Note 24 PENSION, POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT LIABILITIES
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans and termination indemnity plans for regular full-time
employees. The principal pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan in the U.S. which represents approximately 70% of the Company’s total
pension plan assets and obligations. The funding policy is to contribute amounts to provide for current service and to fund past service liability. Plan benefits are
based primarily on the participant’s years of credited service and compensation. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income securities.
The Company also provides comprehensive medical and group life benefits for substantially all U.S. retirees who elect to participate in its comprehensive medical and
group life plans. The medical plan is contributory. Contributions are adjusted periodically and vary by date of retirement and the original retiring Company. The life
insurance plan is noncontributory. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income securities. Similar plans exist for employees in certain countries outside
of the U.S.
The net periodic benefit cost of the Company’s defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans included the following components:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
Service cost — benefits earned during the year $ 227 $ 249 $ 238 $ 7 $ 8 $ 9
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation 389 352 326 38 36 34
Expected return on plan assets (469) (442) (410) (28) (25) (22)
Amortization of prior service cost/(benefit) 10 11 12 (3) (3) (3)
Amortization of net actuarial loss 98 140 166 5 6 4
Amortization of transitional obligation — — 1 — — —
Net periodic benefit cost 255 310 333 19 22 22
Curtailments 1 — — (2) — —
Settlements 36 — — — — —
Special termination benefits 14 3 (1) 2 1 —
Total net periodic benefit cost $ 306 $ 313 $ 332 $ 19 $ 23 $ 22
Total net periodic benefit costs have been recognized as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
Continuing operations $ 275 $ 280 $ 297 $ 19 $ 22 $ 21
Discontinued operations 31 33 35 — 1 1
Total net periodic benefit cost $ 306 $ 313 $ 332 $ 19 $ 23 $ 22
The estimated net actuarial loss and prior service cost that will be amortized from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2009 are:
Other
Dollars in Millions Pension Benefits Benefits
Amortization of net actuarial loss $ 156 $ 11
Amortization of prior service cost/(benefit) 9 (3)
$ 165 $ 8
115Table of Contents
NOTE 24 PENSION, POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT LIABILITIES (Continued)
Changes in benefit obligations, plan assets, funded status and amounts recognized on the balance sheet as of and for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
for the Company’s defined benefit and postretirement benefit plans, were as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007 2008 2007
Benefit obligation at beginning of year $ 6,184 $ 6,186 $ 646 $ 651
Service cost—benefits earned during the year 227 249 8 9
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation 389 352 38 36
Plan participants’ contributions 5 4 22 16
Curtailments and settlements (124) (28) (3) (2)
Actuarial assumptions losses/(gains) 189 (179) (62) 11
Plan amendments and other — 2 — —
Retiree Drug Subsidy received — — 10 5
Benefits paid (622) (496) (87) (87)
Special termination benefits 13 4 2 2
Exchange rate (gains)/losses (193) 90 (5) 5
Benefit obligation at end of year $ 6,068 $ 6,184 $ 569 $ 646
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year $ 6,019 $ 5,658 $ 320 $ 291
Actual return on plan assets (1,451) 458 (91) 29
Employer contribution 426 323 56 66
Plan participants’ contributions 5 4 22 16
Settlements (63) (9) — —
Retiree Drug Subsidy received — — 10 5
Benefits paid (622) (496) (87) (87)
Exchange rate (losses)/gains (162) 81 — —
Fair value of plan assets at end of year $ 4,152 $ 6,019 $ 230 $ 320
Funded status $(1,916) $ (165) $(339) $(326)
Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets consist of:
Other assets $ 26 $ 291 $ — $ —
Accrued expenses (33) (27) (57) (58)
Pension and other postretirement liabilities (accrued benefit cost) (1,909) (429) (282) (268)
Net amount recognized $ (1,916 ) $ (165 ) $ (339 ) $ (326 )
Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss:
Net actuarial loss $ 3,248 $ 1,358 $ 169 $ 117
Net obligation at adoption 2 2 — —
Prior service cost/(benefit) 32 46 (16) (20)
Net amount recognized $ 3,282 $ 1,406 $ 153 $ 97
The impact of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 was $96 million in 2008, $98 million in 2007 and $94 million in 2006 and was
reflected as a reduction in accumulated postretirement benefit obligation.
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $5,418 million and $5,417 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Information related to the Company’s pension plans at December 31 was as follows:
Dollars in Millions 2008 2007
Pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:
Projected benefit obligation $ 5,865 $ 1,376
Fair value of plan assets 3,923 921
Pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets:
Accumulated benefit obligation $ 5,179 $ 352
Fair value of plan assets 3,869 62
116Table of Contents
NOTE 24 PENSION, POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT LIABILITIES (Continued)
Actuarial assumptions
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31 were as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2008 2007 2008 2007
Discount rate 6.33% 6.46% 7.00% 6.46%
Rate of compensation increase 3.63% 3.67% 3.55% 3.60%
Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December 31 were as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
Discount rate 6.47% 5.74% 5.49% 6.46% 5.73% 5.49%
Expected long-term return on plan assets 8.29% 8.30% 8.39% 8.75% 8.75% 8.75%
Rate of compensation increase 3.70% 3.63% 3.60% 3.60% 3.60% 3.61%
The Company uses the yield on high quality corporate bonds that matches the duration of the benefit obligations in determining the discount rate. The Citigroup
Above Median yield curve is used in developing the discount rate for the U.S. plans.
The Company considers several factors in developing the expected return on plan assets, such as its long-term historical returns and input from external advisors.
Individual asset class return forecasts were developed based upon market conditions, for example, price-earnings levels and yields and long-term growth
expectations. The expected long-term rate of return is the weighted-average of target asset allocation of each individual asset class. The long-term expected rate of
return on plan assets for the U.S. plans included an active management premium of approximately 1% over projected market returns received from external advisors.
The Company’s long-term expected annualized returns for U.S. pension plans were as follows:
2008 2007 2006
10 years 3.4% 8.2% 9.3%
15 years 7.1% 10.4% 10.1%
20 years 8.3% 10.6% 10.5%
The expected return on plan assets was determined using the expected rate of return and a calculated value of assets, referred to as the “market-related value.” The
market-related value exceeds the fair value of plan assets by approximately $1.1 billion at December 31, 2008 and was less than the fair value of plan assets by
approximately $100 million at December 31, 2007. The change was primarily driven by the significant losses incurred on plan assets in 2008 due to current market
conditions. Differences between the assumed and actual returns are amortized to the market-related value on a straight-line basis over a three year period.
Gains and losses have resulted from changes in actuarial assumptions (such as changes in the discount rate) and from differences between assumed and actual
experience (such as differences between actual and assumed returns on plan assets). These gains and losses (except those differences being amortized to the market-
related value) are only amortized to the extent they exceed 10% of the higher of the market-related value or the projected benefit obligation for each respective plan.
As a result, approximately $1.7 billion related to pension benefits is not expected to be amortized during 2009. The remaining actuarial losses are amortized over the
expected remaining service periods of active participants.
Assumed health care cost trend rates at December 31 were as follows:
2008 2007 2006
Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year 8.91% 9.37% 9.87%
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate) 4.52% 4.49% 4.49%
Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2017 2018 2018
Assumed health care cost trend rates have an effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost
trend rates would have the following effects:
1-Percentage- 1-Percentage-
Dollars in Millions Point Increase Point Decrease
Effect on total of service and interest cost $ 5 $ (2)
Effect on postretirement benefit obligation 39 (25)
117Table of Contents
NOTE 24 PENSION, POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT LIABILITIES (Continued)
Plan assets
The Company’s asset allocation at December 31 was as follows:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
2008 2007 2008 2007
Publicly traded equity securities 59% 65% 63% 67%
Debt securities (including cash) 30% 27% 23% 24%
Private equity 10% 7% 13% 9%
Other 1% 1% 1% —
Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 %
The Company’s investment strategy emphasizes equities in order to achieve high expected returns and, in the long run, low expense and low required cash
contributions. For the U.S. pension plans, a target asset allocation of 70% public equity (58% U.S., 12% international), 8% private equity and 22% fixed income is
maintained and cash flow (i.e., cash contributions, benefit payments) is used to rebalance back to the targets as necessary. Investments are well diversified within
each of the three major asset categories. Approximately 83% of the U.S. equity investments are actively managed. Investment strategies for international pension
plans are typically similar, although the asset allocations are usually more conservative.
Private equity is valued on a three month lag. Bristol–Myers Squibb Company common stock represents less than 1% of the plan assets at December 31, 2008 and
2007.
Contributions
Contributions to the U.S. pension plans were $250 million in 2008, $238 million in 2007 and $235 million in 2006. Contributions to the U.S. pension plans are expected to
be approximately $550 million during 2009, of which $400 million was contributed in January 2009.
Contributions to the international pension plans were $176 million in 2008, $85 million in 2007 and $90 million in 2006. Contributions to the international plans are
expected to be in the range of $120 million to $140 million in 2009.
Estimated Future Benefit Payments
The following benefit payments for mainly the U.S. pension plans, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid:
Other Benefits
Pension Medicare
Dollars in Millions Benefits Gross Subsidy Net
2009 $ 359 $ 67 $ 9 $ 58
2010 371 68 10 58
2011 394 68 11 57
2012 423 67 11 56
2013 443 66 12 54
Years 2014 – 2018 2,543 308 56 252
118Table of Contents
NOTE 24 PENSION, POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT LIABILITIES (Continued)
Adoption of SFAS No. 158
The Company adopted SFAS No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements
No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R), in the year ended December 31, 2006, resulting in a $1,064 million reduction of accumulated OCI in stockholders’ equity, a $767 million
reduction in total assets and a $297 million increase in total liabilities. The impact of the adoption in 2006 is summarized as follows:
SFAS No. 158 Adjustments
Pre-SFAS Post-SFAS
Dollars in Millions No. 158 Pre-tax Tax Net No. 158
Current assets:
Deferred income taxes $ 573 $ — $ 76 $ 76 $ 649
Non-current assets:
Deferred income taxes 2,139 — 438 438 2,577
Prepaid pension 1,324 (1,324) — (1,324) —
Other assets 299 43 — 43 342
Current liabilities:
Accrued expenses 2,251 81 — 81 2,332
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 445 — (1) (1) 444
Non-current liabilities:
Other liabilities 327 269 (52) 217 544
Stockholders’ equity:
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (581) (1,631) 567 (1,064) (1,645)
Savings Plan
The principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings and Investment Program. The Company’s contribution is based on employee
contributions and the level of Company match. The Company’s contributions to the plan were $58 million in 2008, $60 million in 2007 and $56 million in 2006.
Post Employment Benefit Plan
The Company offers long-term disability benefits to certain employees. These post employment liabilities were $94 million and $87 million at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively. The expense related to these benefits was $26 million in 2008, $17 million in 2007 and $25 million in 2006.
Termination Indemnity Plans
The Company operates in certain jurisdictions, primarily in Europe, which require the recording of statutory termination obligations. These obligations are recognized
on an undiscounted basis assuming employee termination at each measurement date. The total pension liability recorded for these obligations was $62 million at
December 31, 2008 and $70 million at December 31, 2007.
Note 25 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES
Various lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations are pending involving the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In accordance with SFAS No. 5,
Accounting for Contingencies, the Company records accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can
be reasonably estimated. These matters involve antitrust, securities, patent infringement, pricing, sales and marketing practices, environmental, health and safety
matters, consumer fraud, employment matters, product liability and insurance coverage. Significant litigation charges were $33 million in 2008, $14 million in 2007 and
$302 million in 2006, net of revised estimates to previously accrued amounts. Cash payments related to significant litigation were $210 million in 2008, $318 million in
2007 and $272 million in 2006. The most significant of these matters are described below.
There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in the scope of pending matters or that any future lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations will not
be material.
119Table of Contents
NOTE 25 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
PLAVIX* Litigation
PLAVIX* is currently the Company’s largest product ranked by net sales. The PLAVIX* patents are subject to a number of challenges in the U.S., including the
litigation with Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (Apotex) described below, and in other less significant markets for the product. It is not possible reasonably to estimate
the impact of these lawsuits on the Company. However, loss of market exclusivity of PLAVIX* and sustained generic competition in the U.S. would be material to the
Company’s sales of PLAVIX*, results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to the Company’s financial condition and liquidity. The Company and its
product partner, Sanofi, (the Companies) intend to vigorously pursue enforcement of their patent rights in PLAVIX*.
PLAVIX* Litigation – U.S.
Patent Infringement Litigation against Apotex and Related Matters
As previously disclosed, the Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is a plaintiff in a pending patent infringement lawsuit instituted in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (District Court) entitled Sanofi-Synthelabo, Sanofi-Synthelabo, Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb
Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership v. Apotex. The suit is based on U.S. Patent No. 4,847,265 (the ‘265 Patent), a composition of matter patent, which
discloses and claims, among other things, the hydrogen sulfate salt of clopidogrel, a medicine made available in the U.S. by the Companies as PLAVIX*. Also, as
previously reported, the District Court has upheld the validity and enforceability of the ‘265 Patent, maintaining the main patent protection for PLAVIX* in the U.S.
until November 2011. The District Court also ruled that Apotex’s generic clopidogrel bisulfate product infringed the ‘265 Patent and permanently enjoined Apotex
from engaging in any activity that infringes the ‘265 Patent, including marketing its generic product in the U.S. until after the patent expires.
Apotex appealed the District Court’s decision and on December 12, 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Circuit Court) affirmed the
District Court’s ruling sustaining the validity of the ‘265 patent. Apotex has filed a petition with the Circuit Court for a rehearing en banc, which petition is pending.
The District Court has stayed certain antitrust counterclaims brought by Apotex pending the final outcome of the appeal.
As previously disclosed, the Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is also a plaintiff in five additional pending patent infringement
lawsuits against Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc. and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, LTD (Dr. Reddy’s), Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva), Cobalt Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (Cobalt), Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Watson Laboratories, Inc. (Watson) and Sun Pharmaceuticals (Sun). The lawsuits against Dr. Reddy’s, Teva and
Cobalt relate to the ‘265 Patent. A trial date for the action against Dr. Reddy’s has not been set. On January 24, 2008, the court entered an order that requires
Dr. Reddy’s to give the Company 10 business days notice of its intent to launch. The patent infringement actions against Teva and Cobalt were stayed pending
resolution of the Apotex litigation, and the parties to those actions agreed to be bound by the outcome of the litigation against Apotex, although Teva and Cobalt
can appeal the outcome of the litigation. Consequently, on July 12, 2007, the District Court entered judgments against Cobalt and Teva and permanently enjoined
Cobalt and Teva from engaging in any activity that infringes the ‘265 Patent until after the Patent expires. Cobalt and Teva have each filed an appeal. The lawsuit
against Watson, filed in October 2004, is based on U.S. Patent No. 6,429,210 (the ‘210 Patent), which discloses and claims a particular crystalline or polymorph form of
the hydrogen sulfate salt of clopidogrel, which is marketed as PLAVIX*. In December 2005, the court permitted Watson to pursue its declaratory judgment
counterclaim with respect to U.S. Patent No. 6,504,030. In January 2006, the Court approved the parties’ stipulation to stay this case pending the outcome of the trial
in the Apotex matter. In April 2007, Pharmastar filed a request for inter partes reexamination of the ‘210 Patent. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office granted this
request in July of 2007. Thus, the ‘210 Patent is currently under reexamination. The lawsuit against Sun, filed on July 11, 2008, is based on infringement of the ‘265
patent and the ‘210 Patent. With respect to the ‘265 Patent, Sun has agreed to be bound by the outcome of the Apotex litigation, although Sun, like Teva and Cobalt,
can appeal the outcome of the litigation. Each of Dr. Reddy’s, Teva, Cobalt, Watson and Sun have filed an aNDA with the FDA, and all exclusivity periods and
statutory stay periods under the Hatch-Waxman Act have expired. Accordingly, final approval by the FDA would provide each company authorization to distribute a
generic clopidogrel bisulfate product in the U.S., subject to various legal remedies for which the Companies may apply including injunctive relief and damages.
As previously disclosed, in March 2007, the Company was served with a Civil Investigative Demand by the FTC requesting documents and information related to the
proposed settlement. The Company and the FTC are currently in discussions regarding potential resolution of this matter. In addition, as previously disclosed, in
April 2007, the Company received a subpoena from the New York State Attorney General’s Office — Antitrust Bureau (NYAG) for documents related to the proposed
settlement. On December 22, 2008, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with the NYAG on behalf of all states pursuant to which the Company agreed to
pay $1.1 million to resolve the states’ claims.
120Table of Contents
NOTE 25 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcomes of the appeal by Apotex of the Circuit court’s decision, or the other PLAVIX* patent litigations or
the timing of any renewed generic competition for PLAVIX* from Apotex or additional generic competition for PLAVIX* from other third-party generic
pharmaceutical companies. However, if Apotex were to prevail in an appeal of the patent litigation, the Company would expect to face renewed generic competition
for PLAVIX* promptly thereafter. Loss of market exclusivity for PLAVIX* and/or sustained generic competition would be material to the Company’s sales of
PLAVIX*, results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to the Company’s financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, it is not possible at this time
reasonably to assess the amount of damages that could be recovered by the Company and Apotex’s ability to pay such damages in the event the Company prevails
in Apotex’s appeal of the District court decision.
Additionally, on November 13, 2008, Apotex filed the lawsuit in New Jersey Superior Court entitled Apotex Inc., et al. v. Sanofi-Aventis, et al., seeking payment of $60
million, plus interest, related to the break-up of the proposed settlement agreement. On December 31, 2008, the defendants removed the case to the Federal District
Court for New Jersey. Apotex has moved to remand the case back to state court.
PLAVIX* Litigation – International
PLAVIX* – Canada (Apotex, Inc.)
As previously disclosed, Sanofi-Synthelabo and Sanofi-Synthelabo Canada Inc. instituted a prohibition action in the Federal Court of Canada against Apotex and the
Minister of Health in response to a Notice of Allegation (NOA) from Apotex directed against Canadian Patent No. 1,336,777 (the ‘777 Patent) covering clopidogrel
bisulfate. Apotex’s NOA indicated that it had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Submission (ANDS) for clopidogrel bisulfate tablets and that it sought approval (a
Notice of Compliance) of that ANDS before the expiration of the ‘777 Patent, which is scheduled for August 12, 2012. Apotex’s NOA further alleged that the ‘777
Patent was invalid or not infringed. In March 2005, the Canadian Federal Court of Ottawa rejected Apotex’s challenge to the Canadian PLAVIX* patent and held that
the asserted claims are novel, not obvious and infringed, and granted Sanofi’s application for an order of prohibition against the Minister of Health and Apotex. That
order of prohibition precludes approval of Apotex’s ANDS until the patent expires in 2012, unless the Federal Court’s decision is reversed on appeal. Apotex filed an
appeal and in December 2006, the Federal Court of Appeal dismissed Apotex’s appeal and upheld the Federal Court’s issuance of the order of prohibition. In
February 2007, Apotex filed leave to appeal this decision to the Supreme Court of Canada, which was granted in July 2007. BIOTECanada, the Canadian Generic
Pharmaceutical Association and Canada’s Research-Based Pharmaceutical Companies were granted leave to intervene. On November 6, 2008, the Supreme Court of
Canada dismissed Apotex’s appeal of the Federal Court of Appeal decision and upheld the validity of the ‘777 Patent and the order of prohibition.
Also, as previously disclosed, in April 2007, Apotex filed a lawsuit in Canada in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice entitled Apotex Inc., et al. v. Sanofi-Aventis, et
al., seeking a payment of $60 million, plus interest, related to the break-up of the proposed settlement agreement. In January 2008, the Court granted defendants’
motions to dismiss on the grounds of forum non conveniens and subject matter jurisdiction. Apotex appealed the decision to the Court of Appeal for Ontario. On
October 10, 2008, the Court of Appeal dismissed the lawsuit. Apotex did not appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada. Instead, on November 13, 2008, Apotex filed the
lawsuit in New Jersey Superior Court described above.
PLAVIX* – Canada (Cobalt)
As previously disclosed, Sanofi and Sanofi-Synthelabo Canada instituted a prohibition action in the Federal Court of Canada against Cobalt and the Minister of
Health in response to a NOA from Cobalt directed against the ‘777 Patent and Canadian Patent No. 2,334,870 (the ‘870 Patent). Cobalt’s NOA indicated that it has
filed an ANDS for clopidogrel bisulfate tablets and that it sought a Notice of Compliance for that ANDS before the expiration of the ‘777 and ‘870 Patents. Cobalt
alleged that the ‘777 Patent was invalid and that the ‘870 Patent was invalid and not infringed. Following the Supreme Court of Canada decision in Apotex Inc. v.
Sanofi-Synthelabo Canada Inc., 2008 SCC 61, dismissing Apotex’s appeal and upholding the validity of the ’777 Patent as described above, the Federal Court of
Canada granted Sanofi’s application for an order of prohibition against the Minister of Health and Cobalt precluding approval of Cobalt’s ANDS until the ’777 Patent
expires in 2012. Sanofi did not pursue the prohibition action with respect to the ’870 Patent.
PLAVIX* – Korea
As previously disclosed, in June 2006, the Korean Intellectual Property Tribunal (KIPT) invalidated all claims of Sanofi’s Korean Patent No. 103,094, including claims
directed to clopidogrel and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and to clopidogrel bisulfate, and Sanofi appealed. In January 2008, the Patent Court affirmed the KIPT
decision. The Company and Sanofi have filed an appeal to the Supreme Court of Korea. Sanofi has also commenced infringement actions against generic
pharmaceutical companies, which have launched generic clopidogrel bisulfate, or received approval for alternate salt forms of clopidogrel, in Korea. It is not possible
at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these lawsuits or the impact on the Company.
121Table of Contents
NOTE 25 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
PLAVIX* – Australia
As previously disclosed, Sanofi was notified that, in August 2007, GenRx Proprietary Limited (GenRx) obtained regulatory approval of an application for clopidogrel
bisulfate 75mg tablets in Australia. GenRx, formerly a subsidiary of Apotex, has since changed its name to Apotex. In August 2007, Apotex filed an application in the
Federal Court of Australia seeking revocation of Sanofi’s Australian Patent No. 597784 (Case No. NSD 1639 of 2007). Sanofi filed counterclaims of infringement and
sought an injunction. On September 21, 2007, the Australian court granted Sanofi’s injunction. A subsidiary of the Company was subsequently added as a party to
the proceedings. In February 2008, a second company, Spirit Pharmaceuticals Pty. Ltd., also filed a revocation suit against the same patent. This case was
consolidated with the Apotex case and a trial occurred in April. On August 12, 2008, the Federal Court of Australia held that claims of Patent No. 597784 covering
clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, and taurocholate salts are valid. The Federal Court also held that the process claims, pharmaceutical composition
claims, and claim directed to clopidogrel and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts are invalid. In view of this decision, it is possible a generic company could develop
and seek registration in Australia for an alternate salt form of clopidogrel (other than bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, or taurocholate). The Company and
Sanofi filed notices of appeal in the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia appealing the holding of invalidity of the claim covering clopidogrel and its
pharmaceutically acceptable salts, process claims, and pharmaceutical composition claims which have stayed the Federal Court’s ruling. Apotex filed a notice of
appeal appealing the holding of validity of the clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, and taurocholate claims. A hearing on the appeals occurred in
February 2009 and a decision is pending.
PLAVIX* – Germany
As previously disclosed, in 2007, YES Pharmaceutical Development Services GmbH (YES Pharmaceutical) filed an application for marketing authorization in Germany
for an alternate salt form of clopidogrel. This application relied on data from studies that were originally conducted by Sanofi and BMS for PLAVIX*. In May 2008,
the German health authority (Bfarm) granted marketing authorization to the YES Pharmaceutical product. Data protection for PLAVIX* did not expire until July 2008.
Sanofi and BMS filed an objection to the grant of the marketing authorization on the grounds that their data exclusivity rights had been infringed. YES Pharmaceutical
and its partners sought immediate enforcement of the marketing authorization, which was denied by Bfarm. YES Pharmaceutical and its partners then filed a legal
motion for immediate enforcement before the administrative court, which was granted. YES Pharmaceutical’s partners, Hexal and Ratiopharm, began and continue to
market the product in Germany. Sanofi and BMS appealed the decision of the administrative court, but this appeal has been rejected by the administrative appeal
court. The third- party objection before Bfarm was dismissed by Bfarm. Sanofi and BMS have appealed this decision to the administrative court in Cologne. This
matter is currently pending. YES Pharmaceutical and its partners have announced that they plan to seek marketing authorization in other EU countries in addition to
Germany. Also, the Company believes that other companies have filed for approvals in the EU of a clopidogrel containing product. These applications are pending.
OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LITIGATION
ABILIFY*
As previously disclosed, Otsuka has filed patent infringement actions against Teva, Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Barr), Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz), Synthon Laboratories,
Inc (Synthon), Sun Pharmaceuticals (Sun) and Apotex relating to U.S. Patent No. 5,006,528, which covers aripiprazole and expires in October 2014. Aripiprazole is
comarketed by the Company and Otsuka in the U.S. as ABILIFY*. The lawsuits are currently pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey.
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company.
ERBITUX*
As previously disclosed, in February 2007, Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) filed suit against ImClone in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts
alleging that ImClone’s manufacture and sale of ERBITUX* infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,665,578 (the ‘578 Patent), and seeking damages for that alleged infringement.
Pursuant to settlement and sublicensing agreements executed by ImClone and Repligen Corporation (Repligen) announced on September 10, 2007, Repligen granted
ImClone a royalty-free, irrevocable worldwide sublicense for the future use of other patented technology, including the ‘578 Patent, owned by Abbott and licensed to
Repligen under an agreement between Abbott and Repligen. On September 23, 2008, ImClone and Abbott executed a written settlement agreement ending the
litigation pending between the parties. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, ImClone paid Abbott $17.5 million for full and final settlement of all claims and
counterclaims. The Company’s commercial agreements with ImClone include provisions pursuant to which certain financial consequences to the Company resulting
from the settlement and sublicensing agreements would be the responsibility of ImClone.
122Table of Contents
NOTE 25 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
It is not possible at this time to assess the outcome of this lawsuit or the potential impact on the Company.
ENFAMIL
On September 15, 2008, the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary Mead Johnson & Co. filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Abbott Laboratories and
Abbott Nutrition (Abbott) in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana for infringement of its U.S. Patent No. 7,040,500. The companies allege that
Abbott’s sale of certain cans of SIMILAC* infant formula powder infringes the ‘500 patent. In February 2009, the companies entered into a settlement agreement
resolving this matter.
GENERAL COMMERCIAL LITIGATION
Clayworth Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, was named as a defendant in an action filed in California State
Superior Court in Oakland, James Clayworth et al. v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, et al., alleging that the defendants conspired to fix the prices of
pharmaceuticals by agreeing to charge more for their drugs in the U.S. than they charge outside the U.S., particularly Canada, and asserting claims under California’s
Cartwright Act and unfair competition law. The plaintiffs sought trebled monetary damages, injunctive relief and other relief. In December 2006, the Court granted the
Company and the other manufacturers’ motion for summary judgment based on the pass-on defense, and judgment was then entered in favor of defendants. In July
2008, judgment in favor of defendants was affirmed by the California Court of Appeals. In November 2008, the California Supreme Court granted the plaintiffs’ petition
for review. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of this lawsuit or its impact on the Company in the event plaintiffs are successful on
appeal.
RxUSA Wholesale Litigation
As previously disclosed, in July 2006, a complaint was filed by drug wholesaler RxUSA Wholesale, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York
against the Company, 15 other drug manufacturers, five drug wholesalers, two officers of defendant McKesson and a wholesale distribution industry trade group,
RxUSA Wholesale, Inc. v. Alcon Labs., Inc., et al. The complaint alleges violations of Federal and New York antitrust laws, as well as various other laws. Plaintiff
claims that defendants allegedly engaged in anti-competitive acts that resulted in the exclusion of plaintiff from the relevant market and seeks $586 million in damages
before any trebling, and other relief. The Company, together with the other manufacturer defendants, filed a motion to dismiss the case in November 2006. That
motion remains pending before the Court. It is not possible at this time reasonably to estimate the outcome of this lawsuit or the impact on the Company.
ANTITRUST LITIGATION
As previously disclosed, 18 lawsuits comprised of both individual suits and purported class actions have been filed against the Company in U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Ohio, Western Division, by various plaintiffs, including pharmacy chains (individually and as assignees, in whole or in part, of certain
wholesalers), various health and welfare benefit plans/funds and individual residents of various states. These lawsuits allege, among other things, that the purported
settlement with Apotex of the patent infringement litigation violated the Sherman Act and related laws. Plaintiffs are seeking, among other things, permanent
injunctive relief barring the Apotex settlement and/or monetary damages. The putative class actions filed on behalf of direct purchasers have been consolidated
under the caption In re: Plavix Direct Purchaser Antitrust Litigation, and the putative class actions filed on behalf of indirect purchasers have been consolidated
under the caption In re: Plavix Indirect Purchaser Antitrust Litigation. Amended complaints were filed on October 19, 2007. Defendants filed a consolidated motion
to dismiss on December 11, 2007, which remains pending. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the
Company.
SHAREHOLDER DERIVATIVE ACTIONS
As previously disclosed, on July 31, 2007, certain members of the Board of Directors, current and former officers and the Company were named in two derivative
actions filed in the New York State Supreme Court, John Frank v. Peter Dolan, et al. (07-602580) and Donald Beebout v. Peter Dolan, et al. (07-602579), and one
derivative action filed in the federal district court, Steven W. Sampson v. James D. Robinson, III, et al. (07-CV-6890). The complaints allege breaches of fiduciary
duties for allegedly failing to disclose material information relating to efforts to settle the PLAVIX* patent infringement litigation with Apotex. Plaintiffs seek
monetary damages on behalf of the Company, contribution and indemnification. By decision filed on December 13, 2007, the state court granted motions to dismiss
the complaints, Frank and Beebout, relating to certain members of the Board of Directors, but did not
123Table of Contents
NOTE 25 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
dismiss the complaints as to the former officers. By decision dated August 20, 2008, the federal district court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss the Sampson
action. Plaintiffs have appealed the district court’s decision to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which is pending.
SECURITIES LITIGATION
In Re Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. Securities Litigation
As previously disclosed, in June and July 2007, two putative class action complaints, Minneapolis Firefighters’ Relief Assoc. v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., et al. (07
CV 5867) and Jean Lai v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, et al., were filed in the U.S. District for the Southern District of New York against the Company, the
Company’s former Chief Executive Officer, Peter Dolan and former Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Bonfield. The complaints allege violations of securities laws for
allegedly failing to disclose material information relating to efforts to settle the PLAVIX* patent infringement litigation with Apotex. On September 20, 2007, the Court
dismissed the Lai case without prejudice, changed the caption of the case to In re Bristol-Myers Squibb, Co. Securities Litigation, and appointed Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan Board as lead plaintiff. On October 15, 2007, Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board filed an amended complaint making similar allegations as the earlier
filed complaints, naming an additional former officer but no longer naming Andrew Bonfield as a defendant. By decision dated August 20, 2008, the federal district
court denied defendants’ motions to dismiss.
The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this litigation. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits, or the potential
impact on the Company.
PRICING, SALES AND PROMOTIONAL PRACTICES LITIGATION AND INVESTIGATIONS
AWP Litigation
As previously disclosed, the Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, is a defendant in a number of private class actions as well as
suits brought by the attorneys general of various states. In these actions, plaintiffs allege that defendants caused the Average Wholesale Prices (AWPs) of their
products to be inflated, thereby injuring government programs, entities and persons who reimbursed prescription drugs based on AWPs. The Company remains a
defendant in five state attorneys’ general suits pending in federal and state courts around the country.
As previously reported, one set of class actions, together with a suit by the Arizona attorney general, have been consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the
District of Massachusetts (AWP MDL). The Court in the AWP MDL has certified three classes of persons and entities who paid for or reimbursed for seven of the
Company’s physician-administered drugs. In June 2007, the Company settled in principle the claims of Class 1 (Medicare Part B beneficiaries nationwide) for $13
million, plus half the costs of class notice up to a maximum payment of $1 million and the parties are finalizing the terms of the settlement. A hearing will be scheduled
for preliminary approval of the Class 1 settlement. In June 2007, in a non-jury trial in the AWP MDL, the Court found the Company liable for violations of
Massachusetts’ consumer protection laws with respect to certain oncology drugs for certain years and awarded damages in the amount of $183 thousand plus
interest for Class 3 (private third-party payors) and instructed the parties to apply the Court’s opinion to determine damages for Class 2 (Medigap insurers). In
August, 2007, the Court found damages of $187 thousand plus interest for Class 2. The Company has appealed the June 2007 decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the First Circuit and oral arguments were heard on November 4, 2008. In September 2008, the Court in the AWP MDL issued an order certifying multi-state classes
for Class 2 and Class 3.
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the litigation matters described above, or their potential impact on the Company.
California 340B Litigation
As previously disclosed, in August 2005, the County of Santa Clara filed a purported class action against the Company and numerous other pharmaceutical
manufacturers on behalf of itself and a putative class of other cities and counties in California, as well as the covered entities that purchased drugs pursuant to the
340B drug discount program. In July 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California dismissed the lawsuit with prejudice for failure to state a claim
and plaintiff appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. In September 2008, the Ninth Circuit reversed the District Court’s dismissal and reinstated the
lawsuit.
It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this lawsuit, or its potential impact on the Company.
124Table of Contents
NOTE 25 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
PRODUCT LIABILITY LITIGATION
The Company is a party to various product liability lawsuits. In addition to lawsuits, the Company also faces unfiled claims involving other products. At this time, the
Company does not believe that any of the on-going lawsuits will likely result in a material effect on the Company’s financial results or operations. However, the
Company is also aware of potential unfiled claims. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of any additional lawsuits that might be filed or
their potential impact on the Company.
The Company and certain affiliates of Sanofi are defendants in a number of individual lawsuits claiming personal injury allegedly sustained after using PLAVIX*,
most of which appear before the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey (NJ District Court). The NJ District Court ordered an administrative
termination of these cases pending resolution of potentially related issues before the United State Supreme Court in cases involving prescription drugs and
preemption. The defendants have executed tolling agreements with respect to unfiled claims by potential additional plaintiffs. It is not possible at this time to
reasonably asses the outcomes of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS
As previously reported, the Company is a party to several environmental proceedings and other matters, and is responsible under various state, Federal and foreign
laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, (CERCLA), for certain costs of investigating and/or remediating
contamination resulting from past industrial activity at the Company’s current or former sites or at waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties.
CERCLA Matters
With respect to CERCLA matters for which the Company is responsible under various state, Federal and foreign laws, the Company typically estimates potential
costs based on information obtained from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or counterpart state agency and/or studies prepared by independent
consultants, including the total estimated costs for the site and the expected cost-sharing, if any, with other “potentially responsible parties”, and the Company
accrues liabilities when they are probable and reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2008, the Company estimated its share of the total future costs for these sites
to be approximately $62 million, recorded as other liabilities, which represents the sum of best estimates or, where no simple estimate can reasonably be made,
estimates of the minimal probable amount among a range of such costs (without taking into account any potential recoveries from other parties, which are not
currently expected).
Passaic River (NJ) Remediation and Natural Resource Damages Claims
As previously disclosed, in September 2003, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) issued an administrative enforcement Directive
requiring the Company and other companies to perform an assessment of natural resource damages and to implement unspecified interim remedial measures to restore
conditions in the Lower Passaic River (LPR). The Directive named the Company due to releases from a nearby bulk chemical reprocessing facility operated by a
predecessor of McKesson Corp. Subsequently, the EPA issued notice letters to numerous parties, but not the Company, requesting performance of a Remedial
Investigation/Feasibility Study (RI/FS) of conditions in the LPR. Under a consent agreement with EPA in 2004, a group of these other parties committed to pay
roughly half of the $20 million estimated for the RI/FS by EPA at that time. The EPA thereafter substantially increased its estimate of the scope and cost of the RI/FS
and, as a result, the EPA agreed to allow the group to perform most of the remaining RI/FS tasks. By the group’s estimate, total costs to complete the RI/FS and
related tasks now exceed $50 million. The group has negotiated an amended consent agreement with the EPA to conduct the remaining RI/FS work, which became
effective in May 2007. As part of that process, the Company and McKesson have bought out of remaining RI/FS tasks.
Separately, the Company has agreed to pay approximately $110 thousand towards RI/FS tasks previously funded by McKesson and work cooperatively going
forward, subject to later reallocation. In mid-2007 the EPA announced plans to seek implementation of “early-action” remedial measures to address the most highly-
contaminated portions of the LPR while the RI/FS is being completed. The EPA has indicated it expects to select any such actions early in 2009. Also, a sub-group of
the cooperating private parties have commenced discussions with federal natural resource trustee agencies concerning an agreement to assess natural resource
damages in the LPR. Those discussions are expected to continue until mid-2009. The remaining parties, including the Company and McKesson, have declined to
discuss the proposal at least until the scope and cost of the “early-actions” sought by the EPA are most thoroughly understood. The extent of any liability the
Company may face for these and related requirements cannot yet be determined.
North Brunswick Township Board of Education
As previously disclosed, in October 2003, the Company was contacted by counsel representing the North Brunswick, NJ Board of Education (BOE) regarding a site
where waste materials from E.R. Squibb and Sons may have been disposed from the 1940’s through the 1960’s. Fill material containing industrial waste and heavy
metals in excess of residential standards was discovered during an
125Table of Contents
NOTE 25 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
expansion project at the North Brunswick Township High School, as well as at a number of neighboring residential properties and adjacent public park areas. In
January 2004, the NJDEP sent the Company and others an information request letter about possible waste disposal at the site, to which the Company responded in
March 2004. The BOE and the Township, as the current owners of the school property and the park, are conducting and jointly financing soil remediation work and
ground water investigation work under a work plan approved by NJDEP, and has asked the Company to contribute to the cost. The Company is actively monitoring
the clean-up project, including its costs. To date, neither the school board nor the Township has asserted any claim against the Company. Instead, the Company and
the local entities have negotiated an agreement to attempt to resolve the matter by informal means, including mediation and binding allocation as necessary. A central
component of the agreement is provision by the Company of interim funding to help defray cleanup costs and assure the work is not interrupted; the Company
transmitted an initial interim funding payment in December 2007. The parties have since commenced mediation activities, which are expected to conclude by mid-2009.
ODS Regulatory Compliance
As previously disclosed, the EPA was investigating industrial and commercial facilities throughout the U.S. that use refrigeration equipment containing ozone-
depleting substances (ODS) and enforcing compliance with regulations governing the prevention, service and repair of leaks (ODS requirements). In 2004, the
Company performed a voluntary corporate-wide audit at its facilities in the U.S. and Puerto Rico that use ODS-containing refrigeration equipment. The Company
submitted an audit report to the EPA in November 2004, identifying potential violations of the ODS requirements at several of its facilities. In addition to the matters
covered in the Company’s audit report letter to the EPA, the EPA previously sent Mead Johnson a request for information regarding compliance with ODS
requirements at its facility in Evansville, Indiana. The Company responded to the request in June 2004, and, as a result, identified potential violations at the Evansville
facility. The Company has signed a Consent Decree with the EPA to resolve both the potential violations discovered during the audit and those identified as a result
of the EPA request for information to the Evansville facility, which was filed in the Evansville Division of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana
on July 8, 2008. The Consent Decree requires the Company to pay a civil penalty of $127 thousand and to retire, retrofit or replace 17 ODS-containing refrigeration
units by June 2009 located at facilities in New Jersey, Indiana, and Puerto Rico. The Consent Decree also requires the Company to spend at least $2,225 thousand on
a Supplemental Environmental Project, which consists of the removal of two ODS-containing comfort cooling devices at the New Brunswick, NJ facility and the tie in
of their functions to a new centralized chiller system that does not use ODS as a refrigerant. The Consent Decree has not yet been entered by the court.
New Brunswick Facility – Environmental & Personal Injury Lawsuits
As previously disclosed, in May 2008, approximately 100 lawsuits were filed against the Company in Superior Court, Middlesex County, NJ, by or on behalf of current
and former residents of New Brunswick, NJ who live adjacent to the Company’s New Brunswick facility. The complaints allege various personal injuries and property
damage resulting from soil and groundwater contamination on their property stemming from historical operations at the New Brunswick facility. The complaints also
allege that BMS has failed to remediate contamination at the New Brunswick facility in compliance with state and federal cleanup requirements. The New Brunswick
facility is already undergoing environmental remediation as part of a New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) approved cleanup plan. In addition
to the lawsuits, the plaintiffs filed a notice seeking relief under the NJ Environmental Rights Act. In October 2008, the New Jersey Supreme Court granted Mass Tort
status to these cases and transferred them to the New Jersey Superior Court in Atlantic County for centralized case management purposes. The Company has filed
motions to dismiss these lawsuits, some of which were denied with leave to refile them after discovery has been taken, while others are still pending before the court.
The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this litigation. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits, or the potential
impact on the Company.
WAGE & HOUR LITIGATION
As previously disclosed, a putative class action complaint was filed against the Company by former sales representatives. In Beth Amendola v. Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company, et al. (Docket No. 07-CV-6088), filed in June 2007 in the District court, the plaintiff alleges that the Company violated the federal Fair Labor Standards Act
by, among other things, not paying overtime compensation to her and a putative class of similarly situated sales employees. On June 5, 2008 the Court issued a
decision that renders the case a nonclass action lawsuit. The Company settled the lawsuit with the individual plaintiffs. This settlement agreement is not material to
the Company and concludes the lawsuit.
126Table of Contents
NOTE 25 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)
OTHER PROCEEDINGS
SEC Germany Investigation
As previously disclosed, in October 2004, the SEC notified the Company that it is conducting an informal inquiry into the activities of certain of the Company’s
German pharmaceutical subsidiaries and its employees and/or agents. On October 4, 2006, the SEC informed the Company that its inquiry is now formal. The SEC’s
inquiry encompasses matters currently under investigation by the German prosecutor in Munich, Germany. The Company understands the inquiry and investigation
concern potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and German law, respectively. The Company is cooperating with both the SEC and the German
authorities. The Company has established an accrual with respect to the investigation by the German prosecutor. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess
the outcome of these investigations or their impact on the Company.
ConvaTec – Italy Investigation
As previously reported, the Italian competition authorities investigated a complaint lodged by a hospital in the Ferrara region of Italy relating to an allegation that
four medical device companies, including ConvaTec, boycotted tenders in 2003 and 2004, (the Ferrara tenders). In May 2007, ConvaTec received a statement of
objections from the Italian competition authorities, whereby the authorities alleged that four medical device companies, including ConvaTec, acted in a concerted
manner with regard not only to the Ferrara tenders, but tenders or pricing discussions in three other regions and acted in such a way to prevent competition
throughout Italy. In August 2007, the competition authorities issued their decision, and found that the four medical device companies had infringed Italian anti-trust
law by not participating in the Ferrara tenders, and imposed a fine against ConvaTec in an amount that is not material to the Company. (As ConvaTec was a division
of BMS Italy prior to its divestiture, the fine was imposed against BMS Italy). ConvaTec appealed the decision to the Administrative Court and the fine imposed
against ConvaTec was later reduced. The Company has further appealed the decision to the High Court of Second Instance (Consiglio di Stato) and a hearing
occurred on February 17, 2009.
127Table of Contents
Note 26 SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
Dollars in Millions, except per share data First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
2008:
Net Sales $ 4,891 $ 5,203 $ 5,254 $ 5,249 $ 20,597
Gross Margin 3,321 3,533 3,620 3,727 14,201
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations 647 722 588 1,198 3,155
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net 14 42 1,990 46 2,092
Net Earnings 661 764 2,578 1,244 5,247
Earnings per Common Share(1):
Basic:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 0.32 $ 0.37 $ 0.30 $ 0.61 $ 1.60
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net 0.01 0.02 1.00 0.02 1.05
Net Earnings per common share $ 0.33 $ 0.39 $ 1.30 $ 0.63 $ 2.65
Diluted:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 0.32 $ 0.36 $ 0.30 $ 0.61 $ 1.59
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net 0.01 0.02 0.99 0.02 1.04
Net Earnings per common share $ 0.33 $ 0.38 $ 1.29 $ 0.63 $ 2.63
Dividends declared per common share $ 0.31 $ 0.31 $ 0.31 $ 0.31 $ 1.24
Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,443 $ 4,047 $ 7,173 $ 7,976 $ 7,976
Marketable securities 194 355 258 289 289
Dollars in Millions, except per share data First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
2007:
Net Sales $ 4,063 $ 4,471 $ 4,601 $ 5,058 $ 18,193
Gross Margin 2,797 3,063 3,123 3,342 12,325
Net Earnings/(Loss) from Continuing Operations 592 588 753 (192) 1,741
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net 98 118 105 103 424
Net Earnings/(Loss) 690 706 858 (89) 2,165
Earnings per Common Share(1):
Basic:
Net Earnings/(Loss) from Continuing Operations $ 0.30 $ 0.30 $ 0.38 $ (0.10) $ 0.88
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net 0.05 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.22
Net Earnings/(Loss) per common share $ 0.35 $ 0.36 $ 0.43 $ (0.05 ) $ 1.10
Diluted:
Net Earnings/(Loss) from Continuing Operations $ 0.30 $ 0.30 $ 0.38 $ (0.10) $ 0.88
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net 0.05 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.21
Net Earnings/(Loss) per common share $ 0.35 $ 0.36 $ 0.43 $ (0.05 ) $ 1.09
Dividends declared per common share $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.31 $ 1.15
Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,214 $ 2,379 $ 1,647 $ 1,801 $ 1,801
Marketable securities 1,798 2,267 1,935 424 424
(1) Earnings per share for the quarters may not add to the amounts for the year, as each period is computed on a discrete basis.The following table reconciles previously reported data with current year quarterly data which has been updated for discontinued operations related to the ConvaTec
disposition. See “—Note 6. Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale.”
First Quarter Fourth Quarter First Quarter
2007 2007 2008
Adjusted As Reported Adjusted As Reported Adjusted As Reported
for in for in for in
Dollars in Millions, except per Previously ConvaTec December 31, Previously ConvaTec December 31, Previously ConvaTec December 31,
share data Reported Disposition 2008 10-K Reported Disposition 2008 10-K Reported Disposition 2008 10-K
Net Sales $ 4,317 $ (254) $ 4,063 $ 5,381 $ (323) $ 5,058 $ 5,181 $ (290) $ 4,891
Gross Margin 2,977 (180) 2,797 3,564 (222) 3,342 3,524 (203) 3,321
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations 643 (51) 592 (133) (59) (192) 701 (54) 647
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net 47 51 98 44 59 103 (40) 54 14
Net Earnings 690 — 690 (89) — (89) 661 — 661
Earnings per Common Share:
Basic:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 0.33 $ (0.03) $ 0.30 $ (0.07) $ (0.03) $ (0.10) $ 0.35 $ (0.03) $ 0.32
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net 0.02 0.03 0.05 0.02 0.03 0.05 (0.02) 0.03 0.01
Net Earnings per common share $ 0.35 $ — $ 0.35 $ (0.05 ) $ — $ (0.05 ) $ 0.33 $ — $ 0.33
Diluted:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 0.33 $ (0.03) $ 0.30 $ (0.07) $ (0.03) $ (0.10) $ 0.35 $ (0.03) $ 0.32
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net 0.02 0.03 0.05 0.02 0.03 0.05 (0.02) 0.03 0.01
Net Earnings per common share $ 0.35 $ — $ 0.35 $ (0.05 ) $ — $ (0.05 ) $ 0.33 $ — $ 0.33
128Table of Contents
Note 26 SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) (Continued)
The Company recorded the following specified expense/(income) items in 2008 and 2007 that affected the comparability of results:
Dollars in Millions First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
2008:
Productivity Transformation Initiative:
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations $ 11 $ 30 $ 26 $ 122 $ 189
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and other shutdown costs 96 58 53 34 241
Pension settlements/curtailments — — — 17 17
Process standardization implementation costs 15 21 28 45 109
Gain on sale and leaseback of properties (9) — — — (9)
Termination of lease contracts — — — 15 15
Gain on sale of product lines and businesses — — — (159) (159)
113 109 107 74 403
Other:
Litigation settlement — 2 30 1 33
Insurance recovery — — — (20) (20)
Mead Johnson charges — 1 9 34 44
Product liability 16 — 2 — 18
Upfront and milestone payments and acquired in-process research and development 20 63 37 260 380
Asset impairment — — — 40 40
ARS impairment charges and gain/(loss) on sale 25 (2) 224 77 324
Debt buyback and swap terminations — — — (57) (57)
Gain on sale of ImClone shares — — — (895) (895)
174 173 409 (486 ) 270
Income taxes on items above (33) (34) (87) 193 39
Decrease/(Increase) to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 141 $ 139 $ 322 $ (293 ) $ 309
Dollars in Millions First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year
2007:
Productivity Transformation Initiative:
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations $ — $ — $ — $ 145 $ 145
Accelerated depreciation and asset impairment — — — 110 110
Process standardization implementation costs — — — 37 37
— — — 292 292
Other:
Litigation settlement — 14 — — 14
Insurance recovery — — (11) — (11)
Product liability — — 5 10 15
Upfront and milestone payments and acquired in-process research and development 80 17 60 235 392
ARS impairment charges — — — 275 275
Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations 37 7 — — 44
Accelerated depreciation, asset impairment and contract termination 16 13 17 54 100
Gain on sale of properties and product lines and businesses — (26) (247) (9) (282)
133 25 (176 ) 857 839
Income taxes on items above (40) (5) 82 (70) (33)
Change in estimate for taxes on a prior year specified item (39) — — — (39)
Decrease/(Increase) to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 54 $ 20 $ (94 ) $ 787 $ 767
129Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2008 and
2007, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income and retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2008. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement
schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement
schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries
as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered
in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Notes 1, 9 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (“FIN”)
No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, effective January 1, 2007, and Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans – an Amendment of FASB Statements
No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R), effective December 31, 2006.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 20, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 20, 2009
130Table of Contents
Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
None.
Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
As of December 31, 2008, management carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its chief executive officer and chief financial
officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based
on this evaluation, management has concluded that as of December 31, 2008, such disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the supervision and with the participation of
management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2008 based on the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on that assessment, management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2008
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes
in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s financial statements included in this report on Form 10-K and
issued its report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, which is included herein.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2008 that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION.
On February 17, 2009, Mead Johnson & Company (MJ&C), as borrower, and Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (Mead Johnson), as guarantor, both of which are
indirect, majority-owned subsidiaries of the Company, entered into a three year syndicated revolving credit facility agreement (Credit Facility) with the financial
institutions and other lenders named therein, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (JPMCB), as administrative agent.
The Credit Facility is unsecured and repayable on maturity in February 2012, subject to annual extensions if sufficient lenders agree. The maximum amount of
outstanding borrowings and letters of credit permitted at any one time under the Credit Facility is $410 million, which amount may be increased from time to time up to
$500 million at the request of MJ&C, subject to customary conditions contained in the Credit Facility. The proceeds of the Credit Facility are to be used for working
capital and other general corporate purposes of Mead Johnson and its subsidiaries, including commercial paper backup and repurchase of shares.
Borrowings under the Credit Facility will bear interest either at (a) the LIBOR rate for specified interest periods plus a margin determined with reference to the
Company’s consolidated leverage ratio or (b) a floating rate based upon JPMCB’s prime rate, the Federal Funds rate or the LIBOR rate plus, in each case, a margin
determined with reference to the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio. The Company is also paying customary facility, structuring and syndication and
administration fees.
Mead Johnson has guaranteed the obligations of MJ&C and all other subsidiary borrowers under the Credit Facility. Additional subsidiaries of Mead Johnson may
become borrowers under the Credit Facility, in which case, Mead Johnson and MJ&C both will guaranty all obligations of such subsidiary under the Credit Facility.
The Credit Facility contains customary covenants, including covenants applicable to Mead Johnson and its subsidiaries, limiting liens, substantial asset sales and
mergers. Most of these restrictions are subject to certain minimum thresholds and exceptions. The Credit Facility also contains the following financial covenants:
• Mead Johnson is required to maintain a ratio of (a) consolidated total debt to (b) consolidated EBITDA of not greater than 3.25 to 1.0. Compliance with
such covenant is tested on the last day of each fiscal quarter and as a condition precedent to each credit extension under the Credit Facility.
• Mead Johnson is required to maintain a ratio of (i) consolidated EBITDA to (ii) consolidated interest expense of at least 3.00 to 1.00. Compliance with
such covenant is tested on the last day of each fiscal quarter for the preceding four consecutive fiscal quarters.
In addition, the Credit Facility has customary events of default, including (subject to certain materiality thresholds and grace periods) payment default, failure to
comply with covenants, material inaccuracy of representation or warranty, bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, change of control, ERISA matters and cross-
default to other debt agreements.
131Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2008, based on
criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The
Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial
officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls,
material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the
internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria
established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements
and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 of the Company and our report dated February 20, 2009 expressed an unqualified
opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule.
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 20, 2009
132Table of Contents
PART III
Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
(a) Reference is made to the 2009 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2009 with respect to the Directors of the Registrant, which is incorporated
herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 10.
(b) The information required by Item 10 with respect to the Executive Officers of the Registrant has been included in Part IA of this Form 10-K in reliance on
General Instruction G of Form 10-K and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K.
Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
Reference is made to the 2009 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2009 with respect to Executive Compensation, which is incorporated herein by
reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 11.
Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
Reference is made to the 2009 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2009 with respect to the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 12.
Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
Reference is made to the 2009 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2009 with respect to certain relationships and related transactions, which is
incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 13.
Item 14. AUDITOR FEES.
Reference is made to the 2009 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2009 with respect to auditor fees, which is incorporated herein by reference and made
a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 14.
133Table of Contents
PART IV
Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
(a)
Page
Number
1. Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statements of Earnings 72
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings 73
Consolidated Balance Sheets 74
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 75
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 76-129
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 130
2. Financial Statement Schedule
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 144
All other schedules not included with this additional financial data are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is included in the financial
statements or notes thereto.
3. Exhibit Index
The Exhibits listed below are identified by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. The Exhibits designated by two asterisks (**)
are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed pursuant to Item 15. An asterisk (*) in the Page column indicates that the
Exhibit has been previously filed with the Commission and is incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise indicated, all Exhibits are part of Commission File
Number 1-1136.
Exhibit No. Description Page No.
1. Form of Underwriting Agreement relating to the 5.450% Notes due 2018 and 6.125% Notes due 2038 (incorporated herein by reference to *
Exhibit 1.1 to the Form 8-K dated May 1, 2008 and filed on May 7, 2008).
3a. Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3a to the *
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2005).
3b. Bylaws of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, as amended as of September 9, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Form 8-K *
dated September 9, 2008 and filed on September 12, 2008).
4a. Letter of Agreement dated March 28, 1984 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, *
1983).
4b. Indenture, dated as of June 1, 1993, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank (as successor trustee to The Chase *
Manhattan Bank (National Association)) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K dated May 27, 1993, and filed on June
3, 1993).
4c. Form of 7.15% Debenture due 2023 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Form 8-K dated *
May 27, 1993, and filed on June 3, 1993).
4d. Form of 6.80% Debenture due 2026 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4e to the Form 10-K for the *
fiscal year ended December 31, 1996).
4e. Form of 6.875% Debenture due 2097 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4f to the Form 10-Q for the *
quarterly period ended September 30, 1997).
4f. Third Supplemental Indenture, dated August 18, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Trustee, to the *
indenture dated June 1, 1993 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4k to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30,
2003).
4g. Form of 5.25% Senior Note due 2013 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4o to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September *
30, 2003).
4h. Indenture, dated October 1, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, as Issuer, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Trustee (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4q to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003). *
134Table of Contents
4i. Form of Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debenture due 2023 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4s to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly *
period ended September 30, 2003).
4j. Specimen Certificate of Common Stock (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4s to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, *
2003).
4k. Specimen Certificate of Convertible Preferred Stock (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4s to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended *
December 31, 2003).
4l. Form of Fourth Supplemental Indenture between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, to the indenture *
dated June 1, 1993 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4r the Form 8-K dated November 20, 2006 and filed on November 27, 2006).
4m. Form of Fifth Supplemental Indenture between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, to the indenture dated *
June 1, 1993 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K dated May 1, 2008 and filed on May 7, 2008).
4n. Form of 5.875% Notes due 2036 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4s to the Form 8-K dated November 20, 2006 and filed on *
November 27, 2006).
4o. Form of 4.375% Notes due 2016 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4t to the Form 8-K dated November 20, 2006 and filed on *
November 27, 2006).
4p. Form of 4.625% Notes due 2021 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4u to the Form 8-K dated November 20, 2006 and filed on *
November 27, 2006).
4q. Form of 5.45% Notes due 2018 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Form 8-K dated May 1, 2008 and filed on May 7, 2008). *
4r. Form of 6.125% Notes due 2038 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Form 8-K dated May 1, 2008 and filed on May 7, 2008). *
10a. $2,000,000,000 Five Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of December 21, 2006 among Bristol-Myers *
Squibb Company, the borrowing subsidiaries, the lenders named in the agreement, Bank of America, N.A. as syndication agent, and JPMorgan
Chase Bank and Citicorp North America, Inc., as administrative agents (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated
December 21, 2006 and filed on December 27, 2006).
10b. SEC Consent Order (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10s to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2004). *
**10c. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 1997 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of May 6, 1997 and as amended effective July 17, 2002 (incorporated *
herein by reference to Exhibit 10a to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002).
**10d. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of May 7, 2002 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 (incorporated *
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).
**10e. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan, effective as of May 1, 2007 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 *
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).
**10f. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company TeamShare Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated effective September 10, 2002 (incorporated herein by *
reference to Exhibit 10c to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002).
**10g. Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the 2002 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit *
10s to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).
**10h. Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit *
10s to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2007).
**10i. Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the 2002 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10t to *
the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).
135Table of Contents
**10j. Form of Performance Shares Agreement for the 2006-2008 Performance Cycle (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10u to the Form 10-K *
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).
**10k. Form of Performance Shares Agreement for the 2007-2009 Performance Cycle (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Form 10-Q *
for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).
**10l. Form of Performance Shares Agreement for the 2008-2010 Performance Cycle (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q *
for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2007).
**10m. Form of Performance Shares Agreement for the 2009-2011 Performance Cycle (filed herewith). E-10-1
**10n. Form of Restricted Stock Units Agreement under the 2002 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10v to *
the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006).
**10o. Form of Restricted Stock Units Agreement under the 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10t to *
the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2007).
**10p. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Performance Incentive Plan, as amended (as adopted, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2 to the Form *
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1978; as amended as of January 8, 1990, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 19b to the
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990; as amended on April 2, 1991, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 19b to the
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991; as amended effective January 1, 1994, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10d
to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993; and as amended effective January 1, 1994, incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10d to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).
**10q. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Executive Performance Incentive Plan (effective January 1, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference to *
Exhibit 10b to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996).
**10r. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Executive Performance Incentive Plan (effective January 1, 2003 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 *
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).
**10s. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2007 Senior Executive Performance Incentive Plan (effective May 1, 2007 and as amended effective June 10, *
2008 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).
**10t. Benefit Equalization Plan of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its Subsidiary or Affiliated Corporations Participating in the Bristol-Myers *
Squibb Company Retirement Income Plan or the Bristol-Myers Squibb Puerto Rico, Inc. Retirement Income Plan, as amended (as amended and
restated as of January 1, 1993, as amended effective October 1, 1993, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e to the Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1993; and as amended effective February 1, 1995, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e to the Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996).
**10u. Benefit Equalization Plan of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its Subsidiary or Affiliated Corporations Participating in the Bristol-Myers *
Squibb Company Savings and Investment Program, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 1996 (incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10h to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001).
**10v. Squibb Corporation Supplementary Pension Plan, as amended (as previously amended and restated, incorporated herein by reference to *
Exhibit 19g to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991; as amended as of September 14, 1993, and incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10g to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993).
**10w. Senior Executive Severance Plan, effective as of April 26, 2007 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference by *
reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).
**10x. Letter Agreement dated April 26, 2007 between James M. Cornelius and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to *
Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated April 24, 2007 and filed on April 27, 2007).
**10y. Amended and Restated Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement dated June 12, 2008 between James M. Cornelius and Bristol-Myers Squibb *
Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2008).
136Table of Contents
**10z. Letter Agreement dated February 12, 2008 between James M. Cornelius and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference *
to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated February 11, 2008 and filed on February 15, 2008).
**10aa. Letter Agreement effective September 20, 2005 and addendum effective October 31, 2005 between Lamberto Andreotti and the Company *
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 8-K dated December 5, 2006 and filed on December 11, 2006).
**10bb. Form of Agreement entered into between the Registrant and each of the named executive officers and certain other executives effective E-10-2
January 1, 2009 (filed herewith).
**10cc. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Retirement Income Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended to March 5, 1996 (incorporated herein by *
reference to Exhibit 10k to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996).
**10dd. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 1987 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended to January 10, 2006 (incorporated *
herein by reference to Exhibit 10l to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).
**10ee. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan, as amended (as approved by the Stockholders on May 1, 1990, *
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 28 to Registration Statement No. 33-38587 on Form S-8; as amended May 7, 1991, incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 19c to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991), as amended January 12, 1999 (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10m to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998).
**10ff. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan, as amended (as approved by the Stockholders on May 2, 2000, *
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit A to the 2000 Proxy Statement dated March 20, 2000.)
**10gg. Squibb Corporation Deferral Plan for Fees of Outside Directors, as amended (as adopted, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e *
Squibb Corporation 1991 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987, File No. 1-5514; as amended effective December 31, 1991
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10m to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992).
**10hh. Amendment to all of the Company’s plans, agreements, legal documents and other writings, pursuant to action of the Board of Directors on *
October 3, 1989, to reflect the change of the Company’s name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10v to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989).
**10ii. Form of Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Cidron Healthcare Limited dated May 2, 2008 *
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated May 1, 2008 and filed on May 7, 2008).
**10jj. Letter Agreement between Jean-Marc Huet and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form *
8-K dated March 4, 2008 and filed on March 10, 2008).
**10kk. Separation Agreement between Andrew Bonfield and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the *
Form 8-K dated March 4, 2008 and filed on March 10, 2008).
12. Statement re computation of ratios (filed herewith). E-12-1
21. Subsidiaries of the Registrant (filed herewith). E-21-1
23. Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP (filed herewith). E-23-1
31a. Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith). E-31-1
31b. Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith). E-31-2
32a. Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith). E-32-1
32b. Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith). E-32-2
137Table of Contents
* Indicates, in this Form 10-K, brand names of products, which are registered trademarks not owned by the Company or its subsidiaries. ERBITUX is a trademark of
ImClone Systems Incorporated; AVAPRO/AVALIDE (known in the EU as APROVEL/KARVEA), ISCOVER, KARVEZIDE, COAPROVEL, and PLAVIX are
trademarks of Sanofi-Aventis; ABILIFY is a trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.; TRUVADA is a trademark of Gilead Sciences, Inc.; GLEEVEC is a
trademark of Novartis AG; ATRIPLA is a trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences, LLC; DOVONEX is a trademark of Leo Pharma A/S; NORVIR is a
trademark of Abbott Laboratories; SIMILAC is a trademark of Abbott Laboratories and EXCEDRIN in Spain, Asia (excluding China and Taiwan) and certain
Oceanic countries are trademarks of Lion Corporation.
138Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
(Registrant)
By /s/ JAMES M. CORNELIUS
James M. Cornelius
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer
Date: February 20, 2009
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature Title Date
/s/ JAMES M. CORNELIUS Chairman of the Board and February 20, 2009
(James M. Cornelius) Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)
/s/ JEAN-MARC HUET Chief Financial Officer February 20, 2009
(Jean-Marc Huet) (Principal Financial Officer)
/s/ JOSEPH C. CALDARELLA Vice President and Corporate Controller February 20, 2009
(Joseph C. Caldarella) (Principal Accounting Officer)
/s/ LEWIS B. CAMPBELL Director February 20, 2009
(Lewis B. Campbell)
/s/ LOUIS J. FREEH Director February 20, 2009
(Louis J. Freeh)
/s/ LAURIE H. GLIMCHER, M.D. Director February 20, 2009
(Laurie H. Glimcher, M.D.)
/s/ MICHAEL GROBSTEIN Director February 20, 2009
(Michael Grobstein)
/s/ LEIF JOHANSSON Director February 20, 2009
(Leif Johansson)
/s/ ALAN J. LACY Director February 20, 2009
(Alan J. Lacy)
/s/ VICKI L. SATO, PH.D. February 20, 2009
Director
(Vicki L. Sato, Ph.D.)
/s/ TOGO D. WEST, JR. Director February 20, 2009
(Togo D. West, Jr.)
/s/ R. SANDERS WILLIAMS, M.D. Director February 20, 2009
(R. Sanders Williams, M.D.)
139Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
The Exhibits listed below are identified by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. The Exhibits designated by two asterisks (**)
are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed pursuant to Item 15. An asterisk (*) in the Page column indicates that the
Exhibit has been previously filed with the Commission and is incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise indicated, all Exhibits are part of Commission File
Number 1-1136.
Exhibit No. Description Page No.
1. Form of Underwriting Agreement relating to the 5.450% Notes due 2018 and 6.125% Notes due 2038 (incorporated herein by reference to *
Exhibit 1.1 to the Form 8-K dated May 1, 2008 and filed on May 7, 2008).
3a. Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3a to the *
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2005).
3b. Bylaws of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, as amended as of September 9, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Form 8-K *
dated September 9, 2008 and filed on September 12, 2008).
4a. Letter of Agreement dated March 28, 1984 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4 to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, *
1983).
4b. Indenture, dated as of June 1, 1993, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank (as successor trustee to The Chase *
Manhattan Bank (National Association)) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K dated May 27, 1993, and filed on
June 3, 1993).
4c. Form of 7.15% Debenture due 2023 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Form 8-K dated *
May 27, 1993, and filed on June 3, 1993).
4d. Form of 6.80% Debenture due 2026 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4e to the Form 10-K for *
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996).
4e. Form of 6.875% Debenture due 2097 of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4f to the Form 10-Q for *
the quarterly period ended September 30, 1997).
4f. Third Supplemental Indenture, dated August 18, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Trustee, to *
the indenture dated June 1, 1993 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4k to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September
30, 2003).
4g. Form of 5.25% Senior Note due 2013 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4o to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended *
September 30, 2003).
4h. Indenture, dated October 1, 2003, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, as Issuer, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Trustee (incorporated *
herein by reference to Exhibit 4q to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).
4i. Form of Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debenture due 2023 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4s to the Form 10-Q for the *
quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).
4j. Specimen Certificate of Common Stock (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4s to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December *
31, 2003).
4k. Specimen Certificate of Convertible Preferred Stock (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4s to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended *
December 31, 2003).
4l. Form of Fourth Supplemental Indenture between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, to the indenture *
dated June 1, 1993 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4r the Form 8-K dated November 20, 2006 and filed on November 27, 2006).
4m. Form of Fifth Supplemental Indenture between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, to the indenture *
dated June 1, 1993 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K dated May 1, 2008 and filed on May 7, 2008).
4n. Form of 5.875% Notes due 2036 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4s to the Form 8-K dated November 20, 2006 and filed on *
November 27, 2006).
4o. Form of 4.375% Notes due 2016 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4t to the Form 8-K dated November 20, 2006 and filed on *
November 27, 2006).
140Table of Contents
4p. Form of 4.625% Notes due 2021 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4u to the Form 8-K dated November 20, 2006 and filed on *
November 27, 2006).
4q. Form of 5.45% Notes due 2018 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Form 8-K dated May 1, 2008 and filed on May 7, 2008). *
4r. Form of 6.125% Notes due 2038 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Form 8-K dated May 1, 2008 and filed on May 7, 2008). *
10a. $2,000,000,000 Five Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of December 21, 2006 among Bristol-Myers *
Squibb Company, the borrowing subsidiaries, the lenders named in the agreement, Bank of America, N.A. as syndication agent, and
JPMorgan Chase Bank and Citicorp North America, Inc., as administrative agents (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Form 8-K dated December 21, 2006 and filed on December 27, 2006).
10b. SEC Consent Order (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10s to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2004). *
**10c. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 1997 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of May 6, 1997 and as amended effective July 17, 2002 (incorporated *
herein by reference to Exhibit 10a to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002).
**10d. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of May 7, 2002 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 (incorporated *
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).
**10e. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan, effective as of May 1, 2007 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 *
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).
**10f. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company TeamShare Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated effective September 10, 2002 (incorporated herein *
by reference to Exhibit 10c to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002).
**10g. Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the 2002 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit *
10s to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).
**10h. Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit *
10s to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2007).
**10i. Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the 2002 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10t *
to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).
**10j. Form of Performance Shares Agreement for the 2006-2008 Performance Cycle (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10u to the Form 10- *
K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).
**10k. Form of Performance Shares Agreement for the 2007-2009 Performance Cycle (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Form 10- *
Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).
**10l. Form of Performance Shares Agreement for the 2008-2010 Performance Cycle (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10- *
Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2007).
**10m. Form of Performance Shares Agreement for the 2009-2011 Performance Cycle (filed herewith). E-10-1
**10n. Form of Restricted Stock Units Agreement under the 2002 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10v *
to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006).
**10o. Form of Restricted Stock Units Agreement under the 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10t to *
the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2007).
**10p. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Performance Incentive Plan, as amended (as adopted, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2 to the *
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1978; as amended as of January 8, 1990, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 19b to
the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990; as amended on April 2, 1991, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 19b to
the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991; as amended effective January 1, 1994, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10d to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993; and as amended effective January 1, 1994, incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10d to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).
141Table of Contents
**10q. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Executive Performance Incentive Plan (effective January 1, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference to *
Exhibit 10b to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996).
**10r. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Executive Performance Incentive Plan (effective January 1, 2003 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 *
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).
**10s. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2007 Senior Executive Performance Incentive Plan (effective May 1, 2007 and as amended effective June 10, *
2008 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).
**10t. Benefit Equalization Plan of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its Subsidiary or Affiliated Corporations Participating in the Bristol-Myers *
Squibb Company Retirement Income Plan or the Bristol-Myers Squibb Puerto Rico, Inc. Retirement Income Plan, as amended (as amended
and restated as of January 1, 1993, as amended effective October 1, 1993, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e to the Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993; and as amended effective February 1, 1995, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e to the
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996).
**10u. Benefit Equalization Plan of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its Subsidiary or Affiliated Corporations Participating in the Bristol-Myers *
Squibb Company Savings and Investment Program, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 1996 (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10h to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001).
**10v. Squibb Corporation Supplementary Pension Plan, as amended (as previously amended and restated, incorporated herein by reference to *
Exhibit 19g to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991; as amended as of September 14, 1993, and incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10g to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993).
**10w. Senior Executive Severance Plan, effective as of April 26, 2007 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference by *
reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).
**10x. Letter Agreement dated April 26, 2007 between James M. Cornelius and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to *
Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated April 24, 2007 and filed on April 27, 2007).
**10y. Amended and Restated Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement dated June 12, 2008 between James M. Cornelius and Bristol-Myers Squibb *
Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2008).
**10z. Letter Agreement dated February 12, 2008 between James M. Cornelius and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by *
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated February 11, 2008 and filed on February 15, 2008).
**10aa. Letter Agreement effective September 20, 2005 and addendum effective October 31, 2005 between Lamberto Andreotti and the Company *
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 8-K dated December 5, 2006 and filed on December 11, 2006).
**10bb. Form of Agreement entered into between the Registrant and each of the named executive officers and certain other executives effective E-10-2
January 1, 2009 (filed herewith).
**10cc. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Retirement Income Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended to March 5, 1996 (incorporated herein by *
reference to Exhibit 10k to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996).
**10dd. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 1987 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended to January 10, 2006 *
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10l to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).
**10ee. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan, as amended (as approved by the Stockholders on May 1, 1990, *
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 28 to Registration Statement No. 33-38587 on Form S-8; as amended May 7, 1991, incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 19c to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991), as amended January 12, 1999 (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10m to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998).
142Table of Contents
**10ff. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan, as amended (as approved by the Stockholders on May 2, 2000, *
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit A to the 2000 Proxy Statement dated March 20, 2000.)
**10gg. Squibb Corporation Deferral Plan for Fees of Outside Directors, as amended (as adopted, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e *
Squibb Corporation 1991 Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987, File No. 1-5514; as amended effective December 31, 1991
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10m to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992).
**10hh. Amendment to all of the Company’s plans, agreements, legal documents and other writings, pursuant to action of the Board of Directors on *
October 3, 1989, to reflect the change of the Company’s name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10v to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989).
**10ii. Form of Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Cidron Healthcare Limited dated May 2, 2008 *
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated May 1, 2008 and filed on May 7, 2008).
**10jj. Letter Agreement between Jean-Marc Huet and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form *
8-K dated March 4, 2008 and filed on March 10, 2008).
**10kk. Separation Agreement between Andrew Bonfield and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the *
Form 8-K dated March 4, 2008 and filed on March 10, 2008).
12. Statement re computation of ratios (filed herewith). E-12-1
21. Subsidiaries of the Registrant (filed herewith). E-21-1
23. Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP (filed herewith). E-23-1
31a. Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith). E-31-1
31b. Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith). E-31-2
32a. Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith). E-32-1
32b. Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith). E-32-2
143Table of Contents
SCHEDULE II
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
Bad debts
written
Provisions for off/payments
Balance at bad debts, for charge- Balance at
beginning charge-backs backs & end
Description of period & discounts discounts of period
Dollars in Millions
Allowances for Charge-Backs, Discounts and Doubtful Accounts:(1)
For the year ended December 31, 2008 $ 180 $ 914 $ (966) $ 128
For the year ended December 31, 2007 150 949 (919) 180
For the year ended December 31, 2006 207 955 (1,012) 150
Release of
Balance at Provisions for valuation Other Balance at
beginning valuation allowance comprehensive end
Description of period allowance /other income Goodwill of period
Dollars in Millions
Valuation Allowance on Deferred Tax Assets: (1)
For the year ended December 31, 2008 $ 1,950 $ 9 $ (192) $ 14 $ 14 $ 1,795
For the year ended December 31, 2007 625 1,325 — — — 1,950
For the year ended December 31, 2006 559 189 (123) — — 625
(1) Amounts have been reclassified to give effect to discontinued operations. For further information on discontinued operations, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 6. Discontinued Operations and Assets Held
for Sale.”
144