Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
2003 Annual Report
NOPQR F O C U S
345 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10154-0037
Telephone: 212-546-4000
www.bms.comS t o c k h o l d e r I n f o r m a t i o n
Common Stock Dividend Reinvestment Plan Environment, Foundation Copyright © 2004
The Bristol-Myers Squibb Mission
Ticker symbol: BMY Registered stockholders (stock and Diversity Reports Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
New York Stock Exchange must be held in your name) who For copies of the Company’s All rights reserved.
Our company’s mission is Pacific Stock Exchange hold 50 or more shares of the most recent reports on the Product names appearing
Company’s stock may participate Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, throughout in italics — or in
to extend and enhance human life
Annual Meeting in its stockholder-paid Dividend on its sustainability/environmental bold in caption copy — are
by providing the highest-quality pharmaceutical and of Stockholders Reinvestment Plan (DRIP), programs, and on its diversity registered trademarks of
Tuesday, May 4, 2004 which includes a safekeeping efforts, write to: Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
related health care products. 9:45 a.m., Hotel duPont and sale-of-stock feature. If you Corporate Affairs or one of its subsidiary companies.
11th and Market Streets hold fewer than 50 shares, you Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Global products are referred to
Wilmington, DE 19801 are still eligible to participate in 345 Park Avenue herein by their registered and
We pledge—to our patients and customers, the safekeeping and sale-of-stock New York, NY 10154-0037 approved U.S. trademarks, unless
Stockholder features as well as the direct specifically noted otherwise.
to our employees and partners, Services and Programs registration option. Copies of the Company’s Abilifyis a trademark of Otsuka
All inquiries concerning EEO-1 reports are available to Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd.
to our shareholders and neighbors, Adenoscanis a trademark of
stockholder accounts and stock Form 10-K stockholders upon written
Fujisawa Healthcare, Inc.
and to the world we serve—to act on our belief transfer matters including For a free copy of the Company’s request to the above address. Avapro, Avalide, Plavixand
address changes, the elimination Annual Report on Securities
Iscoverare trademarks of Sanofi-
that the priceless ingredient of every product of duplicate mailings, dividend and Exchange Commission Information of interest to Synthélabo S.A.
reinvestment (see next column) Form 10-K for the fiscal year stockholders and potential Corzide, Delestrogen,Corgard
is the honor and integrity of its maker.
and direct deposit of dividends ended December 31, 2003, investors, including information and Florinefare trademarks of King
should be directed to the visit www.bms.com/investors. about the Company’s products Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
ERBITUXis a trademark of
Company’s Transfer Agent and programs, is also available
ImClone Systems Incorporated.
and Registrar: The reports may also be on the Company’s Web site:
Glucophage IR, Glucophage
Mellon Investor Services obtained by sending a request to: www.bms.com.
XR, Glucovanceand Metaglipare
85 Challenger Road Secretary registered trademarks of Merck
Ridgefield Park, NJ 07660 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Santé S.A.S., an associate of Merck
www.melloninvestor.com 345 Park Avenue KGaA of Darmstadt, Germany.
800-356-2026 (within the U.S.) New York, NY 10154-0037 Moisturel, Duricefand Estrace
are trademarks of Galen (Chemicals)
201-329-8660 (outside the U.S.)
Limited.
TDD telephone service
Solageis a trademark of
for the hearing impaired:
Galderma S.A.
800-231-5469 (within the U.S.) Vaniqais a trademark of Women
201-329-8354 (outside the U.S.) First Healthcare Inc.
Viactivis a trademark of McNeil-
PPC, Inc.
On The Cover
Keiichi Nagano of Sturgis, Michigan, pictured with his wife, Reiko.
Keiichi is a colorectal cancer patient who enrolled in a clinical trial with ERBITUX (cetuximab) to help fight his cancer.
Opposite page, top
Melody Vernali, a process scientist at the Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute in Wallingford, Connecticut,
is working with her colleagues to create the next generation of anticancer therapies. Designed, photographed, written and typeset by the Bristol-Myers Squibb Corporate Affairs Department. Printed on recycled paper.F O C U S
It can turn a maybe into a certainty.
It can transform an idea into a breakthrough therapy.
It can energize a company and its people to be true leaders.
And it can make all the difference for people in need of better medicines.
Take Keiichi Nagano of Sturgis, Michigan (pictured below and on the cover
with his wife, Reiko), who battled colorectal cancer for years. Today, he credits
his health to loving support from Reiko and his daughters, Tomoko and Naoko,
and to his participation in a clinical trial of ERBITUX (cetuximab), developed
by Bristol-Myers Squibb and ImClone Systems Incorporated and approved by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on February 12, 2004. “With
ERBITUX and the help of my family and my doctors and nurses,”
he says, “I have hope. I have a normal life, so I enjoy it.”
Bristol-Myers Squibb has remained focused on ERBITUX
and other cancer therapies, as well as on additional areas of
critical unmet medical need described in this report, so that
more people like Keiichi can enjoy life, ride motorcycles if
they like and continue their journeys with those they love.
In the pages that follow, you will learn how Bristol-Myers
Squibb is sharpening that focus, defining its own future
and helping create a healthier future for people worldwide.
When it comes to our mission to extend and enhance human life,
we’re focused…as never before.
1
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportF O C U S
T o O u r S t o c k h o l d e r s
For the year, Bristol-Myers Squibb earned $3.1 billion from continuing
operations on worldwide net revenues of $20.9 billion. Total net sales
increased 15 percent, including the effect of foreign exchange. Among our
leading products, net sales of Pravachol, our cholesterol-lowering medicine,
grew 25 percent to $2.8 billion, while net sales of Plavix, an antiplatelet
2003 was a good year for your company. Three important new therapy, and Avapro/Avalide, treat-
ments for hypertension—which we
Bristol-Myers Squibb medicines are helping thousands of people
are codeveloping and comarketing
with schizophrenia, HIV/AIDS and cancer, and have the potential to with Sanofi-Synthélabo—increased
31 percent to $2.5 billion, and
touch thousands more. For the 80th year in a row, we paid dividends 29 percent to $757 million,
respectively.
to our stockholders, and for the third consecutive year, those
Looking at our newer products,
dividend payments exceeded $2 billion. Across our pharmaceutical our total revenue for Abilify—a
treatment for schizophrenia that we
and other health care portfolios, as well as our geographies, we
are codeveloping and copromoting
realized broad-based sales and earnings growth. We have made with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co.,
Ltd.—reached nearly $300 million
significant progress strengthening financial and internal controls,
in its first full year on the market.
Across our pharmaceutical and
and are implementing fundamental changes in our company to
related health care businesses, eight
address the opportunities and challenges ahead. products or product lines each
realized global net sales in excess of
$500 million, and an additional 23 products each achieved net sales greater
than $100 million. Eighteen of these brands grew at double-digit rates.
In addition to delivering solid financial performance, we met other
key objectives for the year. As you may recall, we set the following goals:
• successfully launch our new products
• grow our key in-line products and franchises
• invest in our businesses and pipeline
• continue putting the right leaders in place
• strengthen our compliance processes and structures as well as
our financial controls and accounting
As we did all these things, we also initiated a critically important
change process to build on the momentum we achieved in 2003 and
prepare for the challenges and opportunities ahead. To help guide us in
this process, we are implementing a new strategy that narrows our focus
more sharply on our mission and on areas of medical need where we can
truly make a difference for patients both now and in the future. As such,
we have chosen "Focus" as the theme of this annual report to highlight
our strategy.
Launching New Products
I would like to begin my discussion of our achievements with
ERBITUX, the novel cancer treatment that we are codeveloping and
copromoting with ImClone Systems Incorporated. As you may recall,
we committed ourselves to bring this important product through devel-
opment and regulatory review, and I am pleased that following those steps,
ERBITUX received marketing approval from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration on February 12, 2004.
2
2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyGrowing our Key Products
ERBITUX represents a significant step forward in the fight against
advanced colorectal cancer, a disease for which there are few effective While Abilify and Reyatazcontributed to our strength in 2003, and,
treatment options. All of us at Bristol-Myers Squibb are excited about more importantly, have tremendous potential going forward, our principal
the potential for this new medicine to help patients. And ERBITUX growth drivers in the year were Pravachol, Plavix and Avapro/Avalide, as
serves as an important bridge between our well-established cancer well as Sustivaand the cancer treatment Paraplatin. Net sales of Sustiva
therapies and our promising oncology pipeline opportunities. grew 20 percent to $544 million, and those of Paraplatinincreased
I would like to thank my colleagues, especially those in our oncology 24 percent to $905 million. Altogether, our worldwide pharmaceutical
area—as well as the people of ImClone—for their dedication, resiliency net sales increased 16 percent to $15 billion.
and focus, all critical to making ERBITUX a reality for patients in need. In our Health Care businesses, ConvaTec reported solid net sales
Undoubtedly, you will hear and read more about this promising medicine gains in its two major product lines: ostomy, which grew 13 percent to
as we move quickly to make it available to more patients and to explore $512 million, and wound therapeutics, which increased 17 percent to
potential additional uses for it in the fight against cancer. $319 million. In our Medical Imaging business, net sales of the cardio-
With the approval of ERBITUX, Bristol-Myers Squibb has introduced vascular imaging agent Cardiolitegrew 8 percent to $324 million. Net
three important new medicines in a 16-month period. When compared sales in our Mead Johnson Nutritionals business increased 11 percent
with the recent average for companies in our industry of just slightly over to $2 billion. International nutritionals net sales grew 9 percent.
one new drug launch per year, this achievement clearly illustrates the Recently, we divested our adult nutritionals line, allowing Mead Johnson
progress we are making in developing our late-stage pipeline. to focus exclusively on products for infants and children, an area where
Turning to our other newer products, Abilify already has captured it is a recognized market leader.
a significant share—more than 7 percent, to date—of the weekly new
prescriptions in the antipsychotic class. Thanks to its strong sales in its
Peter R. Dolan,
first year on the market, Abilify ranks among the 10 most successful
new product launches to date in the entire pharmaceutical industry. In Chairman and
2003, Abilify gained an additional indication for long-term treatment
Chief Executive Officer
of schizophrenia, and we also submitted for filing an indication for
treatment of acute mania in patients with bipolar disorder. Abilify has a
growing presence in several countries outside the U.S., and received a
recommendation for marketing approval in Europe on February 25, 2004.
Reyataz, our treatment for HIV/AIDS, was introduced in the U.S. in
July 2003. To date, it has garnered a strong 15 percent share of weekly
new prescriptions in the protease inhibitor category. As the first protease
inhibitor with once-a-day dosing, Reyatazcan help HIV/AIDS patients
reduce their pill burden. It is an important addition to our growing
virology business, which also includes Sustiva, VidexEC and Zerit.
On March 2, 2004, we received marketing approval for Reyataz
in Europe and are looking forward to introducing it in other
international markets in 2004.
3
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportGrowth was strong across our geographies as well. U.S. pharmaceutical Bristol-Myers Squibb has a notable record of pursuing successful
net sales rose 16 percent to $8.4 billion, while international pharmaceutical licensing arrangements to supplement its own pipeline, and many of
net sales increased 17 percent to $6.5 billion, inclusive of foreign exchange. these arrangements have led to fruitful codevelopment, copromotion
In the U.S., total net sales of Plavix rose 27 percent, with Avapro/Avalide, and comarketing agreements. We will continue to complement our
Sustiva, Paraplatinand Pravacholalso all growing at double-digit rates. pipeline in 2004 with additional licensed products.
In the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, our pharmaceutical We also entered into a new alliance with Lexicon Genetics, which will
business continued its trend of robust growth, up 21 percent. This solid provide us with potentially valuable drug discovery targets in the neuro-
performance was due in large part to strong net sales of Pravachol, Plavix, science area. Our comprehensive network of alliances and partnerships
Avapro/Avalide and Sustiva, which all grew in the 30-50 percent range includes more than 190 collaborations with approximately 130 companies
during the year. In the Asia/Pacific region, pharmaceutical net sales and research institutions.
increased 13 percent, driven in part by strong net sales in Japan of TAXOL,
Meeting Other Important Objectives
a cancer treatment, which grew 34 percent. Sales of TAXOLalso increased
28 percent in Europe, although the product lost data exclusivity there in Integrity and transparency are critical to our continued and future
the third quarter of 2003. Global TAXOLsales in 2003 were $934 million. success. We made great progress in 2003 toward our goals of strengthen-
ing our financial reporting and other compliance efforts and structures.
Investing in the Future
I have communicated to all our employees that our first priority must
Turning to our research and development goals, we advanced our drug be full compliance with the letter and spirit of all the rules and regulations
pipeline significantly in 2003. We transitioned two potentially break- governing our company. And we must do this with the highest standards
through compounds to Phase III, including muraglitazar, our dual PPAR of business, personal and medical ethics, and in accordance with the values
agonist for diabetes, and ixabepilone, our novel epothilone for cancer. expressed in the Bristol-Myers Squibb Pledge.
We now have eight promising compounds in later stages of development, Over the past year, senior management, under the direction of the Audit
seven of which were discovered in our own laboratories. Committee, continued to identify and implement actions to improve
In the next 12 months, we intend to submit up to three of our late-stage the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as well as
products for regulatory approval, including entecavir, for hepatitis B; internal controls over financial reporting. In the finance area, we created
abatacept, or CTLA4Ig, for rheumatoid arthritis; and muraglitazar. the roles of financial controller and operations controller, and named
In 2003, we invested $2.3 billion in companywide research and devel- two highly experienced individuals to those positions. Working closely
opment, and expect to boost spending on drug development in the with our chief financial officer, I have acted to implement more stringent
10-12 percent range in 2004 to accelerate our promising late-stage pipeline. financial controls and processes. We are providing enhanced education
While internal growth is vital to our future success, we are continually and training for our Finance colleagues, and are constantly reviewing
evaluating and pursuing external opportunities that can leverage our our accounting policies and procedures with the aim of ensuring full
strengths. In 2003, we licensed three products: a long-acting insulin com- compliance with applicable regulations and laws.
pound, Basulin, from Flamel Technologies, and an inhaled insulin product Largely as a result of these actions, throughout 2003 we identified and
from QDose—both early-stage compounds that enhance our diabetes recorded various charges and adjustments to correct accounting related to
franchise—as well as edifoligide, a Phase III compound from Corgentech,
to prevent vein graft failure in bypass surgery, that will build on our
leadership in the atherosclerosis/thrombosis area.
2 0 0 3 H I G H L I G H T S
FIRST QUARTER A Bristol-Myers Squibb
research and
The Bristol-Myers development center
Squibb Foundation commits opens in Singapore,
$290,000 to help reinforcing the company’s
the Hungarian Hospice commitment to R&D in
Foundation support The National Association that country and
psychosocial counseling for Female Executives throughout Asia. Bristol-Myers Squibb
for cancer patients names Bristol-Myers is recognized by
and their families. Squibb one of the Mead Johnson several groups for its
Top 30 Companies for Nutritionals launches environmental reporting,
Executive Women. Enfamil with Iron and including being named
Enfapro in South Korea. the top environmental
A licensing agreement reporter of all U.S.-
is signed with Pharmatop headquartered companies
—a French company— by the Coalition of
for injectable Environmentally
acetaminophen. Responsible Economies,
and being added to the
Abilify (aripiprazole) is Calvert Social Index,
launched in Mexico and a list of socially
receives marketing responsible companies.
clearance in Australia.
4
2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb Companyprior periods. We reviewed these items and decided to restate previously grants totaling nearly $100 million to more than 160 programs in nine
issued financial statements based on their cumulative impact. We will countries in southern and western Africa that support research, treatment,
continue our efforts to strengthen our financial and internal controls. education and community outreach targeted to women and children
In 2003, we appointed a new senior-level chief compliance officer, who are directly affected by HIV/AIDS.
reporting directly to our general counsel and indirectly to me, who is Now in its fifth year, SECURE THE FUTUREcontinues to focus
working closely with compliance professionals across the company. And on developing sustainable models for addressing the health and social
we also have put in place structures and processes to help make clear to consequences of the pandemic, and replicating those models in other
our employees their obligations and rights in the compliance area, and resource-limited settings. Key to the program’s effectiveness are the close
to enable them to report—easily and without fear of retribution—any partnerships developed among the private sector, governmental and
concerns they may have. nongovernmental organizations, universities and medical institutions,
Other senior leadership changes include the appointment of Anthony C. among others.
Hooper as president of U.S. Pharmaceuticals and a member of the Executive A major milestone in 2003 was the opening of a pediatric HIV/AIDS
Committee. Tony is a seasoned leader with a proven record of success center in Botswana, a southern African country with the highest HIV/AIDS
growing our key businesses and franchises. Most recently, he served as infection rate in the world and where more than 60 percent of infant
president of our medicines business in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. deaths are related to HIV. It is the first such center in sub-Saharan Africa,
He will help ensure that our critically important U.S. Pharmaceuticals and based on its early success, we recently committed to build a second
unit remains a central driver of our growth and leadership going forward. center on the continent in the near future.
We also promoted Béatrice Cazala to the position of president, Europe, Another project that illustrates the broad reach of our company’s
the Middle East and Africa. Béatrice has extensive experience building mission was a remarkable event in October 2003 that helped people all
our leading brands across Europe, and will be instrumental in taking our across the U.S. confront their fears and questions about cancer. Called
business in the region to the next level of achievement and success. the Bristol-Myers Squibb TOUR OF HOPE, the event was a nonstop,
3,200-mile, coast-to-coast bicycle ride by 26 extraordinary and dedicated
Building and Sustaining a Better World
men and women. Their goal was to spread a message of hope and
At Bristol-Myers Squibb, our Pledge defines our success in terms of knowledge about fighting and ultimately defeating cancer, especially by
the values we uphold and live by in our daily work. In addition to financial encouraging those who are diagnosed with the disease to participate in
and business performance, we measure our success by how well we realize clinical trials for new anticancer therapies.
our mission to extend and enhance human life, and how broadly we can Altogether, our charitable cash contributions to health, research
interpret that mission beyond providing quality medicines and other and education projects in 2003 exceeded $50 million; we also donated
health care products. nearly $500 million in medicines and other products to people and
The Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation supports a wide range of communities in need.
innovative health, research and education initiatives that exemplify our We made good progress in our environmental, health and safety efforts
mission and extend it well beyond our business, to our obligations as in 2003, including our Sustainability 2010 goals, which are among the
engaged citizens of the world. Among those initiatives is SECURE THE broadest in the industry. These goals commit us to pursue a range of
FUTURE, the largest corporate commitment of its kind to address the policies and practices that create a cleaner environment and a safer work-
staggering HIV/AIDS crisis in sub-Saharan Africa. We have provided place, and to take a leadership role in our industry to advance these activities.
SECOND QUARTER The Bristol-Myers Squibb THIRD QUARTER
Foundation and its
The U.S. Food and partners—the China
Drug Administration Foundation for Hepatitis
(FDA) approves Reyataz Prevention and Control
(atazanavir) for market- and the Chinese Ministry Bristol-Myers Squibb
ing—the first once-daily of Health—complete the and ImClone Systems
protease inhibitor. final phase of a three- Incorporated file
year, $510,000 a Biologics License
Mead Johnson acquires initiative to bring Application with
Cafcit (caffeine citrate) hepatitis B vaccinations the FDA for approval
Injection and Oral to infants in two of ERBITUX (cetuximab).
Suspension, the only provinces in rural China.
FDA-approved short-term The company agrees
treatment for premature First Pediatric HIV/AIDS to license an inhaled
infants with a potentially Center in all of Africa insulin product to
life-threatening opens in Botswana, funded treat diabetes from
breathing by Bristol-Myers Squibb’s QDose, a joint venture
disorder. SECURE THE FUTURE® between MicroDose
program. The company Technologies Inc.
commits to fund a second and Quadrant Drug
center in Africa for Delivery Ltd.
children with HIV/AIDS.
5
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportA Focused Strategy for the Future
relationships with specialists as well as with those primary care physicians
These are hopeful times for people who are looking to better medicines who also are involved in treating patients in our disease areas.
to help them live healthier, longer and more rewarding lives. Therapies Other aspects of our strategy support these two priority areas. For
like ERBITUX, Abilify and Reyatazrepresent significant steps forward in example, biologics—large molecule compounds—will assume a more
treating terrible diseases that kill or disable millions of people every year. prominent place among our new therapy options. This promising and
Our leading product Pravachol—the most extensively studied statin drug, growing area requires investments in highly specialized technology and
with strong efficacy and a safety profile that has not been exceeded by any facilities. We will also continue to invest in key parts of the business—
other statin—continues to be an important treatment option for patients including our new product launches, in-line portfolio and pipeline—
with high cholesterol and coronary artery disease. Drug pipelines hold while keeping the dividend a priority. This means that spending in other
the promise of more effective treatments in the near and long term. And areas must be held in check or even cut back.
policy makers are taking positive steps to ensure that people have greater While we are excited about our pipeline and growth opportunities,
access to the best medicines, an objective we strongly support and promote. we are facing challenges that will affect our overall performance over the
Just as medical science and public policies must change to reflect next few years. In the 2004-2006 period, several of our larger products will
transformations in society, businesses must continually adapt and change lose exclusivity in the U.S. and elsewhere. As a result, we estimate that
to meet the expectations and needs of their customers, stockholders, aggregate net sales of those products will decline by as much as $1.3 billion
employees and other stakeholders. We at Bristol-Myers Squibb see in 2004 and by approximately an additional $1.0 billion to $1.3 billion
opportunities and challenges ahead that require us to become a different in each of the years 2005, 2006 and 2007.
kind of company—a more focused organization that is better able to Much of this revenue loss should be more or less offset by growth of
seize the initiative in turning scientific advances into innovative pharma- revenues of our major in-line products, such as Plavix and Avapro/Avalide,
ceuticals and other health care products in areas of significant unmet and by our newer medicines, such as ERBITUX, Abilify and Reyataz, as
medical need. And if we want to be a health care leader for tomorrow, well as by our pipeline products. However, because many of our newer
we must begin that transformation process today. products are licensed or have high costs associated with their launch,
To drive this change, we are implementing a new strategy for building manufacture and initial promotion, our gross margins will be pressured
a fundamentally different kind of company. First, as you will read in this during this period.
report, we are concentrating on 10 disease areas where the need is great Over the next few years, as our portfolio evolves, our new strategy will
for better treatments and where we either already have strong positions— enable us to maximize product and pipeline opportunities while also
in cancer, HIV/AIDS, psychiatric disorders, atherosclerosis/thrombosis and addressing exclusivity issues. And, if our pipeline delivers as we hope, we
diabetes—or can build future strengths based on our promising pipeline will emerge from this process in a position of greater strength, and we will
opportunities. These emerging areas include Alzheimer’s disease, hepatitis, be poised to deliver sustained sales and earnings growth over an extended
obesity, rheumatoid arthritis and solid organ transplantation. period—2007-2011—when our exposure to additional patent expirations
A second major aspect of our new strategy relates to how we do business, will be greatly reduced.
specifically our marketing and sales approaches. Specialists are playing Of course, planning for an uncertain future is never easy, and in our
an even greater role in decisions related to patient treatment and care, work there are many risks and unknowns that can profoundly affect
particularly in the disease areas where we are focusing our efforts. For this
reason, we are recasting our business model to help us build even closer
2 0 0 3 H I G H L I G H T S
FOURTH QUARTER
“Working Mother”
magazine names
Bristol-Myers Squibb For the fifth time,
one of the Top 10 Best Bristol-Myers Squibb
Companies for Working Brazil is included in
Mothers for the third the exclusive list of the
straight year. It is also ChoiceDM, top 100 companies to work
the sixth consecutive year a comprehensive line of for published by “Exame”
that the company has been diabetic care products, magazine—a leading
included among the is launched. business publication.
magazine’s ranking of
the 100 Best Companies. Bristol-Myers Squibb Bristol-Myers Squibb
and Flamel Technologies and Corgentech Inc.
S.A. enter into a licensing announce an agreement
and commercialization to jointly develop
agreement to develop and commercialize
and market Basulin, the Corgentech’s
first controlled-release, edifoligide, a novel
ConvaTec introduces unmodified human cardiovascular treatment.
Esteem synergy insulin to be developed
ostomy system in the as a once-daily injection
U.S. It was launched for patients with type 1
in Europe in 2002. or type 2 diabetes.
6
2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb Companyoutcomes. For example, two generic drug companies are currently
challenging a key patent for Plavix that expires in 2011. However, standing
still or looking back have never been options at Bristol-Myers Squibb.
On the contrary, we see our job as not just building toward a better
future, but creating that future with optimism and resolve.
And indeed, we have many reasons to be confident about our prospects.
We have a bold and vital mission that continues to drive us to succeed,
and an enduring code of ethics and values that guides our choices. We have
44,000 dedicated employees who have shown again and again that they
believe our company has a vital role to play in advancing the health and
well-being of people all over the world. And we have excellent products
Pharmaceutical Pipeline
that extend and enhance human life.
We also have many thousands of stockholders who share our vision of Selected Later-Stage Compounds
a better world and who are essential to our success. In closing, I would like
to thank our stockholders for their continuing support of our goals in this Current as of March 15, 2004
pivotal time for Bristol-Myers Squibb. Our employees also deserve our
Some of the compounds in later stages of development
thanks and gratitude for their hard work and enduring commitment
in Bristol-Myers Squibb’s pipeline include:
to our mission and success. And I would like to express my sincere
appreciation to our Board of Directors for their ongoing support and
Abatacept, or CTLA4Ig,for rheumatoid arthritis.
counsel. I will continue to keep you all closely informed of our progress
A novel compound in Phase III.
as we work diligently toward building a great future for our company.
DPP4 inhibitor for diabetes.
A novel oral compound in Phase II; backup compound
in development.
Peter R. Dolan
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Edifoligide, an E2F decoy for prevention of vein graft failure following
March 15, 2004
coronary artery bypass graft and peripheral artery bypass graft surgery.
A novel treatment in Phase III.
Entecavirfor hepatitis B.
A compound in Phase III.
Ixabepilonefor cancer.
A novel epothilone in Phase III.
LEA29Y for prevention of solid organ transplant rejection.
A novel agent in Phase II.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Muraglitazarfor diabetes.
Medical Imaging enters A dual PPAR agonist in Phase III. Backup compound
into a U.S. agreement with
in development.
Fujisawa Healthcare Inc.
to copromote Adenoscan
Razaxabanfor venous thrombosis.
(adenosine injection)—
A novel factor Xa inhibitor in Phase II. Backup compounds
the nation’s leading
in development.
pharmacologic stress
agent used in myocardial
perfusion imaging.
Lance Armstrong The company forms an
with members of alliance with Lexicon
the Bristol-Myers Genetics for neuro-
Squibb TOUR OFHOPE™ science drug discovery.
Team. The 26-member
team seeks to raise Plavix
awareness about (clopidogrel
cancer research and bisulfate)
clinical trials in an reaches
unprecedented cross- $2 billion
country cycling journey. in U.S. sales.
7
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportF O C U S
C a n c e r
T
hings looked pretty good Thus began a five-year roller Yet by January 2003, he had run
for Daryl Doyle back in July 1998. coaster ride. Daryl was initially out of treatment options. “I was
At age 48, he was happily married, treated with surgery followed by at the end of my rope,” he admits.
had a teenage son and three school- chemotherapy, but the colon cancer Then his doctor told him about
age daughters, and was doing what recurred: first in his liver, then in a clinical trial with ERBITUX
he loved most—teaching chemistry his colon and finally in his lungs. (cetuximab). Developed by
at Kettering University in Flint, But through it all, he never lost Bristol-Myers Squibb and ImClone
Michigan. Suddenly, following the focus. “When you have cancer,” Systems Incorporated, ERBITUX
discovery of a blockage in his colon, he says, “you stand back and assess is a monoclonal antibody treatment
his life changed forever with just what’s most important. My family designed to target and block the
six words from his surgeon: “Well, comes first. I also want to be the epidermal growth factor receptor
you know you have cancer…” best possible teacher.” In 2002, (EGFR) expressed on the surface
Daryl was recognized as Kettering’s of certain cancer cells.
Outstanding Teacher of the Year. “ERBITUX was my last chance,”
Promising cancer Daryl says. In March 2003, he
treatments sometimes began weekly treatments. After
six weeks, a CT scan showed
come from unlikely places.
significant regression of cancerous
Ixabepilone, a novel epothilone
lesions. Since then, the lesions
now in Phase III clinical trials, have stabilized.
is derived from bacteria found ERBITUX was approved in
February 2004 by the U.S. Food
in garden soil.
and Drug Administration (FDA)
for use in combination with
TAXOL Makes a Difference in Japan irinotecan for the treatment of
patients with EGFR-expressing
Bristol-Myers Squibb’s breakthrough cancer prevalent in Japan, and patients previously had
treatment TAXOL®(paclitaxel) was not the first practically no effective option for treatment,” irinotecan-refractory metastatic
taxane available to patients in Japan when it says Hiroya Takiuchi, M.D., assistant professor
colorectal cancer and as a single
was approved for use in that country in 1997. in the Department of Internal Medicine at Osaka
agent for patients who are intolerant
However, it didn’t take long—in fact, it took Medical College. In clinical trials conducted
only six months—for TAXOLto lead the only in Japan, TAXOLachieved positive results to irinotecan. “Because it takes a
market. It still does today. in treating gastric cancer, and in 2001 Japan was
The success of TAXOLin Japan can be the first country to approve the chemothera-
credited to the company’s strategic approach to peutic agent for that indication. Now, says
developing the medicine to meet the specific Dr. Takiuchi, “it is encouraging to see
needs of Japanese patients. Backed by the my patients experiencing improvement in
results of clinical trials conducted exclusively their daily activities by receiving
in Japan and supported by the results of studies treatment with TAXOL.”
conducted in other countries, TAXOLwas Demand for TAXOLcontinues to
initially approved there for the treatment of grow in Japan at an annual rate of about
ovarian cancer, followed by breast and lung 15 percent. Clinical trials are currently
cancer in 1999. under way seeking additional indications
But it could do even more for patients. In and enhanced methods of treatment, which
Japan, for example, gastric cancer is a leading may help Dr. Takiuchi and other physicians
cause of cancer death. “Gastric cancer is very improve the lives of even more patients. •
8
2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb Companytargeted approach to cancer treat- Phase III clinical trials. We Following his success with
“With cancer, I was
ment, ERBITUX is an important anticipate that ixabepilone, if ERBITUX, Daryl accepted new
always fighting,
new treatment option for patients,” approved, would consolidate our responsibilities as director of
fighting, fighting,”
says Frank Pasqualone, senior vice global oncology position.” Several Kettering’s Center for Excellence
says Daryl Doyle, who
president, Oncology. “It’s also a innovative anticancer agents— in Teaching and Learning.
teaches chemistry at
brilliant example of our unrelent- including taxanes, epothilones and “ERBITUX has allowed me
Kettering University
ing commitment to oncology.” small targeted molecules—follow to continue to focus on the
in Flint, Michigan.
Today, the company offers ixabepilone in clinical development. important things in my life,”
“But lately, with
about 20 anticancer medicines As for Daryl Doyle, the com- he says. “It has given me hope.” •
ERBITUX as my ally,
to patients worldwide—including pany’s focus on oncology has
I am no longer
such mainstays of therapy as enabled one person and his family
fighting alone.”
Paraplatin(carboplatin), TAXOL® to continue focusing on what’s
(paclitaxel) and Ifex(ifosfamide). important in their lives.
“We have vast experience in devel-
oping and delivering important
cancer therapies,” says Renzo
Canetta, M.D., vice president,
Oncology Clinical Design and
Evaluation, “and following
ERBITUX, we have a robust
pipeline of promising compounds
discovered by Bristol-Myers Squibb
scientists. For example, ixabepilone,
a novel epothilone, has entered
9
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportF O C U S
H I V / A I D S
J
esse Hairston really likes to Jesse admits he mistakenly In June 2003, Jesse’s doctor
knock down pins at the neighbor- avoided treatments for too long prescribed Reyataz(atazanavir),
hood bowling alley. But nearly simply because he saw friends which had recently been approved
20 years ago, it was Jesse himself being treated and still dying. by the U.S. Food and Drug
who felt knocked down—first when He paid the price for waiting, Administration (FDA) as the
he learned his former partner was with such complications as weight first once-daily protease inhibitor
dying of full-blown AIDS and loss and a thrush infection that to be used in combination with
thenby his discovery a year later signaled a weakened immune other antiretroviral agents for the
“I don’t let being HIV
that he too was HIV positive. The system. Finally, in 1996, treatments treatment of HIV-1 infection. He
positive slow me down,”
49-year-old security officer, who began, but the side effects were was also prescribed Zerit(stavudine)
says Jesse Hairston.
lives in Shaker Heights, Ohio, significant. “I had an intestinal and another medicine.
“I work, bowl and go
recalls, “I was devastated and hurt.” infection for about a month, Reyatazoffers patients potential
to the movies. I feel
Family members reacted as if and I had lipid problems,” he says. benefits, including minimal impact
fortunate to have
he had told them he was going “In addition, what little fat I had on lipid levels and once-daily
Reyataz as part of my
to die soon. on my body was not distributed dosing. “With Reyataz,we’re on
HIV combination therapy.”
properly. It was leaving areas where our way to our goal of being the
it normally was and going to places leader in once-a-day therapy,” says
where it didn’t belong.” Timothy Ravenscroft, vice presi-
dent, Virology Global Franchise.
Two other company medicines
also allow once-daily dosing as
part of HIV combination therapy:
VidexEC (didanosine delayed-
release capsules) and Sustiva
10
2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb Company(efavirenz). Sustiva,the first growing pipeline of drugs in
once-daily HIV medication ever, development. The company’s
has demonstrated uninterrupted Pharmaceutical Research Institute
growth in demand from patients is developing a number of new
and their physicians since it was compounds, including two
approved for marketing by the potential first-in-class drugs that
FDA in 1998 and was initially could represent significant advances
marketed by DuPont Pharma- in the treatment of HIV/AIDS:
ceuticals. That growth accelerated an attachment inhibitor and an
with Bristol-Myers Squibb’s acqui- integrase inhibitor. The attach-
sitionof DuPont Pharmaceuticals— ment inhibitor has advanced to
and, thereby, of Sustiva—in 2001. Phase II clinical trials, while the
Bristol-Myers Squibb is
“Now,” says Jeffrey Hatfield, integrase inhibitor is in earlier
the only company offering
senior vice president, Virology, development.
“Sustivahas become a cornerstone Today, Jesse is able to work and once-daily oral medicines
of combination drug treatment to enjoy knocking down those pins. in each major treatment
regimens for HIV.” He says, “Reyatazis advancing
class for HIV.
Bristol-Myers Squibb has a the fight against this disease.” •
strong portfolio of medicines to
help address the needs of people
with HIV/AIDS, as well as a
Accelerating Access Initiative
More than 90 percent of the world’s estimated AAI recognizes that there are many obstacles
40 million people living with HIV/AIDS reside to achieving sustainable access to HIV treatment,
in developing countries. Although there is no and the only effective way to respond is through
cure, medical care in the industrialized world has the collaborative efforts of many different players.
significantly transformed and extended patients’ It is estimated that 150,000 people in Africa
lives. Now the challenge is to bring that same are now receiving treatment as a result of this
transformation to the developing world. “Of initiative. "While the numbers are small relative
course, on its own, providing medicines is not to the need, AAI has demonstrated that HIV
enough,” said Lee Jong-wook, M.D., director- treatment is possible in resource-limited
general of the World Health Organization, settings," says Mariclaire Payawal, senior
at a recent New York press conference on AIDS. director, Global Access Program. “AAI has
“Investing in treatment for AIDS also means catalyzed efforts—building on the political
strengthening health systems.” commitment of national governments,
In 2000, Bristol-Myers Squibb and other community advocacy, and the leadership
research-based pharmaceutical companies of the UN and other multilateral agencies—
joined forces with United Nations (UN) to find sustainable solutions to bring the
agencies to establish the Accelerating Access necessary medicines to those in need."
Initiative (AAI), a landmark public-private Through the Global Access Program,
collaboration to expand access to HIV care Bristol-Myers Squibb makes Videxand Zerit
and treatment in the developing world. available at no profit in sub-Saharan Africa. •
11
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportF O C U S
P s y c h i a t r i c D i s o r d e r s
A
bilify (aripiprazole), a That’s good news for Bristol-Myers Still, as beneficial as it may be
novel treatment for schizophrenia Squibb, but even better news for for patients with schizophrenia,
developed and marketed in partner- patients with schizophrenia. Abilify may also have great potential
shipwith Otsuka Pharmaceutical “Abilify helps people with schizo- for use in treating other psychiatric
Co., Ltd., was introduced in the phrenia control their symptoms, disorders. To determine the full
U.S. in late 2002. Yet already it is enabling many of them to lead range of benefits that Abilify may
Neil Richtand, M.D., Ph.D.,
being hailed as one of the 10 most more-productive and more-normal have to offer, Bristol-Myers Squibb
associate professor of
successful launches in the history lives,” says Jeffrey Lieberman, M.D., and Otsuka have launched a
psychiatry, University of
of the pharmaceutical industry. vice chairman of psychiatry and comprehensive research and
Cincinnati (left), and
professor of psychiatry and pharma- development program. One of the
Hugh Eakin of New
cology, University of North areas currently being explored is
Richmond, Ohio
Carolina at Chapel Hill. bipolar disorder, in which a person’s
mood swings like an unpredictable
pendulum between mania and
depression. Bristol-Myers Squibb
has filed for approval of Abilify
with the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) for a
12
2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb Companyparticularly life-disrupting aspect thing and expecting the same from a new mechanism of action, could
of bipolar disorder known as acute everyone else.” But after enrolling represent the next generation of
mania. Preparations for filing out- in the clinical trial with Abilify, antidepressants, with potentially
side the U.S. also are under way. “I could react to situations without better efficacy and a better safety
Neil Richtand, M.D., Ph.D., overreacting,” he says. profile than current therapies,”
associate professor of psychiatry at “Acute mania is the first target says Frank Yocca, Ph.D.,
the University of Cincinnati, has of the trials in the affective disorders executive director, Neuro-
run several Abilify clinical trials in arena where we’ve clearly been science Clinical Design
acute mania over the past few years. successful,” says Elyse Stock, M.D., and Evaluation.
“Abilify’s potential as a treatment for vice president and Abilify global “The chance to further
acute mania is highly promising,” development champion. “We have develop Abilify was the
he says. “I saw improvement in an aggressive program of clinical major reason I joined
symptoms in many clinical trial investigations to further evaluate Bristol-Myers Squibb,”
participants, and the improvement other illnesses that fall within the says Jack Grebb, M.D., vice
was also notable because of the rapid- spectrum of affective disorders.” president, Neuroscience Clinical
ityof response and how well the Abilify is backed by a growing Design and Evaluation. “And now
patients tolerated the medication.” pipeline of other compounds in our discovery group is working
One of those clinical trial patients development for psychiatric disor- on the next steps to develop More than
is Hugh Eakin, a chef and father ders. For example, researchers have new drugs to treat psychiatric
5.5 million people
of two teenage daughters, who lives discovered a novel and potentially disorders more effectively.” •
in industrialized
in New Richmond, Ohio. Hugh first-in-class CRF (corticotropin-
was diagnosed with bipolar disorder releasing factor) type 1 receptor countries suffer
in 1990. About the depression, he antagonist. CRF plays a major from bipolar—or
says: “It virtually shut me down. role in the body’s response to
manic depressive—
I had no will to live.” About the stress and appears to be linked
disorder, which
mania, he adds, “I was multitasking to depression and anxiety. “CRF
exponentially, trying to do every- type 1 receptor antagonists, with results in
debilitating
A New Alliance
mood swings.
Spurred by the successful launch of Abilify Francis Cuss, M.D., senior vice president, Drug
(aripiprazole), Bristol-Myers Squibb has Discovery. “As drugs resulting from the alliance
reaffirmed its commitment to neuroscience enter clinical trials, we will have the first option
research via an alliance with Lexicon Genetics to assume full responsibility for clinical devel-
Incorporated in late December 2003. opment and commercialization.”
Under the alliance, Lexicon will contribute “We consider Bristol-Myers Squibb
drug discovery targets from its neuroscience to be the ideal partner for Lexicon’s
pipeline and provide Bristol-Myers Squibb drug discovery efforts in neuroscience,”
with exclusive access to future neuroscience says Arthur T. Sands, M.D., Ph.D.,
discoveries from Lexicon’s genome screen. Lexicon’s president and chief executive
“Lexicon’s program to discover the physio- officer. “Bristol-Myers Squibb has a
logical functions of 5,000 genes will provide rapidly growing franchise in neuroscience
our alliance with a strategic advantage in that we believe will set the stage for greater
identifying key drug targets from the human commercial success for products emerging
genome for neuroscience indications,” says from our alliance.” •
13
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportF O C U S
A t h e r o s c l e r o s i s / T h r o m b o s i s
A
therosclerosis occurs when Atherothrombosis occurs when
fatty plaque, consisting of choles- a fatty plaque ruptures and causes
terol and other material, builds up platelets in the blood to form a clot
in the walls of an artery like rust in in an artery on top of the ruptured
a pipe. The condition is well-known plaque. Such a clot can restrict
to many and is often referred to as or even block blood flow to an
hardening of the arteries because organ, like the heart or the brain.
Atherothrombosis is of the stiffening effect plaque has on “The clotting condition known
responsible for more arteries. It’s one of the conditions as thrombosis is the focus of much
that cholesterol-lowering Pravachol current investigation in cardiology,
than a quarter of all
(pravastatin sodium) helps fight because it has become clear that
deaths worldwide.
when added to diet in people with blood clot formation is central
Atherothrombotic coronary heart disease. But too to potentially deadly conditions
clots can restrict few know that its cousin athero- like heart attack and stroke,”
thrombosis is equally insidious says Deepak L. Bhatt, M.D.,
blood flow to
and even more dangerous. Indeed, director of the Interventional
the heart
according to the World Health Cardiology Fellowship Program
or brain. Organization, the major manifes- at The Cleveland Clinic in
tations of atherothrombosis— Cleveland, Ohio.
heart attack and stroke—together In one of the largest clinical
represent the number one killers research programs ever developed
in the world. for a pharmaceutical product,
involving 12 trials and more than
Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging: ‘Innovators at Heart’
100,000 patients over several years,
Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging’s Clinical studies are under way supporting Bristol-Myers Squibb is taking steps
vision is to develop “unimagined innovations to potentially expanded indications and uses
to expand the treatment options
see ever deeper into the heart and vasculature.” for Definityand Cardiolite. In addition, in the
for atherothrombosis patients and
Playing a vital role in the management of patients pipeline is a new molecular imaging agent that
with coronary artery disease, its innovative cardio- targets vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque—a key for those at risk for atherothrom-
vascularimaging products complement medicines indicator of cardiovascular disease—as well
bosis. Bristol-Myers Squibb and
used to treat heart disease and related conditions. as a next-generation pharmacologic cardiac
its partner Sanofi-Synthélabo are
Cardiolite(Kit for the Preparation of Techne- stress agent that could be used in conjunction
tiumTc99m Sestamibi for Injection), the most with Cardiolite. discovering how the antiplatelet
successful radiopharmaceutical ever sold in the “Along with contributing to the company’s
agent Plavix (clopidogrel bisulfate),
history of nuclear medicine, enables doctors to growing leadership in atherosclerosis and
also marketed as Iscover
simultaneously assess heart blood flow and thrombosis, our vision as a business also
function via images from a single, noninvasive aligns with at least two other disease areas in some countries, may
test. Patients with a normal Cardiolitestress test of importance to the company: diabetes
help reduce the risk
have a greater-than-99 percent likelihood of and obesity,” says Cory Zwerling,
of future events—
not experiencing heart attack or cardiac death president, Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical
within a year after being tested. Definity(Vial Imaging. “All of these medical conditions including heart
for Perflutren Lipid Microsphere Injectable have significant cardiovascular implications,
attack and stroke—
Suspension) is an ultrasound contrast agent and we anticipate that our products
for these patients.
used in echocardiography for enhancement will continue to make important
of sub-optimal cardiac images to help provide contributions in these areas.” •
earlier and more definitive diagnoses.
14
2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyPlavix has been available to inhibitor—may help prevent deep annually,” says Adrienne Ross,
patients since 1998, and physicians vein thrombosis, a condition that Pharm.D., vice president and global
have already prescribed Plavix, involves the formation of potentially brand champion. “It is estimated
either alone or with aspirin, to life-threatening blood clots in the that 10 to 30 percent of grafts fail Deepak L. Bhatt, M.D.,
reduce the risk of future cardio- veins. The compound came to the within the first year. Reducing director of the
vascular events in more than company with its acquisition of the number of vein graft failures Interventional
22 million people worldwide. But, DuPont Pharmaceuticals in 2001. represents an important area of Cardiology Fellowship
says Brian Gavin, Ph.D., medical Also in Phase III development unmet medical need.” • Program at The
director, Global Marketing Life is edifoligide, an E2F decoy that Cleveland Clinic,
Cycle Management, “our focus now Bristol-Myers Squibb is developing Cleveland, Ohio
is to make Plavix part of the stan- with Corgentech Inc., a biotech-
dard of care for patients who have nology company. This novel treat-
experienced arterial thrombotic ment, used at the time of surgery,
events. Despite the use of currently seeks to help prevent vein graft
available agents that affect the failure following coronary artery
underlying disease processes bypass graft surgery or peripheral
leading to these events, there artery bypass surgery. “More
still clearly remains a significant than 1 million patients worldwide
unmet medical need.” undergo vascular bypass surgery
Dr. Bhatt, who also is an inves-
tigator in the Plavix clinical trial
program, says that focusing on
atherothrombosis will have a signif-
icantimpact. In fact, he adds, “a
better appreciation of the biology
of atherothrombosis may well
change the practice of medicine
in these patients.”
Bristol-Myers Squibb is devel-
oping a novel class of oral anti-
thrombotics as another weapon
against clots in the blood.
Currently in Phase II clinical trials,
the lead compound razaxaban—
a novel, highly selective factor Xa
15
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportF O C U S
D i a b e t e s
D
iabetes represents an treatment of type 2 diabetes in At the same time, Bristol-Myers
immense and growing global the U.S. in more than 20 years. Squibb initiated an intensive inter-
medical need. About 150 million Bristol-Myers Squibb licensed nal research program to discover,
people worldwide suffer from Glucophage from Lipha, S.A., now develop and deliver innovative
diabetes, and complications all Merck Santé S.A.S. Since then, new medicines to people with
too often include heart disease, the company’s commitment to diabetes. The first product from
stroke, blindness, kidney disease diabetes has continued to grow, this program—muraglitazar, a dual
and limb amputations. with important medicines like PPAR agonist—is now in Phase III
Narayanan Hariharan, Bristol-Myers Squibb has recog- Glucophage XR (metformin clinical trials. Muraglitazar targets
Ph.D. (left), senior nizedthe critical need for medicines extended-release tablets), two different types of PPARs
principal scientist, to treat diabetes and prevent or Glucovance (glyburide and (peroxisome proliferator-activated
Discovery Biology, and delay the onset of complications. metformin tablets) and, most receptors), with the aim of man-
Peter Cheng, Ph.D., In 1995 the company launched recently, Metaglip (glipizide aging type 2 diabetes and the
associate director, Glucophage (metformin), hailed and metformin) tablets. lipid abnormalities that are often
Metabolic Diseases as the first major advance in the associated with it, especially
Chemistry high triglyceride and
low HDL levels.
16
2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb Company“Muraglitazar is potentially the Bristol-Myers Squibb also
first in a new class of compounds licensed an inhaled short-acting Type 1 diabetes
to meet a broader need for people insulin product—currently in
results when the
with type 2 diabetes,” says Scott Phase I—from QDose, a joint
body cannot produce
Canterberry, vice president, venture between MicroDose
Metabolics Global Marketing, Technologies Inc. and Quadrant insulin, a hormone needed
and muraglitazar global brand Drug Delivery Ltd. to convert food into energy.
champion. “We’re really excited “Diabetes is a complex,
Type 2 diabetes results from
about the potential of this investi- multifaceted disease,” says Fred
insulin resistance or deficiency.
gational medicine to help people Fiedorek, M.D., vice president,
with type 2 diabetes.” Clinical Design and Evaluation Type 2 diabetes represents 90 percent
Another promising diabetes and Exploratory Development, “and of all cases.
treatment—a novel DPP4 it requires the use of monotherapy
inhibitor—is projected to enter and, often, multipronged combi-
Phase III clinical development nation therapy options, including physician loyalty established over
in 2004. Backup compounds for Glucophage, insulin-enhancing the past decade, and now we
both muraglitazar and the DPP4 drugs like PPAR agonists, beta-cell will soon have a comprehensive
inhibitor are in earlier stages of boosting drugs such as DPP4 portfolio of products that we’ll be
clinical development. inhibitors and, frequently, various able to offer them. We’ve always
In 2003, to complement and forms of insulin. Bristol-Myers been strong, but now we’re really
enhance the company’s current Squibb enjoys strong patient and ready to take off.” •
diabetes medicines and pipeline
compounds, Bristol-Myers Squibb Two Scientists, One Goal
entered into several important
For chemist Peter Cheng, Ph.D., the fight The search was painstaking, and during an
licensing pacts. Among them was against diabetes is personal. He knows that 18-month period, the team synthesized and
the majority of people with diabetes also suffer screened more than a thousand compounds. But
an agreement with Flamel Tech-
from serious cardiovascular risk factors such the difficult work paid off. In December 1998,
nologies S.A., a French biopharma-
as dyslipidemia, including high triglyceride they discovered muraglitazar—a dual PPAR
ceuticalcompany, to develop and and low HDL levels, which can lead to serious agonist, a single compound that would activate
heart disease. One of those people is his father. two different PPAR receptors: the PPAR-gamma
market Basulin,a controlled-release,
So it’s no wonder that Dr. Cheng joined receptor to aid in glycemic control for diabetes
long-acting unmodified human
forces in 1997 with biologist Narayanan and the PPAR-alpha receptor to regulate fatty
insulin for the treatment Hariharan, Ph.D., to lead a team acid/lipid metabolism, which can affect cardio-
of Bristol-Myers Squibb scientists vascularrisk. Now in Phase III development,
of type 1 and type 2
in the search for a new and inno- muraglitazar has the potential to be the first
diabetes. Basulin is
vative treatment for diabetes. in this important new class of drugs.
currently in Phase II Generally, type 2 diabetes Says Dr. Hariharan, “I’m enthusiastic about
and the cardiovascular risks or the possibility of one medicine helping people
clinical development.
metabolic disorders associated manage their diabetes and cardiovascular risk
with it are treated separately factors all at once.” Adds Dr. Cheng, “I’m
and with different medications. especially excited about muraglitazar…for
Dr. Hariharan and his colleagues my dad’s sake.” •
conceptualized a single compound that
could address both diabetes and dyslipidemia
at the same time, and the two set about finding
that single compound.
17
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportF O C U S
Alzheimer’s
Disease
It is estimated that more than currently targeting enzymes under development at Bristol- Finding new treatments for
15 million people in industrialized thought to generate a toxic protein Myers Squibb as a treatment for obesity, therefore, is not an easy task.
countries are afflicted with that may trigger Alzheimer’s in the chronic HBV infection, is cur- However, Bristol-Myers Squibb’s
Alzheimer’s disease or its earlier brain. Two classes of compounds— rently in Phase III trials. “In clini- experience and expertise in related
forms. But unfortunately, says gamma secretase and beta secretase cal trials conducted so far, metabolic disorders such as diabetes
Amy O’Donnell, M.D., medical inhibitors, chemotypes that may entecavir has shown high efficacy and atherosclerosis/thrombosis put
director, Neuroscience Clinical work in halting progression of the against the virus,” says Richard the company in an excellent position
Design and Evaluation: “There disease—are currently under Colonno, Ph.D., vice president, to play a major role. WhileBristol-
aresimply no robustly effective investigation in the company’s labs. Infectious Disease Drug Myers Squibb’s drug discovery efforts
treatments. Cognition enhancers Discovery. In addition, company are still at an early stage, company
Hepatitis
currently available don’t modify the researchers are focusing on hepa- researchers are pursuing a number
progression of the disease and often As many as 400 million people titis C, which is a growing prob- of promising possibilities and are
have significant side effects.” To around the world are chronically lem that currently affects millions focusing on two complementary
be an effective disease-modifying infected with hepatitis B virus around the world, including approaches: suppressing appetite
agent, a treatment must clearly (HBV), and while many may not about 5 million Americans. and increasing metabolic rate.
prevent, stop or slow the progress even know it, the infection can A large discovery effort is under
Rheumatoid
of dementia. That’s what Bristol- eventually cause liver cirrhosis, liver way focusing on multiple targets
Arthritis
Myers Squibb is searching for. cancer and even death. In fact, HBV to find viable candidates for test-
And that’s why the company is is the ninth-leading cause of death ing in humans. Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic,
worldwide. Vaccines can help stem progressive autoimmune disorder
Obesity
A molecular the spread of the disease, but they in which the body attacks itself
representation of cannot treat active HBVinfections. As much as half the population and the human skeleton literally
Entecavir, an investigational drug in the U.S. and many other indus- erodes away at the joints. Afflicting
LEA29Y, to prevent
trializedcountries is overweight or more than 1 percent of the world’s
solid organ
at risk for obesity, and the incidence population, rheumatoid arthritis
transplant of obesity is rising rapidly in devel- often results in severe long-term
rejection opingcountries. Unfortunately, pain and disability. Inflammation
current treatments are limited in experienced by those with
terms of their efficacy, tolerability rheumatoid arthritis is the result of
and safety. “There are probably a complex disease process triggered
multiple wiring loops in the brain by the underlying autoimmune
that make you want to eat,” says disorder. Yet recent therapies all
Simeon Taylor, M.D., Ph.D., vice represent the same class of drugs,
president, Discovery Biology. “If affecting chemical mediators of
you knock out one, there are still inflammation called cytokines.
a lot of loops left. So it may be that Bristol-Myers Squibb recognizes
in the end, it will take more than one the urgent need for additional
drug to see a significant and lasting treatments for rheumatoid
effect that promotes weight loss.” arthritis. To meet the challenge,
company scientists and clinical
18
2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanySolid Organ
Transplantation
represents a novel mechanism of
investigators are developing Organ transplant recipients of solid organ transplant rejection.
action, and we believe it may offer
abatacept (CTLA4Ig), a novel typically receive a cocktail of drugs “The need to improve long-term
a new treatment paradigm for
approach to treat rheumatoid that work in a complementary outcomes in organ transplant
improving long-term outcomes
arthritis with a mechanism of fashion to prevent the transplanted recipients is significant,” says
in transplant patients.” •
action that targets the central cause organ from being viewed as foreign Richard Wright, Ph.D., vice
of the inflammation and joint and thus rejected by the recipient’s president and LEA29Y global
destruction. “The concept behind immune system. At the same time, brand champion. “LEA29Y
abatacept,” says Mark Kreston, transplant recipients are at high
vice president and abatacept global risk of developing such comor-
brand champion, “is to inhibit bidities as diabetes, cardiovascular
the process of inflammation before disease and kidney toxicity.
it even gets started.” Abatacept is LEA29Y, a molecule discovered
currently in Phase III trials with a by Bristol-Myers Squibb researchers
submission to regulatory authorities and now in Phase II clinical devel-
possible in the near term. opment, is potentially the first
in a class of drugs called costimu-
lation blockers for the prevention
Back In The Swing Of Things
Eighty-year-old Elida Francisco has suffered
from rheumatoid arthritis for nearly 40 years.
With excruciating pain in her hands and feet,
she had to stop working, couldn’t walk and
couldn’t even hold a book. After enrolling in
a clinical trial with abatacept, or CTLA4Ig,
a novel investigational therapy from
Bristol-Myers Squibb that is designed to
short-circuit the process of inflammation,
Elida can now do her own shopping and
housework again. Most important, she says,
“I can play with my grandchildren
and be part of my family again.” •
19
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportF O C U S
O s t o m y a n d W o u n d T h e r a p e u t i c s
“B
ristol-Myers Squibb’s Angela, diagnosed with ulcerative
ConvaTec division is continually colitis at age six, from time to time
sharpening its focus on the people was so ill she couldn’t attend school.
who depend on our highest-quality “Life was pretty miserable,” Angela
ostomy and wound therapeutics says. “I couldn’t do the things that
products and services,” says Gary other kids could do.”
Restani, president, ConvaTec. At age 16, Angela underwent an
“We emphasize understanding ileostomy. Part of her large intestine
our customers as we move forward was removed, and an artificial
with new and better products so opening was created in her abdomen
they can move ahead with their for the elimination of bodily waste.
lives.” In 2003, ConvaTec intro- Since her surgery, Angela says,
duced six new products, and there “life has improved dramatically.”
are six key initiatives moving Getting fitted with a pouching
forward in development, with system was a challenge, though.
still more on the drawing boards. “An ostomy can be very damaging
“We’ve set ourselves apart from to your body image,” Angela says.
the competition with innovations “That’s why I love the low profile
like AQUACEL Agwound dressings of the Esteem synergyostomy
and the Esteem synergyostomy system.” And it’s done wonders
system, which we introduced in for her self-image. She adds:
2002,” adds Nino Pionati, vice “I can wear the system under my
president, Global Marketing form-fitting spandex swimsuit or
Research and Development. tight leather pants without worry.
Angela Kennedy, a ConvaTec It makes me feel confident about
senior territory manager in my appearance.”
Yorkshire, England, knows first- And as a sales representative
hand the importance of those at ConvaTec, Angela’s enthusiasm
innovations in her own life. Always for the product is heartfelt. “When
on the go, you’d never guess that I counsel fearful ostomy patients
and they see and hear what I can
do, it gives them a lot more reassur-
“It’s easy to sell
anceand confidence,” says Angela.
a product like
“The Esteem synergysystem is
Esteem synergy
really brilliant. There’s no way I’m
when you believe
going back.” •
in it and rely upon
it yourself,” says
Angela Kennedy,
a ConvaTec senior
territory manager.
20
2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyI n f a n t a n d C h i l d N u t r i t i o n
A
global organization can Most recently, Mead Johnson metabolic disorders reflects the care effective products both for regular
often be judged by how well it has developed 17 new disorder- and exacting attention the company feeding and for such rare and
serves the needs of its most specific products. Many of them gives to all of its more than 60 brand- challenging cases as Camille’s. We
specialized customers. are available in the U.S. and other name products available in more keep our eye on what’s really
Take 20-month-old Camille countries, but France is the first than 70 countries. “Mead Johnson important—our customers.” •
Sanchez of Salon, France. “She’s country to have launched the is an excellent first choice for feeding
a perfect baby!” her mom readily entire range. Since her diagnosis all infants who are not breast-fed,”
proclaims. Camille is indeed a of MSUD at 10 days of age, says Kim Carpenter, director, “Camille is our
delightful child, and she runs and Camille has followed a strict diet Global Marketing Coordination, adorable little
climbs everywhere. Naturally, the that includes two of those products: “precisely because we have girl,” says her mom.
Sanchez family is grateful Camille first, Mead Johnson BCAD 1 for demonstrated the medical and “She leads a normal
is so exuberantly healthy. infants, and now, BCAD 2. “Our technical expertise to develop life, thanks to
But you’d never know that best chance to help babies is to begin Mead Johnson.”
Camille suffers from a rare, life- continuous treatment with the
threatening metabolic disorder right formula immediately after
called maple syrup urine disease their birth,” says Aiphi Nguyen,
(MSUD). For Camille and other metabolic line manager, Mead
affected children, the consequences Johnson France.
can be devastating. Infants with Mead Johnson’s continued
MSUD are unable to metabolize commitment to the relatively small
or break down certain amino acids, number of families dealing with
which can then build up to toxic
levels and possibly lead to mental
retardation, coma and even death.
Fortunately, such children can lead
healthy lives if they’re diagnosed
early—and then treated with a
protein-restricted diet for their
entire lives.
Mead Johnson, a world leader
in infant and child nutrition with
Enfamil, Enfalacand other well-
known brands, has supported the
general and special feeding needs
of babies for almost a century. And
for nearly 50 years, Mead Johnson
has pioneered metabolic products
that can help infants like Camille
grow healthily into adulthood.
21
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportF O C U S
S o c i a l R e s p o n s i b i l i t y
S
waziland, a southern African seeks to address this serious health “What makes this initiative established with grants totaling
kingdom nestled between South and social threat in an innovative unique is that it reaches out to the $30 million that Bristol-Myers
Africa and Mozambique, may be and comprehensive way: A new whole family unit—to the mother, Squibb announced at the end of
small in size—a little larger than clinic in the Swazi capital of the partner and the child—through 2003. The sites are part of the
Connecticut—but it is saddled Mbabane has opened, where treatment as well as follow-up company’s pioneering $115 million
with an enormous burden. HIV-positive women and their support in the communities commitment to provide support
More than one-third of its adult newborns can go to receive inex- wherethese people live,” says for women and children infected
inhabitants (defined as men and pensive antiretroviral therapy. This Busi Bhembe, director of the or affected by HIV/AIDS in
women aged 15 to 49) are believed therapy includes medicine to help Swaziland Infant Nutrition Action nine countries in southern and
to be HIV positive—among them, prevent mother-to-child transmis- Network, a local nongovernmental western Africa, where the crisis
many pregnant women who are in sion of HIV, as well as more organization that is managing is especially acute.
danger of passing the virus to their extensive treatments for those the initiative. “Counselors and “These new projects—including
newborns. And apart from health with more advanced disease. volunteers help the mothers and the one in Swaziland—draw on
challenges, many of those with In addition, the women’s male their partners find buddies and key learnings from our four years
HIV/AIDS face discrimination, partners receive education about other supportive individuals in of work with SECURE THE
isolation and other difficulties in HIV/AIDS and, if necessary, their communities and work with FUTURE,” says John L. Damonti,
trying to live their lives. treatment, and newborn children them to ensure they are eating president, Bristol-Myers Squibb
A new project funded by are monitored to determine their properly, adhering to their treat- Foundation. “We’re focusing on
Bristol-Myers Squibb as part of HIV status and are provided ment regimens, and receiving integrating medical services with
the company’s SECURE THE therapy as appropriate. Following medical and psychological care,” enhanced community-based care
FUTURE® initiative to fight their treatment, these people will she says. and support to address the broad
HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa have access to a wide range of The Swaziland project is one of range of challenges posed by
enhanced and, in some cases, six new SECURE THE FUTURE HIV/AIDS. Our goal is to demon-
new community support services. community treatment sites strate and document this approach
so it can be replicated in other
resource-limited settings.”
Thinking Regionally, Acting Locally:
Reversing the Tide of HIV/AIDS in Africa
In the four years since Bristol-Myers Squibb support medical research and care, as well
launched its pioneering SECURE THE as community outreach and education
FUTURE®initiative to fight HIV/AIDS in programs, for women and children in
sub-Saharan Africa, the death toll there from countries in which, in some cases,
the disease has topped a staggering 10 million infection rates can exceed one of
people. Still, a great deal has changed in that every three adults. “Our approach is
time to potentially help stem the tide of the to partner with local organizations
disease in the future, says John L. McGoldrick, to find solutions in resource-limited
executive vice president and general counsel, settings and to build local health
Bristol-Myers Squibb. “Prevention strategies care and social services capacity,”
are showing results, and new institutions says Mr. McGoldrick. “To be
and approaches are taking root in the region successful, we must take the fight
that can address the medical as well as social against HIV/AIDS directly to the
and economic needs of people living with homes, schools, clinics and communities
HIV/AIDS or with its consequences,” he says. of the people affected by this terrible
SECURE THE FUTUREgrants—which pandemic.” •
totaled almost $100 million by the end of 2003—
22
2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyIn Swaziland, community mothers—and, we hope, as many
educators have begun fanning male partners and children,” she
out in the region surrounding says. “It’s clear that this project is
Mbabane to spread the word giving many people back their hope
about the clinic and the follow-up for the future. For people with
program. According to Ms. Bhembe, HIV, medicines represent an
the response has been enthusiastic. important lifeline, but so does a
“We’re off to a good start in caring community that has the
enrolling our target number of resources and knowledge to help
them live full, productive and
meaningful lives.” •
23
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportF O C U S
E x t e n d i n g a n d E n h a n c i n g L i f e
I
n 2003 Bristol-Myers Squibb with three Bristol-Myers Squibb about 60,000 patients worldwide. To defeat cancer, to conquer AIDS,
teamed up with cancer survivor and cancer medications at the Indiana The company’s trials have been to fight diabetes, to extend and
five-time Tour de France champion University Cancer Center—Lance recognized as models for the enhance human life. Ultimately,
Lance Armstrong to sponsor the said, “I count myself among the entire pharmaceutical industry. that is the hope — and the goal —
Bristol-Myers Squibb TOUR millions of people who owe their Biomedical research represents upon which Bristol-Myers Squibb
OFHOPE ™, an unprecedented lives to advances in cancer therapy the currency of hope—for ourselves, is focused. •
week long coast-to-coast cycling made in clinical trials.” for our children and for the future.
event—from Los Angeles to Today’s clinical trials are
Washington, D.C. discovering tomorrow’s medical
On October 11, the TOUROF breakthroughs. In 2003 Bristol-
HOPE team of cancer survivors, Myers Squibb supported more
caregivers, physicians, nurses and than 450 clinical trials involving
researchers began its 3,200-mile
odyssey. En route, the team
delivered messages of hope to
cancer survivors, patients and
family members. At a gathering
in Indianapolis — where Lance had
been treated for testicular cancer
Lance Armstrong
with cancer survivor
Jackson Verbanic, age 5,
at the TOUR OF HOPE
finale in Washington, D.C.
24
2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyFinancial Review
Management’s Discussion and Analysis 25
Consolidated Financial Statements 39
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 43
Report of Management and Independent Accountants 70
Five-Year Financial Summary 71
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the
of Operations has been revised to reflect the restatement. Company’s results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its
financial condition and liquidity. For additional discussion of this matter, see
Summary
Note 22, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.
For 2003, the Company reported annual global sales of $20.9 billion. Sales Long-term debt increased to $8.5 billion at December 31, 2003 from $6.3
increased 15% from the prior year level, reflecting volume increases of 9%, net billion at December 31, 2002 primarily due to the $1.0 billion of fixed rate notes
price increases of 2% and a 4% impact from foreign exchange fluctuations. and the $1.2 billion of floating rate convertible debentures issued in August 2003
U.S. sales increased 14%, partly due to the impact on 2002 sales from the and October 2003, respectively. The proceeds from these issuances were used to
workdown of non-consignment wholesaler inventory, while international sales repay short-term borrowings and fund the cash needs of the U.S. operations.
increased 18%, including a 10% favorable foreign exchange impact. In 2003, Cash provided from operating activities was $3.5 billion in 2003, and working
the Company had two product lines with sales of over $2.0 billion each— capital was $4.4 billion at December 31, 2003. The Company paid dividends of
Pravacholand Plavix. Pravacholsales grew 25%, including a 7% favorable for- approximately $2.2 billion, which provided a dividend yield of 4.4% in 2003.
eign exchange impact, to $2.8 billion, and Plavix sales grew 31%, including a In 2003, consistent with the Company’s mission to extend and enhance
3% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $2.5 billion. In addition to these two human life by developing the highest-quality products, the Company invested
products, the Company had 45 product lines with more than $50 million each $2.3 billion in research and development, a 3% growth over 2002. Research and
in annual sales, including 29 product lines with more than $100 million each in development dedicated to pharmaceutical products, including milestone pay-
annual sales, of which six had annual sales in excess of $500 million each. ments for in-licensing and development programs, was $2.1 billion and as a per-
Earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income centage of Pharmaceutical sales was 14.2% compared to 16.5% in 2002. The
taxes increased 70% to $4,694 million in 2003 from $2,761 million in 2002. compound annualized growth in pharmaceutical research and development
Net earnings from continuing operations were $3,106 million, or $1.60 and spending was 9% over the past five years.
$1.59 per share on a basic and diluted basis, respectively, compared to $2,067
Restatement of Previously Issued
million, or $1.07 and $1.06 per share on a basic and diluted basis, respectively,
Financial Statements
in 2002. While the Company expects exclusivity losses and new product mix to
challenge its margins, the Company remains committed to investing in its busi- The Company is restating its consolidated balance sheet at December 31,
nesses to maximize key growth drivers and to advance its pipeline. Several items 2002, and consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows, and comprehensive
affected the comparability of the results between 2003 and 2002, as discussed income and retained earnings for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001,
below under “Earnings” and “Outlook for 2004.” and its financial statements for the first, second and third quarters of 2003,
At December 31, 2003, the Company held almost $5.5 billion in cash, cash including comparable interim periods in 2002 (the “2003 Restatement”). The
equivalents and marketable securities. Approximately $5.4 billion of such cash, restatement affects periods prior to 2001. The impact of the restatement on such
cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by the Company’s foreign prior periods is reflected as an adjustment to opening retained earnings as of
subsidiaries, which the Company does not expect to repatriate in the foreseeable January 1, 2001. The restatement is reported in this annual report and in the
future. In 2004, the Company expects cash generated by its U.S. operations, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and will
together with borrowings from the capital markets, to sufficiently cover cash be reported in amendments to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly
needs for working capital, capital expenditures and dividends in the U.S. periods ended March 31, 2003, June 30, 2003, and September 30, 2003. The
Repatriation to the United States would require additional tax provisions not 2003 Restatement (i) corrects certain of the Company's historical accounting
reflected in the consolidated financial statements. For a further discussion of this policies to conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
matter, see “Critical Accounting Policies—Income Taxes” below. and (ii) corrects certain errors made in the application of GAAP.
The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant In late October 2002, the Company determined that certain of its sales to
pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this certain wholesalers for its U.S. pharmaceuticals business should be accounted
time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. for under the consignment sales accounting model and, accordingly, determined
Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next to restate its sales and earnings for sales to these wholesalers. Following that
few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal determination, the Company also determined that it would correct certain of its
25
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual Reportiiiiihistorical accounting policies to conform the accounting to GAAP and certain ended December 31, 2003, PwC has advised the Company and its Audit
known errors made in the application of GAAP that were previously not Committee that the “reportable condition” in the income tax accounting area
recorded because in each such case the Company believed the amount of any remains, and the Company expects to complete remediation of this reportable
such error was not material to the Company's consolidated financial statements. condition by the end of 2004.
In addition, as part of the restatement process, the Company investigated its Throughout Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
accounting practices in certain areas that involve significant judgments and and Result of Operations, all referenced amounts for prior periods and prior
determined to restate additional items with respect to which the Company con- period comparisons reflect the balances and amounts on a restated basis.
cluded errors were made in the application of GAAP, including certain revisions
Net Sales
of inappropriate accounting. In March 2003, the Company completed the
restatement of its financial statements for these items and restated its financial Sales in 2003 were $20.9 billion, an increase of 15% from the prior year. The
statements for the three years ended December 31, 2001, including the corre- increase in sales in 2003 is driven by volume, which increased over 2002 levels,
sponding interim periods, and the first and second quarters of 2002, including partly due to the impact on 2002 sales from the workdown of non-consignment
comparable prior interim periods in 2001 (the “2002 Restatement”). wholesaler inventory. U.S. sales increased 14% to $12,897 million in 2003 compared
After completing the 2002 Restatement, the Company continued to identify to a decrease of 4% to $11,348 million in 2002, while international sales increased
and implement actions to improve the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and 18% to $7,997 million in 2003, including a 10% favorable foreign exchange
procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with impact, compared to an increase of 8% to $6,758 million in 2002 (with no signifi-
this effort, the Company (i) has substantially strengthened the organization and cantforeign exchange impact). In general, the Company’s business is not seasonal.
personnel of the senior financial and control functions, (ii) adopted more rigor- For information on U.S. pharmaceuticals prescriber demand, reference is made
ous policies and procedures with respect to its balance sheet review process, (iii) to the table within Business Segments under the Pharmaceuticals section below,
focused its internal audit function on financial reporting controls, (iv) engaged which sets forth a comparison of changes in net sales to the estimated total prescrip-
a consultant to assist in the evaluation and documentation of certain financial tiongrowth (for both retail and mail order customers) for certain of the Company’s
reporting and disclosure processes throughout the Company and (v) engaged a primary care pharmaceutical products. Sales in 2002 were $18.1 billion compared
consultant to assist in a comprehensive and detailed review of certain of the with $18.0 billion in 2001, an increase of 1%. Sales in 2002 and 2001 included
Company’s tax reporting and accounting. In addition, at the request of the approximately $1,540 million and $331 million, respectively, of sales related to
Company’s Audit Committee, the Company’s independent auditors performed products acquired as part of the DuPont Pharmaceuticals acquisition (DuPont
more extensive procedures with respect to the Company’s interim financial Pharmaceuticals), which was completed on October 1, 2001. Domestic sales in
information during 2003 and, based on the auditors’ assessment of the Company’s 2002 decreased 4% to $11,348 million, while international sales increased 8%
risk profile, expanded the scope and amount of field work to be performed for to $6,758 million in 2002 (foreign exchange had no significant impact).
certain areas in connection with its audit of the Company for 2003. These actions The composition of the net increase in sales is as follows:
contributed significantly to the Company identifying additional errors relating Restated
to prior periods not reflected in the 2002 Restatement. For a discussion of the 2003 2002
individual restatement adjustments, see Note 2, Restatement of Previously
Volume 9% 3%
Issued Financial Statements for Years Ended December 31, 2002 and 2001.
Selling prices, net 2% (3%)
In connection with their audits of the 2002 Restatement and the Company’s
Foreign exchange 4% —
consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2002, the
Increase in sales 15% —
Company’s independent auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC),
identified and communicated to the Company and its Audit Committee two
“material weaknesses” (as defined under standards established by the American A significant portion of the Company’s U.S. pharmaceuticals sales is made to
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA)) relating to the Company’s wholesalers. The Company experienced a substantial buildup of wholesaler
accounting and public financial reporting of significant matters and to its initial inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals business over several years, primarily in
recording and management review and oversight of certain accounting matters. 2000 and 2001. This buildup was primarily due to sales incentives offered by
In addition, at that time, PwC identified and communicated to the Company the Company to its wholesalers, including discounts, buy-ins in anticipation of
and its Audit Committee a “reportable condition” (as defined under standards price increases, and extended payment terms to certain U.S. pharmaceuticals
established by the AICPA) relating to the Company’s internal controls over its wholesalers. These were generally offered toward the end of a quarter as an
financial reporting for income taxes. In 2003, the Company dedicated substantial incentive to wholesalers to purchase products in an amount sufficient to meet
resources to improving its controls over its accounting and financial disclosure the Company’s quarterly sales projections established by the Company’s senior
and reporting, and the auditors have not identified material weaknesses in con- management. The timing of the Company’s recognition of revenue from its sales
nection with their audit of the 2003 financial statements. In addition, the Company to wholesalers differs by wholesaler and by period.
has devoted substantial resources towards remedying the reportable condition in Historically, the Company recognized revenue for sales upon shipment of
relation to taxes. The Company also retained a consultant to assist in a compre- products to its customers. Under GAAP, revenue is recognized when substan-
hensive and detailed review of certain aspects of its tax accounting and report- tially all the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred. In the case of sales
ing. The Company examined its financial reporting for taxes in each significant made to wholesalers (i) as a result of incentives, (ii) in excess of the wholesaler’s
jurisdiction where the Company or one of its subsidiaries was subject to tax. As a ordinary course of business inventory level, (iii) at a time when there was an
result of this review, a number of prior period errors were identified, which are understanding, agreement, course of dealing or consistent business practice that
reflected in the 2003 Restatement. In addition, the Company undertook a the Company would extend incentives based on levels of excess inventory in
review to evaluate certain issues that had been raised concerning the manner in connection with future purchases and (iv) at a time when such incentives would
which the Company determined its provision for income taxes. The Company cover substantially all, and vary directly with, the wholesaler’s cost of carrying
has determined that prior to 2000 there were certain inappropriate adjustments inventory in excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary course of business inventory
to tax contingency reserves made for the improper purpose of recording a provi- level, substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership do not transfer upon
sion for income taxes consistent with the Company’s projected effective tax rate. shipment and, accordingly, such sales should be accounted for using the con-
In addition, there may have been inappropriate adjustments in 2001 and 2002. signment model. The determination of when, if at all, sales to a wholesaler meet
The Company has completed a review and has not been able to determine the foregoing criteria involves evaluation of a variety of factors and a number of
whether or not any of the errors relating to its tax contingency reserves being complex judgments.
corrected in the restatement are related to inappropriate accounting. In connection Under the situations described above, utilizing the consignment model, the
with the audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year Company does not recognize revenue upon shipment of product. Rather, upon
26
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb Companyshipment of product the Company invoices the wholesaler, records deferred rev- continuing operations increased to 14.9% in 2003 from 11.4% in 2002 and
enue at gross invoice sales price and classifies the inventory held by the wholesalers 10.4% in 2001.
as consignment inventory at the Company’s cost of such inventory. The Company During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company
recognizes revenue (net of discounts, rebates, estimated sales allowances and accruals recorded several items that affected the comparability of results of the periods
for returns) when the consignment inventory is no longer subject to incentive presented herein, which are set forth in the following table. For a discussion of
arrangements but not later than when such inventory is sold through to the these items, see Note 3, Alliances and Investments, Note 4, Restructuring and
wholesalers’ customers, on a first-in first-out (FIFO) basis. For additional discussion Other Items, Note 5, Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 6, Discontinued
of the Company’s revenue recognition policy, see Note 1, Accounting Policies. Operations.
In the 2002 Restatement, the Company restated its previously issued finan-
cial statements for the period 1999 through the second quarter of 2002 to cor- Restated Restated
rect the timing of revenue recognition for certain previously recognized U.S. Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2001
pharmaceuticals sales to Cardinal Health, Inc. (Cardinal) and McKesson
Acquired in-process research and development $ — $169 $2,772
Corporation (McKesson), two of the largest wholesalers for the Company’s U.S.
Litigation charge, net 199 659 77
pharmaceuticals business, that, based on the application of the criteria above,
Asset impairment charge
were recorded in error at the time of shipment and should have been accounted
for investment in ImClone — 379 —
for using the consignment model.
Restructuring and other items(1) 195 68 588
At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company’s aggregate cost of the phar-
Gain on sales of businesses/product lines — (30) (475)
maceutical products held by Cardinal and McKesson that were accounted for
394 1,245 2,962
using the consignment model (and, accordingly, were reflected as consignment
Income tax benefit on above items (36) (472) (1,057)
inventory on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet) was approximately $4
Settlement of prior year tax matters — (261) —
million and $58 million, respectively, of which approximately $2 million and $1
$358 $512 $1,905
million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, related to oncology prod-
ucts sold through the Oncology Therapeutics Network (OTN). The deferred
(1) Restructuring and other items consist of the following:
revenue, recorded at gross invoice sales price, related to the inventory of phar-
maceutical products accounted for using the consignment model was approxi-
Cost of Provision for
mately $76 million and $470 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002,
Products Restructuring
respectively, of which approximately $64 million and $39 million at December Dollars in Millions Sold R&D & Other Total
31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, related to OTN. As a result of the restatement
for the application of the consignment model, approximately $1,980 million of Year ended December 31, 2003
sales (excluding OTN and net of discounts, rebates and other adjustments) had Up-front payments
been reversed from the period 1999 through 2001, of which approximately for four licensing agreements $ — $102 $ — $102
$321 million and $1,397 million were recognized as revenue in 2003 and 2002, Accelerated depreciation of assets 53 — — 53
respectively, as consigned inventory held by Cardinal and McKesson was Termination benefits
worked down. A significant portion of the 2003 workdown was recognized in and other exit costs — — 50 50
the first quarter. The corresponding effect on earnings from continuing opera- Relocation expenses — — 13 13
tions before minority interest and income taxes was an increase of $237 million Asset impairment 14 — — 14
and $1,095 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Sales to Cardinal and Retention benefits — — 2 2
McKesson represented approximately 66%, 70% and 60% of U.S. Change in estimates — — (39) (39)
Pharmaceuticals net sales in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. $ 67 $102 $ 26 $195
The Company estimates, based on the data noted above, that the inventory of
pharmaceutical products held by the other U.S. pharmaceuticals wholesalers was Cost of Provision for
in the range of approximately $100 million in excess of or below approximately Products Restructuring
Dollars in Millions Sold R&D & Other Total
one month of supply at December 31, 2003. This estimate is subject to the inherent
limitations of estimates that rely on third-party data, as certain third-party infor-
Year ended December 31, 2002
mation was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations. The
Termination benefits $ — $— $ 71 $ 71
Company expects to account for certain pharmaceutical sales relating to OTN
Other exit costs — — 38 38
using the consignment model until its agreement with McKesson expires in 2006.
Accelerated depreciation of assets — 69 — 69
Earnings Asset write-down
and impairment charges 2 — 51 53
In 2003, earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and
Change in estimates (17) — (146) (163)
income taxes increased 70% to $4,694 million from $2,761 million in 2002.
$(15) $69 $ 14 $ 68
The increase was primarily a result of the sales increase and specified charges of
$1,207 million recorded in 2002 for litigation settlements, asset impairments
Decrease Cost of Provision for
and write-offs for in-process research and development. This increase was par- in Net Products Restructuring
tially offset by increased investment in advertising and promotion, and in mar- Dollars in Millions Sales Sold & Other Total
keting, selling and administrative expenses. Earnings from continuing operations
increased 50% in 2003 to $3,106 million from $2,067 million in 2002. In Year ended December 31, 2001
2003, basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased Downsized and rationalized
50% each to $1.60 and $1.59, respectively, from $1.07 and $1.06 in 2002, operations and facilities $ — $ — $519 $519
respectively. In 2002, earnings from continuing operations before minority Abandonment of non-strategic
interest and income taxes increased 22% to $2,761 million from $2,263 million pharmaceutical product lines 74 — — 74
in 2001. Earnings from continuing operations in 2002 increased 10% to $2,067 Change in estimates — 58 (63) (5)
million from $1,871 million in 2001. In 2002, basic and diluted earnings per $ 74 $ 58 $456 $588
share from continuing operations increased 11% and 12% to $1.07 and $1.06,
respectively, from $.96 and $.95 in 2001, respectively. Net earnings margins for
27
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiGross margin percentages were 63.7%, 63.9% and 69.4% in 2003, 2002 and States. As a percentage of sales, 2003 advertising and promotion expenses
2001, respectively. Gross margins were negatively impacted in 2003 due to increased to 6.8% from 6.3% in 2002 and 6.7% in 2001.
increased sales of lower-margin products in the OTN segment, $53 million in The Company’s investment in research and development totaled $2,279 mil-
accelerated depreciation charges and a $14 million charge for asset impairment lion in 2003, an increase of 3% over 2002 and an increase in 2002 of 2% over
and other restructuring expenses largely offset by increased sales of higher mar- 2001, but as a percentage of sales decreased to 10.9% in 2003 compared with
gin products such as Pravachol. The lower gross margin in 2002 compared to 12.2% in 2002 and 12.0% in 2001. Research and development costs included
2001 was principally due to the impact of generic competition in the United $102 million of charges related to the up-front payments for licensing agreements
States for Glucophage IR, TAXOL® and BuSpar, and an adverse change in prod- in 2003 and $69 million of accelerated depreciation on research facilities in
uct mix due to increased sales in the OTN segment. 2002. In 2003, research and development spending dedicated to pharmaceutical
The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before products decreased to 14.2% of Pharmaceuticals sales compared with 16.5%
minority interest and income taxes was 25.9% in 2003 compared with 14.2% in and 15.5% in 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company is focusing its
2002 and 9.4% in 2001. The increase in the 2003 effective tax rate over the 2002 research and development activities so that it can fully realize the value of its
effective tax rate is primarily due to the decrease in effective tax rate benefit from research and development pipeline. The new priorities include rebalancing drug
operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and Switzerland, treatment of provisions for discovery and development to increase support for the Company’s full late-stage
certain litigation reserves as non-deductible, and an increase in estimates for development pipeline and closing unnecessary facilities. They also include
contingent tax matters in 2003 compared to 2002. The increase in the 2002 devoting greater resources to ensuring successful near-term product launches
effective tax rate over the 2001 effective tax rate was primarily due to the decrease and increasing the Company’s efforts on in-licensing opportunities.
in effective tax rate benefit from operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and Switzerland, In 2002, the charges related to acquired in-process research and development
and the provision of $205 million of valuation allowances, comprised of $112 were $169 million, primarily related to milestone payments to ImClone Systems
million related to certain state and foreign net deferred tax assets, $93 million Incorporated (ImClone) for ERBITUX. Of the $200 million milestone payment
related to certain state and foreign tax net operating loss and tax credit carryfor- to ImClone, $160 million was expensed as acquired in-process research and
wards, partially offset by a $261 million net release of tax contingency reserves development in the first quarter of 2002. The remaining $40 million was recorded
related primarily to the settlement of prior year tax matters, and the determination as an additional equity investment to eliminate the income statement effect of
by the Company as to the expected settlement of ongoing tax litigation, which the portion of the milestone payment for which the Company has an economic
was resolved in 2003. The Company currently believes that the state net deferred claim through its ownership interest in ImClone. The acquired in-process research
tax assets, state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and foreign net and development charge in 2001 was $2,772 million, including $2,009 million
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for which valuation allowances have related to the DuPont Pharmaceuticals acquisition and $735 million attributable
been provided, more likely than not, will not be realized in the future. The lower to the ImClone equity investment. In addition, acquired in-process research and
effective income tax rate in 2001 results primarily from lower pre-tax income in development for 2002 and 2001 includes charges of $9 million and $28 million,
the United States, due to the write-off of acquired in-process research and devel- respectively, for licensing payments related to products not yet approved for marketing.
opment, as well as proportionately greater tax benefits from income earned in Restructuring programs were implemented to downsize, realign and stream-
lower tax rate jurisdictions such as Ireland, Puerto Rico and Switzerland. line operations in order to increase productivity, reduce operating expenses and
rationalize the Company’s manufacturing network, research facilities and
Expenses
administrative functions. Actions under the 2003 restructuring program are
Total costs and expenses, as a percentage of sales, were 77.5% in 2003 com- expected to be complete by 2006 while actions under the 2002 and 2001
pared with 84.8% in 2002 and 87.5% in 2001. restructuring programs were substantially complete at December 31, 2003.
Cost of products sold, as a percentage of sales, increased over the last three As a result of these actions, the Company expects the future annual benefit to
years to 36.3% in 2003 compared with 36.1% in 2002 and 30.6% in 2001, earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes
principally due to increased sales of lower-margin products from OTN largely to be approximately $64 million, $150 million and $400 million for the 2003,
offset by increased sales of higher margin products such as Pravachol. In 2003, 2002 and 2001 programs, respectively. For additional information on restruc-
cost of products sold includes $53 million of accelerated depreciation of assets in turing, see Note 4, Restructuring and Other Items.
manufacturing facilities in North America expected to be closed by the end of Litigation charges, net of settlement income, were $199 million in 2003,
2006 and a $14 million charge for asset impairment and other restructuring compared to $659 million in 2002 and $77 million in 2001. In the fourth quar-
expenses. Cost of products sold in 2002 included a $15 million reversal of prior ter of 2003, the Company established reserves for liabilities in the total amount
period reserves for inventory write-offs related to cancelled actions and in 2001 of $250 million, comprised of $150 million in relation to wholesaler inventory
included $58 million of other restructuring expenses. issues and certain other accounting matters, and $100 million in relation to
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, pharmaceutical pricing and sales and marketing practices. In addition, the
decreased to 22.3% in 2003 from 22.8% in 2002. In 2003, marketing, selling Company recorded charges of $31 million for other litigation matters and
and administrative expenses increased 13% to $4,660 million from $4,124 mil- recognized income of $82 million. The $82 million of income consists primarily
lion in 2002 primarily due to increased sales support for Abilify and of $30 million of income for patent defense cost reimbursement, $27 million
Avapro/Avalide, higher pension costs, higher charges related to system infra- in litigation settlement income and $21 million from the settlement of anti-trust
structure, higher insurance premiums, and unfavorable foreign exchange litigation involving vitamin manufacturers. The 2002 charges of $659 million
impact, principally related to the euro. Marketing, selling and administrative primarily related to BuSparand TAXOL®proposed settlements. For additional
expenses, as a percentage of sales, increased to 22.8% in 2002 from 22.5% in information on litigation, see Note 22, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.
2001, or 2% to $4,124 million from $4,058 million. This slight increase was Equity in net income of affiliates for 2003 was $151 million, compared with
mainly due to higher sales force expenses as a result of the addition of the $80 million and $78 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Equity in net
Medical Imaging business, acquired in October 2001. income of affiliates principally related to the Company’s joint venture with
Advertising and promotion expenses increased to $1,416 million in 2003 Sanofi-Synthélabo (Sanofi) and investment in ImClone. In 2003, the increase
from $1,143 million in 2002, primarily as a result of promotional support for in equity in net income of affiliates primarily reflects higher net income in the
the Abilify and Reyataz launches and Plavix in the United States, and additional Sanofi joint venture. For additional information on equity in net income of
support for in-line products and unfavorable foreign exchange impact in affiliates, see Note 3, Alliances and Investments.
Europe. In 2002, advertising and promotion expenses decreased to $1,143 mil- Other expenses, net of income were $179 million, $229 million and $98 mil-
lion from $1,201 million in 2001, primarily as a result of reduced spending on lion in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Other expenses include net interest
the metformin franchise and Vaniqa, partially offset by Abilify product launch expense, interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses, royalty income, and
expenses and increased support of Plavix and Avapro/Avalide in the United gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment. The decrease in
28
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb Companyexpenses in 2003 from 2002 was primarily due to net gains from interest rate including a 17% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $1,222 million. Sales
swaps. The increase in expenses in 2002 compared to 2001 was principally due for the Pravacholfranchise increased 8% to $2,266 million in 2002 from
to higher interest expenses related to borrowings of $6.5 billion related to the $2,101 million in 2001. A six-month exclusivity extension was granted
DuPont Pharmaceuticals and ImClone transactions in 2001. through April 2006.
• Sales of Plavix, a platelet aggregation inhibitor, increased 31%, including a
Business Segments
3% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $2,467 million in 2003. Sales of
The Company operates in four reportable segments—Pharmaceuticals, Avapro/Avalide, an angiotensin II receptor blocker for the treatment of
OTN, Nutritionals and Other Healthcare. In 2003, OTN, which was previ- hypertension, increased 29%, including a 6% favorable foreign exchange
ously included in the Pharmaceuticals segment, met the quantitative thresholds impact, to $757 million in 2003. Sales of Plavix and Avapro/Avalide increased
of a reportable segment as outlined in SFAS No. 131, Disclosure about Segments 61% and 20% to $1,890 million and $586 million, respectively, in 2002.
of an Enterprise and Related Information. Accordingly, prior periods have been Sales of Plavix and Avapro/Avalide were $1,171 million and $487 million
reclassified to conform with current year presentations. The percent of the in 2001. Plavix and Avapro/Avalide are cardiovascular products that were
Company’s sales by segment were as follows: launched from the alliance between Bristol-Myers Squibb and Sanofi.
% of Total Sales • Sales of TAXOL® and Paraplatin, the Company’s leading anticancer agents,
Restated Restated increased 9%, including a 12% favorable foreign exchange impact, to
2003 2002 2001 $934 million and 24% to $905 million (with no significant foreign exchange
impact), respectively, in 2003. International sales of TAXOL® increased 23%,
Pharmaceuticals 71 71 75
including a 14% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $882 million, led by
Oncology Therapeutics Network 11 10 8
strong sales in Japan and France. Domestic sales of TAXOL® decreased 62%
Nutritionals 10 10 10
to $52 million due to generic competition. Domestic sales of Paraplatin
Other Healthcare 8 9 7
increased 26% to $769 million. In 2002, TAXOL® sales decreased 23% to
$857 million from $1,112 million in 2001 and Paraplatinsales increased
Pharmaceuticals 23% to $727 million from $592 million in 2001.
In 2003, worldwide Pharmaceuticals sales increased 16% to $14,925 million, • Sales of Sustiva, an antiretroviral agent for the treatment of human immuno-
reflecting a 2% price increase, a 9% volume increase and a 5% increase in foreign deficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS), increased
exchange. Domestic sales in 2003 increased 16% to $8,431 million primarily 20%, including a 7% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $544 million in
due to increased sales of Plavix, the Pravacholfranchise, Abilify (total revenue), 2003 from $455 million in the prior year. International sales of Sustivaincreased
Glucovance and Paraplatin and partly due to the impact on 2002 sales from the 31%, including an 18% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $210 million
workdown of non-consignment wholesaler inventory, partially offset by in 2003. Sustivawas acquired from DuPont Pharmaceuticals in October 2001
decreased sales of Glucophage IR and TAXOL® primarily due to generic compe- and recorded sales were $68 million for that year.
tition. Reyatazwas launched in July 2003, with $83 million in domestic sales. • Monopril, a second-generation angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)
International sales in 2003 increased 17% to $6,494 million, including an 11% inhibitor for the treatment of hypertension, had increased sales of 10%,
favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily due to increased sales of Pravachol, including a 5% favorable foreign exchange impact, reaching $470 million in
TAXOL®, Plavix, Avapro/Avalide and Analgesic products in Europe partially 2003. Monopril sales increased 3% to $426 million in 2002 from $413 mil-
offset by price declines principally in Germany and Italy. lion in 2001.
In 2002, worldwide pharmaceuticals sales decreased 6% to $12,812 million, • Glucophage franchise sales increased 22% to $948 million in 2003, com-
reflecting a 4% price decline, a 2% volume decline, and no foreign exchange pared to a 67% decrease to $778 million in 2002 from $2,337 million in
impact.Domestic sales declined 14% to $7,273 million, primarily due to 2001. Glucophage IR, an oral medication for treatment of non-insulin
generic competition in the United States on Glucophage IR, TAXOL® and dependent (type 2) diabetes, saw 2003 sales decrease 46% to $118 million.
BuSpar, partially offset by increased sales of Plavix and the addition of products The decline in Glucophage IR was due to the introduction of generic met-
acquired from the DuPont Pharmaceuticals acquisition, which was completed on formin in the United States in early 2002. Glucophage IR sales decreased
October 1, 2001.In addition, the decrease in domestic pharmaceutical sales was 88% to $220 million in 2002 from $1,838 million in 2001. Glucovance, an
impacted by the buildup in the prior period of inventory levels at those U.S. oral combination drug, and Glucophage XR (Extended Release) tablets had
wholesalers not accounted for under the consignment model and the subsequent sales in 2003 of $424 million and $395 million, respectively, compared with
workdown in 2002. Approximately $1,395 million of sales (calculated net of sales in 2002 of $246 million and $297 million, respectively, and sales in
discounts, rebates and other adjustments) recognized in the year ended 2001 of $269 million and $230 million, respectively.
December 31, 2002 had been reversed from prior years. International sales increased • Sales of Zerit, an antiretroviral agent used in the treatment of HIV/AIDS,
9% to $5,539 million(with no significant foreign exchange impact) primarily decreased 20%, including a 5% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $354
due to increased sales of Pravacholand Plavix in Europe, TAXOL® in Japan and million in 2003, primarily as a result of decreased demand due to potential
the addition of products acquired from the DuPont Pharmaceuticals acquisition. adverse side effects. Zeritsales decreased 14% to $443 million in 2002 from
Key pharmaceutical products and their sales include the following: $515 million in 2001.
• Total revenue for Abilify, which is primarily domestic alliance revenue for the • Sales of Videx/VidexEC, an antiretroviral agent used in the treatment of
Company’s 65% share of net sales in copromotion countries with Otsuka HIV/AIDS, increased 2%, including an 8% favorable foreign exchange
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), was $283 million. The schizophrenia impact, to $267 million in 2003. Videx/VidexEC sales increased 9% to $262
agent was introduced in the United States in November 2002 and by million in 2002 from $240 million in 2001.
December 2003, had achieved more than a 7% weekly new prescription share • Sales of Serzone, a treatment for depression, decreased 56% to $98 million in
of the U.S. antipsychotic market. The Company received approval for a 2003 as a result of loss of exclusivity and a labeling change indicating a poten-
Supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) for Abilify for maintaining sta- tial serious side effect of the product. Serzonesales decreased 34% to $221
bility in patients with schizophrenia, and has announced that it submitted an million in 2002 from $334 million in 2001.
sNDA for Abilify for the treatment of acute mania in patients with bipolar
disorder to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Abilify is being The following table sets forth a comparison of reported net sales changes and
developed and marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb and its partner Otsuka. the estimated total prescription growth (for both retail and mail order cus-
• Sales of the Pravacholfranchise increased 25%, including a 7% favorable for- tomers) for certain of the Company’s U.S. pharmaceutical prescription prod-
eign exchange impact, to $2,827 million in 2003. Domestic sales increased ucts. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third-party data
22% to $1,605 million in 2003, while international sales increased 28%, provided by IMS Health, a supplier of market research to the pharmaceutical
29
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual Reportiiiiiindustry. A significant portion of the Company’s domestic pharmaceutical sales $1.8 billion, reflecting a 2% increase due to price, offset by a 1% decrease due to
is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescrip- volume and a 1% decrease due to foreign exchange. Worldwide infant formula
tion growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand. sales decreased 4% to $1,172 million, primarily in the specialty infant formula
business. In 2002, worldwide sales of Enfamildecreased 1% to $746 million
00001200300001 00000200200000 000020010000 from $753 million in 2001. Worldwide children’s nutritional sales increased
Restated Restated 24%, including a 2% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to $383 million in
% Change % Change % Change % Change % Change % Change 2002 from $308 million in 2001, as a result of a 53% increase in sales of
in U.S. in U.S.Total in U.S. in U.S. Total in U.S. in U.S.Total
Enfagrow, primarily across the Pacific region, to $121 million in 2002.
Net Sales Prescriptions Net Sales Prescriptions Net Sales Prescriptions
(a) (b) (a) (b) (a) (b) Earnings before minority interest and income taxes in the Nutritionals segment
increased to $542 million in 2003 from $486 million in 2002. This increase is
Pravachol 22 2 1 5 20 9
primarily due to increased sales of Enfamilin the United States. In 2002, earnings
Plavix 27 29 63 35 28 35
before minority interest and income taxes in the Nutritionals segment decreased
Avapro/Avalide 24 15 16 13 33 20
to $486 million from $517 million in 2001 as a result of increased promotional
Sustiva 13 17 ** 16 — N/A
spending and sales force expenses related to the Enfamilproduct line.
Monopril 16 (16) 2 (8) 3 (1)
Glucovance 72 3 (9) 48 ** **
Other Healthcare
Glucophage XR 33 (3) 29 81 ** **
The Other Healthcare segment includes ConvaTec, the Medical Imaging
Zerit (29) (25) (13) (11) (12) (8)
business and Consumer Medicines in the United States and Japan.
Cefzil 14 (4) (7) (14) (9) (11)
Sales in the Other Healthcare segment increased 8% to $1,705 million in 2003
Coumadin 1 (15) ** (16) — N/A
from $1,573 million in 2002. In 2003, the Other Healthcare sales increase was a
Videx/VidexEC (11) 3 15 13 22 13
result of a 2% increase due to volume, a 1% increase from changes in selling prices
** In excess of 200%. and a 5% increase due to foreign exchange. In 2002, sales in this segment increased
(a) Reflects change in net sales in dollar terms, including change in average selling prices and whole- 28% to $1,573 million, including $462 million of sales from Medical Imaging,
saler buying patterns. which was purchased in October 2001 as part of the DuPont Pharmaceuticals
(b) Reflects change in total prescriptions in unit terms, based on third-party data.
acquisition. The Other Healthcare sales increase in 2002 was a result of a 25%
increase due to volume, a 2% increase from changes in selling prices and a 1%
Earnings before minority interest and income taxes of $4,369 million in
favorable foreign exchange impact. Other Healthcare sales by business were as
2003 increased from $3,185 million in 2002 primarily due to increased sales,
follows:
which were partially offset by increased advertising and product spending on
% Change
new and existing in-line products. Earnings before minority interest and income
2003 2002
taxes in 2002 and 2001 were $3,185 million and $1,857 million, respectively.
Restated Restated to to
The increase in 2002 is mainly due to lower earnings in 2001 as a result of the
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001
write-off of $2,772 million of acquired in-process research and development.
Earnings in 2002 were unfavorably affected by higher sales of lower margin ConvaTec $ 843 $ 734 $ 710 15% 3%
products, and the full year impact of generic competition on Glucophage IR, Medical Imaging 508 462 98 10% **
TAXOL® and BuSparin the United States. Consumer Medicines 354 377 424 (6%) (11%)
Total Other Healthcare $1,705 $1,573 $1,232 8% 28%
Oncology Therapeutics Network
** In excess of 200%.
In 2003, OTN sales were $2,241 million, an increase of 18% over the prior
year due to volume growth and manufacturers’ price changes. In 2002, sales
increased 33% to $1,900 million from $1,433 million in 2001. OTN sales In 2003, the increase in ConvaTec sales was due to a 13% increase, including
accounted for 11%, 10%, and 8% of the Company’s net sales in 2003, 2002 a 9% favorable foreign exchange impact, in worldwide sales of ostomy products
and 2001, respectively. to $512 million and strong growth of worldwide wound care products, which
Earnings before minority interest and income taxes of $14 million in 2003 increased 17%, including a 9% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $319 mil-
decreased slightly from $15 million in 2002 and $16 million in 2001 due to lion. Foreign exchange in 2003 had a 9% favorable effect on sales. In 2002, the
margin erosion and investments in system infrastructure. increase in ConvaTec sales was due to a 1% increase in worldwide sales of
ostomy products to $453 million and strong growth of worldwide wound care
Nutritionals products, which increased 10% to $273 million. Foreign exchange contributed
In 2003, Nutritionals sales were $2,023 million, an increase of 11% over 1% to the sales increase in 2002.
2002. This increase was due to a 7% increase in volume and a 5% price increase, In 2003, the increase in Medical Imaging sales was from a 4% increase in
partially offset by a 1% decrease due to foreign exchange. International sales volume, a 4% increase from changes in selling prices and a 2% increase due to
increased 9%, including a 2% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to $938 foreign exchange. Worldwide sales of Cardioliteincreased 8% to $324 million
million from $862 million in 2002. Domestic sales increased 13% to $1,085 from $299 million in 2002. The Medical Imaging business was purchased in
million from $959 million in 2002. Worldwide children’s nutritionals sales October 2001 as part of the DuPont Pharmaceuticals acquisition.
increased 10%, including a 5% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to $421 The steady decline in sales of Consumer Medicines, from $424 million in 2001
million in 2003 from $383 million in 2002, as a result of a 29% increase in sales to $377 million in 2002 to $354 million in 2003, is in part due to distributors
of Enfagrow, primarily throughout the Pacific region, to $156 million in 2003. reducing inventory levels to more desirable levels. Consumption of Excedrin and
Worldwide infant formula sales increased 10% to $1,284 million in 2003 (with other consumer brands remain flat.
no significant foreign exchange impact), primarily due to increased sales of Earnings before minority interest and income taxes in the Other Healthcare
Enfamil, the Company’s largest-selling infant formula. International sales of segment decreased to $408 million in 2003 from $427 million in 2002, primarily
Enfamilincreased 5% to $239 million in 2003 from $228 million in 2002 (with as a result of unfavorable product mix and inventory write-offs for Excedrin
no significant foreign exchange impact) and domestic sales of Enfamilincreased QuickTabs in the Consumer Medicines business. In 2002, earnings before
10% to $569 million in 2003 from $518 million in 2002. Mead Johnson minority interest and income taxes in this segment increased to $427 million
Nutritionals (Mead Johnson) continues to be the leader in the U.S. infant for- from $328 million in 2001, primarily due to the strong growth in the ConvaTec
mula market. In 2002, Nutritionals sales remained consistent with 2001 sales at business and the addition of the Medical Imaging business in October 2001.
30
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyGeographic Areas
In December 2003, the Company confirmed that Mead Johnson, a wholly
The Company’s products are available in virtually every country in the world. owned subsidiary of the Company, had reached an agreement with Novartis AG
The largest markets are in the United States, France, Japan, Germany, Spain, (Novartis) to sell to Novartis its Adult Nutritional business, brands, trademarks,
Italy and Canada. patents and intellectual property rights for $385 million, including $20 million
Sales in the United States increased 14% in 2003, primarily due to increased contingent on a product conversion and a $22 million upfront payment for a
sales of Plavix, the OTN segment, the Pravacholfranchise, Abilify (total revenue), supply agreement. The transaction closed in February 2004 and a pre-tax gain
Glucovance and Paraplatin. These sales increases were partially offset by the of approximately $290 million is expected to be recorded in the first quarter of
continued impact of generic competition in the United States on Glucophage IR 2004. In 2003, Adult Nutritional products recorded sales of over $200 million.
and TAXOL® and the result of loss of exclusivity and a label change indicating a In December 2003, the Company and Lexicon Genetics Incorporated
potential serious side effect of Serzone. In 2002, sales in the United States decreased (Lexicon) formed a broad alliance for drug discovery, development and com-
4%, primarily due to the impact of generic competition in the United States on mercialization in the neuroscience field. The alliance is designed to accelerate
Glucophage IR, TAXOL® and BuSparand, to a lesser extent, the buildup in the the discovery and development of breakthrough therapies to address significant,
prior period of inventory levels at those U.S. wholesalers not accounted for under unmet medical needs in psychiatry and neurology. The Company made and
the consignment model and the subsequent workdown in 2002. This decrease expensed an initial payment of $36 million in 2003.
was partially offset by an increase in Plavix sales and the addition of the products In October 2003, the Company and Corgentech Inc., a biotechnology com-
acquired from DuPont. DuPont Pharmaceuticals’ U.S. pharmaceuticals sales in pany, entered into an agreement to jointly develop and commercialize
2002 were $603 million. The Company’s acquisition of DuPont Pharmaceuticals Corgentech’s E2F Decoy (edifoligide), a treatment for the prevention of vein
was completed on October 1, 2001. For information on U.S. pharmaceuticals graft failure following coronary artery bypass graft and peripheral artery bypass
prescriber demand,refer to the table within “Business Segments— graft surgery. The product is currently in Phase III clinical trials and the FDA
Pharmaceutical Segment”, which sets forth a comparison of changes in net sales has granted fast track status for both indications. The Company made and
to the estimated total prescription growth (for both retail and mail order cus- expensed an initial payment of $45 million in 2003. Further, there are potential
tomers) for certain of the Company’s primary care pharmaceutical products. clinical and regulatory milestone payments of $205 million, and arrangements
Sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa increased 23%, including a 16% for profit sharing.
increase from foreign exchange, as a result of sales growth of Pravacholin France, In August 2003, Pravigard™ PAC (Buffered Aspirin and Pravastatin
TAXOL® in France, Germany, Spain and Italy, analgesics in France, Plavix in Sodium) tablets were launched in the United States.
Germany and Spain, Avapro/Avalide in Italy and Sustivain Spain. The favorable In July 2003, Reyataz, a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV/AIDS,
impact of foreign exchange was primarily due to the euro. In 2002, sales in Europe, was launched in the United States. On March 2, 2004, the Company received
Middle East and Africa increased 12%, including a 4% increase from foreign marketing approval for Reyatazin the EU.
exchange, as a result of the strong growth of Pravacholin France and the United In August 2003, the Company entered into a licensing and commercializa-
Kingdom, Plavix in Spain, and the addition of the DuPont Pharmaceuticals tion agreement with Flamel Technologies S.A. to develop and market Basulin,
products in several markets in the region. DuPont Pharmaceuticals sales in the the first controlled release, unmodified human insulin to be developed as a
region were $309 million in 2002. once-daily injection for patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Basulinis now
Sales in the Other Western Hemisphere countries increased 10%, including a entering Phase II clinical development. Under the agreement, the Company will
5% decrease from foreign exchange, primarily due to increased sales of Plavix in lead and assume the cost of future development and manufacturing efforts for
Canada. The unfavorable impact of foreign exchange was primarily in Mexico, Basulinand will have exclusive worldwide rights to the product. The Company
Brazil and Venezuela. In 2002, sales in Other Western Hemisphere countries made and expensed an initial payment of $20 million in October 2003, with the
decreased 6%, including an 8% decrease from foreign exchange. The unfavor- potential for an additional $145 million in clinical and regulatory milestone
able impact of foreign exchange was primarily in Brazil and Argentina. The payments over time, and royalty payments on product sales.
underlying sales growth was primarily due to increased sales of Plavix in Canada
Financial Position, Liquidity and
and of nutritional products in Mexico.
Capital Resources
Pacific region sales increased 12%, including a 6% increase from foreign
exchange in 2003, as a result of increased sales of TAXOL® in Japan and Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $5.5
increased sales of Enfagrowthroughout the region. In 2002, sales in the Pacific billion at December 31, 2003, compared with $4.0 billion at December 31, 2002.
region increased 12%, including a 2% decrease from foreign exchange. Products Approximately $5.4 billion of such cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities
with strong growth included TAXOL® and Paraplatinin Japan and nutritional was held by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, which the Company does not
products in China and Indonesia. expect to repatriate in the foreseeable future. In 2004, the Company expects
cash generated by its U.S. operations, together with borrowings from the capital
Developments
markets, to sufficiently cover cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures,
In February 2004, the FDA approved the Biologics License Application and dividends in the U.S. Repatriation to the United States would require addi-
(BLA) for ERBITUX, the anticancer agent that the Company is developing in tional tax provisions not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. For a
partnership with ImClone. ERBITUX Injection is for use in combination with further discussion of this matter, see “Critical Accounting Policies—Income
irinotecan in the treatment of patients with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Taxes” below. Working capital increased to $4.4 billion at December 31, 2003,
(EGFR)-expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are refractory to irinote- from $1.6 billion at December 31, 2002, primarily as a result of an increase in
can-based chemotherapy and for use as a single agent in the treatment of marketable securities, and a decrease in commercial paper outstanding, partially
patients with EGFR-expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are intolerant offset by increased accrued expenses. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable
to irinotecan-based chemotherapy. In accordance with the agreement, the securities, the conversion of other working-capital items and borrowings are
Company paid ImClone $250 million in March 2004 as a milestone payment expected to fund near-term operations.
for the approval of ERBITUX by the FDA. Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2003 primarily consisted of U.S.
In January 2004, the Company announced that it has agreed to acquire dollar denominated bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or
Acordis Specialty Fibres (Acordis), a privately held company based in the United less. Marketable securities at December 31, 2003 primarily consisted of U.S.
Kingdom that licenses patent rights and supplies materials to ConvaTec for its dollar denominated floating rate instruments with a ‘AAA/aaa’ credit rating.
Wound Therapeutics line. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval Due to the nature of these instruments, the Company considers it reasonable to
which has not been received. If the transaction is completed, the Company expect that their fair market values will not be significantly impacted by a
expects to record an in-process research and development charge between $50 change in interest rates, and that they can be liquidated for cash at short notice.
million to $70 million. The average interest yield on cash and cash equivalents was 1.2% and 1.4% at
31
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiDecember 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, while interest yields on marketable Dividends declared per common share in each of the years 2003 and 2002
securities averaged 1.3% and 1.6%, respectively. were $1.12 and in 2001 was $1.11. In December 2003, the Company declared a
Long-term debt at December 31, 2003, was denominated primarily in U.S. quarterly dividend of $.28 per common share and an indicated dividend for the
dollars but also included Japanese yen long-term debt of $293 million. Long- full year 2004 of $1.12 per share.
term debt increased to $8.5 billion at December 31, 2003 from $6.3 billion at The Company’s financial condition and liquidity could be affected by obliga-
December 31, 2002 primarily due to the $1.0 billion of fixed rate notes and tions to make milestone or other one-time payments and by the outcome of
$1.2 billion of floating rate convertible debentures issued in August 2003 and pending litigations and investigations, including the challenge to the Plavix
October 2003, respectively. The proceeds from these issuances were used to patent. For more information, see Note 3, Alliances and Investments and Note
repay short-term borrowings and fund the cash needs of the U.S. operations. 22, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.
The convertible debentures mature in 2023, callable at par at any time on or
Contractual Obligations
after September 21, 2008 by the issuer, and are convertible into Company com-
mon stock at 24.2248 shares per $1,000 debenture ($41.28 per share), subject Payments due by period for the Company’s contractual obligations at
to increases up to a maximum of 38.7597 shares per $1,000 debenture based on December 31, 2003, are as follows:
increases in the market price of the stock above $41.28 per share, plus anti-dilu- Obligations Expiring by Period
tion and certain other adjustments. Interest is payable quarterly at an annual Later
rate equal to 3-month LIBOR, reset quarterly, minus 0.50%. A majority of the Dollars in Millions Total 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Years
Company’s debt is fixed rate. The Company, however, has entered into fixed to Short-term
floating interest rate swaps for $5.5 billion of its long-term debt. Interest borrowings $ 114 $ 114 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
expense in 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $488 million, $410 million, and $182 Long-term debt(1) 8,522 13 116 2,500 — 545 5,348
million, respectively. There was no U.S. commercial paper outstanding at Capital leases 13 — 4 2 2 1 4
December 31, 2003. U.S. commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2002 Operating leases 456 98 95 77 65 46 75
was $1,158 million with an average interest rate of 1.40%. The average interest Purchase obligations 528 227 187 72 30 12 —
rate for the year ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, on international short- ImClone milestone
term borrowings were 8.04% and 9.58%, respectively, and on current install- payment 250 250 — — — — —
ments of long-term debt were 1.33% and 2.56%, respectively. Stand-by letters
As of December 31, 2003, the Company had two revolving credit facilities, of credit 61 60 1 — — — —
totaling $1.0 billion in aggregate, as support for its domestic commercial paper Other long-term
program. These facilities were established in September 2001 and August 2003, liabilities $ 1,177 342 374 303 34 30 94
respectively, with a syndicate of lenders, and are extendable at each anniversary Total $11,121 $1,104 $777 $2,954 $131 $634 $5,521
date with the consent of the lenders. One of the revolving credit facilities has
certain financial covenants, of which the Company is in compliance with as of (1) 2004 obligations are included in short-term borrowings on the Company’s consolidated balance
December 31, 2003.There were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving sheet at December 31, 2003 and all balances represent the outstanding nominal long-term debt
values.
credit facilities at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The Company had unused
short-term lines of credit with foreign banks of $363 million and $321 million In addition to the above, the Company has committed to make potential
at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. future “milestone” payments to third-parties as part of in-licensing and develop-
In July 2003, Standard & Poor’s lowered its long-term credit rating on the ment programs. Payments under these agreements generally become due and
Company from AA to AA-. In addition, Standard & Poor’s affirmed its A-1+ payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or
short-term rating. In April 2003, Moody’s Investors Service lowered the commercial milestones. Because the achievement of these milestones is neither
Company’s long-term credit rating from Aa2 to A1. In March 2003, Moody’s probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded
affirmed the Prime-1 short-term credit rating for the Company. On March 10, on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.
2004, Standard & Poor’s placed both long-term and short-term ratings of the For a discussion of contractual obligations, reference is made to Note 16,
Company on watch with negative implications. Moody’s long-term credit rating Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt, Note 18, Financial Instruments,
remains on negative outlook. Note 20, Leases, and Note 21, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans.
Net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $3.5 billion in
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
2003, $0.9 billion in 2002 and $5.4 billion in 2001. The increase in 2003 is
attributable to higher net earnings and income tax payments in 2002 primarily On March 5, 2002, the Company and ImClone revised their agreement,
related to the gain arising from the sale of the Clairol business. Cash flow from reducing the total payment to $900 million from $1.0 billion. Pursuant to this
operations also included pension contributions of $332 million, $554 million agreement, the Company paid ImClone $200 million in 2001, $140 million in
and $300 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 2002 and $60 million in 2003. In accordance with the agreement, the Company
Cash provided from operations and borrowings were primarily used over the paid ImClone $250 million in March 2004 as a milestone payment for the
past three years to pay dividends of $6.5 billion and to repurchase 32 million approval of ERBITUX by the FDA and will pay an additional $250 million if
shares at a cost of $1.8 billion in 2002 and 2001. The Company has also ERBITUX is approved for use in a second tumor type. For a discussion of the
invested $2.9 billion over the past three years in capital expansion to improve Company’s agreement with ImClone, see Note 3, Alliances and Investments.
plant efficiency and maintain superior research facilities.
Recently Issued
During 2003, the Company did not purchase any of its common stock. The
Accounting Standards
Company repurchased 5 million and 27 million shares of common stock at a
cost of $164 million and $1,589 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively, bring- In January 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
ing the total shares acquired since the share repurchase program’s inception to Staff Position No. FAS 106-1, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related
372 million shares. The share repurchase program authorizes the Company to to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003
purchase common stock from time to time in the open market or through pri- (the “Act”). The Act introduces a prescription drug benefit under Medicare as
vate transactions as market conditions permit. This program is intended to well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that pro-
reduce the increase in shares outstanding from option exercises and to obtain vide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. At pres-
shares for general corporate purposes. ent, detailed regulations necessary to implement the Act including how to
Employment levels of 44,000 at December 31, 2003 remained constant account for the federal subsidy have not been issued. The Company has elected
compared to prior-year levels.
32
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb Companyto defer recognizing the effects of the Act until authoritative guidance on the In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-
accounting for the federal subsidy is issued. Based Compensation-Transition and Disclosure. SFAS in No. 148 amends SFAS
In December 2003, the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, to provide alternative methods
(SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104 (SAB 104), Revenue of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting
Recognition, which supersedes SAB 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial for stock-based employee compensation. In addition, SFAS No. 148 amends the
Statements. SAB 104’s primary purpose is to rescind accounting guidance con- disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require prominent disclosures in
tained in SAB 101 related to multiple element revenue arrangements, super- both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting
seded as a result of the issuance of EITF 00-21, “Accounting for Revenue for stock-based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on
Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.” Additionally, SAB 104 rescinds the reported results. The provisions of SFAS No. 148 are effective for financial state-
SEC’s Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements Frequently Asked Questions ments for the year ended December 31, 2002. SFAS No. 148 did not have a
and Answers(the FAQ) issued with SAB 101 that had been codified in SEC material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements as the
Topic 13, Revenue Recognition. While the wording of SAB 104 has changed to adoption of this standard did not require the Company to change, and the
reflect the issuance of EITF 00-21, the revenue recognition principles of SAB Company does not plan to change, to the fair value based method of accounting
101 remain largely unchanged by the issuance of SAB 104. The initial adoption for stock-based compensation.
of this accounting pronouncement did not have a material effect on the In November 2002, the FASB issued FIN 45. FIN 45 requires a guarantor to
Company’s consolidated financial statements. recognize a liability at the inception of the guarantee for the fair value of the
In December 2003, the FASB amended Statement of Financial Accounting obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee and include more detailed disclo-
Standards (SFAS) No. 132, Employer’s Disclosures about Pensions and Other Post sure with respect to guarantees. The types of contracts the Company enters into
Retirement Benefits. The amended Statement revises employer’s disclosures about that meet the scope of this interpretation are financial and performance standby
pension plans and other post-retirement benefit plans. It does not change the letters of credit on behalf of wholly owned subsidiaries. FIN 45 is effective for
measurement or recognition of those plans required by FASB Statements No. 87, guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The initial adoption of
Employer’s Accounting for Pensions, No. 88, Employer’s Accounting for Settlements this accounting pronouncement did not have a material effect on the Company’s
and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and Termination Benefits, and consolidated financial statements.
No. 106, Employer’s Disclosures about Post-retirements Plans Other Than Pensions.
Retirement Benefits
Revisions included in the amended Statement are effective for financial state-
ments for the fiscal years ended after December 15, 2003. The Company has Plan Description
provided the required disclosures (see Note 21, Pension and Other Postretirement The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have defined benefit pension
Benefit Plans and Note 22, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies). plans and defined contribution plans for regular full-time employees. The prin-
In December 2003, FASB revised Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of cipal defined benefit pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement
Variable Interest Entities(FIN 46). FIN 46, requires a variable interest entity to Income Plan and the principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers
be consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a majority of the risk Squibb Savings and Investment Program.
of loss from the variable interest entity’s activities or entitled to receive a majority Approximately 80-85% of total Company defined benefit pension plan assets
of the entity’s residual returns or both. FIN 46 also requires disclosures about and liabilities are held in U.S. plans. The assets for the U.S. plans are held in a
variable interest entities that a company is not required to consolidate but in single trust with a common asset allocation. Unless specified otherwise, the ref-
whichit has a significant variable interest. The consolidation requirements of erences in this section are to total Company plans (U.S. plans together with
FIN 46 (as revised) apply immediately to variable interest entities created after international plans).
January 31, 2003 and to existing entities in the first fiscal year or interim period Benefits under the Company’s defined benefit pension plans are based primarily
beginning after March 15, 2004. Certain of the disclosure requirements apply to on years of credited service and on participants’ compensation. Assets under the
all financial statements issued after January 31, 2003, regardless of when the variable Company’s defined benefit plans consist primarily of equity and fixed-income
interest entity was established. The initial adoption of this accounting pronounce- securities. At December 31, 2003, the fair market value of plan assets for the
mentdid not have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Company’s defined benefit plans increased to $4,085 million from $3,318 million
In May 2003, FASB issued SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial at December 31, 2002. For the U.S. plans, assets were allocated 71% to equity
Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity. SFAS No. 150 securities (compared to 67% at the end of 2002), 23% to fixed income securities
establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain financial (compared to 26% at the end of 2002) and 6% to private equity and other
instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. The Statement investments (compared to 7% at the end of 2002). Bristol-Myers Squibb com-
requires that an issuer classify a financial instrument within its scope as a liabil- mon stock represented less than 1% of assets for the U.S. plans at the end of
ity. The initial adoption of this accounting pronouncement did not affect the 2003 and 2002.
consolidated financial statements. The Company provides comprehensive medical and group life benefits for
In May 2003, the Emerging Issues Task Force reached a consensus on Issue substantially all U.S. retirees who elect to participate in the Company’s compre-
No. 00-21, “Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.” This Issue addresses hensive medical and group life plans. The asset allocation for these postretire-
certain aspects of accounting by a vendor for arrangements under which it will ment plans is identical to the asset allocation described above for the U.S.
perform multiple revenue generating activities. Because the Company’s revenue defined benefit pension plans.
recognition policies already conformed to the requirements of the consensus, its
initial adoption did not affect the consolidated financial statements. Accrual Accounting and Significant Assumptions
In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Consistent with the requirements of SFAS No. 87, Employers’ Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. SFAS No. 149 amends SFAS No. Pensions, the Company accounts for pension benefits using the accrual method,
133 by requiring that contracts with comparable characteristics be accounted for recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. The
similarly. Specifically, the Statement clarifies under what circumstances a contract accrual method of accounting for pension benefits necessarily requires actuarial
with an initial net investment meets the characteristics of a derivative, clarifies assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and tim-
when a derivative contains a financing component, amends the definition of an ing of the benefit payments.
underlying to conform with Interpretation No. 45, Guarantor’s Accounting and The Company’s key assumptions used in calculating its cost of pension bene-
Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of fits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected
Indebtedness of Others(FIN 45) (discussed below) and amends certain other long-term rate of return on plan assets. The Company, in consultation with its
existing pronouncements. The initial adoption of this accounting pronounce- actuaries, evaluates the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in
ment did not have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. calculating its cost of pension benefits, such as retirement, turnover and mortality
33
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual Reportiiiiirates, based on expectations or actual experience, as appropriate, and determines the reduction in the assumed discount rate. The reduction in the assumed discount
such assumptions on December 31 of each year to calculate liability information rate increased the present value of future benefit obligations and, accordingly, had
as of that date and pension expense for the following year. Depending on the the effect of increasing U.S. plans pension expense for 2003. In contrast, the
assumptions used, the pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes reduction in the assumed rate of compensation increase decreased the present value
and have a material effect on reported earnings. In addition, the assumptions of benefit obligations and, accordingly, had the effect of decreasing U.S. plans
can materially affect accumulated benefit obligations and future cash funding. pension expense for 2003. In addition, the Company revised, based on a change in
Actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of eco- its expectations of future terminations and retirements, its retirement and turnover
nomic and other factors. assumptions. This revision decreased the present value of benefit obligations and
The assumed discount rate used by the Company for determining future 2003 pension expense.
pension obligations under the U.S. plans is based on indices of AA and AAA-rated Following many years of strong performance, the global equity market fell
corporate bonds. The indices of high quality corporate bonds selected reflect sharply in 2000-2002 (the S&P 500 declined by a cumulative 37.6%). This was
the weighted-average remaining period of benefit payments. The assumed rate reversed in 2003 (the S&P 500 rose by 28.7%). The Company reduced the
of compensation increase used by the Company for determining future pension expected rate of return on U.S. plan assets at December 31, 2002 from 10% to
obligations reflects an estimate of the change in actual future compensation 9% and maintained the 9% throughout 2003 and into 2004.
levels due to general price levels, productivity, seniority and other factors. The Company expects that the net pension expense for its defined benefit
In 2003, net pension expense for the Company’s defined benefit pension pension plans included in earnings before minority interest and income taxes
plans included in earnings before minority interest and income taxes was $136 will be approximately $120 million higher in 2004 than the $136 million in
million compared to $34 million in 2002. 2003, reflecting, among other things, the decrease in the assumed discount rate,
The U.S. plans pension expense for 2003 was determined using a 6.75% the increase in the assumed rate of compensation increase and a decrease in the
assumed discount rate and a 3.25% assumed rate of compensation increase. The market-related value of the assets in the Company’s defined benefit pension
present value of benefit obligations at December 31, 2003 for the U.S. plans was plans. The rise in the global equity markets in 2003 has improved the funded
determined using a 6.25% assumed discount rate. If the assumed discount rate status of the plans after three difficult years in 2000-2002. Since investment
used in determining the U.S. plans pension expense for 2003 had been reduced gains and losses are recognized in market-related value of assets over a period of
by 0.5%, such expense would have increased by approximately $30.4 million. If years, however, the negative impact of the 2000-2002 period will be felt in 2004
the assumed rate of compensation increase used in determining the U.S. plans and following, putting upward pressure on pension expense.
pension expense for 2003 had been reduced by 0.25%, such expense would have The Company has used the same assumed discount rates and expected long-
decreased by approximately $6.8 million. If the assumed discount rate used in term rates of return on plan assets in calculating its cost of pension benefits and
determining the accumulated benefit obligation at December 31, 2003 had its cost of other postretirement benefits except in the case of the discount rate at
been reduced by 0.5%, the accumulated benefit obligation would have increased December 31, 2003. A rate of 6.25% was used for pension benefits versus
by $235.6 million. 6.00% for other postretirement benefits to reflect the shorter duration of the
The U.S. plans pension expense for 2003 was determined using a 9% expected other postretirement liabilities.
long-term rate of return on plan assets. If the expected long-term rate of return U.S. health care costs for the retiree population are assumed to increase 10.0%
on plan assets used in determining the U.S. plans pension expense for 2003 had in 2004 and then trend down to an expected increase of 4.5% per year by 2010.
been reduced by 1%, such expense would have increased by $34 million. If actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put significant
Actual rates of return earned on U.S. plan assets for each of the last ten years upward pressure on the Company’s expense for retiree health care.
were as follows: On December 8, 2003, President Bush signed into law the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. Following the guidance in
Year Return Year Return
FASB Staff Position FAS 106-1, the Company has elected to defer recognition of
2003 25.0% 1998 13.3% the effect of the Act, so the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and net
2002 (13.4%) 1997 22.2% periodic postretirement benefit cost do not reflect the effect of the Act on the
2001 (6.1%) 1996 17.0% Plan. Specific authoritative guidance on the accounting for the federal subsidy is
2000 3.5% 1995 23.0% pending from the FASB and guidance, when issued, could require a change to
1999 18.2% 1994 0.0% previously reported information.
Delayed Recognition of Actuarial Gains and Losses
As discussed below, GAAP provides that differences between expected and At December 31, 2003 and 2002, unrecognized net actuarial losses for the
actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. Company’s defined benefit plans were $1,676 million and $1,657 million,
At December 31, 2003, the Company further lowered its assumed discount rate respectively, based on the fair market value of plan assets. These unrecognized
for U.S. plans from 6.75% to 6.25%. Its assumed rate of compensation increase net actuarial losses reflect in part a decline in the fair market value of plan assets
was raised from 3.25% to 3.56% following a review of recent experience. and a reduction of the weighted-average discount rate in 2003 and 2002.
Compensation is assumed to increase on a scale with different rates for different SFAS No. 87 provides for delayed recognition of actuarial gains and losses,
ages. The 3.56% rate disclosed at December 31, 2003 is the single rate which, if including amounts arising from changes in the estimated plan benefit obligations
used at each age, would produce the same present value of benefit obligations. due to changes in the assumed discount rate, differences between the actual and
The same methodology for disclosure was used in calculating the 3.54% rate at expected returns on plan assets, and other assumption changes. SFAS No. 87
December 31, 2001 and the 3.25% rate at December 31, 2002. The reduction in requires that unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss, determined based on the
the discount rate and increase in the assumed rate of compensation increase had the market-related value of plan assets (which differs from fair market value and is a
effect of increasing the present value of benefit obligations and, accordingly, will calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational
have the effect of increasing pension expense for 2004. In addition, the Company manner over not more than five years), be amortized in pension income or expense
revised, based upon a review of experience, its assumption for active mortality. for the year to the extent that such unrecognized net actuarial loss or gain exceeds
This revision had the effect of increasing the present value of benefit obligations 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value
and, accordingly, will have the effect of increasing pension expense for 2004. of plan assets at the beginning of the year. These net gains and losses are recognized
At December 31, 2002, the Company lowered its assumed discount rate for as pension income or expense prospectively over a period that approximates the
U.S. plans from 7.25% to 6.75%, to reflect a decline in yields on high quality average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits
corporate bonds, and its assumed rate of compensation decrease from 3.54% to under the plans (approximately 10 years) to the extent that they are not offset by
3.25%, to reflect expectations of lower inflation in the future and consistent with losses and gains in subsequent years.
34
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyAt December 31, 2002, the unrecognized net actuarial loss, determined based substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred. In the case
on the market-related value of plan assets, was $994 million. This amount of sales made to wholesalers (i) as a result of incentives, (ii) in excess of the
exceeded 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market wholesaler’s ordinary course of business inventory level, (iii) at a time when there
related value of plan assets by $577 million. At December 31, 2003, the unrec- was an understanding, agreement, course of dealing or consistent business practice
ognized net actuarial loss, determined based on the market-related value of plan that the Company would extend incentives based on levels of excess inventory in
assets, was $1,717 million. This amount exceeded 10% of the greater of the pro- connection with future purchases and (iv) at a time when such incentives would
jected benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets by $1,241 cover substantially all, and vary directly with, the wholesaler’s cost of carrying
million. Unless offset by future unrecognized gains from higher discount rates or inventory in excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary course of business inventory level,
higher than expected returns on plan assets, amortization of this $1,241 million substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership do not transfer upon shipment
unrecognized loss is expected to increase pension expense for each of the follow- and, accordingly, such sales should be accounted for using the consignment
ing ten years by approximately $124 million per year, which amount is reflected model. The determination of when, if at all, sales to a wholesaler meet the fore-
in the higher expense expected in 2004. going criteria involves evaluation of a variety of factors and a number of complex
In the event the fair market value of pension plan assets of a particular plan is judgments. Under the consignment model, the Company does not recognize
less than the accumulated benefit obligation for such plan at year-end, GAAP revenue upon shipment of product. Rather, upon shipment of product the
may require an additional minimum liability and, in such circumstances, a Company invoices the wholesaler, records deferred revenue at gross invoice sales
reduction in stockholders’ equity or an establishment of an intangible asset. At price and classifies the inventory held by the wholesalers as consignment inventory
December 31, 2003, fair market value of the Company’s defined benefit pension at the Company’s cost of such inventory. The Company recognizes revenue
plan assets was $4,085 million and the related accumulated benefit obligation (net of discounts, rebates, sales allowances and accruals for returns, all of which
was $4,154 million. The Company recognized an additional minimum liability involve significant estimates and judgments) when the consignment inventory
of $53 million (cumulative $203 million) at December 31, 2003, which was off- is no longer subject to incentive arrangements but not later than when such
set by the $53 million charge in other comprehensive income included in stock- inventory is sold through to the wholesalers’ customers, on a FIFO basis.
holders’ equity. At December 31, 2002, fair market value of the Company’s The Company’s estimates of inventory at the wholesalers and deferred rev-
defined benefit pension plan assets was $3,318 million, and the related accumu- enue on consigned inventory are based on the projected prescription demand-
lated benefit obligation was $3,604 million. The Company recognized an addi- based sales for its products, as well as the Company’s analysis of third-party
tional minimum liability of $142 million (cumulative $150 million) at information, including information obtained from certain wholesalers with
December 31, 2002, which was offset by the creation of a $10 million intangi- respect to their inventory levels and sell-through to customers and third-party
ble asset and $132 million charge in other comprehensive income included in market research data, and the Company’s internal information. The Company’s
stockholders’ equity. estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party
data, as certain third-party information was itself in the form of estimates, and
Plan Funding reflect other limitations.
The Company’s funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute
amounts to provide for current service and to fund past service liability. The Acquired In-Process Research and Development
Company contributed to the defined benefit plans $332 million and $554 mil- The fair value of in-process research and development acquired in a business
lion in 2003 and 2002, respectively. combination is determined by independent appraisal based on the present value
of each research project’s projected cash flows. An income approach is utilized that
Critical Accounting Policies
is consistent with guidance in the practice aid issued by the American Institute
The Company prepares its financial statements in conformity with account- of Certified Public Accountants entitled, Assets Acquired in a Business Combination
ing principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of finan- to Be Used in Research and Development Activities: A Focus on Software, Electronic
cial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the use of estimates and Devices and Pharmaceutical Industries. Future cash flows are predominately based
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, including on the net income forecast of each project consistent with historical pricing,
disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities, at the date of the finan- margins and expense levels of similar products. Revenues are estimated based on
cial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the relevant market size and growth factors, expected industry trends, individual
reporting period. The Company’s critical accounting policies are those that are project life cycles and the life of each research project’s underlying patent. In
both most important to the Company’s financial condition and results of opera- determining the fair value of each research project, expected revenues are first
tions and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the adjusted for technical risk of completion. The resulting cash flows are then dis-
part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make counted at a rate approximating the Company’s weighted average cost of capital.
estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of
the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates or judgments used in the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
preparation of the consolidated financial statements, actual results may vary In accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal
from these estimates. of Long-Lived Assets, the Company periodically evaluates whether current facts
The Company believes that the following represent its critical accounting or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its depreciable long-lived
policies. For a summary of all of the Company’s significant accounting policies, assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are
including the critical accounting policies discussed below, see Note 1, determined to exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows produced by
Accounting Policies. Management and the Company’s independent accountants the long-lived asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the
have discussed the Company’s critical accounting policies with the Audit carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If an asset is deter-
Committee of the Board of Directors. mined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the
asset’s fair value and its carrying value. An estimate of the asset’s fair value is
Revenue Recognition based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. If quoted market
The Company’s accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation
impact on its reported results and relies on certain estimates that require the techniques, including a discounted value of estimated future cash flows. The
most difficult, subjective and complex judgments on the part of management. Company reports an asset to be disposed of at the lower of its carrying value or
The Company recognizes revenue for sales when substantially all the risks and its estimated net realizable value.
rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, except in the case of cer- Goodwill is evaluated at least annually for impairment in accordance with
tain transactions with its U.S. pharmaceuticals wholesalers, which are accounted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS No. 142 requires that
for using the consignment model. Under GAAP, revenue is recognized when goodwill be tested for impairment using a two-step process. The first step is to
35
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual Reportiiiiiidentify a potential impairment, and the second step measures the amount of determines such earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future, additional
the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is deemed to be impaired if the carrying tax provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the
amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. SFAS No. assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the
142 requires that indefinite-lived intangible assets be tested for impairment amounts of income taxes that would have to be provided.
using a one-step process, which consists of a comparison of the fair value to the The Company evaluates the need for a deferred tax asset valuation allowance
carrying value of the intangible asset. Such intangible assets are deemed to be by assessing whether it is more likely than not that it will realize its deferred tax
impaired if their net book value exceeds their estimated fair value. assets in the future. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is
The estimates of future cash flows, based on reasonable and supportable required often requires significant judgment including the forecast of future tax-
assumptions and projections, require management’s judgment. Any changes in able income and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the
key assumptions about the Company’s businesses and their prospects, or deferred tax valuation allowance are made to earnings in the period when such
changes in market conditions, could result in an impairment charge. assessment is made.
In addition, the Company has operations in tax jurisdictions located in most
Equity Investments areas of the world and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. Tax audits by
The Company reviews its equity investments for impairment based on its their nature are often complex and can require several years to resolve. Accruals
determination of whether the decline in market value of the investment below for tax contingencies require management to make estimates and judgments
the Company’s carrying value is other than temporary. In making this determi- with respect to the ultimate outcome of a tax audit. Actual results could vary
nation, the Company considers Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18, from these estimates.
The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, which sets
Outlook for 2004
forth factors to be evaluated in determining whether a loss in value should be
recognized, including the Company’s ability to hold its investment, the market The Company expects to have both growth opportunities and exclusivity
price and market price fluctuations of the investment’s publicly traded shares challenges over the next several years. For 2004, it estimates reductions of net
and inability of the investee to sustain an earnings capacity, which would justify sales in the range of $1.2 to $1.3 billion from the 2003 levels for products which
the carrying amount of the investment. The Company’s investment in ImClone have lost or will lose exclusivity protections in 2003 or 2004, specifically the
is subject to this accounting. See Note 3, Alliances and Investments for a discus- metformin franchise in the United States, TAXOL® in Europe, Monoprilin the
sion of the Company’s investment in ImClone. United States and Canada, pravastatin in certain countries in Europe, Paraplatin
in the United States and Serzonein the United States. Sales rose in 2003, result-
Retirement Benefits ing in a higher base, and generic competition did not develop in 2003 as
The Company’s pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are accounted expected, thereby increasing the expected level of exclusivity losses in 2004. In
for using actuarial valuations required by SFAS No. 87, Employers’ Accounting for addition, the impact of exclusivity losses for Paraplatinanticipated to occur pri-
Pensions, and SFAS No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits marily in 2005 will be accelerated into 2004 if an anticipated six-month exten-
Other Than Pensions. The Company considers accounting for retirement plans sion of exclusivity protection based on pediatric studies is not obtained by April
critical because management is required to make significant subjective judg- 2004. The amounts of sales reductions from exclusivity losses, their realization
ments about a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, salary in particular periods and the eventual levels of remaining sales revenues are
growth, long-term return on plan assets, retirement, turnover, health care cost uncertain and dependent on the levels of sales at the time exclusivity protection
trend rates and mortality rates. Depending on the assumptions and estimates ends, the timing and degree of development of generic competition (speed of
used, the pension and postretirement benefit expense could vary within a range approvals, market entry and impact) and other factors. Subject to these uncer-
of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. In addition, the tainties, the Company estimates that there will be incremental exclusivity losses
assumptions can materially affect accumulated benefit obligations and future as measured against the net sales levels at the time exclusivity will be lost, of
cash funding. For a detailed discussion of the Company’s retirement benefits, see between $1 billion and $1.3 billion in each of the years 2005, 2006 and 2007.
“Retirement Benefits” above and Note 21, Pension and Other Postretirement The Company believes this revenue loss will be more or less offset by growth
Benefit Plans. of revenues resulting from growth of the Company’s in-line products, including
Plavix, Avapro/Avalide and Sustiva, the growth of recently launched exclusive
Restructuring products, Abilify and Reyataz, the growth of the recently FDA approved product
To downsize and streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities, ERBITUX, and by the introduction of late-stage pipeline products such as abat-
the Company has periodically recorded restructuring charges. As a result, the acept, entecavir and muraglitazar that may be approved within the next thirty-
Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including six months and begin to contribute significantly by 2007. Additionally, OTN
future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when the restruc- sales growth is expected to continue. This belief is subject to competitive factors
turing actions take place. Actual results could vary from these estimates resulting including those relating to Pravacholand to any adverse determination that may
in an adjustment to earnings. occur with respect to the Plavix patent litigation. See “Business—Competition”
and Note 22, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. In addition, there can be no
Contingencies assurance as to when or if the Company will obtain the required regulatory
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to contingencies, approvals for its late-stage pipeline products. The Company expects the result-
such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of its business, that cover a wide ing product mix to pressure Company margins because the products losing
range of matters, including government investigations, shareholders suits, prod- exclusivity protection carry higher margins than products expected to grow sales.
uct liability, environmental liability and tax matters. In accordance with SFAS Pravachol, a statin for cholesterol, is the Company’s largest product by net
No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, the Company records accruals for such con- sales. While the product is beginning to lose exclusivity in some markets,
tingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of between now and its loss of U.S. exclusivity in 2006, its expected rate of decline
loss can be reasonably estimated. For a discussion of contingencies, see Note 9, in market share could be accelerated by recent clinical studies.
Income Taxes and Note 22, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. The Company has historically reviewed and will continue to review its cost
base. Decisions that may be taken as a result of these reviews may result in
Income Taxes restructuring or other charges later this year or in future periods. At the same
As of December 31, 2003, taxes were not provided on approximately $12.6 time, the Company expects to invest behind in-line products and in its research
billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, as the Company has and development pipeline, particularly late-stage products, as reflected in earn-
invested or expects to invest the undistributed earnings indefinitely. If in the ings guidance. External development and licensing will remain important ele-
future these earnings are repatriated to the United States, or if the Company ments of the Company’s strategy, but the potential cost and impact of any
36
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb Companytransactions that may be entered into in the future are not built into the tion as the Company’s products mature and patents expire on products; (iii)
Company’s plans or guidance with respect to 2004 earnings. technological advances and patents attained by competitors; (iv) problems
The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant with licensors, suppliers and distributors; and (v) business combinations
pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this among the Company’s competitors or major customers.
time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. • Difficulties and delays inherent in product development, manufacturing and
Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next sale, such as (i) products that may appear promising in development but fail
few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal to reach market for any number of reasons, including efficacy or safety con-
matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the cerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals and the difficulty
Company’s results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its or excessive cost to manufacture; (ii) failure of any of our products to achieve
financial condition and liquidity. For additional discussion of this matter, see or maintain commercial viability; (iii) seizure or recall of products; (iv) the
Note 22, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. failure to obtain, the imposition of limitations on the use of, or loss of patent
The Company’s expectations for future sales growth described above include and other intellectual property rights; (v) failure of the Company or any of its
substantial expected increases in sales of Plavix, which had net sales of approxi- vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices
mately $2.5 billion in 2003. The composition of matter patent for Plavix, which and other application regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could
expires in 2011, is currently the subject of litigation in the United States. Similar lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in
proceedings involving Plavix also have been instituted outside the United States. product manufacturing; and (vi) other manufacturing or distribution problems.
The Company continues to believe that the patent is valid and that it is • Legal difficulties, including lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations,
infringed, and with its alliance partner and patent-holder Sanofi, is vigorously any of which can preclude or delay commercialization of products or
pursuing these cases. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the out- adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition,
come of these litigations, or if there were an adverse determination in these liti- including (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) adverse decisions in litigation,
gations, the timing of potential generic competition for Plavix. However, if including product liability and commercial cases; (iii) the inability to obtain
generic competition were to occur, the Company believes it is very unlikely to adequate insurance with respect to this type of liability; (iv) recalls of pharma-
occur before sometime in 2005. Loss of market exclusivity for Plavix and the ceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) government
subsequent development of generic competition would be material to the investigations including those relating to wholesaler inventory, financial
Company’s sales of Plavix and results of operations and cash flows and could be restatement and product pricing and promotion; (vi) claims asserting viola-
material to its financial condition and liquidity. tions of securities, antitrust, federal and state pricing and other laws; (vii)
Actual results may differ materially from the experience described above. environmental matters; and (viii) tax liabilities. There can be no assurance
Some of the factors that could affect these expectations are described under that there will not be an increase in scope of these matters or that any future
“Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results” below. lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations will not be material.
• Increasing pricing pressures worldwide, including rules and practices of managed
Cautionary Factors That May Affect
care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, judicial decisions
Future Results
and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and
This annual report and other written and oral statements the Company healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general.
makes from time to time contain certain “forward-looking” statements within • Fluctuations in buying patterns and inventory levels of major distributors,
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the retail chains and other trade buyers, which may result from seasonality, pric-
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these forward-looking state- ing, wholesaler buying decisions (including the effect of incentives offered),
ments by the fact they use words such as “should”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, the Company’s wholesaler inventory management policies (including the
“target”, “may”, “will”, “project”, “guidance”, “intend”, “plan”, “believe” and workdown or other changes in wholesaler inventory levels) or other factors.
other words and terms of similar meaning and expression in connection with • Greater than expected costs and other difficulties, including unanticipated
any discussion of future operating or financial performance. One can also iden- effects and difficulties of acquisitions, dispositions and other events, includ-
tify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to his- ing obtaining regulatory approvals in connection with evolving business
torical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements are based on current strategies, legal defense costs, insurance expense, settlement costs and the risk
expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that of an adverse decision related to litigation.
could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes to • Changes to advertising and promotional spending and other categories of
differ materially from current expectations. These statements are likely to relate spending that may affect sales.
to, among other things, the Company’s goals, plans and projections regarding its • Changes in product mix that may affect margins.
financial position, results of operations, market position, product development, • Changes in the Company’s structure, operations, revenues, costs, staffing or
product approvals, sales efforts, expenses, performance or results of current and efficiency resulting from acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances, restruc-
anticipated products and the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceed- turings or other strategic initiatives.
ings, and financial results, which are based on current expectations that involve • Economic factors over which the Company has no control such as changes of
inherent risks and uncertainties, including internal or external factors that could business and economic conditions including, but not limited to, changes in
delay, divert or change any of them in the next several years. interest rates and fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates.
Although it is not possible to predict or identify all factors, they may include • Changes in business, political and economic conditions due to political or
but are not limited to the following: social instability, military or armed conflict, nationalization of assets, debt or
• New government laws and regulations, such as (i) health care reform initia- payment moratoriums, other restrictions on commerce, and actual or threat-
tives in the United States at the state and federal level and in other countries; ened terrorist attacks in the United States or other parts of the world and
(ii) changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may related military action.
cause delays in approving, or preventing the approval of, new products; (iii) • Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the FASB, the SEC or the
tax changes such as the phasing out of tax benefits heretofore available in the AICPA, which may require adjustments to financial statements.
United States and certain foreign countries; (iv) new laws, regulations and • Capacity, efficiency, reliability, security, and potential breakdown, invasion,
judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing within or across jurisdictions; destruction or interruption of information systems.
and (v) changes in intellectual property law. • Reliance of the Company on vendors, partners and other third parties to meet
• Competitive factors, such as (i) new products developed by competitors that their contractual, regulatory and other obligations in relation to their arrange-
have lower prices or superior performance features or that are otherwise com- ments with the Company.
petitive with Bristol-Myers Squibb’s current products; (ii) generic competi- • Results of clinical studies relating to the Company’s or a competitor’s products.
37
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiAlthough the Company believes it has been prudent in its plans and assump- The Company uses derivative instruments as part of its interest rate risk man-
tions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-look- agement policy. The derivative instruments used include interest rate swaps,
ing statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue which are subject to fair-value hedge accounting treatment. During 2003 and
reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. The 2002, the Company executed several fixed to floating interest rate swaps to con-
Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward- vert $5.5 billion of the Company’s fixed rate debt to be paid in 2006, 2008,
looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 2011 and 2013 to variable rate debt. For the year ended December 31, 2003,
the Company recognized a net reduction in interest expense of $116 million
Quantitative and Qualitative
that reflects the benefit of the lower floating rate obtained in the swap agree-
Disclosures About Market Risk
ment. SFAS No. 133 requires the revaluation, at fair value, of the swap contracts
The Company is exposed to market risk due to changes in currency exchange as well as the underlying debt being hedged. As such, the swap contracts and the
rates and interest rates. To reduce that risk, the Company enters into certain underlying debt have been revalued resulting in an increase in the current assets
derivative financial instruments, when available on a cost-effective basis, to and long-term debt of $40 million. Swap contracts are generally held to matu-
hedge its underlying economic exposure. These instruments are managed on a rity and are not used for speculative purposes. The following table summarizes
consolidated basis to efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of any the interest rate swaps outstanding as of December 31, 2003:
natural offsets. Derivative financial instruments are not used for speculative pur-
poses. Gains and losses on hedging transactions are offset by gains and losses on Notional
Amount of Variable
the underlying exposures being hedged. Any ineffective portion of hedges is
Underlying Rate
reported in earnings as it occurs. Dollars in Millions Debt Received Maturity Fair Value
Foreign exchange option contracts and forward contracts are used to hedge
Interest Rate Contracts
anticipated transactions. The Company’s primary foreign currency exposures in
Swaps associated with 1 month U.S.$
relation to the U.S. dollar are the euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, and
4.75% Notes due 2006 $2,000 LIBOR +1.04% 2006 $54
Mexican peso.
The table below summarizes the Company’s outstanding foreign exchange Swaps associated with 1 month U.S.$
contracts as of December 31, 2003. The fair value of all foreign exchange con- 4.00% Notes due 2008 400 LIBOR +0.35% 2008 1
tracts is based on year-end currency rates (and the Black-Scholes model in the
Swaps associated with 1 month U.S.$
case of option contracts). The fair value of option contracts and forward con-
5.75% Notes due 2011 2,500 LIBOR +1.50% 2011 (23)
tracts should be viewed in relation to the fair value of the underlying hedged
transactions and the overall reduction in exposure to adverse fluctuations in for- Swaps associated with 1 month U.S.$
eign currency exchange rates. 5.25% Notes due 2013 100600 LIBOR +0.42% 2013 148
Weighted $5,500 $40
Dollars in Millions, Average Notional Fair
Except Currency Rates Strike Price Amount Value Maturity
The following table summarizes the interest rate swaps outstanding as of
Foreign Exchange Forwards:
December 31, 2002:
Australian Dollar 0.64 $ 157 $ (22) 2004/2005
Brazilian Real 3.31 12 (1) 2004 Notional
British Pound 1.67 158 (8) 2004 Amount of Variable
Underlying Rate
Canadian Dollar 1.44 277 (28) 2004/2005
Dollars in Millions Debt Received Maturity Fair Value
Euro 1.14 2,058 (200) 2004/2005
Interest Rate Contracts
Japanese Yen 111.82 (285) 5 2004
South African Rand 8.30 14 (3) 2004 Swaps associated with 1 month U.S.$
Swedish Krona 8.03 53 (6) 2004 4.75% Notes due 2006 $1,500 LIBOR +0.54% 2006 $ 83
Swiss Franc 1.28 44 (2) 2004
Swaps associated with 1 month U.S.$
Total Contracts $2,488 ($265)
5.75% Notes due 2011 $1,500 LIBOR +1.31% 2011 $150
$3,000 $133
At December 31, 2002, the Company held option contracts with an aggre-
gate notional amount and fair value of $754 million and $12 million, respec-
It is estimated that a 10% change in interest rate structure would not have a
tively. These contracts granted the right to sell euros, Canadian and Australian
material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of
dollars. The Company also held forward contracts with an aggregate notional
operations or cash flows.
amount of $1,021 million and fair value was a liability of $37 million. These
The Company also has outstanding several interest rate and foreign currency
contracts primarily related to exposures in the euro.
swaps related to Japanese yen notes due through 2005. The aggregate fair value
of these instruments as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 was $0.2 million and
$1 million, respectively.
The Company had $8,522 million and $6,261 million of long-term debt
outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. See Note 16, Short-
Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt and Note 18, Financial Instruments for
additional information.
The Company maintains cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities
with various financial institutions, in order to limit exposure to any one finan-
cial institution. These financial institutions are headquartered primarily in
North America and Europe.
38
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyConsolidated Statement of Earnings
Year Ended December 31,
Restated Restated
Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Data 2003 2002 2001
Earnings
Net Sales $20,894 $18,106 $18,044
Cost of products sold 7,592 6,532 5,515
Marketing, selling and administrative 4,660 4,124 4,058
Advertising and product promotion 1,416 1,143 1,201
Research and development 2,279 2,206 2,157
Acquired in-process research and development — 169 2,772
Provision for restructuring and other items 26 14 456
Litigation charges, net 199 659 77
Gain on sales of businesses/product lines — (30) (475)
Asset impairment charge for investment in ImClone — 379 —
Equity in net income from affiliates (151) (80) (78)
Other expense, net 179 229 98
Total expenses 16,200 15,345 15,781
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Minority Interest and Income Taxes 4,694 2,761 2,263
Provision for income taxes 1,215 391 213
Minority interest, net of taxes 373 303 179
Earnings from Continuing Operations 3,106 2,067 1,871
Discontinued Operations
Net earnings — 32 226
Net gain on disposal — 38 2,565
— 70 2,791
Net Earnings $ 3,106 $ 2,137 $ 4,662
Earnings per Common Share
Basic
Earnings from Continuing Operations $1.60 $1.07 $ .96
Discontinued Operations
Net earnings .— .02 .12
Net gain on disposal .— .02 1.32
.— .04 1.44
Net Earnings $1.60 $1.11 $2.40
Diluted
Earnings from Continuing Operations $1.59 $1.06 $.95
Discontinued Operations
Net earnings .— .02 .11
Net gain on disposal .— .02 1.31
.— .04 1.42
Net Earnings $1.59 $1.10 $2.37
Average Common Shares Outstanding
Basic 1,937 1,936 1,940
Diluted 1,950 1,942 1,965
Dividends declared per common share $1.12 $1.12 $1.11
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
39
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiConsolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
and Retained Earnings
Restated Restated
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2001
Comprehensive Income
Net Earnings $ 3,106 $ 2,137 $ 4,662
Other Comprehensive Income:
Foreign currency translation, net of tax benefit of $25 in 2003, $53 in 2002 and $40 in 2001 233 161 160
Deferred (losses) on derivatives qualifying as hedges, net of tax benefit of $65 in 2003,
$19 in 2002 and $37 in 2001 (171) (25) (62)
Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax benefit of $17 in 2003, $43 in 2002 and $3 in 2001 (36) (89) (5)
Available for sale securities, net of taxes of $13 in 2003 23 1 —
Total Other Comprehensive Income 49 48 93
Comprehensive Income $3,155 $2,185 $4,755
Retained Earnings
Retained Earnings, January 1 $18,503 $18,530 $16,166
Net earnings 3,106 2,137 4,662
21,609 20,667 20,828
Cash dividends declared (2,170) (2,168) (2,142)
Zimmer common stock dividend — 4 (156)
Retained Earnings, December 31 $19,439 $18,503 $18,530
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
40
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyConsolidated Balance Sheet
December 31,
Restated
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002
Assets
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,444 $ 2,367
Marketable securities 3,013 1,622
Receivables, net of allowances of $154 and $129 3,646 2,968
Inventories, including consignment inventory 1,601 1,608
Deferred income taxes, net of valuation allowances 864 1,013
Prepaid expenses 350 482
Total Current Assets 11,918 10,060
Property, plant and equipment, net 5,712 5,334
Goodwill 4,836 4,836
Other intangible assets, net 1,732 1,904
Deferred income taxes, net of valuation allowances 1,234 1,097
Other assets 2,039 1,791
Total Assets $27,471 $25,022
Liabilities
Current Liabilities:
Short-term borrowings $ 127 $ 1,379
Accounts payable 1,893 1,551
Accrued expenses 2,967 2,537
Accrued rebates and returns 950 883
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 707 525
Dividends payable 543 542
Accrued litigation liabilities 267 600
Deferred revenue on consigned inventory 76 470
Total Current Liabilities 7,530 8,487
Other liabilities 1,633 1,518
Long-term debt 8,522 6,261
Total Liabilities 17,685 16,266
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders’ Equity
Preferred stock, $2 convertible series: Authorized 10 million shares; issued and outstanding 8,039
in 2003 and 8,308 in 2002, liquidation value of $50 per share — —
Common stock, par value of $.10 per share: Authorized 4.5 billion shares; 2,201,012,432 issued in 2003
and 2,200,823,544 in 2002 220 220
Capital in excess of par value of stock 2,477 2,491
Restricted stock (55) (52)
Other accumulated comprehensive loss (855) (904)
Retained earnings 19,439 18,503
21,226 20,258
Less cost of treasury stock — 261,029,539 common shares in 2003 and 263,994,580 in 2002 11,440 11,502
Total Stockholders’ Equity 9,786 8,756
Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity $27,471 $25,022
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
41
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiConsolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Year Ended December 31,
Restated Restated
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2001
Cash Flows From Operating Activities:
Net earnings $3,106 $2,137 $4,662
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation 491 427 481
Amortization 298 308 247
Provisions for deferred income taxes 249 (471) (1,376)
Acquired in-process research and development — 160 2,744
Litigation charges 278 669 77
Asset impairment charge for investment in ImClone — 379 —
Provision for restructuring and other items 29 68 608
Gain on sales of businesses/product lines (including discontinued operations) — (95) (4,750)
Loss (Gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (3) 19 11
Equity in net income of affiliates (151) (80) (78)
Impairment charges and asset write-offs 26 59 9
Litigation settlement payments (604) — —
Minority interest, net of distributions and taxes (3) 61 (44)
Pension contributions (332) (554) (300)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Receivables (554) 1,097 (269)
Inventories 127 200 (118)
Prepaid expenses 50 13 (95)
Other assets 324 698 135
Deferred revenue on consigned inventory (394) (1,556) 1,118
Accounts payable 287 83 (131)
Accrued expenses 207 (457) (199)
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 147 (2,386) 2,142
Other liabilities (66) 166 498
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 3,512 945 5,372
Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
Proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities 22,448 13,083 3,395
Purchases of marketable securities (23,833) (13,604) (4,209)
Additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized software (937) (1,075) (1,180)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 59 27 41
Proceeds from sales of businesses/product lines — 115 537
Proceeds from sale of Clairol — 45 4,965
Purchase of DuPont Pharmaceuticals — 29 (7,774)
Clairol and DuPont Pharmaceuticals divestiture and acquisition costs (18) (410) (148)
Investment in other companies (85) (133) (1,207)
Purchases of trademarks, patents and licenses (53) (107) (105)
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (2,419) (2,030) (5,685)
Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
Short-term borrowings net of repayments (1,210) 1,080 392
Long-term debt borrowings 2,286 6 4,854
Long-term debt repayments (3) (9) (3)
Issuances of common stock under stock plans 44 138 251
Purchases of treasury stock — (164) (1,589)
Dividends paid (2,169) (2,168) (2,137)
Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Financing Activities (1,052) (1,117) 1,768
Effect of exchange rates on cash 36 17 12
Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 77 (2,185) 1,467
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 2,367 4,552 3,085
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year $2,444 $2,367 $4,552
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
42
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyNotes to Consolidated Statements
Note 1
based sales for its products, as well as the Company’s analysis of third-party
Accounting Policies
information, including information obtained from certain wholesalers with
Throughout these notes to consolidated financial statements, certain prior respect to their inventory levels and sell-through to customers and third-party
periods and prior period comparisons reflect the balances and amounts on a market research data, and the Company’s internal information. The Company’s
restated basis. For information on the restatement, see Note 2, Restatement of estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party
Previously Issued Financial Statements For Years Ended December 31, 2002 data, as certain third-party information was itself in the form of estimates, and
and 2001. reflect other limitations.
Basis of Consolidation Sales Rebate and Return Accruals
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Bristol-Myers Medicaid rebate accruals were $234 million and $220 million at December
Squibb Company (BMS, the Company or Bristol-Myers Squibb) and all of its 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and managed healthcare rebate accruals were
controlled majority owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transac- $226 million and $212 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
tions have been eliminated. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to These and other rebate accruals were established in the same period the related
conform to the current year presentation, including the reclassification of revenue was recognized resulting in a reduction to sales and the establishment of
amounts relating to equity in net income of affiliates, which were formerly net- a liability, which is included in accrued liabilities. An accrual is recorded based
ted in minority interest, net of taxes and are now presented on a separate line in on an estimate of the proportion of recorded revenue that will result in a rebate
the consolidated statement of earnings (see also “Investments” below). or return. Prime vendor charge-back accruals, established in a similar manner,
are recorded as a reduction to accounts receivable and were $94 million and
Use of Estimates $126 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires the use of estimates and Income Taxes
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclo- The provision for income taxes has been determined using the asset and lia-
sure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial bility approach of accounting for income taxes. Under this approach, deferred
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported
reporting period. The most significant assumptions are employed in estimates amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. The provision for income
used in determining values of intangible assets, restructuring charges and accru- taxes represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the
als, sales rebate and return accruals, legal contingencies and tax assets and tax lia- change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from differences
bilities, as well as in estimates used in applying the revenue recognition policy between the financial and tax bases of the Company’s assets and liabilities, and
and accounting for retirement and postretirement benefits (including the actu- are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted.
arial assumptions). Actual results could differ from estimated results. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is
more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The Company does
Revenue Recognition not record a provision for income taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign
The Company recognizes revenue when substantially all the risks and rewards subsidiaries, which it does not expect to repatriate in the foreseeable future.
of ownership have transferred to the customer. In the case of certain sales made The Company establishes liabilities for possible assessments by taxing author-
by the Nutritionals and Other Healthcare segments and certain non-U.S. busi- ities resulting from known tax exposures. Such amounts represent a reasonable
nesses within the Pharmaceuticals segment, revenue is recognized on the date of provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid, and may need to be adjusted
receipt by the purchaser. Revenues are reduced at the time of sale to reflect over time as more information becomes known.
expected returns that are estimated based on historical experience. Additionally,
provisions are made at the time of sale for all discounts, rebates and estimated Cash and Cash Equivalents
sales allowances based on historical experience updated for changes in facts and Cash equivalents are primarily highly liquid investments with original matu-
circumstances, as appropriate. Such provisions are recorded as a reduction of rities of three months or less at the time of purchase, and are recorded at cost,
revenue. which approximates fair value.
In the case of sales made to wholesalers (i) as a result of incentives, (ii) in
excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary course of business inventory level, (iii) at a Marketable Securities
time when there was an understanding, agreement, course of dealing or consis- The Company accounts for marketable securities in accordance with
tent business practice that the Company would extend incentives based on levels Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 115, Accounting for
of excess inventory in connection with future purchases and (iv) at a time when Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. The Company determined the
such incentives would cover substantially all, and vary directly with, the whole- appropriate classification of all marketable securities was “available-for-sale” at
saler’s cost of carrying inventory in excess of the wholesaler’s ordinary course of the time of purchase. As such, at December 31, 2003 and 2002, all of the
business inventory level, substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership do Company’s investments in marketable securities were reported at fair value.
not transfer upon shipment and, accordingly, such sales should be accounted for Unrealized gains and losses are reported as a component of accumulated other
using the consignment model. The determination of when, if at all, sales to a comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity. The amortized cost of debt
wholesaler meet the foregoing criteria involves evaluation of a variety of factors securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts
and a number of complex judgments. Under the consignment model, the from the date of purchase to maturity. Such amortization is included in interest
Company does not recognize revenue upon shipment of product. Rather, upon income as an addition to or deduction from the coupon interest earned on the
shipment of product the Company invoices the wholesaler, records deferred rev- investments. The Company follows its investment managers’ method of deter-
enue at gross invoice sales price and classifies the inventory held by the whole- mining the cost basis in computing realized gains and losses on the sale of its
saler as consignment inventory at the Company’s cost of such inventory. The available-for-sale securities, which is the average cost method. Realized gains and
Company recognizes revenue when the consignment inventory is no longer sub- losses are included in other income (expense).
ject to incentive arrangements but not later than when such inventory is sold Marketable securities are classified as available for sale and are recorded at
through to the wholesalers’ customers, on a first-in-first-out (FIFO) basis. cost, which approximates fair value.
The Company’s estimates of inventory at the wholesalers and deferred rev-
enue on consigned inventory are based on the projected prescription demand-
43
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiNotes to Consolidated Statements
Inventory Valuation adjusts these investments to their fair value when a decline in market value is
Inventories are generally stated at average cost, not in excess of market. deemed to be other than temporary. During 2002, the Company recorded an
asset impairment charge of $379 million for an other-than-temporary decline in
Capital Assets and Depreciation the market value of ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone).
Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalized at Long-term investments in securities, which comprise marketable equity secu-
cost. Depreciation is generally computed on a straight-line method based on the rities and securities and investments for which market values are not readily
estimated useful lives of the related assets. The estimated useful lives of the available, are included in other assets. Marketable equity securities are classified
major classes of depreciable assets are 50 years for buildings and 3 to 40 years for as available-for-sale and reported at fair value. Fair value is based on quoted mar-
machinery, equipment and fixtures. The Company periodically evaluates ket prices as of the end of the reporting period. Securities and investments for
whether current events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its which market values are not readily available are carried at cost. Unrealized gains
depreciable assets may not be recoverable. and losses are reported, net of their related tax effects, as a component of accu-
mulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity until sold.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets At the time of sale, any gains or losses are calculated by the specific identification
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. method and recognized in other (income)/expense. Losses are also recognized in
144, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. The adoption of SFAS income when a decline in market value is deemed to be other-than-temporary.
No. 144 did not have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements
of the Company. SFAS No. 144 establishes the accounting for impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
long-lived tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill and for the disposal The Company adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,
of a segment of a business. Pursuant to SFAS No. 144, the Company periodi- on January 1, 2002, with certain provisions adopted as of July 1, 2001 with
cally evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying respect to amortization of goodwill arising from acquisitions made after June 30,
value of its depreciable assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such 2001. SFAS No. 142 addresses the initial recognition and measurement of
circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash intangible assets acquired outside a business combination and the recognition
flows produced by the long-lived asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is and measurement of goodwill and other intangible assets subsequent to their
compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If acquisition. Under the new rules, goodwill is no longer amortized but is subject
an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the differ- to annual impairment tests. In connection with this accounting change, the
ence between the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. An estimate of the goodwill resulting from the Company’s acquisition of the DuPont Pharmaceuticals
asset’s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. business (DuPont Pharmaceuticals) and investment in ImClone is not amortized.
If quoted market prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on The goodwill arising from business acquisitions prior to July 1, 2001 was
various valuation techniques, including a discounted value of estimated future amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from 15 to 40 years. This
cash flows. The Company reports an asset to be disposed of at the lower of its goodwill is not amortized effective January 1, 2002. In 2001, goodwill amorti-
carrying value or its estimated net realizable value. zation expense was $75 million.
In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill is tested for impairment upon
Capitalized Software adoption of the new standard and annually thereafter. SFAS No. 142 requires
Certain costs to obtain internal use software for significant systems projects that goodwill be tested for impairment using a two-step process. The first step is
are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software, which to identify a potential impairment and the second step measures the amount of
ranges from four to 10 years. Costs to obtain software for projects that are not the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is deemed to be impaired if the carrying
significant are expensed as incurred. Capitalized software, net of accumulated amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. The
amortization, included in other assets, was $407 million and $363 million, at Company has completed its goodwill impairment assessment, which indicated
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. no impairment of goodwill.
Other intangible assets, consisting of patents, trademarks, technology and
Investments licenses, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, ranging
In January 2003, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards from 3 to 17 years. SFAS No. 142 requires that indefinite-lived intangible assets
Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46 or Interpretation), Consolidation be tested for impairment using a one-step process, which consists of a compari-
of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. FIN 46 clarifies the son of the fair value to the carrying value of the intangible asset. Such intangible
application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial assets are deemed to be impaired if their net book value exceeds their estimated
Statements, to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the charac- fair value. All other intangible assets are evaluated for impairment in accordance
teristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk with SFAS No. 144 as described under “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” above.
for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support from other parties; such entities are known as variable interest entities Product Liability
(VIEs). The FASB issued a revision to FIN 46 (FIN 46-R) in December 2003. Accruals for product liability are recorded, on an undiscounted basis, when it
FIN 46-R is effective for the interim period ending March 31, 2004 for all new is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can
or existing VIEs. The adoption of FIN 46 had no effect on the Company’s be reasonably estimated, based on existing information. These accruals are
financial statements. adjusted periodically as assessment efforts progress or as additional information
If an entity does not meet the definition of a VIE under FIN 46, the becomes available. Receivables for related insurance or other third-party recover-
Company accounts for the entity under the provisions of Accounting Principles ies for product liabilities are recorded, on an undiscounted basis, when it is
Board (APB) Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments probable that a recovery will be realized and classified as a reduction of litigation
in Common Stock, which requires that the Company consolidates all majority charges in the consolidated statement of earnings.
(more than 50%) owned subsidiaries where it has the ability to exercise control.
The Company accounts for 50% or less owned companies over which it has the Contingencies
ability to exercise significant influence using the equity method of accounting. In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to contingencies,
The Company’s share of net income or losses of equity investments is included such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of its business, that cover a wide
in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated statement of earnings. range of matters, including, among others, product liability, environmental lia-
The Company periodically reviews these equity investments for impairment and bility and tax matters. In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for
44
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyNotes to Consolidated Statements
Contingencies, the Company records accruals for such contingencies when it is try trends, individual project life cycles and the life of each research project’s
probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reason- underlying patent. In determining the fair value of each research project,
ably estimated. For a discussion of contingencies, reference is made to Note 9, expected revenues are first adjusted for technical risk of completion. The result-
Income Taxes and Note 22, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. ing cash flows are then discounted at a rate approximating the Company’s
weighted average cost of capital. Other acquired in-process research and devel-
Derivative Financial Instruments opment is expensed as incurred when the underlying product has not received
Derivative financial instruments are used by the Company principally in the regulatory approval and does not have any future alternative use. In addition,
management of its interest rate and foreign currency exposures. The Company costs that are nonrefundable, related to the acquisition or licensing of products
does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. that have not yet received regulatory approval to be marketed and that have no
The Company records all derivative instruments on the balance sheet at fair alternative future use are charged to earnings as incurred.
value. Changes in a derivative’s fair value are recognized in earnings unless spe-
cific hedge criteria are met. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, Earnings Per Share
the changes in the fair value of the derivative and of the hedged item attributable Basic earnings per common share are computed using the weighted-average
to the hedged risk are recognized as a charge or credit to earnings. If the deriva- number of shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per common
tive is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portions of changes in the share are computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding
fair value of the derivative are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) during the year plus the incremental shares outstanding assuming the exercise of
and are subsequently recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings when dilutive stock options and convertible instruments.
the hedged item affects earnings; cash flows are classified consistent with the
underlying hedged item. For purchased foreign currency options the entire Stock Compensation Plans
change in fair value is included in the measurement of hedge effectiveness for The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to
cash flow hedges. Ineffective portions of changes in the fair value of cash flow Employees, and related interpretations in accounting for its stock-based compen-
hedges, if any, are recognized as a charge or credit to earnings. sation plans. The Company does not recognize compensation expense for stock
The Company designates and assigns derivatives as hedges of forecasted options granted under the plans as the exercise price of the option on the date of
transactions, specific assets or specific liabilities. When hedged assets or liabili- grant is equal to the fair market value as of that date. For grants of restricted
ties are sold or extinguished or the forecasted transactions being hedged are no stock, the Company recognizes compensation expense on a straight-line basis
longer expected to occur, the Company immediately recognizes the gain or loss over the period that the restrictions expire.
on the designated hedging financial instruments in the consolidated statement The following table summarizes the Company’s results on a pro forma basis
of earnings. as if it had recorded compensation expense based upon the fair value at the grant
date for awards under these plans consistent with the methodology prescribed in
Shipping and Handling Costs SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, for 2003, 2002 and
The Company typically does not charge customers for shipping and handling 2001:
costs. Shipping and handling costs are included in marketing, selling and
administrative expenses and for 2003, 2002 and 2001 were $258 million, $248 Restated Restated
million and $258 million, respectively. Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Data 2003 2002 2001
Advertising Costs Net Earnings:
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense was $448 mil- As reported $3,106 $2,137 $4,662
lion, $393 million and $401 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Deduct: Total stock-based employee
compensation expense determined under
Milestone Payments fair value based method for all awards,
The Company from time to time will enter into strategic alliances with net of related tax effects 183 247 246
third parties, which give the Company rights to develop, manufacture, market Pro forma $2,923 $1,890 $4,416
and/or sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are owned by such third
parties. As a result of these alliances, the Company may be obligated to make Basic earnings per share:
payments to alliance partners contingent upon the achievement of certain pre- As reported $1.60 $1.11 $2.40
determined criteria. For milestones achieved prior to marketing approval of the Pro forma 1.51 .98 2.28
product, such payments are expensed as research and development. After prod-
uct approval, any additional milestones are capitalized and amortized to cost of Diluted earnings per share:
products sold over the remaining useful life of the asset. All capitalized milestone As reported $1.59 $1.10 $2.37
payments are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circum- Pro forma 1.50 .97 2.25
stances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
See Note 17, Stockholders’ Equity for additional information.
Acquired In-Process Research and Development
The fair value of in-process research and development acquired in a business
combination is determined by independent appraisal and based on the present
value of each research project’s projected cash flows. An income approach is uti-
lized that is consistent with guidance in the practice aid issued by the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) entitled Assets Acquired in
Business Combinations to Be Used in Research and Development Activities: A Focus
on Software, Electronic Devices and Pharmaceutical Industries. Future cash flows
are predominately based on the net income forecast of each project consistent
with historical pricing, margins and expense levels of similar products. Revenues
are estimated based on relevant market size and growth factors, expected indus-
45
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiNotes to Consolidated Statements
Note 2
sales of products of a divested division made prior to its divestiture as required
Restatement of Previously Issued
under GAAP.
Financial Statements for Years
Ended December 31, 2002 and 2001
Other Adjustments to Earnings from Continuing Operations
The Company has restated its consolidated balance sheet at December 31, Before Minority Interest and Income Taxes
2002, and consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows, and comprehensive International pension and employee benefit plan accrual: Historically, the
income and retained earnings for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001. Company erroneously accounted for certain of its international employee bene-
The restatement affected periods prior to 2001. The impact of the restatement fit plans under cash or other non-GAAP methods based on its belief that the
on such prior periods was reflected as an adjustment to retained earnings as of impact of applying the accrual method required by GAAP was immaterial. In
January 1, 2001. In addition, the restatement impacts the first, second and third 2003, the Company had an actuarial analysis performed for each of the larger
quarters of 2003. The restated amounts for these quarters and the comparable plans and determined that it had understated its benefits liabilities for these
interim periods in 2002 are presented in Note 24, Selected Quarterly Financial plans. The Company now accounts for all its pension and employee benefit
Data (Unaudited), below. The restatement (i) corrects certain of the Company's plans under the accrual method. In addition, the Company failed to make the
historical accounting policies to conform to GAAP and (ii) corrects certain required accrual for one of its international employee benefit plans due to a mis-
errors made in the application of GAAP. Set forth below are the restatement application of GAAP.
adjustments included in the restatement of the previously issued financial state- Intercompany accounts: The Company determined that certain unreconciled
ments for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, each of which is an intercompany accounts payable and receivable aggregating to a net balance of
“error” within the meaning of APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes. $29 million should have been written off prior to January 1, 2001.
The following table presents the impact of the restatement adjustments Other marketing, selling and administrative adjustments: The Company
described below on net earnings for the years ended December 31, 2002 and recorded a number of adjustments with respect to marketing, selling and admin-
2001 and retained earnings as of January 1, 2001: istrative expense. The Company determined that there had been an error in the
application of its historical accounting policy for accruing earned vacation not
Retained
yet taken. The Company determined that it had not properly recorded an
Earnings
Net Earnings for As of expense for training and operational support relating to a contract with a third
Year Ended December 31, January 1, party in the period that it was incurred. The Company wrote off certain
Dollars in Millions 2002 2001 2001 accounts that did not have adequate documentation supporting their existence.
As reported $2,066 $4,834 $16,422 The Company also wrote off reserves for post-employment benefits other than
WIC rebates accrual (4) (1) (83) pensions that had been retained in error for certain of its divested businesses.
Goods in transit (5) 46 (114) The Company incorrectly capitalized certain costs related to internally devel-
Other net sales adjustments 14 5 1 oped software due to a misapplication of GAAP. The Company also failed to
International pension and adjust certain expense reserves on a timely basis to the actual amount of expense
employee benefit plan accrual — 4 (46) incurred as required by GAAP. The Company also corrected a number of
Intercompany accounts — — (29) smaller, immaterial errors in the application of GAAP.
Other marketing, selling and Intercompany foreign exchange gains and losses: Historically, the Company
administrative adjustments 8 3 1 deferred gains and losses for certain intercompany foreign exchange loan trans-
Intercompany foreign actions by recording such gains and losses in other accumulated comprehensive
exchange gains and losses (28) (90) (53) loss on the Company's consolidated balance sheet. This was an error in the
Other restatement items 8 1 (8) application of GAAP, which requires that, unless the intercompany transaction
Adjustments to minority is a long-term investment, that is, where settlement is not planned in the fore-
interest, net of taxes (6) (4) (39) seeable future, any foreign currency transaction gain or loss should be included
Provision for income taxes 84 (136) 114 in determining net income. The Company has corrected its policy to comply
As restated $2,137 $4,662 $16,166 with GAAP.
Other restatement items: The Company has several foreign subsidiaries that
Adjustments to Net Sales and Related Adjustments to Cost of Products Sold operate in jurisdictions with hyperinflationary currencies and with respect to
WIC rebates accrual: Historically, the Company accrued for rebates under the which the Company recorded restatement adjustments to correct errors relating
Women, Infants and Children (WIC) Program at the date the coupons were to the accounting for deferred tax assets, liabilities and valuation allowances. As
issued by the states. This was an error in the application of GAAP, which a result, the Company did not record foreign exchange gain or loss with respect
requires accrual at the date of sale of the product. The Company has corrected to these deferred tax assets, which was an error. The Company erroneously over-
its policy to accrue WIC rebates at the date of sale. accrued expenses relating to certain grants, which had been completed, by fail-
Goods in transit: The Company corrected an error in the application of GAAP ing to adjust accruals to the actual amounts of the expenses incurred over the life
regarding the timing of revenue recognition for certain sales made by its Mead of the grants. The Company failed to write off an unreconciled account relating
Johnson Nutritionals (Mead Johnson) unit, its Other Healthcare unit and cer- to its acquisition of DuPont Pharmaceuticals in 2001. The Company also failed
tain of its non-U.S. Pharmaceuticals units. The Company previously recorded to adjust certain expense reserves on a timely basis to the actual amount of
revenue for products sold on the date of shipment but now records revenue, expense incurred as required by GAAP. The Company also corrected a number
based on the terms of sale, on the date of receipt by the purchaser. of smaller, immaterial errors in the application of GAAP.
Other net sales adjustments: The Company corrected an error in accounting
for managed health care and other sales rebate accrual amounts initially recorded Adjustments to Minority Interest, Net of Taxes
in connection with the Company’s previous restatement. The Company restated The Company recorded duplicate deferred tax net assets in error related to
certain sales transactions made by certain of its Asia business units where rev- tax attributes of certain partnership entities in which Sanofi-Synthélabo (Sanofi)
enue had been recognized in error prior to the transfer of substantially all the owns the majority controlling interest.
risks and rewards of ownership due to the existence of a right of return available
to the purchaser of the product. The Company erroneously failed to adjust on a
timely basis its accrual for sales returns, charge backs and other deductions for
46
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyNotes to Consolidated Statements
Adjustments to Provision for Income Taxes Adjustments to Cash and Cash Equivalents Classification
Contingency reserves: In certain instances during the periods being restated, The Company has determined that certain investments under its cash man-
the Company made errors in recording its reserves for tax contingencies. The agement program were erroneously classified as cash equivalents on its consoli-
Company believes there may have been inappropriate adjustments to its tax dated balance sheet at December 31, 2001 and 2002, and statement of cash
contingency reserves in 2001 and 2002. The Company has completed a review flows for fiscal years 2001 and 2002, respectively. Approximately $0.9 billion
and has not been able to determine whether or not any of the errors in its tax and $1.6 billion of these investments were held by the Company and reflected as
contingency reserves being corrected in the restatement are related to inappro- cash and cash equivalents on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet at
priate accounting. December 31, 2001 and 2002, respectively. Although the Company believes
U.S. federal and state tax items: The Company identified a number of errors these investments are highly liquid, because the maturities for these investments
related to current and deferred federal and state taxes, and corresponding cur- exceeded three months, the previous presentation in cash and cash equivalents
rent and deferred tax expense. These errors included (i) not establishing deferred was an error and the Company has restated prior periods to present these invest-
tax assets and, to the extent necessary, corresponding valuation allowances for ments as marketable securities. The restatement adjustment to the Company’s
net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, (ii) not applying, or misapply- consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2002 decreased the amount of cash
ing, the asset and liability approach for deferred taxes required under GAAP, (iii) and cash equivalents by approximately $1.6 billion. The restatement adjustment
not considering all relevant information at the date of issuance of the financial to statements of cash flows increased the amount of net cash used in investing
statements and (iv) not timely adjusting for differences between tax provisions activities for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2002 by approximately
and filed tax returns. $0.9 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively.
Foreign tax items: The Company identified a number of errors related to cur-
rent and deferred foreign taxes, and corresponding tax expense. These errors Adjustments to Other Expense, Net Classification
included (i) not establishing deferred tax assets and, to the extent necessary, cor- The table below presents the restatement charges (credits) for certain
responding valuation allowances for net operating loss and tax credit carryfor- amounts that had been classified in error and have been reclassified as part of the
wards, (ii) not applying, or misapplying, the asset and liability approach for restatement from other expense, net, to the appropriate line item in the consoli-
deferred taxes required under GAAP, (iii) not considering all information avail- dated statement of earnings for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001:
able at the date of issuance of the financial statements, (iv) not timely adjusting
for filed tax returns and (v) accounting for income taxes in certain jurisdictions Year Ended December 31
on a cash basis. Dollars in Millions 2002 2001
The following table presents the impact of the restatement adjustments Total adjustments to
described above on the provision for income taxes: other expense, net $(257) $(77)
% of Earnings
Net Sales:
Before
Rebate accrual adjustment $14 $—
Minority
Interest and
Income Taxes Cost of Products Sold:
Dollars in Millions 2002 2001 2002 2001 Royalty expense $55 $52
Provision for Income Taxes, Product liability expense 28 —
as previously reported $435 $ 73 16.4% 3.3% Royalties receivable write-off adjustment 55 —
Other, net(a) 15 8
Contingency reserves (26) 24 (1.0) 1.1 $153 $60
Other tax items:
U.S. 128 32 4.6 1.4 Marketing, Selling and Administrative:
Non-U.S. (146) 84 (5.8) 3.6 Amortization of capitalized software $43 $26
Provision for Income Taxes, Restricted stock grant amortization 18 25
as restated $391 $213 14.2% 9.4% Other, net(a) (2) (11)
$59 $40
The following table presents the impact of the income tax restatement adjust-
ments described above on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet at Advertising and Product Promotion:
December 31, 2002: Other, net(a) $(4) $(1)
Other
Contingency Tax Research and Development:
Dollars in Millions Reserves Items Reimbursement of
Assets: clinical study expenditures $— $ (13)
Deferred income taxes, current $— $18 Other, net(a) (5) (9)
Deferred income taxes, non-current — 92 $(5) $(22)
Liabilities: Equity in Net Income of Affiliates:
Accrued liabilities $49 $(27) ImClone — share in losses $40 $—
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable (80) 122
(a) Certain items included in “Other, net” are reclassifications of amounts that are not “errors”
within the meaning of APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes, but rather are amounts that have
been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
47
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiNotes to Consolidated Statements
Note 3
The following table presents the impact of the restatement adjustments on
Alliances and Investments
the Company’s previously reported 2002 and 2001 results on a condensed basis:
Sanofi-Synthélabo
2002 2001 The Company has agreements with Sanofi for the codevelopment and
As As cocommercialization of Avapro/Avalide (irbesartan), an angiotensin II receptor
Previously As Previously As
antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension, and Plavix (clopidogrel),
Dollars in Millions,Except per Share Data Reported Restated Reported Restated
a platelet inhibitor. The worldwide alliance operates under the framework of
STATEMENT OF EARNINGS: two geographic territories; one in the Americas and Australia and the other in
Europe and Asia. Two territory partnerships were formed to manage central
Net sales $18,119 $18,106 $17,987 $18,044 expenses, such as marketing, research and development and royalties, and to
Total Costs and Expenses 15,472 15,345 15,769 15,781 supply finished product to the individual countries. At the country level, agree-
ments either to copromote (whereby a partnership was formed between the par-
Earnings from ties to sell each brand) or to comarket (whereby the parties operate and sell their
Continuing Operations $2,034 $2,067 $2,043 $1,871 brands independently of each other) are in place.
Discontinued Operations: The Company acts as the operating partner for the territory covering the
Net (loss)/earnings (6) 32 226 226 Americas (principally the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and Latin
Net gain on disposal 38 38 2,565 2,565 American countries) and Australia and owns the majority controlling interest in
Net Earnings $2,066 $2,137 $4,834 $4,662 this territory. As such, the Company consolidates all country partnership results
for this territory and records Sanofi’s share of the results as a minority interest,
Basic Earnings per Common Share net of taxes, which was $351 million in 2003, $292 million in 2002, and $174
Continuing Operations $1.05 $1.07 $1.05 $.96 million in 2001. The Company recorded sales in this territory and in comarket-
Discontinued Operations: ing countries (Germany, Italy, Spain and Greece) of $3,224 million in 2003,
Net earnings .— .02 .12 .12 $2,476 million in 2002 and $1,658 million in 2001.
Net gain on disposal .02 .02 1.32 1.32 Sanofi acts as the operating partner of the territory covering Europe and Asia
Net Earnings $1.07 $1.11 $2.49 $2.40 and owns the majority financial controlling interest in this territory. In 2003,
the Company accounts for the investment in partnership entities in this terri-
Diluted Earnings per Common Share tory under the equity method and records its share of the results in equity in net
Continuing Operations $1.05 $1.06 $1.04 $.95 income of affiliates in the consolidated statement of earnings. The Company’s
Discontinued Operations: share of net income from these partnership entities before taxes was $187 mil-
Net earnings .— .02 .11 .11 lion in 2003, $120 million in 2002 and $78 million in 2001.
Net gain on disposal .02 .02 1.31 1.31 In 2001, the Company and Sanofi formed an alliance for the copromotion of
Net Earnings $1.07 $1.10 $2.46 $2.37 irbesartan, as part of which the Company contributed the irbesartan distribu-
tion rights in the United States and Sanofi paid the Company a total of $350
BALANCE SHEET (AT DECEMBER 31): million in 2002 and 2001. The Company accounts for this transaction as a sale
of an interest in a license and defers and amortizes the $350 million into income
ASSETS over the expected useful life of the license, which is approximately 11 years.
Current Assets: The Company amortized into income $31 million in 2003 and 2002 and
Cash and cash equivalents $3,978 $2,367 $5,500 $4,552 $8 million in 2001.
Marketable securities 11 1,622 154 1,102
Other current assets 5,986 6,071 7,595 7,707 Otsuka
Total current assets 9,975 10,060 13,249 13,361 The Company has a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), to codevelop and copromote Abilify (arip-
Other Assets: 14,899 14,962 14,563 14,503 iprazole) for the treatment of schizophrenia. Total milestone payments made to
Total Assets $24,874 $25,022 $27,812 $27,864 Otsuka from 1999 through December 2002 were $207 million, of which $157
million was expensed as acquired in-process research and development in 1999.
LIABILITIES The $50 million of capitalized payments are being amortized over the remaining
Current liabilities $8,220 $8,487 $11,109 $11,385 life of the agreement, which is approximately 9 years. The Company began
Other liabilities 1,426 1,518 1,391 1,480 copromoting the product with Otsuka in the United States and Puerto Rico in
Long-term debt 6,261 6,261 6,237 6,237 November 2002. The Company will also copromote the product in several
Total Liabilities 15,907 16,266 18,737 19,102 European countries if marketing approval is received from the European author-
ities. Revenue is earned when Otsuka ships the product and title passes to the
STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 8,967 8,756 9,075 8,762 customer. The Company records alliance revenue for its 65% share of the net
sales in these copromotion countries and records all expenses related to the
Total Liabilities and product. The Company also has an exclusive right to sell Abilify in a number of
Stockholders’ Equity $24,874 $25,022 $27,812 $27,864 countries in Europe, Latin America and Asia. In these countries, as sales com-
mence, the Company will record 100% of the net sales and related cost of sales.
The Company recorded revenue for Abilify of $283 million in 2003 and $25
million in 2002.
ImClone
In November 2001, the Company purchased 14.4 million shares of ImClone
for $70 per share, or $1,007 million, which represented approximately 19.9% of
the ImClone shares outstanding just prior to the Company’s commencement of
48
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyNotes to Consolidated Statements
a public tender offer for ImClone shares. This transaction is being accounted for Of the $1,207 million paid in 2001 for the equity investment ($1,007 mil-
using the equity method of accounting. ImClone is a biopharmaceutical com- lion) and the milestone payment ($200 million), $735 million was expensed as
pany focused on developing targeted cancer treatments, which include growth acquired in-process research and development in 2001 and the remaining $472
factor blockers, cancer vaccines, and anti-angiogenesis therapeutics. The equity million was recorded as an equity investment. An additional $9 million was
investment in ImClone is part of a strategic agreement between the Company added to the investment primarily for acquisition costs, resulting in a carrying
and ImClone that also includes an arrangement to codevelop and copromote value of $481 million at December 31, 2001. In the third quarter of 2002, the
the cancer drug, ERBITUX, for a series of payments originally totaling $1 billion. Company recorded a pre-tax charge to earnings of $379 million for an other
The Company paid ImClone a milestone payment of $200 million in 2001. than temporary decline in the market value of ImClone based on the decline in
On December 28, 2001, ImClone announced that the U.S. Food and Drug value of ImClone’s shares during 2002. The fair value of the equity investment
Administration (FDA) refused to accept for filing the Biologics License in ImClone used to record the impairment was determined based on the market
Application(BLA) that had been submitted by ImClone for ERBITUX. The value of ImClone shares on September 30, 2002. The total equity investment in
BLA had been submitted to gain marketing approval to treat irinotecan-refrac- ImClone as of December 31, 2003 was $63 million compared to $102 million
tory colorectal carcinoma. as of December 31, 2002. On a per share basis, the carrying value of the
On March 5, 2002, the agreement with ImClone was revised to reduce the ImClone investment and the closing market price of ImClone shares as of
total payments to $900 million from $1 billion. Under the revised agreement, December 31, 2003 were $4.41 and $39.66, respectively, compared to $7.09
the Company paid ImClone $140 million in March 2002, $60 million in and $10.62, respectively, as of December 31, 2002. The closing market price of
March 2003, and $250 million in March 2004 for the approval of ERBITUX ImClone shares as of March 11, 2004 was $45.29 per share.
by the FDA, and an additional $250 million upon achievement of a second The Company recorded a $36 million net loss for its share of ImClone’s losses
milestone. Of the $200 million paid to ImClone in March 2002 and 2003, in 2003. Included in the $36 million was a loss of $5 million related to
$160 million was expensed to in-process research and development in the first ImClone’s restatement of 2001 results and final reporting of 2002 full year and
quarter of 2002. The remaining $40 million was recorded as an additional 2003 first quarter results. In 2002, the Company recorded a $40 million net loss
equity investment to eliminate the income statement effect of the portion of the for its share of ImClone’s losses and amortization of previously capitalized mile-
milestone payment for which the Company has an economic claim through its stone payments. The Company records its share of the results in equity in net
ownership interest in ImClone. Also under the revised agreement, the Company income of affiliates in the consolidated statement of earnings.
will pay ImClone a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of product net On February 12, 2004, the FDA approved a resubmitted BLA for
revenues in North America. The Company will purchase all of its commercial ERBITUX. ERBITUX is for the treatment of patients with Epidermal Growth
requirements for bulk ERBITUX from ImClone at a price equal to actual man- Factor Receptor (EGFR) expressing metastatic colorectal cancer who had failed
ufacturing cost plus 10%. The terms of the revised agreement will continue an irinotecan-based regimen in combination with irinotecan and as monother-
through 2018. apy for patients who are intolerant of irinotecan.
In the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of
approximately $735 million, comprised of $575 million for the write-off of Summary Financial Information
acquired in-process research and development related to the equity investment Following is summarized financial information for the Company’s equity
and $160 million for the write-off of a portion of the $200 million milestone investments in ImClone and a joint venture with Sanofi in Europe and Asia:
payment made in 2001. The remaining $40 million of the $200 million mile-
stone payment was recorded as an additional equity investment to eliminate the
income statement effect of the portion of the milestone payment for which the Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2001
Company has an economic claim through its ownership interest in ImClone.
The acquired in-process research and development charge related to three oncol- Revenues $1,605 $1,051 $685
ogy research projects in the Phase I or later stage of development with one Gross profit 794 535 303
research project, ERBITUX. The amount was determined by identifying Net income 288 107 100
research projects in areas for which technological feasibility has not been estab- Current assets 827 822 726
lished and for which there is no alternative future use. The projected FDA Non-current assets 259 200 124
approval dates used were years 2002 through 2008, at which time the Company Current liabilities 829 533 252
expected these projects to begin to generate cash flows. The cost to complete Non-current liabilities 527 626 603
these projects was estimated at $323 million. All of the research and develop- The above information includes ImClone data from the date of investment,
ment projects considered in the valuation are subject to the normal risks and November 2001.
uncertainties associated with demonstrating the safety and efficacy required to
obtain FDA approval. The purchase price allocation resulted in $66 million of
patent and technology intangible assets, which are being amortized over their
weighted-average useful lives of 17 years and approximately $375 million of
goodwill, which is not amortized.
49
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiNotes to Consolidated Statements
Note 4
The following table presents a detail of provision for restructuring and other
Restructuring and Other Items
items by operating segment and type. The Company does not allocate restruc-
2003 Activities turing charges to its business segments.
During 2003, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring and other charges
Employee Other
of $65 million, relating to downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations Employee Termination Exit Other
and rationalization of worldwide manufacturing operations. Of this charge, $50 Dollars in Millions Terminations Benefits Costs Items Total
million primarily relates to employee termination benefits for approximately
950 employees, including manufacturing, administrative and sales personnel in Pharmaceuticals 901 $62 $19 $38 $119
Europe, North America, Asia, and Central America. Other items of $15 million Nutritionals 92 5 — — 5
relate primarily to relocation expenses as a result of the consolidation of research Other Healthcare 22 2 5 — 7
facilities. These charges were partially offset by an adjustment due to changes in Corporate/Other 25 2 27 — 29
estimates to prior period reserves of $39 million, which principally is due to Subtotal 1,040 $71 $51 $38 160
higher than anticipated proceeds from disposal of assets and reduced separation Reduction in reserves for changes in estimates (146)
costs. The Company expects to complete these restructuring activities by 2006. Provisions for restructuring and other items $ 14
In addition, the Company recorded $67 million in asset impairments and
accelerated depreciation relating to the rationalization of manufacturing opera- 2001 Activities
tions in cost of products sold. During 2001, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring and other charges
The following table presents a detail of provision for restructuring and other of $519 million. The restructuring programs included termination benefits,
items by operating segment and type. The Company does not allocate restruc- asset write-downs and other costs and were implemented in 2001 to downsize
turing charges to its business segments. and streamline operations, rationalize manufacturing facilities, and terminate
Employee Other certain sales force and research contract obligations. These actions are substan-
Employee Termination Exit Other
tially completed. Of this charge, $229 million relates to employee termination
Dollars in Millions Terminations Benefits Costs Items Total
benefits for 3,400 employees, as a result of a Company-wide restructuring effort
Pharmaceuticals 850 $39 $3 $15 $57
to downsize and streamline operations, which impacted virtually all areas
Other Healthcare 100 8 — — 8
including sales force, manufacturing, administrative and research personnel.
Subtotal 950 $47 $3 $15 65
Additional charges include, $95 million for the termination of a contract sales
Reduction in reserves for changes in estimates (39)
force, and $65 million for other exit costs primarily related to costs associated
Provision for restructuring and other items $26
with the closure of certain manufacturing operations. The charge also included
$119 million of write-down of fixed and other assets primarily related to the exit
The Company also recorded $102 million in research and development of a Nutritionals business in Eastern Europe, the closure of a pharmaceutical
related to the upfront payments for four licensing agreements, which were not production facility in the United States and the closure of a research facility in
allocated to business segments. France. Other items of $11 million relate to costs associated with a product
recall. These restructuring charges were partially offset by a reversal of $63 mil-
2002 Activities lion as a result of a change in estimate relating to separation costs or cancellation
During 2002, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring and other charges of projects previously provided for.
of $160 million, relating to a reduction or elimination of non-strategic research Additional costs associated with restructuring projects in 2001 include $74
efforts as well as the consolidation of research facilities, workforce reductions million of sales deductions and customer charge backs relating to abandonment
and downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations. Of this charge, $71 of non-strategic pharmaceutical product lines, which has been included as a
million relates to employee termination benefits for approximately 1,040 reduction in sales, and $58 million of related inventory write-offs, which has
employees, including research, manufacturing, sales, and administrative person- been included in cost of products sold.
nel, $51 million represents asset write-downs including a $24 million impair- The following table presents a detail of provision for restructuring and other
ment charge for the Company’s investment in Deltagen and $38 million for items by operating segment and type. The Company does not allocate restruc-
other exit costs for the closure of facilities and other related expenses. These turing charges to its business segments.
charges were offset by an adjustment to prior period restructuring reserves of
$146 million, $65 million of which is due to lower than expected separation Employee Asset Other
Employee Termination Write Exit Other
costs, $59 million due to higher than anticipated proceeds from disposal of
Dollars in Millions Terminations Benefits Downs Costs Items Total
assets previously written off as restructuring and $22 million for projects that
have been cancelled. In addition, a $17 million adjustment to cost of products Pharmaceuticals 2,029 $139 $ 81 $145 $11 $376
sold was made to reflect the reversal of inventory reserves associated with can- Nutritionals 698 24 37 10 — 71
celled projects. The Company substantially completed these restructuring activi- Other Healthcare 262 22 1 — — 23
ties in 2003. Corporate/Other 411 44 — 5 — 49
In addition, $69 million of accelerated depreciation relating to the planned Subtotal 3,400 $229 $119 $160 $11 519
shutdown of research facilities in the United States has been included in research Reduction in reserves for changes in estimates (63)
and development expense, and $2 million for inventory write-offs associated Provisions for restructuring and other items $456
with these projects has been included in cost of products sold.
50
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyNotes to Consolidated Statements
Rollforward technological feasibility has not been established and for which there is no
Restructuring charges and spending against liabilities associated with prior alternative future use. Two projects have been terminated. The three remaining
and current actions are as follows: projects, two at a clinical stage and one pre-clinical, are currently proceeding.
Employee These research and development projects considered in the valuation are subject
Termination Other Exit Cost
to the normal risks and uncertainties associated with demonstrating the safety
Dollars in Millions Liability Liability Total
and efficacy required for FDA approval.
Balance at December 31, 2000 $220 $8 $228 In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded $575 million of
Charges 229 160 389 restructuring liabilities as a result of severance and relocation of workforce, the
Spending (122) (130) (252) elimination of duplicate facilities and contract terminations. Such costs have
Changes in Estimate (84) 3 (81) been recognized by the Company as a liability assumed as of the acquisition
Balance at December 31, 2001 243 41 284 date, resulting in additional goodwill. These liabilities consisted of $325 million
Charges 71 38 109 of employee termination benefits for approximately 1,800 employees, $80 mil-
Spending (155) (29) (184) lion related to the closure of facilities, and $170 million for contract termina-
Changes in Estimate (92) (8) (100) tions. The $575 million originally recorded in accrued expenses was reduced to
Balance at December 31, 2002 67 42 109 $458 million by December 31, 2001, $13 million by December 31, 2002 and
Charges 47 3 50 $7 million by the end of 2003. The reduction of the balance during 2002 was
Spending (56) (35) (91) due to cash payments of $284 million and an adjustment to reverse previously
Changes in Estimate (7) (3) (10) recorded liabilities of $161 million, with a corresponding reduction in goodwill.
Balance at December 31, 2003 $ 51 $ 7 $ 58 The adjustment was primarily due to lower than expected separation costs, con-
tract termination expenses and other facilities exit costs related to the acquisi-
These liabilities are included in accrued expenses in the consolidated balance tion. The reduction of the balance during 2003 was due to cash payments of $6
sheet. million.
The following unaudited pro forma financial information presents results as
Note 5
if the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of 2001:
Acquisitions and Divestitures
DuPont Pharmaceuticals Acquisition Restated
On October 1, 2001, the Company acquired DuPont Pharmaceuticals from Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Data Year Ended December 31, 2001
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company for $7.8 billion in cash. The results of
DuPont Pharmaceuticals have been included in the consolidated financial state- Net Sales $19,305
ments from the date of acquisition. DuPont Pharmaceuticals is primarily a Net Earnings 5,568
domestic pharmaceutical and imaging product business focused on research and Earnings Per Share—Basic 2.87
development. This acquisition was financed with proceeds from the issuance of Earnings Per Share—Diluted 2.83
$1.5 billion of commercial paper, the issuance of $5.0 billion of medium-term
notes and internal cash flows. The unaudited pro forma results have been prepared for comparative pur-
Following is a summary of the final allocation of the purchase price to the poses only and include certain adjustments such as additional amortization
estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed (dollars in mil- expense as a result of identifiable intangible assets arising from the acquisition
lions): and from increased interest expense on acquisition debt, and exclude the
acquired in-process research and development charge related to the DuPont
Current assets $ 520 Pharmaceuticals acquisition. Pro forma net earnings and earnings per share
Property, plant and equipment 321 amounts include a $2.6 billion gain on the sale of Clairol. The pro forma results
Intangible assets 1,976 are not necessarily indicative either of the results of operations that actually
Acquired in-process research and development 2,009 would have resulted had the acquisition been in effect at the beginning of the
Goodwill 3,780 respective periods or of future results.
Other assets 280
Total assets acquired 8,886 Other
Current liabilities 353 In 2002, the Company completed the sale of two branded products,
Restructuring liabilities 575 Moisturel and Duricef, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $30 million.
Acquisition liabilities 90 In 2001, the Company completed the sale of three pharmaceutical products,
Long-term liabilities 123 Corzide, Delestrogen and Florinef, the licensing rights to Corgard in the United
Total-liabilities assumed 1,141 States, Estrace tablets, the Apothecon commodity business, and its Solage and
Purchase Price $7,745 Viactiv product lines, all of which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $475 million.
The total intangible assets of $1,976 million are being amortized over their
weighted-average useful lives and include core and developed technology of
$1,783 million (15 and 11 years weighted-average useful life, respectively) and
patents of $193 million (11 year weighted-average useful life).
The goodwill of $3,780 million was assigned to the Pharmaceuticals seg-
ment. Of that total amount, $2,418 million is expected to be deductible for tax
purposes over a 15-year period.
At the time of acquisition, $2.0 billion of the purchase price was allocated to
acquired in-process research and development and was charged to earnings in
the fourth quarter of 2001. This charge was associated with five research proj-
ects. The amount was determined by identifying research projects for which
51
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiNotes to Consolidated Statements
Note 6 Note 7
Discontinued Operations Earnings Per Share
In 2001, the Company completed the sale of Clairol to Procter & Gamble for The numerator for both basic and diluted earnings per share is net earnings
cash proceeds of approximately $5.0 billion. The sale resulted in a pre-tax gain available to common stockholders. The denominator for basic earnings per
of $4.3 billion ($2.6 billion after taxes), which is included in the gain on dis- share is the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the
posal of discontinued operations. In addition, in 2001, the Company spun off period. The denominator for diluted earnings per share is weighted-average
Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (Zimmer), in a tax-free distribution, resulting in a com- shares outstanding adjusted for the effect of dilutive stock options. The compu-
mon stock dividend of $156 million. In 2002, the Company resolved several tations for basic earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common
post-closing matters associated with previously discontinued businesses, result- share are as follows:
ing in an increase of $38 million to the gain on the disposal of Clairol, a $38 Year Ended December 31,
million credit related to a reduction in the tax contingency reserve related to the Restated Restated
spin-off of Zimmer and a $4 million credit to retained earnings related to an Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amount 2003 2002 2001
adjustment for a Zimmer pension liability affecting the spin-off of Zimmer.
The net sales and earnings of discontinued operations are as follows: Earnings from Continuing Operations $3,106 $2,067 $1,871
Discontinued Operations:
Dollars in Millions 2001 Net earnings — 32 226
Net gain on disposal — 38 2,565
Net sales $2,152 — 70 2,791
Earnings before income taxes $451 Net Earnings $3,106 $2,137 $4,662
Income taxes 225 Basic:
Net earnings from discontinued operations $ 226 Average Common Shares Outstanding 1,937 1,936 1,940
Earnings from Continuing Operations $1.60 $1.07 $ .96
The net earnings of $32 million in 2002 reflected in the statement of earn- Discontinued Operations:
ings primarily reflects a reduction in the tax contingency reserve related to the Net earnings — .02 .12
spin-off of Zimmer in 2001. Net gain on disposal — .02 1.32
The consolidated statement of cash flows includes the Clairol and Zimmer — .04 1.44
businesses through date of disposition. The Company uses a centralized Net Earnings $1.60 $1.11 $2.40
approach to the cash management and financing of its operations and accord- Diluted:
ingly, the Company does not allocate debt to these businesses. Average Common Shares Outstanding 1,937 1,936 1,940
Cash flows from operating and investing activities (principally investing) of Conversion of Convertible Debt Bonds 7 — —
discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 were Incremental Shares Outstanding Assuming
$(17) million and $5.3 billion (including approximately $5.0 billion of pro- the Exercise of Dilutive Stock Options 6 6 25
ceeds from the sale of Clairol), respectively. 1,950 1,942 1,965
Earnings from Continuing Operations(1) $1.59 $1.06 $ .95
Discontinued Operations:
Net earnings — .02 .11
Net gain on disposal — .02 1.31
— .04 1.42
Net Earnings(1) $1.59 $1.10 $2.37
(1) Net earnings in 2003 includes interest expense added back to the assumed conversion of the
convertible debt into common shares.
Weighted-average shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options, which
were not included in the diluted earnings per share calculation because they
were not dilutive, were 114 million in 2003, 121 million in 2002 and
43 million in 2001.
Note 8
Other Expense, Net
The components of other expense, net are:
Year Ended December 31,
Restated Restated
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2001
Interest expense $277 $364 $182
Interest income (65) (81) (133)
Foreign exchange transaction loss, net 23 29 71
Other, net (56) (83) (22)
Other expense, net $179 $229 $ 98
Interest expense in 2003 and 2002 is primarily related to the issuance of $5.0
billion debt and $1.5 billion commercial paper in conjunction with the 2001
52
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyNotes to Consolidated Statements
DuPont Pharmaceuticals and ImClone transactions. In addition, 2003 and The effective tax rate on continuing operations increased to 25.9% in 2003
2002 interest expense was reduced by net interest-rate swap gains of $116 mil- from 14.2% in 2002 due primarily to the decrease in the effective tax rate bene-
lion and $23 million, respectively. Interest income relates primarily to cash, cash fit from operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and Switzerland to 15.6% in 2003
equivalents and investments in marketable securities. from 17.9% in 2002, provisions for certain non-deductible litigation reserves,
and an increase in estimates for contingent tax matters in 2003 compared to
Note 9
2002.
Income Taxes
The components of earnings (loss) from continuing operations before minor- The components of current and non-current deferred income tax assets
ity interest and income taxes were: (liabilities) were:
December 31,
11 Year Ended December 31, Restated
Restated Restated Dollars in Millions 2003 2002
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2001
Acquired in-process research and development $1,072 $1,113
U.S. $ 913 $ (536) $ (734) Intercompany profit and other inventory items 360 423
Non-U.S. 3,781 3,297 2,997 Foreign tax credit carryforward 425 270
$4,694 $2,761 $2,263 Legal settlement — 207
Restructuring, acquisition and divestiture reserves 17 59
The above amounts are categorized based on the location of the taxing Deferred income 88 99
authorities. Alternative minimum tax credit carryforward 38 —
The provision/(benefit) for income taxes attributable to continuing opera- Charitable contribution carryforward 35 —
tions consisted of: State tax net operating loss carryforward 191 102
Foreign net operating loss and credit carryforward 193 91
11 Year Ended December 31, Sales returns and allowances 114 53
Restated Restated Research and experimentation tax credit carryforward 38 24
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2001 Postretirement and pension benefits (188) (195)
Depreciation (316) (260)
Current: Deferred foreign currency gain 121 35
U.S. $ 428 $223 $1,034 Other, net 106 307
Non-U.S. 538 639 555 2,294 2,328
$ 966 $862 $1,589 Valuation allowance (368) (218)
Deferred Tax Assets, net $1,926 $2,110
Deferred:
U.S. 232 (431) (1,383) Recognized as:
Non-U.S. 17 (40) 7
249 (471) (1,376) Deferred income tax assets, current $ 864 $1,013
$1,215 $391 $ 213 Deferred income tax assets, non-current 1,234 1,097
U.S. and foreign income taxes payable 17 —
The Company’s provision for income taxes in 2003, 2002 and 2001 was dif- Other liabilities, non current 155 —
ferent from the amount computed by applying the statutory U.S. federal $1,926 $2,110
income tax rate to earnings from continuing operations before minority interest
and income taxes, as a result of the following: The valuation allowance of $368 million at December 31, 2003 relates to
$83 million of foreign and state net deferred tax assets, and $285 million of for-
% of Earnings Before eign and state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, that the Company
Minority Interest and Income Taxes currently believes are more likely than not to remain unrealized in the future.
Restated Restated Income taxes paid during the year were $869 million, $2,491 million and
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2001 $1,021 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
The current tax benefit realized upon the exercise of stock options is charged
Earnings from Continuing to capital in excess of par value of stock and amounted to $10 million, $45 million
Operations Before and $157 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Minority Interest The Company has settled its U.S. federal income tax returns with the
and Income Taxes $4,694 $2,761 $2,263 Internal Revenue Service (IRS) through 1997.
U.S. statutory rate 1,643 35.0% 966 35.0% 792 35.0% U.S. federal income taxes have not been provided on substantially all of the
Effect of operations unremitted earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, since it is management’s practice
in Ireland, and intent to indefinitely postpone their remittance. The total amount of the
Puerto Rico net unremitted earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries was approximately $12.6 bil-
and Switzerland (734) (15.6) (494) (17.9) (727) (32.1) lion at December 31, 2003.
State and local taxes 14 0.3 156 (5.6) (77) (3.4) The Company establishes liabilities for possible assessments by taxing author-
Changes in estimate for ities resulting from known tax exposures. Such amounts represent a reasonable
contingent tax matters 197 4.2 (104) (3.7) 184 8.1 provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid, and may need to be adjusted
Non-deductible reserves 88 1.9 — — — — over time as more information becomes known. As of December 31, 2003, there
Foreign and Other 7 0.1 (133) (4.8) 41 1.8 are certain tax contingencies for which no liabilities have been established.
$1,215 25.9%$ 391 14.2% $ 213 9.4% Although the Company cannot reasonably estimate the possible amount of any
53
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiNotes to Consolidated Statements
such contingency, it is possible that such contingencies could be material. The periods, the Company recognized revenue with respect to sales to Cardinal and
effect of changes in estimates related to contingent tax matters is included in the McKesson upon shipment of product. Although the Company generally views
rate reconciliation above. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the approximately one month of supply as a desirable level of wholesaler inventory
Company recognized an income tax benefit of $261 million due to the settle- on a go-forward basis and as a level of wholesaler inventory representative of an
ment of certain prior year tax matters and the determination by the Company as industry average, in applying the consignment model to sales to Cardinal and
to the expected settlement of tax litigation. McKesson, the Company defined inventory in excess of the wholesaler’s ordi-
Also in 2002, the Company reorganized the structure of its ownership of nary course of business inventory level as inventory above two weeks and three
many of its non-U.S. subsidiaries. The principal purpose of the reorganization weeks of supply, respectively, based on the levels of inventory that Cardinal and
was to facilitate the Company’s ability to efficiently deploy its financial resources McKesson required to be used as the basis for negotiation of incentives granted.
outside the United States. The Company believes that the reorganization trans- In March 2001, the Company entered into a distribution agreement with
actions were generally tax-free both inside and outside the United States. It is McKesson for provision of warehousing and order fulfillment services for the
possible, however, that taxing authorities in particular jurisdictions could assert Company’s Oncology Therapeutics Network (OTN), a specialty distributor of
tax liabilities arising from the reorganization transactions or the operations of anticancer medicines and related products. Under the terms of the agreement,
the reorganized subsidiaries. It is not reasonably possible to predict whether any McKesson purchases oncology products to service OTN’s fulfillment needs
taxing authority will assert such a tax liability or to reasonably estimate the pos- from a number of vendors, including the Company. Subsequent to shipment of
sible loss or range of loss with respect to any such asserted tax liability. The product to McKesson, the Company has a significant continuing involvement
Company would vigorously challenge any such assertion and believes that it in the transaction, including marketing the product to the end-user, invoicing
would prevail but there can be no assurance of such a result. If the Company the customer and collecting receivables from the customer on behalf of
were not to prevail in final, non-appealable determinations, it is possible the McKesson. In addition, OTN keeps all the credit risk and is responsible for
impact could be material. shipping costs to the customer. The Company accounts for sales of oncology
products to McKesson using the consignment model and defers recognition of
Note 10
revenue until the products are sold by McKesson.
Receivables
These transactions resulted in deferred revenue of $76 million and $470 mil-
The major categories of receivables follow: lion as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company recognized
December 31, previously recorded deferred revenue as net sales in 2003 and 2002 net of
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 rebates, returns and other adjustments, of approximately $321 million and
$1,397 million, respectively.
Accounts receivable—trade $3,091 $2,670
Note 13
Accounts receivable—miscellaneous 709 427
Property, Plant and Equipment
3,800 3,097
Less allowances for bad debts 154 129 The major categories of property, plant and equipment follow:
Receivables, net $3,646 $2,968 December 31,
Restated
Note 11
Inventories Dollars in Millions 2003 2002
The major categories of inventories follow: Land $ 241 $ 233
December 31, Buildings 3,917 3,389
Restated Machinery, equipment and fixtures 4,197 3,897
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 Construction in progress 1,087 1,187
9,442 8,706
Finished goods $1,001 $ 918 Less accumulated depreciation 3,730 3,372
Work in process 416 416 Property, plant and equipment, net $5,712 $5,334
Raw and packaging materials 180 216
Consignment inventory 4 58 Capitalized interest is included in the categories of property, plant and equip-
$1,601 $1,608 ment shown above. The Company capitalized interest of $35 million and $16
million in the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Note 12
Consignment
A significant portion of the Company’s U.S. pharmaceuticals sales is made to
wholesalers. In April 2002, the Company disclosed that it had experienced a
substantial buildup of wholesaler inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals busi-
ness over several years, primarily in 2000 and 2001. This buildup was primarily
due to sales incentives offered by the Company to its wholesalers. The Company
accounts for certain sales of pharmaceutical products to Cardinal Health, Inc.
(Cardinal) and McKesson Corporation (McKesson) using the consignment model,
based in part on the relationship between the amount of incentives offered to
these wholesalers and the amount of inventory held by these wholesalers.
The Company determined that shipments of product to Cardinal and ship-
ments of product to McKesson met the consignment model criteria set forth
within Note 1, Accounting Policies—Revenue Recognition above as of July 1,
1999 and July 1, 2000, respectively, and, in each case, continuing through the
end of 2002 and for some period thereafter. Accordingly, the consignment
model was required to be applied to such shipments. Prior to those respective
54
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyNotes to Consolidated Statements
Note 14
As of December 31, 2003, the Company had two revolving credit facilities,
Goodwill
totaling $1 billion in aggregate, as support for its domestic commercial paper
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended program. These facilities were established in September 2001 and August 2003,
December 31, 2003 and 2002 were as follows: respectively, with a syndicate of lenders, and are extendable at each anniversary
date with the consent of the lenders. One of the revolving credit facilities has
Other certain financial covenants, of which the Company is in compliance with as of
Pharmaceuticals Nutritionals Healthcare
December 31, 2003. There were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving
Dollars in Millions Segment Segment Segment Total
credit facilities at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The Company had unused
Balance as of December 31, 2001 $4,810 $119 $190 $5,119 short-term lines of credit with foreign banks of $363 million and $321 million
Purchase accounting adjustments: at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Change in exit cost estimate (165) — — (165)
Purchase price and allocation The components of long-term debt were as follows:
adjustments (117) (1) — (118) December 31,
Balance as of December 31, Dollars in Millions 2003 2002
2002 (Restated) and 2003 $4,528 $118 $190 $4,836
4.75% Notes, due in 2006 $2,544 $2,570
5.75% Notes, due in 2011 2,459 2,530
Note 15
Floating Rate Convertible Debentures, due 2023 1,179 —
Other Intangible Assets
5.25% Notes, due 2013 600 —
Intangible assets by major asset class were as follows: 4.00% Notes due 2008 399 —
6.80% Debentures, due in 2026 345 345
December 31, 7.15% Debentures, due in 2023 344 344
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 6.875% Debentures, due in 2097 296 296
1.10% Yen Notes, due 2008 114 —
Patents/Trademarks $ 253 $ 214 2.14% Yen Notes, due in 2005 60 53
Licenses 248 554 3.51% Euro Interest on Yen Principal Term Loan,
Technology 1,783 1,783 due in 2005 55 49
2,284 2,551 5.75% Industrial Revenue Bonds, due in 2024 34 34
Less accumulated amortization 552 647 1.43% Yen Notes, due 2008 32 —
Net carrying amount $1,732 $1,904 1.81% Yen Notes, due 2010 32 —
Variable Rate Industrial Revenue Bonds, due in 2030 15 15
Amortization expense for other intangible assets (the majority of which is Capitalized Leases 13 13
included in costs of products sold) for the years ended December 31, 2003, Other 1 12
2002 and 2001 was $227 million, $269 million and $116 million, respectively. $8,522 $6,261
Expected amortization expense for the next five years related to the current
balance of other intangible assets follows: During 2003, the Company issued $2.4 billion of debt as follows:
Face Value Effective
Years Ending December 31, Dollars in Millions Debt Description Dollars in Millions Interest Rates
2004 $202 3 Month LIBOR— 0.50%
2005 202 Convertible Debt, Due 2023,
2006 199 Callable 2008, Strike Price $41.28 $ 1,200 3 Month LIBOR— 0.14%
2007 198 5.25% Notes, Due 2013 600 5.47%
2008 194 4.00% Notes, Due 2008 400 4.19%
1.10% Yen Notes, Due 2008 114 1.33%
Note 16
1.43% Yen Notes, Due 2008 32 1.59%
Short-Term Borrowings
1.81% Yen Notes, Due 2010 32 1.94%
and Long-Term Debt
$2,378
Included in short-term borrowings were amounts due to foreign banks of
$114 million and $89 million, and current installments of long-term debt of In October 2003, the Company issued $1.2 billion of convertible debentures.
$13 million and $132 million, at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. These debentures pay interest quarterly at an annual rate equal to 3-month
There was no U.S. commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2003. U.S. LIBOR, reset quarterly, minus 0.50% (the yield never to be less than zero) and
commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2002 was $1,158 million, with has a final maturity of September 15, 2023. The debentures are callable at par at
an average interest rate of 1.40%. These and other commercial papers issued in any time on or after September 21, 2008 by the issuer. Holders can also redeem
2003 were fully repaid as of December 31, 2003. The proceeds from the com- some or all of their debentures at par on September 15, 2008, 2013, and 2018,
mercial paper issuance in 2003 and 2002 were used for general corporate pur- or if a fundamental change in ownership of the Company occurs. The bond has
poses. The average interest rates on international short-term borrowings and on an initial conversion price of $41.28, or a conversion rate of 24.2248 shares,
current installments of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2003 were which will be adjustable depending on the average closing prices for the applica-
8.04% and 1.33%, respectively, compared with 9.58% and 2.56%, respectively, ble period. The maximum conversion rate is 38.7597 shares.
at December 31, 2002.
55
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiNotes to Consolidated Statements
Note 17
The Company has entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps for $5.5
Stockholders’ Equity
billion of its long-term debt. Cash payments for interest were $290 million,
$375 million, and $100 million in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Changes in common shares, treasury stock, capital in excess of par value of
stock and restricted stock were:
Payments due by period Capital in
Cost of Excess of
Dollars in Millions Total 2004 2005-2006 2007-2008 Later Years Common Treasury Treasury Par Value Restricted
Dollars in Millions Shares Issued Shares Stock of Stock Stock
Long-Term Debt(1) $8,522 $13 $2,616 $545 $5,348
Balance,
(1) 2004 obligations are included in short-term borrowings on the Company’s consolidated bal- December 31,
ance sheet and all balances represent the outstanding nominal long-term debt values. 2000 2,197,900,835 244,365,726 $ 9,720 $2,069 $ (56)
At December 31, 2003, the Company had provided financial guarantees in Issued pursuant
the form of stand-by letters of credit and performance bonds. The majority of to stock plans
the stand-by letters of credit are with the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission and options 2,093,530 (7,175,057) 83 365 (25)
and Massachusetts Department of Public Health relating to the Company’s Conversions of
Medical Imaging manufacturing operations and with insurance companies in preferred stock 16,111 — — — —
support of third-party liability programs. The performance bonds relate to the Amortization and
sale of Company product to various foreign ministries of health in the Middle lapses of restricted stock — — — (31) 31
East. The Company believes the significant majority of these guarantees will Purchases — 27,198,901 1,586 — —
expire without being funded. The amounts of these obligations are presented in Balance,
the following table: December 31,
Expiration Period 2001 2,200,010,476 264,389,570 11,389 2,403 (50)
Less than 1 to 2 Issued pursuant
Dollars in Millions Total 1 year years to stock plans
Stand-by letters of credit $61 $60 $1 and options 802,797 (5,551,344) (50) 116 (30)
Performance bonds Conversions of
and guarantees 3 3 — preferred stock 10,271 — — — —
Total other commercial Amortization and
commitments $64 $63 $1 lapses of restricted stock — — — (28) 28
Purchases — 5,156,354 163 — —
Balance,
December 31,
2002 2,200,823,544 263,994,580 11,502 2,491 (52)
Issued pursuant
to stock plans
and options 184,333 (2,965,041) (62) 6 (23)
Conversions of
preferred stock 4,555 — — — —
Amortization and
lapses of restricted stock — — — (20) 20
Balance,
December
31, 2003 2,201,012,432 261,029,539 $11,440 $2,477 (55)
Each share of the Company’s preferred stock is convertible into 16.96 shares
of common stock and is callable at the Company’s option. The reductions in the
number of issued shares of preferred stock in 2003, 2002 and 2001 were due to
conversions into shares of common stock.
Dividends declared per common share were $1.12 in 2003, $1.12 in 2002
and $1.11 in 2001.
56
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyNotes to Consolidated Statements
The accumulated balances related to each component of other comprehen- common share, respectively, on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
sive income (loss) were as follows: option-pricing model with the following assumptions:
Minimum Accumulated
Available Deferred Loss Pension Other
2003 2002 2001
Foreign Currency for Sale on Effective Liability Comprehensive
Dollars in Millions Translation Securities Hedges Adjustment Income/(Loss)
Dividend yield 4.0% 3.0% 1.5 %
Balance at Volatility 29.7% 31.3% 28.6 %
December 31, 2000 Risk-free interest rate 3.5% 5.0% 5.75%
(Restated) $(1,045) $ — $ — $ — $(1,045) Assumed forfeiture rate 3.0% 3.0% 3.0 %
Other comprehensive Expected life (years) 7 7 7
income (loss) 160 — (62) (5) 93
Balance at Stock option transactions were:
December 31, 2001 Weighted
(Restated) $ (885) $ — $ (62) $ (5) $ (952) Average of
Shares of Common Stock Exercise Price of
Other comprehensive
Available for Under Shares Under
income (loss) 161 1 (25) (89) 48 Option Plans Plan Plan
Balance at Balance, December 31, 2000 21,177,542 128,844,296 $40.32
December 31, 2002 Authorized 17,581,816 — .—
(Restated) $ (724) $ 1 $ (87) $ (94) $ (904) Granted (21,200,624) 21,200,624 62.45
Other comprehensive Granted as a result of the
income (loss) 233 23 (171) (36) 49 Zimmer spin-off(1) — 6,764,516 41.87
Balance at Exercised — (13,916,580) 25.17
December 31, 2003 $ (491) $ 24 $(258) $(130) $ (855) Lapsed 13,578,556 (13,578,556) 52.92
Balance, December 31, 2001 31,137,290 129,314,300 42.19
The Company expects to recognize $153 million of deferred hedging losses Authorized 21,708,554 — .—
in net earnings in the next twelve months. Granted (40,112,732) 40,112,732 37.55
Exercised — (7,352,080) 21.64
Stock Compensation Plans Lapsed 12,878,965 (12,878,965) 51.44
Under the Company’s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, officers and key employees Balance, December 31, 2002 25,612,077 149,195,987 41.20
may be granted options to purchase the Company’s common stock at no less Authorized 18,760,704 — .—
than 100% of the market price on the date the option is granted. Options gener- Granted (21,918,897) 21,918,897 23.19
ally become exercisable in installments of 25% per year on each of the first Exercised — (3,717,552) 13.76
through the fourth anniversaries of the grant date and have a maximum term of Lapsed 6,713,860 (6,713,860) 43.62
10 years. Additionally, the plan provides for the granting of stock appreciation Balance December 31, 2003 29,167,744 160,683,472 $39.24
rights whereby the grantee may surrender exercisable rights and receive common
stock and/or cash measured by the excess of the market price of the common (1) Effective with the spin-off of Zimmer on August 6, 2001, unexercised Bristol-Myers Squibb
stock over the option exercise price. The plan also provides for the granting of stock options held by Zimmer employees were converted into Zimmer stock options. For remaining
unexercised Bristol-Myers Squibb stock options, the number of stock options and the exercise price
performance-based stock options to certain key executives.
were adjusted to preserve the intrinsic value of the stock options and the ratio of exercise price to fair
Under the terms of the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, authorized shares include value that existed prior to the spin-off.
0.9% of the outstanding shares per year through 2007, as well as the number of
shares tendered in a prior year to pay the purchase price of options and the num- The following tables summarize information concerning the Company’s
ber of shares previously utilized to satisfy withholding tax obligations upon exer- stock compensation plans and currently outstanding and exercisable options.
cise. Shares which were available for grant in a prior year but were not granted in
such year and shares which were cancelled, forfeited or expired are also available Number of Number of securities remaining
for future grant. The plan incorporates the Company’s long-term performance securities to be issued Weighted average available for future issuance
upon exercise of exercise price of under equity compensation
awards.
outstanding options, outstanding options, plans excluding securities
In addition, the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the granting of up to warrants and rights warrants and rights reflected in column (a)
20,000,000 shares of common stock to key employees, subject to restrictions as Plan Category (a) (b) (c)
to continuous employment. Restrictions generally expire over a five-year period
from date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized over the restricted Equity compensation
period. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, there were 2,308,930 and plans approved by
1,705,503 restricted shares outstanding under the plan. security holders 131,534,776 $39.42 22,440,326
Under the TeamShare Stock Option Plan, full-time employees, excluding key
executives, are granted options to purchase the Company’s common stock at the Equity compensation
market price on the date the options are granted. The Company has authorized plans not approved
66,000,000 shares for issuance under the plan. Individual grants generally by security holders 29,148,696 38.42 6,727,418
become exercisable evenly on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the grant 160,683,472 $39.24 29,167,744
date and have a maximum term of 10 years. Options on 31,525,341 shares have
been exercised under the plan as of December 31, 2003.
The fair value of the options granted during 2003, 2002 and 2001 was esti-
mated as $5.15 per common share, $11.12 per common share and $22.59 per
57
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiNotes to Consolidated Statements
000Options Outstanding000 00000Options Exercisable reclassified from other comprehensive income to other income and expenses.
Weighted The carrying amount of the Company’s other financial instruments, which
Average Weighted Weighted
includes cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable and
Range of Remaining Average Average
Exercise Number Contractual Exercise Number Exercise accounts payable, approximates their fair value at December 31, 2003 and
Prices Outstanding Life Price Exercisable Price 2002. For long-term debt (other than noted above) the difference between the
fair value and carrying value is not material.
$10 — $20 13,151,215 0.92 $14.10 13,151,215 $14.10
Note 19
$20 — $30 54,073,575 7.31 $25.01 13,450,126 $22.83
Segment Information
$30 — $40 9,222,056 3.21 $32.39 9,193,556 $32.40
$40 — $50 47,675,447 5.90 $46.99 34,501,362 $46.94 The Company is organized as a pharmaceutical company with related healthcare
$50 — $60 16,462,768 7.00 $58.05 7,506,108 $58.26 businesses and has four reportable segments—Pharmaceuticals, OTN, Nutritionals
$60 and up 20,098,411 5.49 $63.34 15,817,133 $63.21 and Other Healthcare. The Pharmaceuticals segment is comprised of the global
160,683,472 93,619,500 pharmaceutical and international (excluding Japan) consumer medicines busi-
nesses. The OTN segment is a specialty distributor of anticancer medicines and
At December 31, 2003, 277,723,092 shares of common stock were reserved for related products. OTN, which was previously included in the Pharmaceuticals
issuance pursuant to stock plans, options and conversions of preferred stock. segment, met the quantitative thresholds of a reportable segment. Accordingly,
Options related to discontinued operations and included in the above amounts prior periods have been reclassified to conform with current year presentations.
are not material. The Nutritionals segment consists of Mead Johnson, primarily an infant formula
business. The Other Healthcare segment consists of the ConvaTec, Medical
Note 18
Imaging, and Consumer Medicines (U.S. and Japan) businesses.
Financial Instruments
The Company’s products are sold principally to the wholesale and retail trade
The Company is exposed to market risk due to changes in currency exchange both nationally and internationally. Certain products are also sold to other drug
rates and interest rates. As a result, the Company utilizes foreign exchange manufacturers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and the medical profes-
option and forward contracts to offset the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on sion. Three wholesalers accounted for approximately 15%, 12% and 12%,
anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany inventory respectively, of the Company’s total net sales in 2003. In 2002 sales to these
purchases expected to occur within the next two years. wholesalers accounted for 14%, 13% and 14%, respectively of the Company’s
The Company had exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and total net sales. In 2001, the same three wholesalers each accounted for approxi-
liabilities, which approximated $1,932 million and $2,145 million at December mately 14% of the Company’s total net sales. These sales were concentrated in
31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, primarily in Europe, Japan, Mexico and the Pharmaceuticals segment.
Canada. Worldwide sales of selected products and product categories were as follows:
Foreign exchange option contracts and forward contracts are used to hedge
anticipated transactions. The Company’s primary foreign currency exposures in 00000Year Ended December 31,
relation to the U.S. dollar are the euro, Canadian dollar and Japanese yen. The Restated Restated
notional amounts of the Company’s foreign exchange derivative contracts at Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2001
December 31, 2003 and 2002, were $2,488 million and $1,775 million, respec-
tively. For these derivatives, in which the majority qualify as hedges of future Pharmaceuticals
cash flows, the effective portion of changes in fair value is temporarily recorded Pravachol $2,827 $2,266 $2,101
in comprehensive income and then recognized in earnings when the hedged Plavix 2,467 1,890 1,171
item affects earnings. Any ineffective portion of hedges is reported in earnings TAXOL® 934 857 1,112
as it occurs. The fair value of option and forward contracts were liabilities of Paraplatin 905 727 592
$265 million and $25 million, at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively Avapro/Avalide 757 586 487
and was recorded in accrued liabilities. The fair value of all foreign exchange Sustiva 544 455 68
contracts is based on year-end currency rates (and the Black-Scholes model in Monopril 470 426 413
the case of option contracts). Glucovance 424 246 269
The Company uses derivative instruments as part of its interest rate risk man- Glucophage XR 395 297 230
agement policy. The derivative instruments used comprised principally of fixed Zerit/Zerit ER 354 443 515
to floating rate interest rate swaps, which are subject to fair-value hedge account- Coumadin 303 300 63
ing treatment. During 2003 and 2002, the Company entered into several fixed Abilify (total revenue) 283 25 —
to floating interest rate swap contracts with several financial institutions. The Videx/VidexEC 267 262 240
notional amounts of these swaps were $5.5 billion and $3.0 billion as of Tequin 208 184 250
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Glucophage IR 118 220 1,838
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the Company rec- Serzone 98 221 334
ognized a net reduction in interest expense of $116 million and $23 million in Reyataz 88 — —
2003 and 2002, respectively, that reflects the benefit of the lower floating rate BuSpar 35 53 297
obtained in the swap as compared to the fixed rate of the underlying debt. The Nutritionals
swap contracts as well as the underlying debt being hedged are recorded at fair Infant formulas 1,284 1,172 1,225
value, which resulted in an increase in current assets and long-term debt of $40 Other Healthcare
million and $133 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Swap Ostomy 512 453 447
contracts are generally held to maturity and the Company does not use deriva- Cardiolite 324 299 66
tive financial instruments for speculative purposes. Wound Therapeutics 319 273 249
During 2003 and 2002, the Company reclassified losses of $223 million and
$71 million from other comprehensive income to earnings, the majority of
which was classified as cost of products sold. In 2001, a gain of $2 million was
58
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyNotes to Consolidated Statements
Segment Information
Business Segments
Earnings Before Minority Interest
Net Sales and Income Taxes Year-end Assets
Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002
Pharmaceuticals $14,925 $12,812 $13,558 $4,369 $3,185 $1,857 $11,531 $10,725
Oncology Therapeutics Network 2,241 1,900 1,433 14 15 16 307 328
Nutritionals 2,023 1,821 1,821 542 486 517 1,037 1,085
Other Healthcare 1,705 1,573 1,232 408 427 328 1,242 1,290
Total segments 20,894 18,106 18,044 5,333 4,113 2,718 14,117 13,428
Corporate/Other — — — (639) (1,352) (455) 13,354 11,594
Total $20,894 $18,106 $18,044 $4,694 $2,761 $2,263 $27,471 $25,022
Corporate/Other principally consists of interest income, interest expense, certain administrative expenses and allocations to the business segments of certain cor-
porate programs. Corporate/Other also includes the gain on sales of businesses/product lines of $30 million and $475 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively; accel-
erated depreciation of $69 million in 2002; termination benefits and other exit costs of $50 million and $109 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively; asset
write-down and impairment charge of $3 million and $53 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively; up-front payments for licensing agreements of $66 million in
2003; downsizing and rationalized operations and facilities of $519 million in 2001; and litigation charges, net, of $220 million, $659 million and $77 million in
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 2002 also includes a $379 million asset impairment charge for ImClone.
The Pharmaceuticals segment includes a charge for acquired in-process research and development of $169 million and $2,772 million in 2002 and 2001, respec-
tively. Additionally in 2003, Pharmaceuticals includes a litigation settlement income of $21 million; an up-front payment for a licensing agreement of $36 million;
$53 million of accelerated depreciation of assets in manufacturing facilities in North America expected to be closed by the end of 2006; $11 million charge for asset
impairment; $13 million charge for relocation expenses; and $2 million charge for retention bonus benefits. Also in 2001, $74 million of deductions and customer
chargebacks related to abandoned product lines that are included as a reduction of net sales were recorded.
Corporate/Other assets include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, goodwill and certain other assets.
Capital Expenditures Depreciation
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2003 2002
Pharmaceuticals $678 $ 878 $391 $312
Oncology Therapeutics Network 1 6 1 1
Nutritionals 50 72 39 45
Other Healthcare 23 25 19 17
Total segments 752 981 450 375
Corporate/Other 73 55 41 52
Total $825 $1,036 $491 $427
Geographic Areas
Net Sales Year-end Assets
Restated Restated Restated
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002
United States $12,897 $11,348 $11,802 $15,616 $15,560
Europe, Mid-East and Africa 4,985 4,041 3,606 5,001 4,313
Other Western Hemisphere 1,333 1,215 1,289 5,711 4,204
Pacific 1,679 1,502 1,347 1,143 945
Total $20,894 $18,106 $18,044 $27,471 $25,022
59
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiNotes to Consolidated Statements
Note 20
Changes in benefit obligations and plan assets for December 31, 2003 and
Leases
2002, for the Company’s defined benefit and postretirement benefit plans, were:
Minimum rental commitments under all non-cancelable operating leases,
primarily real estate, in effect at December 31, 2003, were: Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Restated Restated
Years Ending December 31, Dollars in Millions Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2003 2002
2004 $ 98 Benefit obligation
2005 95 at beginning of year $4,172 $4,012 $ 717 $ 661
2006 77 Service cost—benefits earned
2007 65 during the year 144 143 8 10
2008 46 Interest cost on projected
Later years 75 benefit obligation 275 275 46 46
Total minimum payments 456 Plan participants’ contributions 3 1 4 4
Less total minimum sublease rentals 90 Curtailments and settlements (3) (13) — —
Net minimum rental commitments $366 Transfer from
DuPont Pharmaceuticals — 7 — —
Operating lease rental expense (net of sublease rental income of $11 million Actuarial loss 382 107 59 56
in 2003 and $25 million in 2002 and 2001) was $137 million in 2003, $95 mil- Plan amendments 38 16 (13) —
lion in 2002 and $80 million in 2001. Benefits paid (344) (420) (65) (60)
Exchange rate losses 88 44 2 —
Note 21
Benefit obligation
Pension and Other Postretirement
at end of year $4,755 $4,172 $ 758 $ 717
Benefit Plans
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have defined benefit pension Fair value of plan assets
plans and defined contribution plans for regular full-time employees. The prin- at beginning of year $3,318 $3,557 $ 164 $168
cipal pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan. The Actual return on plan assets 707 (473) 41 (25)
funding policy is to contribute amounts to provide for current service and to Employer contribution 332 554 61 77
fund past service liability. Plan benefits are based primarily on years of credited Plan participants’ contributions 3 1 4 4
service and on the participant’s compensation. Plan assets consist principally of Settlements (3) (10) — —
equity and fixed-income securities. Transfer from
The Company also provides comprehensive medical and group life benefits DuPont Pharmaceuticals — 68 — —
for substantially all U.S. retirees who elect to participate in its comprehensive Transfer in 1 — — —
medical and group life plans. The medical plan is contributory. Contributions Benefits paid (344) (420) (65) (60)
are adjusted periodically and vary by date of retirement and the original retiring Exchange rate gains 71 41 — —
Company. The life insurance plan is noncontributory. Plan assets consist princi- Fair value of plan assets
pally of equity and fixed-income securities. Similar plans exist for employees in at end of year $4,085 $3,318 $ 205 $ 164
certain countries outside of the U.S.
Cost of the Company’s deferred benefits and postretirement benefit plans Funded status $ (670) $ (854) $(553) $(553)
included the following components: Unamortized net obligation
Pension Benefits Other Benefits at adoption 10 9 — —
Restated Restated Unrecognized prior service cost 94 95 (16) (4)
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2003 2002 Unrecognized net actuarial loss 1,676 1,657 188 165
Net amount recognized $1,110 $ 907 $(381) $(392)
Service cost — benefits earned
during the year $144 $143 $ 8 $10 Amounts recognized in the balance sheet consist of:
Interest cost on projected Prepaid benefit cost $1,327 $1,126 $ — $ —
benefit obligation 275 275 46 46 Accrued benefit cost (420) (369) (381) (392)
Expected return on plan assets (353) (402) (15) (19) Intangible assets 10 10 — —
Net amortization and deferral 71 21 7 2 Accumulated other
Net periodic benefit cost 137 37 46 39 comprehensive income 193 140 — —
Curtailments and settlements (1) (3) — — Net amount recognized $1,110 $ 907 $(381) $(392)
Total net periodic benefit cost $136 $ 34 $46 $39
Several plans had underfunded accrued benefit obligations that exceeded
The Company has elected to defer recognition of the Medicare Prescription their accrued benefit liabilities at December 31, 2003 and 2002. Additional
Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 at this time. The accumu- minimum liabilities were established to increase the accrued benefit liabilities to
lated postretirement benefit obligation and net periodic postretirement benefit the values of the underfunded accrued benefit obligations. This totaled $203
cost do not reflect the effect of the Act on the retiree medical plan. Specific million and $150 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, for a
authoritative guidance on the accounting for the federal subsidy is pending from U.S. unfunded benefit equalization plan, a U.S. underfunded Key International
the FASB and guidance, when issued, could require a change to previously Plan and for plans in the U.K., Japan, Canada and Belgium. The additional
reported information. minimum liability was offset by the creation of a $10 million intangible asset
and charges to other comprehensive income included in stockholders’ equity of
$193 million and $140 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
60
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyNotes to Consolidated Statements
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was Assumed health care cost trend rates at December 31 were:
$4,154 million and $3,604 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 2003 2002
Information for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess
of plan assets was: Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year 9.96% 10.88%
.........December 31,......... Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to
Restated decline (the ultimate trend rate) 4.50% 4.48%
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2010 2010
Projected benefit obligation $918 $779 Assumed health care cost trend rates do have an effect on the amounts
Accumulated benefit obligation 791 670 reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed
Fair value of plan assets 427 340 health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
This is attributable primarily to an unfunded U.S. benefit equalization plan 1-Percentage 1-Percentage
and several plans in the international markets. The unfunded U.S. benefit equal- Dollars in Millions Point Increase Point Decrease
ization plan provides pension benefits for employees with compensation above
IRS limits and cannot be funded in a tax-advantaged manner. Effect on total of service and interest cost $ 3 $ (3)
Additional information pertaining to the Company’s pension and postretire- Effect on postretirement benefit obligation $52 $(46)
ment plans:
Pension Benefits Other Benefits The Company’s asset allocation for pension and postretirement benefits at
Restated Restated December 31, 2003 and 2002, were:
Dollars in Millions 2003 2002 2003 2002
Pension Benefits Other Benefits
Increase in minimum Restated Restated
liability included in other 2003 2002 2003 2002
comprehensive income $53 $132 $ — $ —
Public equity securities 69.7% 66.3% 70.7% 67.2%
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at Debt securities (including cash) 25.1 28.1 23.1 26.2
December 31, were: Private equity 5.0 5.4 6.0 6.4
Pension Benefits Other Benefits Other 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
Restated Restated Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
2003 2002 2003 2002
The Company’s investment strategy emphasizes equities in order to achieve
Discount rate 6.08% 6.56% 6.01% 6.75% high expected returns and, in the long run, low expense and low required cash
Rate of compensation increase 3.57% 3.33% 3.58% 3.29% contributions. For the U.S. pension plans, a target asset allocation of 70% pub-
lic equity (58% U.S., 12% international), 8% private equity and 22% fixed
Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine net periodic bene- income is maintained and cash flow (i.e., cash contributions, benefit payments)
fit cost for the years ended December 31, were: are used to rebalance back to the targets as necessary. Investments are diversified
within each of the three major asset categories. About 40% of the U.S. equity is
Pension Benefits Other Benefits passively managed. Otherwise, all investments are actively managed.
Restated Restated Investment strategies for international pension plans are typically similar,
2003 2002 2003 2002 although the asset allocations are usually more conservative.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company common stock represents less than 1% of
Discount rate 6.56% 7.02% 6.75% 7.23% plan assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002.
Expected long-term return Assets for postretirement benefits are commingled with U.S. pension plan
on plan assets 8.81% 9.74% 9.00% 10.00% assets and, therefore, the investment strategy is identical to that described above
Rate of compensation increase 3.33% 3.59% 3.29% 3.57% for U.S. pension plans.
The Company’s expected long-term rate of return on U.S. pension plan assets Contributions
is 9%. The target asset allocation is 70% public equity (58% U.S., 12% interna- As a result of improved investment returns in 2003 and significant contribu-
tional), 8% private equity and 22% fixed income. The 9% is approximated by tions in recent years, there is no current plan to make cash contributions to the
applying expected returns of 9% on public equity, 15% on private equity and U.S. pension plans in 2004. Significant tax deductible contributions are likely to
6% on fixed income to the target allocation. The actual historical returns are be allowed under IRS rules, but no minimum contributions will be required.
also relevant. Annualized returns for periods ended December 31, 2003 were If contributions are made to the U.S. pension plans, the Company may make
9.5% for 10 years, 10.3% for 15 years and 10.8% for 20 years. tax-deductible contributions to the 401(h) account for retiree medical benefits
U.S. pension plan assets represented 83.9% of total Company pension plan equal to a portion of the pension normal cost.
assets at December 31, 2002. The 8.81% disclosed above for total Company Contributions to the international pension plans are now expected to be in
expected return on assets for 2003 is below the 9.0% for U.S. pension plans due the $50 to $70 million range.
to the impact of international pension plans, which typically employ a less
aggressive asset allocation.
A 9% expected return is disclosed for Other Benefits in 2003 because the
relevant assets are invested in the same manner as U.S. pension plan assets and
there are no international plan assets.
61
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiNotes to Consolidated Statements
Estimated Future Benefit Payments discloses and claims, among other things, the hydrogen sulfate salt of clopido-
The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as grel, which is marketed as Plavix, and on U.S. Patent No. 5,576,328, which dis-
appropriate, are expected to be paid: closes and claims, among other things, the use of clopidogrel to prevent a
Dollars in Millions Pension Benefits Other Benefits secondary ischemic event. The plaintiffs later withdrew Patent No. 5,576,328
from the lawsuit. Plaintiffs’ infringement position is based on defendants’ filing
2004 $215 $64 of their Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) with the FDA, seeking
2005 224 66 approval to sell generic clopidogrel prior to the expiration of the composition of
2006 238 67 matter patent in 2011. The defendants responded by alleging that the patent is
2007 256 67 invalid and/or unenforceable. The cases were consolidated for discovery, and
2008 272 65 fact discovery closed on October 15, 2003.
Years 2009 – 2013 1,642 314 Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, or Teva, a generic drug manufacturer, has filed an
ANDA with the FDA claiming that patent No. 5576328 relating to Plavix is
Savings Plan invalid and that two others will not be infringed by Teva. None of these patents
The principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings is involved in the pending patent infringement litigation involving Plavix. The
and Investment Program. The Company’s contribution is based on employee Teva filing does not challenge the patent at issue in the Plavix litigation and
contributions and the level of Company match. The Company’s contributions to therefore is not expected to have any impact on that litigation; nor does it
the plan were $51 million in 2003, $50 million in 2002 and $54 million in 2001. appear that Teva intends to commercialize a generic form of Plavix prior to the
expiration or termination of the patent at issue in the litigation, although there
Note 22
can be no assurance that this will continue to be the case.
Legal Proceedings and Contingencies
Net sales of Plavix were approximately $2.5 billion in 2003 and are expected
Various lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations are pending against to grow substantially over the next several years. The Company anticipates that
the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In accordance with SFAS No. 5, this revenue growth will be an important factor in offsetting expected decreases
Accounting for Contingencies, the Company records accruals for such contingen- in sales of the Company’s other products that recently have or will experience
cies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss exclusivity losses during this period.
can be reasonably estimated. These matters involve antitrust, securities, patent Currently, the Company expects Plavix to have market exclusivity in the
infringement, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as United States until 2011. If the composition of matter patent for Plavix is found
amended (ERISA), pricing, sales and marketing practices, environmental, not infringed, invalid and/or unenforceable at the district court level, the FDA
health and safety matters, product liability and insurance coverage. The most could then approve the defendants’ ANDAs to sell generic clopidogrel, and
significant of these matters are described below. generic competition for Plavix could begin, before the Company has exhausted
In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company established reserves for liabilities its appeals. Such generic competition would likely result in substantial decreases
of $250 million, comprised of $150 million in relation to wholesaler inventory in the sales of Plavix in the U.S.
issues and certain other accounting matters as discussed below under Other Although the plaintiffs intend to vigorously pursue enforcement of their
Securities Matters, and $100 million in relation to pharmaceutical pricing and patent rights in Plavix, it is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the out-
sales and marketing practices as discussed below under Pricing, Sales and come of these lawsuits, or, if the Company were not to prevail in these lawsuits,
Promotional Practices Litigation and Investigations. It is not possible at this the timing of potential generic competition for Plavix. However, if such generic
time to reasonably assess the final outcome of these matters. In accordance with competition were to occur, the Company believes it is very unlikely to occur
GAAP, the Company has determined that the above amounts represent mini- before sometime in the year 2005. It also is not possible reasonably to estimate
mum expected probable losses with respect to these groups of matters. Eventual the impact of these lawsuits on the Company. However, loss of market exclusiv-
losses related to these matters may exceed these reserves, and the further impact ity of Plavix and the subsequent development of generic competition would be
of either one of these groups of matters could be material. The Company does material to the Company’s sales of Plavix and results of operations and cash
not believe that the top-end of the range for these losses can be estimated. With flows and could be material to its financial condition and liquidity.
the exception of the above accruals and those for TAXOL®, BuSpar, environ-
mental and product liability proceedings, the Company has not established VanlevLitigation
reserves for the matters described below. There can be no assurance that there In April, May and June 2000, the Company, its former chairman of the board
will not be an increase in the scope of these matters or that any future lawsuits, and chief executive officer, Charles A. Heimbold, Jr., and its former chief scien-
claims, proceedings or investigations will not be material. Management contin- tific officer, Peter S. Ringrose, Ph.D., were named as defendants in a number of
ues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggre- class action lawsuits alleging violations of federal securities laws and regulations.
gate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the These actions have been consolidated into one action in the U.S. District Court
Company is reasonably likely to be material to the Company’s results of operations for the District of New Jersey. The plaintiff claims that the defendants dissemi-
and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. nated materially false and misleading statements and/or failed to disclose mate-
rial information concerning the safety, efficacy and commercial viability of its
Plavix Litigation product Vanlevduring the period November 8, 1999 through April 19, 2000.
The Company’s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is a In May 2002, the plaintiff submitted an amended complaint adding allega-
plaintiff in two pending patent infringement lawsuits instituted in the U. S. tions that the Company, its present chairman of the board and chief executive
District Court for the Southern District of New York entitled Sanofi- officer, Peter R. Dolan, its former chairman of the board and chief executive
Synthélabo, Sanofi-Synthélabo Inc., and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi officer, Charles A. Heimbold, Jr., and its former chief scientific officer, Peter S.
Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership v. Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp., 02-CV- Ringrose, Ph.D., disseminated materially false and misleading statements
2255 (RWS) and Sanofi-Synthélabo, Sanofi-Synthélabo Inc. and Bristol-Myers and/or failed to disclose material information concerning the safety, efficacy, and
Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership v. Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, commercial viability of Vanlevduring the period April 19, 2000 through March
LTD, and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc., 02-CV-3672 (RWS). Similar proceed- 20, 2002. A number of related class actions, making essentially the same allega-
ings involving Plavix also have been instituted outside the U.S. tions, were also filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
The suits were filed on March 21, 2002 and May 14, 2002, respectively, and York. These actions have been transferred to the U.S. District Court for the
are based on U.S. Patent No. 4,847,265, a composition of matter patent, which District of New Jersey. The Company has filed a motion for partial judgment in
62
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyNotes to Consolidated Statements
its favor based upon the pleadings. The plaintiff has opposed the motion, in part tors’ compensation and alleged improper insider trading proceeds; injunctive
by seeking again to amend its complaint, including another attempt to expand relief; fees, costs and expenses; contribution from certain officers for alleged lia-
the proposed class period. The court has not ruled on the Company’s motion to bility in the consolidated securities class action pending in the U.S. District
dismiss nor the plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend. Discovery is ongoing. The Court for the Southern District of New York (as discussed above); and contribu-
plaintiff purports to seek compensatory damages, costs and expenses on behalf tion and indemnification from PwC. No discovery has been taken in this mat-
of shareholders. ter. On December 19, 2003, the Company moved to dismiss the consolidated
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of this liti- amended complaint. Two similar actions are pending in New York State court.
gation or reasonably to estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to Plaintiffs seek equitable relief, damages, costs and attorneys’ fees.
this litigation. If the Company were not to prevail in final, non-appealable The SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office and a grand jury for the District of
determinations of this litigation, the impact could be material. New Jersey are investigating the activities of the Company and certain current
and former members of the Company’s management in connection with the
Other Securities Matters wholesaler inventory issues referenced above and certain other accounting
During the period March through May 2002, the Company and a number issues. The Company is cooperating with these investigations.
of its current and former officers were named as defendants in a number of It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these
securities class action suits. The suits variously alleged violations of federal litigations and investigations or reasonably to estimate the possible loss or range
securities laws and regulations in connection with three different matters: (i) of loss with respect to these litigations and investigations. The Company is pro-
Vanlev(as discussed above), (ii) sales incentives and wholesaler inventory levels, ducing documents and actively cooperating with these investigations, which
and (iii) ImClone, and ImClone’s product, ERBITUX. As discussed above, the investigations could result in the assertion of civil and/or criminal claims against
allegations concerning Vanlevhave been transferred to the U.S. District Court the Company and/or current or former members of the Company’s manage-
for the District of New Jersey and consolidated with the action pending there. ment. If the Company were not to prevail in final, non-appealable determina-
The remaining actions have been consolidated and are pending in the U.S. District tions of these litigations and investigations, the impact could be material.
Court for the Southern District of New York. Plaintiffs filed a consolidated class
action complaint on April 11, 2003 against the Company and certain current ERISA Litigation
and former officers alleging a class period of October 19, 1999 through March In December 2002 and the first quarter of 2003, the Company and others
10, 2003. The consolidated class action complaint alleges violations of federal were named as defendants in five class actions brought under ERISA in the U.S.
securities laws in connection with, among other things, the Company’s invest- District Courts for the Southern District of New York and the District of New
ment in and relationship with ImClone and ImClone’s product, ERBITUX, Jersey. These actions have been consolidated in the Southern District of New
and certain accounting issues addressed in the 2002 Restatement, including York under the caption In re Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. ERISA Litigation,
issues related to wholesaler inventory and sales incentives, the establishment of 02 CV 10129. An Amended Consolidated Complaint alleging a class period of
reserves, and accounting for certain asset and other sales. The plaintiffs seek January 1, 1999 through March 10, 2003, was served on August 18, 2003. The
compensatory damages, costs and expenses. On August 1, 2003, the Company Amended Consolidated Complaint was brought on behalf of four named plain-
moved to dismiss the consolidated class action complaint. The plaintiffs have tiffs and a putative class consisting of all participants in the Bristol-Myers
opposed the Company’s motion to dismiss and the Company has replied. The Squibb Company Savings and Investment Program (Savings Plan) and their
motion remains pending before the court. Discovery in this matter is stayed pur- beneficiaries for whose benefit the Savings Plan held and/or acquired Company
suant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. In addition, an action was stock at any time during the class period (excluding the defendants, their heirs,
filed in early October 2003, in New York State Court, making similar factual predecessors, successors and assigns). The named defendants are the Company,
allegations and asserting a variety of claims including, among others, common the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Savings Plan Committee (Committee),
law fraud and negligent misrepresentation. No discovery has been taken in this thirteen individuals who presently serve on the Committee or who served on the
matter. On January 9, 2004, the Company moved to dismiss the complaint. Committee in the recent past, Charles A. Heimbold, Jr. and Peter R. Dolan (the
Beginning in October 2002, a number of the Company’s current and former past and present Chief Executive Officer, respectively, of the Company). The
officers and directors were named as defendants in three shareholder derivative Amended Consolidated Complaint generally alleges that the defendants
suits pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. breached their fiduciary duties under ERISA during the class period, by, among
A number of the Company’s current and former officers and directors were other things, continuing to offer the Company Stock Fund and Company stock
named as defendants in three shareholder derivative suits filed during the period as investment alternatives under the Savings Plan; continuing to invest
March 2003 through May 2003 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Company matching contributions in the Company Stock Fund and Company
New Jersey. In July 2003 the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey stock; and failing to disclose that the investments in Company stock were
ordered the three shareholder derivative lawsuits that were filed in that court (allegedly) imprudent. The Savings Plan’s purchases of Company stock after
transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. January 1, 1999 are alleged to have been transactions prohibited by ERISA.
Subsequently, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York Finally, Defendants Heimbold and Dolan are alleged to have breached their
ordered all six federal shareholder derivative suits consolidated. Plaintiffs have fiduciary duties under ERISA by failing to monitor the actions of the
filed a consolidated, amended, verified shareholder complaint against certain Committee. These ERISA claims are predicated upon factual allegations similar
members of the board of directors, current and former officers and to those raised in “Other Securities Matters” above, concerning, among other
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), the Company’s independent auditors. The things: safety, efficacy and commercial viability of Vanlev; the Company’s sales
Company is a nominal defendant. The consolidated amended complaint alleges, incentives to certain wholesalers and the inventory levels of those wholesalers;
among other things, violations of federal securities laws and breaches of fiduci- the Company’s investment in and relations with ImClone and ImClone’s prod-
ary duty by certain individual defendants in connection with the Company’s uct ERBITUX; and alleged anticompetitive behavior in connection with
conduct concerning, among other things: safety, efficacy and commercial viabil- BuSparand TAXOL®.
ity of Vanlev(as discussed above); the Company’s sales incentives to certain There has not been any significant discovery. On October 2, 2003, the
wholesalers and the inventory levels of those wholesalers; the Company’s invest- Company and all other defendants moved to dismiss the Amended
ment in and relations with ImClone and ImClone’s product ERBITUX; and Consolidated Complaint. The plaintiffs have opposed the motion to dismiss,
alleged anticompetitive behavior in connection with BuSparand TAXOL®. The and the defendants have replied. It is not possible at this time reasonably to pre-
lawsuit also alleges malpractice (negligent misrepresentation and negligence) by dict the final outcome or reasonably to estimate the possible loss or range of loss
PwC. The plaintiffs seek restitution and rescission of certain officers’ and direc- with respect to the consolidated litigation. If the Company were not to prevail
63
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiNotes to Consolidated Statements
in final, non-appealable determinations of these matters, the impact could be Finally, the Company is a defendant in related state court proceedings com-
material. menced in New York, New Jersey, California, Arizona and Tennessee, in pro-
ceedings by the Attorney General of Pennsylvania and in federal court
Pricing, Sales and Promotional Practices Litigation and Investigations proceedings commenced by the Counties of Suffolk, Westchester and Rockland,
The Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufactur- New York (collectively, the New York Counties AWP cases). Those proceedings
ers, is a defendant in several private class actions and in actions brought by the were transferred to the AWP Multidistrict Litigation for pre-trial purposes,
Nevada and Montana Attorneys General and the Counties of Suffolk, although plaintiffs in the California, Arizona and New Jersey actions sought to
Westchester and Rockland, New York that are pending in federal and state remand their cases to the state courts. The California remand motions were
courts relating to the pricing of certain Company products. The federal cases denied, the Arizona remand motion was granted, and any other remand
have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes under the caption In re motions remain pending. The New York Counties AWP cases allege RICO
Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation, MDL No. 1456 in claims similar to those made in the Amended Master Consolidated Complaint
the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts (AWP Multidistrict in the AWP Multidistrict Litigation, however, the claims are on behalf of the
Litigation). counties as contributors to New York State’s Medicaid obligations. Defendants
On June 18, 2003, the Court in the AWP Multidistrict Litigation granted the in the first-filed Suffolk County case have moved to dismiss the amended com-
private plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file an amended Master Consolidated plaint in that action. Oral argument was heard on that motion on December 12,
Complaint (Amended Master Complaint). The Amended Master Complaint 2003, but no ruling has issued. With respect to the case remanded to Arizona
contains two sets of allegations against the Company. First, it alleges that the state court, defendants have filed motions to dismiss or for a stay. A hearing on
Company’s and many other pharmaceutical manufacturers’ reporting of prices these motionsis currently scheduled for June 10, 2004, with merits discovery
for certain drug products (20 listed drugs in the Company’s case) had the effect stayed until then.
of falsely overstating the Average Wholesale Price (AWP) published in industry These cases are at a very preliminary stage, and the Company is unable to
compendia, which in turn improperly inflated the reimbursement paid to medical assess the outcome and any possible effect on its business and profitability, or
providers and others who prescribed and administered those products. Second, reasonably estimate possible loss or range of loss with respect to these cases. If
it alleges that the Company and certain other defendant pharmaceutical manu- the Company were not to prevail in final, non-appealable determinations of
facturers conspired with one another in a program called the “Together Rx Card these litigations and investigations, the impact could be material.
Program” to fix AWPs for certain drugs made available to consumers through The Company, together with a number of other pharmaceutical manufactur-
the Program. The Amended Master Complaint asserts claims under the federal ers, also has received subpoenas and other document requests from various gov-
RICO and antitrust statutes and state consumer protection and fair trade statutes. ernment agencies seeking records relating to its pricing, sales and marketing
The Amended Master Complaint is brought on behalf of two main proposed practices, and “Best Price” reporting for drugs covered by Medicare and/or
classes, that are further divided into sub-classes: (i) all persons or entities who, Medicaid. The requests for records have come from the U.S. Attorney’s Office
from 1991 forward, (a) directly paid any portion of the price of a listed drug, for the District of Massachusetts, the Office of the Inspector General of the
which price was calculated with reference to AWP or (b) contracted with a phar- Department of Health and Human Services in conjunction with the Civil
macy benefit manager to provide others with the drugs listed in the Amended Division of the Department of Justice, the Office of the Inspector General for
Consolidated Complaint; and (ii) all persons or entities who, from 2002 for- the Office of Personnel Management in conjunction with the U.S. Attorney’s
ward, paid or reimbursed any portion of the purchase price of a drug covered by Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and several states. In addition, a
the Together Rx Card Program based in whole or in part on AWP. request for information has come from the House Committee on Energy and
The Company and the other defendants moved to dismiss the Amended Commerce in connection with an investigation that the Committee is currently
Master Complaint on the grounds that it fails to state claims under the applicable conducting into Medicaid Best Price issues. Finally, the Company has received a
statutes. These motions were denied on February 24, 2004, although the Court civil investigative demand from the Attorney General for the State of Missouri
dismissed one of the plaintiffs’ claims for failure to plead a cognizable RICO relating to direct to consumer advertising for Pravachol for the period of 2001-
“enterprise”. Accordingly, the Company and the other defendants will be required 2003. The Company also received notice of a putative class action lawsuit
to answer the Amended Master Complaint. In addition, the Company has been involving the same issues, filed on February 23, 2004, in Circuit Court of
engaged in and will continue to engage in discovery in private class actions in Jackson County Missouri at Kansas City, captioned Richard Summers v. Bristol-
the AWP Multidistrict Litigation. Myers Squibb Company. The Company has not been served with this complaint.
The Nevada and Montana Attorneys General complaints assert claims similar On July 22, 2003, the Company announced that it had recently initiated an
to those in the Amended Master Complaint under state law, but also assert internal review of certain of its sales and marketing practices. That review
claims in the name of their respective States for alleged violations of state focuses on whether these practices comply with applicable anti-kickback laws. It
Medicaid fraud statutes. The Nevada and Montana Attorneys General cases also includes an analysis of these practices with respect to compliance with (i)
were originally commenced in their respective state courts but were later Best Price reporting and rebate requirements under the Medicaid program and
removed to the AWP Multidistrict Litigation. Each Attorney General moved to certain other U.S. governmental programs, which reference the Medicaid rebate
have its case remanded to state court on the ground that there is no federal juris- program and (ii) applicable FDA requirements. The Company has met with
diction. On June 11, 2003, the Court in the AWP Multidistrict Litigation ruled representatives of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts to
that the Nevada action, in which the Company is named, should be remanded discuss the review. The Company has received a subpoena from the U.S.
to state court on the ground that not all defendants had joined in the original Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts. The Company’s internal
removal petition. The case is now proceeding in Nevada state court. The Court review is expected to continue until resolution of pending governmental investi-
retained jurisdiction over the Montana case. The defendants moved to dismiss gations of related matters.
the Montana and a second Nevada case, in which the Company is not named. The Company is producing documents and actively cooperating with these
Oral argument was heard on that motion on December 12, 2003, but no ruling investigations, which could result in the assertion of civil and/or criminal claims.
has been issued. The Company is unable to assess the outcome of, or to reasonably estimate the
possible loss or range of loss with respect to, these investigations, which could
include the imposition of fines, penalties, administrative remedies and/or liabil-
ity for additional rebate amounts. If the Company were not to prevail in final,
non-appealable determinations of these litigations and investigations, the
impact could be material.
64
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyNotes to Consolidated Statements
CTLA4Ig Litigation product and cases involving psychoses, seizures and cardiac injuries. The
On August 17, 2000, Repligen Corporation (Repligen) and the University of Company expects to be dismissed from additional cases in which its products
Michigan instituted a lawsuit against the Company in the U.S. District Court were never used by the plaintiffs and where plaintiffs’ alleged injury occurred
for the Eastern District of Michigan. The suit alleged that Dr. Craig Thompson, more than three days after ingestion of a PPA containing product or where a
formerly a professor at the University of Michigan, had been involved in a col- plaintiff suffered from cardiac injuries or psychoses.
laboration with certain of the Company’s scientists, and that Thompson’s activ- Serzone. Serzone(nefazodone hydrochloride) is an antidepressant that was
ity in the collaboration made him a rightful inventor on several patents that the launched by the Company in May 1994 in Canada and in March 1995 in the
Company later obtained covering soluble forms of CTLA4 and related methods United States. In December 2001, the Company added a black box warning to
of use. After conducting a trial, in September 2003 the District Court ruled that its Serzonelabel warning of the potential risk of severe hepatic events including
Repligen and the University of Michigan had failed to prove that Thompson possible liver failure and the need for transplantation and risk of death. Within
made any inventive contribution to the patents in suit, and thus he was not enti- several months of the black box warning being added to the package insert for
tled to be added as a sole or joint inventor on the Company’s patents. Repligen Serzone, a number of lawsuits, including several class actions, were filed against
and the University of Michigan appealed the District Court’s decision to the the Company. Plaintiffs allege that the Company knew or should have known
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. about the hepatic risks posed by Serzoneand failed to adequately warn physi-
cians and users of the risks. They seek compensatory and punitive damages,
ERBITUX Litigation medical monitoring, and refunds for the costs of purchasing Serzone.
On October 28, 2003, a complaint was filed by Yeda Research and At present, the Company has 182 lawsuits, on behalf of 2,038 plaintiffs,
Development Company Ltd. (Yeda) against ImClone Systems and Aventis pending against it in federal and state courts throughout the United States.
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Twenty-four of these cases are pending in New York state court and have been
New York. This action alleges and seeks that three individuals associated with consolidated for pretrial discovery. In addition, there are approximately 652
Yeda should also be named as coinventors on U.S. Patent No. 6,217,866, which alleged, but unfiled, claims of injury associated with Serzone. In August 2002,
covers the therapeutic combination of any EGFR monoclonal antibody and the federal cases were transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Southern
anti-neoplastic agents, such as chemotherapeutic agents, for use in the treatment District of West Virginia, In Re Serzone Products Liability Litigation, MDL 1477.
of cancer. If Yeda’s action were successful, Yeda could be in a position to practice, Although discovery is still at a very early stage it appears that very few of these
or to license others to practice, the invention. This could result in product com- cases involve liver failure. In June 2003, the District Court dismissed the class
petition for ERBITUX that might not otherwise occur. The Company, which is claims in all but two of the class action complaints. Although a number of the
not a party to this action, is unable to predict the outcome at this stage in the class action complaints filed against the Company had sought the certification
proceedings. of one or more personal injury classes, the remaining class action complaints do
not seek the certification of personal injury classes. On January 30, 2004, the
Product Liability Litigation court issued an order setting the hearing on class certification for October 20,
The Company is a party to product liability lawsuits involving allegations of 2004. In addition to the cases filed in the United States, there are three national
injury caused by the Company’s pharmaceutical and over-the-counter medica- class actions filed in Canada.
tions. The majority of these lawsuits involve certain over-the-counter medica- StadolNS.StadolNS was approved in 1992 by the FDA as an unscheduled
tions containing phenylpropanolamine (PPA), or the Company’s Serzoneand opioid analgesic nasal spray. In February 1995 the Company asked the FDA
StadolNS prescription drugs. In addition to lawsuits, the Company also faces to schedule StadolNS as a Schedule IV, low potential for abuse, drug due to
unfiled claims involving the same products. post-marketing reports suggestive of inappropriate use of the product. On
PPA. In May 2000, Yale University published the results of its Hemorrhagic October 31, 1997, it became a Schedule IV drug. Since 1997, the Company
Stroke Project, which concluded that there was evidence of a suggestion that has received a number of lawsuits involving Stadol. In late 2002, the number
PPA may increase the risk of hemorrhagic stroke in a limited population. In of filed suits increased due to newly passed tort reform legislation, which
November 2000, the FDA issued a Public Health Advisory and requested that became effective on January 1, 2003. Most, if not all, of the plaintiffs in these
manufacturers of PPA-containing products voluntarily cease manufacturing and new suits had previously asserted claims against the Company for their alleged
marketing them. At that time, the only PPA-containing products manufactured injuries.
or sold by the Company were Comtrex(liquid gel formulations only) and The Company currently is a party in 51 cases pending, on behalf of a total of
Naldecon. On or about November 6, 2000, the Company, as well as other man- approximately 908 plaintiffs, in federal and state courts throughout the United
ufacturers of PPA containing products, discontinued the manufacture and mar- States. Plaintiffs claim that the Company committed fraud on the FDA and
keting of PPA containing products and allowed customers to return any unused wrongfully promoted StadolNS as non-addictive. Further, plaintiffs allege that
product that they had in their possession. the Company failed to adequately warn of the addiction and dependency risk
In January 2001, the Company was served with its first “PPA” lawsuit. The associated with the use of StadolNS. In addition to these lawsuits, there are
Company currently is a defendant in approximately 148 personal injury law- approximately 9,600 alleged and unfiled claims of which approximately 80 are
suits, filed on behalf of approximately 355 plaintiffs, in federal and state courts active. The majority of the cases and claims are pending in Mississippi.
throughout the United States. The majority of these lawsuits involve multiple In addition to the cases filed in the United States, there are two class actions
defendants. Among other claims, plaintiffs allege that PPA causes hemorrhagic and one individual case filed in Canada.
and ischemic strokes, that the defendants were aware of the risk, failed to warn
consumers and failed to remove PPA from their products. Plaintiffs seek com- Breast Implant Litigation
pensatory and punitive damages. All of the federal cases have been transferred to The Company, together with its subsidiary Medical Engineering Corporation
the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington, In re (MEC) and certain other companies, remains a defendant in a number of claims
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA) Products Liability Litigation, MDL No. 1407. The and lawsuits alleging damages for personal injuries of various types resulting
District Court has denied all motions for class certification and there are no class from polyurethane-covered breast implants and smooth-walled breast implants
action lawsuits pending against the Company in this litigation. formerly manufactured by MEC or a related company. The vast majority of
On June 18, 2003, the District Court issued a ruling effectively limiting the claims against the Company in direct lawsuits have been resolved through settle-
plaintiffs’ claims to hemorrhagic and ischemic strokes. Rulings favorable for the ments or trial. Likewise, claims or potential claims against the Company regis-
defendants included the inadmissibility of expert testimony in cases alleging tered in the nationwide class action settlement approved by the Federal District
injuries occurring more than three days after ingestion of a PPA containing Court in Birmingham, Alabama (Revised Settlement), have been or will be
65
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiNotes to Consolidated Statements
resolved through the Revised Settlement. The Company has established accruals claims. All of these matters have been settled, and those that required court
in respect of breast implant product liability litigation. The Company believes approval have been given final approval by the supervising court. The total
that any possible loss in addition to the amounts accrued will not be material. amount of the settlements was $551 million. Of that amount, $35 million was
The Company intends to vigorously defend its product liability lawsuits and accrued in 2001, and $500 million was accrued in 2002. The remaining $16
believes that the majority of these cases and claims are without merit. While it is million was accrued in 2003.
not possible at this time to reasonably assess the final outcome of the Company’s The FTC also opened an investigation relating to BuSpar. This matter was
pending product liability lawsuits and unfiled claims with certainty, manage- settled with the entry of a consent decree, which is in effect until April 14, 2013.
ment is of the opinion that the ultimate disposition of these matters should not
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. The Environmental Proceedings
Company believes that it has adequate self-insurance reserves and commercially The following discussion describes (i) environmental proceedings with a
available excess insurance to cover potential loss related to its product liability governmental authority which may involve potential monetary sanctions of
cases and claims. $100,000 or more (the threshold prescribed by specific SEC rule), (ii) a civil
action or an environmental claim that could result in significant liabilities, (iii)
PlatinolLitigation updates of ongoing matters, or the resolution of other matters, disclosed in
On February 13, 2004, a class action complaint was filed by North Shore recent public filings and (iv) a summary of environmental remediation costs.
Hematology-Oncology Associates, P.C. against the Company in the U.S. The preliminary results of an internal audit performed at the Company’s
District Court for the District of Columbia. This is a putative class action facility in Hopewell, N.J. indicate that operations at the site’s wastewater treat-
brought on behalf of direct purchasers of Platinolthat alleges that the Company ment plant and related discharges may not be in compliance with the New Jersey
violated federal antitrust laws by maintaining a monopoly in the U.S. market. Water Pollution Control Act and its implementing regulations or the terms of
The allegations focus on the Company’s actions concerning U.S. Patent No. the Company’s discharge permits. The Company reported its findings to the
5,562,925 (‘925 patent), including the procurement of the ‘925 patent, submis- New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) in February
sion of information relating to the ‘925 patent for listing in the Orange Book, 2004, and is currently engaged in settlement discussions with the State. None of
and initiation of previous lawsuits against potential generic manufacturers based the results of the audit suggest that there has been any adverse impact to public
on the ‘925 patent. Plaintiffs seek declaratory judgment and damages (including health. The Company has taken, and will continue to take, corrective actions to
treble damages). address identified deficiencies and to prevent future occurrences.
The Company markets Platinolunder exclusive patent licenses from Research In January 2004, NJDEP sent the Company, and approximately five other
Corporation Technologies (RCT). companies, an information request letter relating to a site in North Brunswick
The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) also opened an investigation relating Township, N.J. where waste materials from E.R. Squibb & Sons (Squibb), a
to Platinol. This matter was settled with the entry of a consent decree, which is wholly owned subsidiary of BMS, may have been disposed of from the 1940s
in effect until April 14, 2013. through the 1960s. Fill material containing industrial waste and heavy metals in
It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of this liti- excess of residential standards was discovered in Fall 2003 during an expansion
gation or reasonably to estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to project at the North Brunswick Township High School. The school board and
this litigation. If the Company were not to prevail in final, non-appealable the Township, who are the current owners of the site, are preparing to submit a
determinations of this litigation, the impact could be material. workplan to the NJDEP and have asked the Company to contribute to the cost
of remediation. The Company is in discussions with NJDEP, the site owners
TAXOL®Litigation and other potentially responsible parties. The site investigation is ongoing, and
In 2000, 2001 and 2002, a number of putative class actions were brought no claims have been asserted against the Company.
against the Company, alleging antitrust, consumer protection and similar claims In September 2003, the NJDEP issued an administrative enforcement
concerning the Company’s actions to obtain and enforce patent rights relating Directive and Notice under the New Jersey Spill Compensation and Control
to TAXOL®. A number of state attorneys general brought similar claims, and Act requiring the Company and approximately 65 other companies to perform
certain insurers asserted similar claims without filing suits. All of these matters an assessment of natural resource damages and to implement unspecified
have been settled, and those that required court approval had been given final interim remedial measures to restore conditions in the Lower Passaic River. The
approval by the supervising court. The total amount of the settlements was $144 Directive alleges that the Company is liable because it historically sent bulk
million. Of that amount, $135 million was accrued in 2002. The remaining $9 waste to the former Inland Chemical Company facility in Newark, New Jersey,
million was accrued in 2003. and that releases of hazardous substances from this facility have migrated into
The FTC also opened an investigation relating to TAXOL®. This matter was Newark Bay and continue to have an adverse impact on the Lower Passaic River
settled with the entry of a consent decree, which is in effect until April 14, 2013. watershed. Subsequently, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA)
An additional case based on the same allegations was brought by a small also issued a notice letter under the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental
generic drug manufacturer in 2003. The Company moved to dismiss that case, Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) to numerous parties—
and the court granted the motion in July 2003. The plaintiff sought reconsidera- but not including BMS—seeking their cooperation in a study of conditions in
tion of this decision and was unsuccessful. The plaintiff has filed a notice of substantially the same stretch of the Passaic River that is the subject of NJDEP’s
appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. It is not possible at Directive. USEPA estimates this study will cost $20 million. This study may also
this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of this suit or reasonably to esti- lead to clean-up actions, directed by USEPA and the Army Corps of Engineers.
mate the possible loss or range of loss if the dismissal were reversed. If the dis- The extent of any liability, under either the Directive or USEPA’s notice letter,
missal were reversed, and if the Company were not to prevail in a final, cannot yet be determined. Although the Company does not believe BMS has
non-appealable determination of the action, the impact could be material. caused or contributed to any contamination in the Lower Passaic River water-
shed, the Company has informed NJDEP that it is willing to discuss their alle-
BuSparLitigation gations against the Company. The NJDEP Directive states that if the
In 2001, a number of putative class actions were brought against the responsible parties do not cooperate, the NJDEP may perform the damage
Company, alleging antitrust, consumer protection and similar claims concern- assessment and restoration and take civil action to recover its remedial costs, tre-
ing the Company’s actions to obtain and enforce patent rights relating to ble damages for administrative costs, and penalties.
BuSpar. A number of state attorneys general brought similar claims, and certain
insurers, generic drug manufacturers and chain drug stores asserted similar
66
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyNotes to Consolidated Statements
On October 16, 2003 the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality mitted in the case of willful misconduct, knowing violation of criminal law, or
(MDEQ) sent the Company a Letter of Violation (LOV) alleging that, over an improper personal benefit. As permitted under the laws of the state of Delaware,
unspecified period of time, emissions from certain digestion tanks at Mead the Company has for many years purchased directors and officers insurance cov-
Johnson’s Zeeland, Michigan facility exceeded an applicable limit in the facility’s erage to cover claims made against the directors and officers. The amounts and
renewable operating air permit. The LOV requires the Company to take correc- types of coverage have varied from period to period as dictated by market condi-
tive action and to submit a compliance program report. Although MDEQ has tions. There are various excess policies that provide additional coverage. The liti-
not demanded fines or penalties, further enforcement action could result in gation matters and regulatory actions described above involve certain of the
penalties or injunctive relief. The Company is contesting the allegations in the Company’s current and former directors and officers, all of whom are covered by
LOV. the aforementioned indemnity and if applicable, certain prior period insurance
In July 2003, the NJDEP advised Squibb that it believed the Company vio- policies. However, certain indemnification payments may not be covered under
lated the Clean Air Act by failing to comply with Prevention of Significant the Company’s directors and officers insurance coverage. The Company cannot
Deterioration requirements in connection with its replacement of a gas turbine predict with certainty the extent to which the Company will recover from its
at the Company’s cogeneration facility at the New Brunswick, New Jersey facil- insurers the indemnification payments made in connection with the litigation
ity in 1997. On December 3, 2003, the Company settled this matter with the matters and regulatory actions described above.
NJDEP by signing an Administrative Consent Order, which requires the On July 31, 2003, one of the Company’s insurers, Federal Insurance
Company to submit a permit application creating a facility-wide emissions cap Company, filed a lawsuit in New York Supreme Court against the Company and
and to pay an administrative fine of approximately $28,000. several current and former officers and members of the board of directors, seek-
In May 2003, the Environmental Quality Board of Puerto Rico issued a ing rescission, or in the alternative, declarations allowing Federal to avoid pay-
notice to Bristol-Myers Squibb alleging five violations of the federal Resource ment under certain Directors and Officers insurance policies and certain
Recovery and Conservation Act relating to recordkeeping or storage require- Fiduciary Liability insurance policies with respect to potential liability arising in
ments for hazardous wastes at the Company’s facility in Humacao. Based on its connection with the matters described under the “VanlevLitigation,” “Other
prior dealings with the EQB and the technical nature of the alleged violations, Securities Matters” and “ERISA Litigation” sections above. No discovery has
the Company believes that any penalties imposed will not be significant. been taken in this matter. On October 3, 2003, another of the Company’s insur-
The Company is one of several defendants in a class action suit filed in supe- ers, SR International Business Insurance Co. Ltd. (SRI), informed the Company
rior court in Puerto Rico in February 2000 by residents alleging that air emis- that it intended to try to avoid certain insurance policies issued to the Company
sions from a government owned and operated wastewater treatment facility in on grounds of alleged material misrepresentation or non-disclosure, and that it
Barceloneta have caused respiratory ailments and violated local air rules. The had initiated arbitration proceedings in London, England. SRI has indicated
Company believes its wastewater discharges to the treatment facility are in mate- that it intends to rely upon allegations similar to those described in the “Other
rial compliance with the terms of the Company’s permit. The Company believes Securities Matters” section above in support of its avoidance action. It is not
that this litigation will be resolved for an immaterial amount, nevertheless, this possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these matters or
suit is still at an initial stage and, in the event of an adverse judgment, the reasonably to estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to these matters.
Company’s ultimate financial liability could be significantly greater than antici- If the Company were not to prevail in final, non-appealable determinations of
pated. these matters, the impact could be material.
The Company is also responsible under various state, federal and foreign
Note 23
laws, including CERCLA, for certain costs of investigating or remediating con-
Subsequent Events
tamination resulting from past industrial activity at the Company’s current or
former sites or at waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third par- In December 2003, the Company confirmed that Mead Johnson, a wholly
ties. The Company estimates these costs based on information obtained from owned subsidiary of the Company, had reached an agreement with Novartis AG
the USEPA, the relevant agency, and/or studies prepared by independent con- (Novartis) to sell to Novartis its Adult Nutritional business. Under the terms of
sultants, including the total estimated costs for the site and the expected cost- the agreement, Novartis will acquire the brands, trademarks, patents and intel-
sharing, if any, other potentially responsible parties (PRP), and the Company lectual property rights of the Mead Johnson global adult medical nutrition busi-
accrues liabilities when they are probable and reasonably estimable. The ness for $385 million, including $20 million contingent on a product
Company estimates its share of the total future costs for these sites is approxi- conversion and a $22 million upfront payment for a supply agreement. The
mately $58 million which represents the sum of best estimates or, where no sim- transaction was closed in February 2004 and a pre-tax gain of approximately
ple estimate can reasonably be made, estimates of minimums of such costs $290 million is expected to be recorded in the first quarter of 2004. In 2003,
(without taking into account any potential recoveries from other parties, which Adult Nutritional products recorded sales of over $200 million.
are not currently expected). The Company has paid less than $4 million (exclud- The Company announced in January 2004 that it has agreed to acquire
ing legal fees) in each of the last five years for investigation and remediation of Acordis Specialty Fibres (Acordis), a privately held company based in the United
such matters, including liabilities under CERCLA and other on-site remedia- Kingdom that licenses patent rights and supplies materials to ConvaTec for its
tions. Wound Therapeutics line. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval
Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these which has not been granted. If the transaction is completed, the Company
environmental proceedings or the ultimate costs of remediation, the Company expects to record an in-process research and development charge between $50
does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that the Company million to $70 million.
may incur in excess of existing reserves will have a material adverse effect on its The FDA approved the BLA for ERBITUX, the anticancer agent that the
business, financial position, or results of operations. Company is developing in partnership with ImClone, in February 2004.
ERBITUX Injection is for use in combination with irinotecan in the treatment
Indemnification of Officers and Directors of patients with EGFR-expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are refrac-
The Company’s corporate by-laws require that, except to the extent permit- tory to irinotecan-based chemotherapy and for use as a single agent in the treat-
ted by law, the Company shall indemnify its officers and directors against judg- ment of patients with EGFR-expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are
ments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement, including legal fees and intolerant to irinotecan-based chemotherapy. In accordance with the agreement,
all appeals, incurred in connection with civil or criminal actions or proceedings, the Company paid ImClone in March 2004, $250 million as a milestone pay-
as it relates to their services to the Company and its subsidiaries. The by-laws ment for the approval of ERBITUX by the FDA.
provide no limit on the amount of indemnification. Indemnification is not per-
67
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiNote 24
Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
The Selected Quarterly Financial data has been revised to reflect the restatement. For a discussion of the restatement, see Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Financial
Statements for Years Ended December 31, 2002 and 2001.
First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter
As As As
Previously As Previously As Previously As
2003 Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Data Reported Restated Reported Restated Reported Restated
Net Sales $4,711 $4,728 $5,052 $5,129 $5,337 $5,372
Gross Margin 3,026 3,019 3,256 3,277 3,429 3,443
Net Earnings (1)(2) $ 761 $ 792 $ 878 $ 902 $ 884 $ 906
Earnings per Common Share:
Basic $ .39 $ .41 $ .45 $ .47 $ .46 $ .47
Diluted(3) $ .39 $ .41 $ .45 $ .46 $ .45 $ .47
Dividends declared per common share $ .28 $ .28 $ .28 $ .28 $ .28 $ .28
Cash and cash equivalents $4,328 $2,357 $4,307 $2,342 $4,953 $2,678
Marketable securities $ 20 $1,991 $ 114 $2,079 $ 86 $2,361
First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter
As As As
Previously As Previously As Previously As
2002 Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Data Reported Restated Reported Restated Reported Restated
Net Sales $4,661 $4,674 $4,127 $4,097 $4,537 $4,524
Gross Margin 3,159 3,166 2,661 2,617 2,883 2,856
Earnings from Continuing Operations (1)(5) $ 842 $ 853 $ 479 $ 477 $ 339 $ 310
Discontinued Operations, net(4) 14 14 — — 18 18
Net Earnings $ 856 $ 867 $ 479 $ 477 $ 357 $ 328
Earnings per Common Share:
Basic
Earnings from Continuing Operations (1)(5) $ .43 $ .44 $ .25 $ .25 $ .18 $ .16
Discontinued Operations, net(4) .01 .01 .— .— .01 .01
Net Earnings $ .44 $ .45 $ .25 $ .25 $ .19 $ .17
Diluted(3)
Earnings from Continuing Operations (1)(5) $ .43 $ .43 $ .25 $ .25 $ .17 $ .16
Discontinued Operations, net(4) .01 .01 .— .— .01 .01
Net Earnings $ .44 $ .44 $ .25 $ .25 $ .18 $ .17
Dividends declared per common share $ .28 $ .28 $ .28 $ .28 $ .28 $ .28
Cash and cash equivalents $3,382 $2,851 $3,547 $2,957 $3,562 $3,136
Marketable securities $ 198 $ 729 $ 72 $ 662 $ 35 $ 461
Note: Earnings per share for the quarters may not add to the amounts for the year, as each period is computed on a discrete basis.
(1) 2003 includes litigation settlement charges of $16 million and $265 million in the second and fourth quarters, respectively. The first, second and third quarters includelitigation settlement income of $21
million, $57 million and $4 million, respectively. The first, second, third and fourth quarters include provisions for restructuring and other items of $26 million, $29 million, $37 million and $39 mil-
lion, respectively. The second, third and fourth quarters include reversals of prior period restructuring and other items of $25 million, $3 million and $10 million, respectively. The third and fourth quarters
include up-front payments for licensing agreementsof $21 million and $81 million, respectively. 2002 includes a gain from the sale of product lines of $30 million in the first quarter. The first, third and
fourth quarters include write-offs for acquired in-process research and development of $160 million, $7 million and $2 million, respectively. The second and fourth quarters includeprovisions for restruc-
turing and other items of $4 million and $93 million, respectively. The first and third quarters include reversals of prior period restructuring andother items of $1 million and $28 million, respectively.
Litigation settlement charges of $90 million and $569 million were included in the first and third quarters, respectively. Also, the third quarter includes a $379 million asset impairment charge for
ImClone.
(2) The principal corrections in the 2003 restatement, which are discussed in Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements for Years Ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 above, were for
intercompany foreign exchange gains and losses in the first quarter, the previously disclosed WIC rebates accrual in the second quarter and the previously disclosed minority interest tax adjustment in the
third quarter as well as for intercompany foreign exchange gains and losses, income taxes and vacation accrual in the third quarter.
68
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyFourth Quarter Year
As As
2003Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Data Reported Reported
Net Sales $5,665 $20,894
Gross Margin 3,563 13,302
Net Earnings(1) $ 506 $ 3,106
Earnings per Common Share:
Basic $ .26 $ 1.60
Diluted(3) $ .26 $ 1.59
Dividends declared per common share $ .28 $ 1.12
Cash and cash equivalents $2,444 $ 2,444
Marketable securities $3,013 $ 3,013
Fourth Quarter Year
As As
Previously As Previously As
2002Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Data Reported Restated Reported Restated
Net Sales $4,794 $4,811 $18,119 $18,106
Gross Margin 3,028 2,935 11,731 11,574
Earnings from Continuing Operations (1)(5) $ 374 $ 427 $ 2,034 $ 2,067
Discontinued Operations, net (4) — 38 32 70
Net Earnings $ 374 $ 465 $ 2,066 $ 2,137
Earnings per Common Share:
Basic
Earnings from Continuing Operations (1)(5) $ .19 $ .22 $ 1.05 $ 1.07
Discontinued Operations, net (4) .— .02 .02 .04
Net Earnings $ .19 $ .24 $ 1.07 $ 1.11
Diluted(3)
Earnings from Continuing Operations (1)(5) $ .19 $ .22 $ 1.05 $ 1.06
Discontinued Operations, net (4) .— .02 .02 .04
Net Earnings $ .19 $ .24 $ 1.07 $ 1.10
Dividends declared per common share $ .28 $ .28 $ 1.12 $ 1.12
Cash and cash equivalents $3,978 $2,367 $ 3,978 $ 2,367
Marketable securities $ 11 $1,622 $11 $ 1,622
(3) Common equivalent shares excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share, because the effect would be antidilutive, were as follows (in millions):
Third Second Third Fourth
Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Year
2003 120 117 116 114 114
2002 081 119 124 121 121
(4) In 2002, the first quarter discontinued operations results included a purchase price adjustment related to the Clairol transaction of $24 million ($14 million net of tax). The third quarter discontinued opera-
tions results included a litigation provision of $10 million ($6 million net of tax) and a gain adjustment relating to the Clairol transaction of $41 million ($24 million net of tax). The fourth quarter dis-
continued operations results included a $38 million reduction in provision for income taxes due to a reduction in the tax contingency reserve related to the Zimmer spin-off.
(5) The principal corrections to interim periods in 2002 in the 2003 Restatement, which is discussed in Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements for Years Ended December 31, 2002
and 2001 above, were for intercompany foreign exchange gains and losses in the third quarter, and goods in transit and adjustments to provisions for income taxes in the fourth quarter.
69
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiReport of Management Report of
Independent Accountants
Management is responsible for the preparation, presentation and integrity of the To the Board of Directors
financial information presented in this Report. The accompanying consolidated and Stockholders of
financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
generally accepted in the United States of America, applying certain estimates
and judgments as required. In management’s opinion, the consolidated financial In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the related
statements present fairly the Company’s financial position, results of operations consolidated statements of earnings, of comprehensive income and retained earnings
and cash flows. and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
The Company maintains a system of internal controls and procedures to provide Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2003 and
reasonable assurance that transactions are properly authorized and that they are 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
appropriately recorded and reported in the financial statements and that Company years in the period ended December 31, 2003 in conformity with accounting
assets are adequately safeguarded. The system consists, in part, of the careful principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial
selection, training and development of financial managers, the dissemination of statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management; our responsibility
written internal accounting policies and an organizational structure that segregates is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
responsibilities. The Company’s internal auditors continually evaluate the ade- conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards
quacy and effectiveness of this system of internal accounting, policies, procedures generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan
and controls, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies as they are identified. and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
As set forth in the Company’s Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics and in statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on
the Company’s Pledge, the Company is committed to adhering to the highest a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
standards of moral and ethical behavior in all of its business activities. statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Company’s independent accountants, have made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
audited the annual financial statements in accordance with auditing standards gener- We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
allyaccepted in the United States of America. Their report appears on this page. As described in Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, composed solely of outside for Years Ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company has restated previously
directors, meets regularly with the internal auditors, the independent accountants issued financial statements.
and management to review accounting, auditing, internal control structure and As described in Note 1, Accounting Policies, in 2001 the Company changed
financial reporting matters. The internal auditors and independent accountants its method of accounting for business combinations and goodwill arising from
have full and free access to the Audit Committee. transactions consummated subsequent to June 30, 2001 and in 2002 changed
its method of accounting for goodwill arising from transactions consummated
prior to July 1, 2001 and for the impairment of long-lived assets.
Peter R. Dolan
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
March 9, 2004
Andrew R.J. Bonfield
Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
March 9, 2004
70
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyFive-Year Financial Summary
The Five-Year Financial Summary has been revised to reflect the restatement. For a discussion of the restatement, see Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Financial
Statements for Years Ended December 31, 2002 and 2001.
Restated Restated Restated Restated
Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Data 2003 2002 2001 2000(2) 1999 (2)
Income Statement Data: (1)
Net Sales $20,894 $18,106 $18,044 $17,519 $16,491
Earnings from Continuing Operations Before
Minority Interest and Income Taxes 4,694 2,761 2,263 5,263 4,733
Earnings from Continuing Operations 3,106 2,067 1,871 3,686 3,664
Earnings from Continuing Operations per Common Share:
Basic $ 1.60 $ 1.07 $ .96 $ 1.87 $ 1.85
Diluted $ 1.59 $ 1.06 $ .95 $ 1.85 $ 1.81
Average common shares outstanding
Basic 1,937 1,936 1,940 1,965 1,984
Diluted 1,950 1,942 1,965 1,997 2,027
Dividends paid on common and preferred stock $ 2,169 $ 2,168 $ 2,137 $ 1,930 $ 1,707
Dividends declared per Common Share $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.11 $ 1.01 $.89
Financial Position Data at December 31: (3)
Total Assets $27,471 $25,022 $27,864 $17,924 $17,310
Cash and cash equivalents 2,444 2,367 4,552 3,085 2,646
Marketable securities 3,013 1,622 1,102 300 311
Long-term debt 8,522 6,261 6,237 1,336 1,342
Stockholders’ Equity 9,786 8,756 8,762 7,634 7,538
(1) The Company recorded several items that affected the comparability of results, which are set forth in the table under Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Earnings for the years 2003, 2002 and 2001. For a discussion of these items, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Net Sales, Note 3,
Alliances and Investments, Note 4, Restructuring and Other Items, Note 5, Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 6, Discontinued Operations.
(2) The 2003 Restatement adjustments affecting the years 2000 and 1999 are set forth in the following table:
.....................2000..................... .....................1999.....................
As Previously As As Previously As
Dollars in Millions Reported Restated Reported Restated
Net Sales $17,538 $17,519 $16,502 $16,491
Earnings from Continuing Operations 3,830 3,686 3,423 3,664
Earnings from Continuing Operations per Common Share:
Basic $1.95 $1.87 $1.73 $1.85
Diluted $1.92 $1.85 $1.69 $1.81
Financial Position Data (at December 31):
Total Assets $17,756 $17,924 $17,101 $17,310
Stockholders’ Equity 7,888 7,634 7,644 7,538
The 2003 Restatement adjustments affecting the years 2000 and 1999 are adjustments with respect to net sales, intercompany foreign exchange gains and losses, international pension and employee benefit
plan accrual, income taxes and other restatement items, as described in Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements.
(3) Includes discontinued operations for the years 1999 and 2000.
71
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2003 Annual ReportiiiiiBoard of Directors
Robert E. Allen Louis V. Gerstner, Jr.
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
AT&T Corporation (a,b,d) IBM Corporation (b,d)
Lewis B. Campbell Laurie H. Glimcher, M.D.
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Professor of Medicine and Immunology,
Textron Inc. (a,b,c) Harvard Medical School and Harvard School of Public Health (a,b)
Vance D. Coffman Leif Johansson
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, President, AB Volvo, and Chief Executive Officer,
Lockheed Martin Corporation (a,c) The Volvo Group (a,b)
Peter R. Dolan James D. Robinson III
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (d) RRE Investors (b,c,d)
Ellen V. Futter Louis W. Sullivan, M.D.
President, President Emeritus,
American Museum of Natural History (b) Morehouse School of Medicine (a,c)
(a) Audit Committee (b) Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance
(c) Compensation and Management Development Committee (d) Executive Committee
Executive Committee
Peter R. Dolan
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Lamberto Andreotti Anthony C. Hooper
Senior Vice President and President, International President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals
Stephen E. Bear Tamar D. Howson
Senior Vice President, Human Resources Senior Vice President, Corporate and Business Development
Andrew G. Bodnar, M.D. John L. McGoldrick
Senior Vice President, Strategy Executive Vice President and General Counsel
and Medical & External Affairs
James B. D. Palmer, M.D., F.R.C.P.
Andrew R. J. Bonfield
Chief Scientific Officer and
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer President, Pharmaceutical Research Institute
Wendy L. Dixon, Ph.D. Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D.
President, Global Marketing, Senior Vice President, Global Clinical and
and Chief Marketing Officer Pharmaceutical Development
Donald J. Hayden, Jr. John L. Skule
Executive Vice President and President, Americas Senior Vice President, Corporate and Environmental Affairs
72
iiiii2003 Annual Report Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyS t o c k h o l d e r I n f o r m a t i o n
Common Stock Dividend Reinvestment Plan Environment, Foundation Copyright © 2004
The Bristol-Myers Squibb Mission
Ticker symbol: BMY Registered stockholders (stock and Diversity Reports Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
New York Stock Exchange must be held in your name) who For copies of the Company’s All rights reserved.
Our company’s mission is Pacific Stock Exchange hold 50 or more shares of the most recent reports on the Product names appearing
Company’s stock may participate Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, throughout in italics — or in
to extend and enhance human life
Annual Meeting in its stockholder-paid Dividend on its sustainability/environmental bold in caption copy — are
by providing the highest-quality pharmaceutical and of Stockholders Reinvestment Plan (DRIP), programs, and on its diversity registered trademarks of
Tuesday, May 4, 2004 which includes a safekeeping efforts, write to: Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
related health care products. 9:45 a.m., Hotel duPont and sale-of-stock feature. If you Corporate Affairs or one of its subsidiary companies.
11th and Market Streets hold fewer than 50 shares, you Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Global products are referred to
Wilmington, DE 19801 are still eligible to participate in 345 Park Avenue herein by their registered and
We pledge—to our patients and customers, the safekeeping and sale-of-stock New York, NY 10154-0037 approved U.S. trademarks, unless
Stockholder features as well as the direct specifically noted otherwise.
to our employees and partners, Services and Programs registration option. Copies of the Company’s Abilifyis a trademark of Otsuka
All inquiries concerning EEO-1 reports are available to Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd.
to our shareholders and neighbors, Adenoscanis a trademark of
stockholder accounts and stock Form 10-K stockholders upon written
Fujisawa Healthcare, Inc.
and to the world we serve—to act on our belief transfer matters including For a free copy of the Company’s request to the above address. Avapro, Avalide, Plavixand
address changes, the elimination Annual Report on Securities
Iscoverare trademarks of Sanofi-
that the priceless ingredient of every product of duplicate mailings, dividend and Exchange Commission Information of interest to Synthélabo S.A.
reinvestment (see next column) Form 10-K for the fiscal year stockholders and potential Corzide, Delestrogen,Corgard
is the honor and integrity of its maker.
and direct deposit of dividends ended December 31, 2003, investors, including information and Florinefare trademarks of King
should be directed to the visit www.bms.com/investors. about the Company’s products Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
ERBITUXis a trademark of
Company’s Transfer Agent and programs, is also available
ImClone Systems Incorporated.
and Registrar: The reports may also be on the Company’s Web site:
Glucophage IR, Glucophage
Mellon Investor Services obtained by sending a request to: www.bms.com.
XR, Glucovanceand Metaglipare
85 Challenger Road Secretary registered trademarks of Merck
Ridgefield Park, NJ 07660 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Santé S.A.S., an associate of Merck
www.melloninvestor.com 345 Park Avenue KGaA of Darmstadt, Germany.
800-356-2026 (within the U.S.) New York, NY 10154-0037 Moisturel, Duricefand Estrace
are trademarks of Galen (Chemicals)
201-329-8660 (outside the U.S.)
Limited.
TDD telephone service
Solageis a trademark of
for the hearing impaired:
Galderma S.A.
800-231-5469 (within the U.S.) Vaniqais a trademark of Women
201-329-8354 (outside the U.S.) First Healthcare Inc.
Viactivis a trademark of McNeil-
PPC, Inc.
On The Cover
Keiichi Nagano of Sturgis, Michigan, pictured with his wife, Reiko.
Keiichi is a colorectal cancer patient who enrolled in a clinical trial with ERBITUX (cetuximab) to help fight his cancer.
Opposite page, top
Melody Vernali, a process scientist at the Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute in Wallingford, Connecticut,
is working with her colleagues to create the next generation of anticancer therapies. Designed, photographed, written and typeset by the Bristol-Myers Squibb Corporate Affairs Department. Printed on recycled paper.Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
2003 Annual Report
NOPQR F O C U S
345 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10154-0037
Telephone: 212-546-4000
www.bms.com