10-K 1 a2227341z10-k.htm 10-K
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(MARK
ONE)
ý ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
OR
o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015
Commission file number 001-35565
AbbVie Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 32-0375147
(State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. employer
incorporation or organization) identification number)
1 North Waukegan Road
North Chicago, Illinois 60064-6400
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip (847) 932-7900
Code) (Telephone number)
Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Name of Each Exchange on Which
Title of Each Class Registered
Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share New York Stock Exchange
Chicago Stock Exchange
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes ý No o
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.
Yes o No ý
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes ý No o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to submit and post such files).
Yes ý No o
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ý
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.Large Accelerated Filer ý Accelerated Filer o Non-accelerated Filer o Smaller Reporting Company o
(Do not check if a
smaller reporting company)
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
Yes o No ý
The aggregate market value of the 1,637,027,201 shares of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the
closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of AbbVie Inc.'s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
(June 30, 2015), was $109,991,857,664. AbbVie has no non-voting common equity.
Number of common shares outstanding as of January 31, 2016: 1,611,238,226
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the 2016 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or
about March 21, 2016.PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Separation from Abbott Laboratories
AbbVie(1) was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent company as a result of the
distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. AbbVie's common
stock began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "ABBV" on the New York Stock Exchange on January 2, 2013.
Overview
AbbVie is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie develops and markets advanced therapies that address some of the
world's most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie's products are focused on treating conditions such as chronic autoimmune diseases in
rheumatology, gastroenterology and dermatology; oncology, including blood cancers; virology, including hepatitis C (HCV) and human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV); neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease; metabolic diseases, including thyroid disease and complications associated with cystic
fibrosis; as well as other serious health conditions. AbbVie also has a pipeline of promising new medicines, including more than 50 compounds or
indications in clinical development across such important medical specialties as immunology, virology/liver disease, oncology, neurological diseases and
women's health.
On May 26, 2015, AbbVie completed its acquisition of Pharmacyclics, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company that develops and commercializes novel
therapies for people impacted by cancer, and its flagship asset IMBRUVICA, a highly effective treatment for hematologic malignancies, for approximately
$20.8 billion, consisting of cash consideration of $12.4 billion and equity consideration of $8.4 billion.
Segments
AbbVie operates in one business segment—pharmaceutical products. Incorporated herein by reference is Note 15 entitled "Segment and
Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data"
and the sales information related to HUMIRA included under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Results of Operations."
Products
AbbVie's portfolio of products includes a broad line of therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases.
(1) As used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "AbbVie" refers to AbbVie Inc., a Delaware corporation, or AbbVie Inc. and its
consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 1HUMIRA. HUMIRA (adalimumab) is a biologic therapy administered as a subcutaneous injection. It is approved to treat the following autoimmune
diseases in the United States, Canada, and Mexico (collectively, North America), and in the European Union:
Condition Principal Markets
Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Psoriatic arthritis North America, European Union
Ankylosing spondylitis North America, European Union
Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Plaque psoriasis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis North America, European Union
Ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) United States, European Union
Axial spondyloarthropathy United States, European Union
Pediatric Crohn's disease (severe) United States, European Union
Hidradenitis Suppurativa United States, European Union
Pediatric enthesitis-related arthritis European Union
HUMIRA is also approved in over 60 other markets, including Japan, China, Brazil, and Australia. HUMIRA was introduced to the market in January
2003. HUMIRA is AbbVie's largest product and accounted for approximately 61 percent of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2015. The United States
composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark HUMIRA) is expected to expire in December
2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of European Union countries in October 2018. In addition, in the
United States, non-composition of matter patents covering adalimumab expire no earlier than 2022.
AbbVie continues to dedicate substantial research and development efforts to expanding indications for HUMIRA, including in the fields of
rheumatology, gastroenterology (pediatric ulcerative colitis), and ophthalmology (uveitis). A regulatory application for uveitis has been filed in the United
States. AbbVie continues to work on HUMIRA formulation and delivery enhancements to improve convenience and the overall patient experience.
IMBRUVICA. IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib) is a first-in-class, oral, once-daily therapy that inhibits a protein called Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK).
IMBRUVICA is currently approved for the treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who have received at least one prior therapy,
CLL patients who have del 17p and patients with Waldenström's macroglobulinemia. IMBRUVICA is also approved for the treatment of patients with
mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who have received at least one prior therapy. Accelerated approval was granted for the MCL indication based on overall
response rate. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. IMBRUVICA was one of
the first medicines to receive a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval after being granted a Breakthrough Therapy Designation and
IMBRUVICA is one of the few therapies to receive three separate designations.
HCV products. VIEKIRA PAK (ombitsavir, paritaprevir, and ritonavir tablets; dasabuvir tablets) is an all-oral, short-course, interferon-free therapy,
with or without ribavirin, for the treatment of adult patients with genotype 1 chronic HCV, including those with compensated cirrhosis. VIEKIRA PAK was
approved by the FDA in December 2014. In Europe, AbbVie's HCV treatment is marketed as VIEKIRAX + EXVIERA and is approved for use in patients
with genotype 1 and genotype 4 HCV. The European Commission granted marketing authorization for this treatment in January 2015. In July 2015, the
FDA approved AbbVie's TECHNIVIE (ombitasvir, paritaprevir and ritonavir) for use in combination with ribavirin for the treatment of adults with genotype 4
HCV infection in the United States.
​ 2 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Additional Virology products. AbbVie's additional virology products include KALETRA and Norvir for the treatment of HIV infection and Synagis
for the prevention of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection in high risk infants.
KALETRA. KALETRA (lopinavir/ritonavir), which is also marketed as Aluvia in emerging markets, is a prescription anti-HIV-1 medicine
that contains two protease inhibitors: lopinavir and ritonavir. Kaletra is used with other anti-HIV-1 medications as a treatment that maintains viral
suppression in people with HIV-1.
Norvir. Norvir (ritonavir) is a protease inhibitor that is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1
infection.
Synagis. Synagis (palivizumab) is a product marketed by AbbVie outside of the United States that protects at-risk infants from severe
respiratory disease caused by RSV.
Metabolics/Hormones products. Metabolic and hormone products target a number of conditions, including testosterone deficiency, exocrine
pancreatic insufficiency and hypothyroidism. These products include:
AndroGel. AndroGel (testosterone gel) is a testosterone replacement therapy for males diagnosed with symptomatic low testosterone
that is available in two strengths: 1 percent and 1.62 percent.
Creon. Creon (pancrelipase) is a pancreatic enzyme therapy for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, a condition that occurs in patients with
cystic fibrosis, chronic pancreatitis, and several other conditions.
Synthroid. Synthroid (levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP) is used in the treatment of hypothyroidism.
AbbVie has the rights to sell AndroGel, Creon and Synthroid only in the United States.
Endocrinology products. Lupron (levprolide acetate), which is also marketed as Lucrin and Lupron Depot, is a product for the palliative
treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with
anemia caused by uterine fibroids. Lupron is approved for daily subcutaneous injection and one-month, three-month, four-month and six-month
intramuscular injection.
Other products. AbbVie's other products include the following:
Duopa and Duodopa (carbidopa and levodopa). AbbVie's levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's
disease is marketed as Duopa in the United States and as Duodopa outside of the United States.
Anesthesia products. Sevoflurane (sold under the trademarks Ultane and Sevorane) is an anesthesia product that AbbVie sells worldwide
for human use.
Dyslipidemia products. AbbVie's dyslipidemia products (TriCor (fenofibrate), Trilipix (fenofibric acid), and Niaspan (niacin extended-
release)) address the range of metabolic conditions characterized by high cholesterol and/or high triglycerides.
Zemplar. Zemplar (paricalcitol) is a product sold worldwide for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with Stage 3, 4,
and 5 chronic kidney disease (CKD).
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 3Research and Development Activities
AbbVie has numerous compounds in clinical development, including potential treatments for complex, life-threatening diseases. AbbVie's ability to
discover and develop new compounds is enhanced by the company's use of integrated discovery and development project teams, which include
chemists, biologists, physicians, and pharmacologists who work on the same compounds as a team.
The research and development process generally begins with discovery research which focuses on the identification of a molecule that has a
desired effect against a given disease. If preclinical testing of an identified compound proves successful, the compound moves into clinical development
which generally includes the following phases:
• Phase 1—involves the first human tests in a small number of healthy volunteers or patients to assess safety, tolerability and potential
dosing.
• Phase 2—tests the drug's efficacy against the disease in a relatively small group of patients.
• Phase 3—tests a drug that demonstrates favorable results in the earlier phases in a significantly larger patient population to further
demonstrate efficacy and safety based on regulatory criteria.
The clinical trials from all of the development phases provide the data required to prepare and submit a New Drug Application (NDA), a Biological
License Application (BLA) or other submission for regulatory approval to the FDA or similar government agencies outside the United States. The specific
requirements (e.g., scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions.
The research and development process from discovery through a new drug launch typically takes 8 to 12 years and can be even longer. The
research and development of new pharmaceutical products has a significant amount of inherent uncertainty. There is no guarantee when, or if, a
molecule will receive the regulatory approval required to launch a new drug or indication.
In addition to the development of new products and new formulations, research and development projects also may include Phase 4 trials,
sometimes called post-marketing studies. For such projects, clinical trials are designed and conducted to collect additional data regarding, among other
parameters, the benefits and risks of an approved drug.
AbbVie spent approximately $4.3 billion in 2015, $3.3 billion in 2014, and $2.9 billion in 2013 on research to discover and develop new products,
indications and processes and to improve existing products and processes. These expenses consisted primarily of salaries and related expenses for
personnel, license fees, consulting payments, contract research, clinical drug supply manufacturing, the costs of laboratory equipment and facilities,
clinical trial costs, and collaboration fees and expenses.
Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity
Generally, upon approval, products may be entitled to certain kinds of exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and regulatory regimes.
AbbVie seeks patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or countries for each product in development. In the United States, the
expiration date for patents filed on or after June 8, 1995 is 20 years after the filing date. Given that patents relating to pharmaceutical products are often
obtained early in the development process, and given the amount of time needed to complete clinical trials and other development activities required for
regulatory approval, the length of time between product launch and patent expiration is significantly less than 20 years. The Drug Price Competition and
Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent holder to seek a patent extension, commonly
called a "patent term restoration," for patents on products (or processes for making the product) regulated by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
The length of the patent extension is roughly based on 50 percent of the period of time from the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application for a
compound to the submission of the NDA
​ 4 | 2015 Form 10-K ​for such compound, plus 100 percent of the time period from NDA submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years
and the patent term remaining after regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years.
Pharmaceutical products may be entitled to other forms of legal or regulatory exclusivity upon approval. The scope, length, and requirements for
each of these exclusivities vary both in the United States and in other jurisdictions. In the United States, if the FDA approves a drug product that
contains an active ingredient not previously approved, the product is typically entitled to five years of non-patent regulatory exclusivity. Other products
may be entitled to three years of exclusivity if approval was based on the FDA's reliance on new clinical studies essential to approval submitted by the
NDA applicant. If the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days the
longest existing exclusivity (patent or regulatory) related to the product. For products that are either used to treat conditions that afflict a relatively small
population or for which there is not a reasonable expectation that the research and development costs will be recovered, the FDA may designate the
pharmaceutical as an orphan drug and grant it seven years of market exclusivity.
Applicable laws and regulations dictate the scope of any exclusivity to which a product is entitled upon its approval in any particular country. In
certain instances, regulatory exclusivity may protect a product where patent protection is no longer available or for a period of time in excess of patent
protection. It is not possible to estimate for each product in development the total period and scope of exclusivity to which it may become entitled until
regulatory approval is obtained. However, given the length of time required to complete clinical development of a pharmaceutical product, the minimum
and maximum periods of exclusivity that might be achieved in any individual case would not be expected to exceed three and 14 years, respectively.
These estimates do not consider other factors, such as the difficulty of recreating the manufacturing process for a particular product or other proprietary
knowledge that may delay the introduction of a generic or other follow-on product after the expiration of applicable patent and other regulatory exclusivity
periods.
Biologics may be entitled to exclusivity under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, which was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII
to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The law provides a pathway for approval of biosimilars following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity
for the innovator biologic and a potential additional 180 day-extension term for conducting pediatric studies. Biologics are also eligible for orphan drug
exclusivity, as discussed above. The law also includes an extensive process for the innovator biologic and biosimilar manufacturer to litigate patent
infringement, validity, and enforceability prior to the approval of the biosimilar. The European Union has also created a pathway for approval of biosimilars
and has published guidelines for approval of certain biosimilar products. The more complex nature of biologics and biosimilar products has led to greater
regulatory scrutiny and more rigorous requirements for approval of follow-on biosimilar products than for small molecule generic pharmaceutical products,
and in the European Union, it has also reduced the effect of biosimilars on sales of the innovator biologic as compared to the sales erosion caused by
generic versions of small molecule pharmaceutical products.
AbbVie owns or has licensed rights to a substantial number of patents and patent applications. AbbVie licenses or owns a patent portfolio of
thousands of patent families, each of which includes United States patent applications and/or issued patents, and may also contain the non-United
States counterparts to these patents and applications.
These patents and applications, including various patents that expire during the period 2016 to the late 2030s, in aggregate are believed to be of
material importance in the operation of AbbVie's business. However, AbbVie believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of
patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark HUMIRA), are material in relation to the
company's business as a whole. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab is expected to expire in
December 2016, and the equivalent
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 5European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of European Union countries in October 2018. In the United States, non-composition of
matter patents covering adalimumab expire no earlier than 2022.
In addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are significant: those related to ibrutinib (which is sold under the trademark
IMBRUVICA), those related to ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and dasabuvir (which are sold under the trademarks VIEKIRA PAK, VIEKIRAX, EXVIERA,
and HOLKIRA PAK), and those related to testosterone (which is sold under the trademark AndroGel). The United States composition of matter patent
covering ibrutinib is expected to expire in 2027. The United States composition of matter patents covering ombitasvir, paritaprevir and dasabuvir are
expected to expire in 2032, 2031 and 2029, respectively.
AbbVie may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect its technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. AbbVie seeks
to protect its technology and product candidates, in part, by confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, and
collaborators. These agreements may be breached and AbbVie may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, AbbVie's trade secrets may
otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that AbbVie's employees, consultants, advisors, contractors,
and collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for the company, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting
know-how and inventions.
Marketing, Sales, and Distribution Capabilities
AbbVie utilizes a combination of dedicated commercial resources, regional commercial resources and distributorships to market, sell, and
distribute its products worldwide.
AbbVie directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its brand of products by physicians, key
opinion leaders, and other health care providers. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit
managers), hospitals, and state and federal government agencies (for example, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States
Department of Defense) are also important customers. AbbVie also markets directly to consumers themselves, although in the United States all of the
company's products must be sold pursuant to a prescription. Outside of the United States, AbbVie focuses its marketing efforts on key opinion leaders,
payors, physicians, and country regulatory bodies. AbbVie also provides patient support programs closely related to its products.
AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty
pharmacies, and independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Although AbbVie's business does not have
significant seasonality, AbbVie's product revenues may be affected by end customer and retail buying patterns, fluctuations in wholesaler inventory
levels, and other factors.
In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly
to pharmacies and patients. In 2015, three wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc., and AmerisourceBergen Corporation)
accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's sales in the United States. No individual wholesaler accounted for greater than 43 percent of AbbVie's 2015
gross revenues in the United States. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the
market served. These wholesalers purchase product from AbbVie under standard terms and conditions of sale.
Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have
a material adverse effect on the company's business.
No material portion of AbbVie's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.
​ 6 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Orders are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to AbbVie's business.
Third Party Agreements
AbbVie has agreements with third parties for process development, analytical services, and manufacturing of certain products. AbbVie procures
certain products and services from a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, a single supply source. For example, the filling and packaging of
HUMIRA syringes to be sold outside of the United States and Puerto Rico is performed by a single supplier at its two different facilities. AbbVie does not
currently believe that this agreement is material because AbbVie's business is not substantially at risk without access to these facilities. AbbVie
maintains significant inventory of HUMIRA syringes to reduce the risk of any supply disruption and its own syringe-filling and packaging facility in the
United States is approved to supply syringes to primary markets outside of the United States and Puerto Rico. In addition, AbbVie has agreements with
third parties for active pharmaceutical ingredient and product manufacturing, formulation and development services, fill, finish, and packaging services,
transportation, and distribution and logistics services for certain products. AbbVie does not believe that these manufacturing related agreements are
material because AbbVie's business is not substantially dependent on any individual agreement. In most cases, AbbVie maintains alternate supply
relationships that it can utilize without undue disruption of its manufacturing processes if a third party fails to perform its contractual obligations. AbbVie
also maintains sufficient inventory of product to minimize the impact of any supply disruption.
AbbVie is also party to certain collaborations and other arrangements, as discussed in Note 5, "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements—
Other Licensing & Acquisitions Activity," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data," and has certain agreements with Abbott as discussed in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations—Transition from Abbott and Cost to Operate as an Independent Company."
Sources and Availability of Raw Materials
AbbVie purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to its operations from numerous suppliers around the
world. In addition, certain medical devices and components necessary for the manufacture of AbbVie products are provided by unaffiliated third party
suppliers. AbbVie has not experienced any recent significant availability problems or supply shortages for forecasted sales.
Environmental Matters
AbbVie believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection.
Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various
manufacturing operations. AbbVie's capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2015 were approximately $5 million and $23 million,
respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2016 are estimated to be approximately $2 million and $25 million, respectively.
Abbott was identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States,
including Puerto Rico, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Some of
these locations were transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and distribution, and AbbVie has become a party to these investigations
and remediations. Abbott was also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which have been transferred to AbbVie in connection with the
separation and distribution, in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty
the final costs related to those investigations and remediation activities, AbbVie believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain
compliance with applicable
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 7laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, cash flows, or
results of operations.
Competition
The markets for AbbVie's products are highly competitive. AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology
companies that discover, manufacture, market, and sell proprietary pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, HUMIRA competes with a
number of anti-TNF and other products that are approved for a number of disease states and AbbVie's virology products compete with protease inhibitors
and other anti-HIV treatments. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition. The
introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price is also a
competitive factor. In addition, the substitution of generic pharmaceutical products for branded pharmaceutical products creates competitive pressures on
AbbVie's products that do not have patent protection.
Biosimilars. Competition for AbbVie's biologic products is affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as "biosimilars." Biologics
have added major therapeutic options for the treatment of many diseases, including some for which therapies were unavailable or inadequate. The advent
of biologics has also raised complex regulatory issues and significant pharmacoeconomic concerns because the cost of developing and producing
biologic therapies is typically dramatically higher than for conventional (small molecule) medications, and because many expensive biologic medications
are used for ongoing treatment of chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease, or for the treatment of previously
untreatable cancer. Significant investments in biologics infrastructure and manufacturing are necessary to produce biologic products, as are significant
investments in marketing, distribution, and sales organization activities, which may limit the number of biosimilar competitors.
In the United States, the FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, and
implementing regulations. The enactment of federal health care reform legislation in March 2010 provided a pathway for approval of biosimilars under the
Public Health Service Act, but the approval process for, and science behind, biosimilars is more complex than the approval process for, and science
behind, generic or other follow-on versions of small molecule products. This added complexity is due to steps needed to ensure that the safety and
efficacy of biosimilars is highly similar to that of an original biologic, such as HUMIRA. Ultimate approval by the FDA is dependent upon many factors,
including a showing that the biosimilar is "highly similar" to the original product and has no clinically meaningful differences from the original product in
terms of safety, purity, potency, and in vitro characterization. The types of data that could ordinarily be required in an application to show similarity may
include analytical data and studies to demonstrate chemical similarity, animal studies (including toxicity studies), and clinical studies. The law also
requires that the biosimilar must be for a condition of use approved for the original biologic and that the manufacturing facility meets the standards
necessary to assure that the biosimilar is safe, pure, and potent.
Furthermore, the law provides that only a biosimilar product that is determined to be "interchangeable" will be considered substitutable for the
original biologic product without the intervention of the health care provider who prescribed the original biologic product. To prove that a biosimilar product
is interchangeable, the applicant must demonstrate that the product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the original biologic
product in any given patient, and if the product is administered more than once in a patient, that safety risks and potential for diminished efficacy of
alternating or switching between the use of the interchangeable biosimilar biologic product and the original biologic product is no greater than the risk of
using the original biologic product without switching. The law is only beginning to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate
impact, implementation, and meaning will likely be subject to substantial uncertainty for years to come.
​ 8 | 2015 Form 10-K ​In the European Union, while a pathway for the approval of biosimilars has existed since 2005, the products that have come to market to date have
had a mixed impact on the market share of incumbent products, with significant variation by product.
Other Competitive Products. Although a number of competitive biologic branded products have been approved since HUMIRA was first
introduced in 2003, most have gained only a modest share of the worldwide market. AbbVie will continue to face competitive pressure from these
biologics and from orally administered products.
Regulation—Discovery and Clinical Development
United States. Securing approval to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States requires substantial effort and financial resources
and takes several years to complete. The applicant must complete preclinical tests and submit protocols to the FDA before commencing clinical trials.
Clinical trials are intended to establish the safety and efficacy of the pharmaceutical product and typically are conducted in three sequential phases,
although the phases may overlap or be combined. If the required clinical testing is successful, the results are submitted to the FDA in the form of an
NDA or BLA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. The FDA reviews an NDA or BLA to determine whether a product is
safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is compliant with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP).
Even if an NDA or a BLA receives approval, the applicant must comply with post-approval requirements. For example, holders of an approval must
report adverse reactions, provide updated safety and efficacy information, and comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional
materials and activities. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval, and certain changes to
the manufacturing procedures and finished product must be included in the NDA or BLA, and approved by the FDA. The FDA periodically inspects
manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural and record keeping requirements. In addition, as a
condition of approval, the FDA may require post-marketing testing and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product's safety or efficacy after
commercialization, which may require additional clinical trials or patient registries, or additional work on chemistry, manufacturing and controls. Any
post-approval regulatory obligations, and the cost of complying with such obligations, could expand in the future.
Outside the United States. AbbVie is subject to similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. AbbVie must obtain approval of a
clinical trial application or product from the applicable regulatory authorities before it can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product. The
approval requirements and process for each country can vary, and the time required to obtain approval may be longer or shorter than that required for
FDA approval in the United States. For example, AbbVie may submit marketing authorizations in the European Union under either a centralized or
decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure is mandatory for the approval of biotechnology products and many pharmaceutical products and
provides for a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. Under the centralized procedure, a single marketing
authorization application is submitted to the European Medicines Agency. After the agency evaluates the application, it makes a recommendation to the
European Commission, which then makes the final determination on whether to approve the application. The decentralized procedure provides for mutual
recognition of individual national approval decisions and is available for products that are not subject to the centralized procedure.
In Japan, applications for approval of a new product are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Bridging studies
to demonstrate that the non-Japanese clinical data applies to Japanese patients may be required. After completing a comprehensive review, the PMDA
reports to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, which then approves or denies the application.
The regulatory process in many emerging markets continues to evolve. Many emerging markets, including those in Asia, generally require
regulatory approval to have been obtained in a large developed
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 9market (such as the United States or Europe) before the country will begin or complete its regulatory review process. Some countries also require that
local clinical studies be conducted in order to obtain regulatory approval in the country.
The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and product licensing also vary. In addition, post-approval regulatory obligations such as
adverse event reporting and cGMP compliance generally apply and may vary by country. For example, after a marketing authorization has been granted
in the European Union, periodic safety reports must be submitted and other pharmacovigilance measures may be required (such as Risk Management
Plans).
Regulation—Commercialization, Distribution, and Manufacturing
The manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion, and distribution of AbbVie's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation.
Government regulation by various national, regional, federal, state, and local agencies, both in the United States and other countries, addresses (among
other matters) inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing,
labeling, packaging, marketing and promotion, pricing and reimbursement, sampling, distribution, quality control, post-marketing surveillance, record
keeping, storage, and disposal practices. AbbVie's operations are also affected by trade regulations in many countries that limit the import of raw
materials and finished products and by laws and regulations that seek to prevent corruption and bribery in the marketplace (including the United States
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act, which provide guidance on corporate interactions with government officials) and
require safeguards for the protection of personal data. In addition, AbbVie is subject to laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse,
including state and federal anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United States. Prescription drug manufacturers such as AbbVie are also subject to
taxes, as well as application, product, user, establishment, and other fees.
Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects AbbVie's business. Among other effects, health care regulations
substantially increase the time, difficulty, and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products.
AbbVie expects compliance with these regulations to continue to require significant technical expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance.
Failure to comply can delay the release of a new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the
suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for a product's production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and
penalties.
In addition to regulatory initiatives, AbbVie's business can be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health
care products and their components that are regularly conducted by industry participants, government agencies, and others. These studies can call into
question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in
the discontinuance of, or limitations on, marketing of such products domestically or worldwide, and may give rise to claims for damages from persons
who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.
Access to human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and
private organizations in the United States and other countries. A major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being
made in the private sector, notably by health care payors and providers, which have instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. AbbVie
expects insurers and providers to continue attempts to reduce the cost of health care products. Outside the United States, many countries control the
price of health care products directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage limitations, or compulsory licensing. Budgetary
pressures in the United States and in other countries may also heighten the scope and severity of pricing pressures on AbbVie's products for the
foreseeable future.
​ 10 | 2015 Form 10-K ​United States. Specifically, U.S. federal laws require pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state
Medicaid programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under state Medicaid plans, and the efforts by states to seek additional rebates affect AbbVie's
business. Similarly, the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, as a prerequisite to participation in Medicaid and other federal health care programs, requires
that manufacturers extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the United States Department of
Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, and Public Health Service entities and institutions. In addition, recent legislative changes would require
similarly discounted prices to be offered to TRICARE program beneficiaries. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 also established the 340B drug
discount program, which requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to provide products at reduced prices to various designated health care entities and
facilities.
In the United States, most states also have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different
manufacturer's generic version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group
(DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system
(PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a fixed
reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the
facility to limit or control expenditures for many health care products. Medicare reimburses Part B drugs based on average sales price plus a certain
percentage to account for physician administration costs, which have recently been reduced in the hospital outpatient setting. Medicare enters into
contracts with private plans to negotiate prices for most patient-administered medicine delivered under Part D.
In March 2010, Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together,
the Affordable Care Act). Under the Affordable Care Act, AbbVie pays a fee related to its pharmaceuticals sales to government programs. Also in 2011,
AbbVie began providing a discount of 50 percent for branded prescription drugs sold to patients who fall into the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut
hole."
The Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs and
biologics covered under Medicare and Medicaid starting in 2012 to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this
data beginning in 2013 to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also
been enacted on the state level in the United States, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar
laws requiring disclosure of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or
penalties.
AbbVie expects debate to continue during 2016 at all government levels worldwide over the marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment
for health care products and services. AbbVie believes that future legislation and regulation in the markets it serves could affect access to health care
products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, change health care delivery
systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceuticals industry, or require additional reporting and disclosure. It is not possible to predict the
extent to which AbbVie or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.
AbbVie is subject to a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) entered into by Abbott on May 7, 2012 that requires enhancements to AbbVie's
compliance program and contains reporting obligations, including disclosure of financial payments to doctors. If AbbVie fails to comply with the CIA, the
Office of Inspector General for the United States Department of Health and Human Services may impose monetary penalties or exclude AbbVie from
federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 11European Union. The European Union has adopted directives and other legislation governing labeling, advertising, distribution, supply,
pharmacovigilance, and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Such legislation provides mandatory standards throughout the European Union and
permits member states to supplement these standards with additional regulations. European governments also regulate pharmaceutical product prices
through their control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of such products to consumers. As a result, patients are unlikely
to use a pharmaceutical product that is not reimbursed by the government. In many European countries, the government either regulates the pricing of a
new product at launch or subsequent to launch through direct price controls or reference pricing. In recent years, many countries have also imposed new
or additional cost containment measures on pharmaceutical products. Differences between national pricing regimes create price differentials within the
European Union that can lead to significant parallel trade in pharmaceutical products.
Most governments also promote generic substitution by mandating or permitting a pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic
version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed and by permitting or mandating that health care professionals prescribe generic versions in
certain circumstances. In addition, governments use reimbursement lists to limit the pharmaceutical products that are eligible for reimbursement by
national health care systems.
Japan. In Japan, the National Health Insurance system maintains a Drug Price List specifying which pharmaceutical products are eligible for
reimbursement, and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare sets the prices of the products on this list. The government generally introduces price cut
rounds every other year and also mandates price decreases for specific products. New products judged innovative or useful, that are indicated for
pediatric use, or that target orphan or small population diseases, however, may be eligible for a pricing premium. The government has also promoted the
use of generics, where available.
Emerging Markets. Many emerging markets take steps to reduce pharmaceutical product prices, in some cases through direct price controls
and in others through the promotion of generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals.
Since AbbVie markets its products worldwide, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines must also meet other local
regulatory requirements. Certain additional risks are inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including price and currency exchange
controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental
action.
Employees
AbbVie employed approximately 28,000 persons as of January 31, 2016. Outside the United States, some of AbbVie's employees are represented
by unions or works councils. AbbVie believes that it has good relations with its employees.
Internet Information
Copies of AbbVie's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through AbbVie's investor
relations website (www.abbvieinvestor.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after AbbVie electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
AbbVie's corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of AbbVie's audit
committee, compensation committee, nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on AbbVie's investor
relations website (www.abbvieinvestor.com).
​ 12 | 2015 Form 10-K ​ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating AbbVie and AbbVie's common stock. Any
of the following risks could materially and adversely affect AbbVie's results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The risk factors generally
have been separated into three groups: risks related to AbbVie's business, risks related to AbbVie's separation from Abbott, and risks related to
AbbVie's common stock. Based on the information currently known to it, AbbVie believes that the following information identifies the most significant
risk factors affecting it in each of these categories of risks. However, the risks and uncertainties AbbVie faces are not limited to those set forth in the
risk factors described below and may not be in order of importance or probability of occurrence. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known
to AbbVie or that AbbVie currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect its business. In addition, past financial performance may not be
a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.
If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's
business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. In such case, the trading price of AbbVie's common stock could decline.
Risks Related to AbbVie's Business
The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may adversely affect AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings.
AbbVie relies on patent, trademark and other intellectual property protection in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and sale of its products.
In particular, patent protection is, in the aggregate, important in AbbVie's marketing of pharmaceutical products in the United States and most major
markets outside of the United States. Patents covering AbbVie products normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the profitability of
many of AbbVie's products.
As patents for certain of its products expire, AbbVie will or could face competition from lower priced generic products. The expiration or loss of
patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by substitutes that may significantly reduce sales for that product in a short amount of time.
If AbbVie's competitive position is compromised because of generics or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business and
results of operations. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs.
Any such proposals that are enacted into law could increase the impact of generic competition.
AbbVie's principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in Item 1, "Business—Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory
Exclusivity" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations," and
litigation regarding these patents is described in Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." The United States composition of matter patent for HUMIRA, which is
AbbVie's largest product and had worldwide net revenues of approximately $14.0 billion in 2015, is expected to expire in December 2016, and the
equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of European Union countries in October 2018. Because HUMIRA is a biologic and
biologics cannot be readily substituted, it is uncertain what impact the loss of patent protection would have on the sales of HUMIRA.
AbbVie's major products could lose patent protection earlier than expected, which could adversely affect AbbVie's future revenues and
operating earnings.
Third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent AbbVie's patents and patent applications. For example,
manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products file, and may continue to file, Abbreviated New Drug Applications with the FDA seeking to market
generic forms of AbbVie's products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by AbbVie by asserting that
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 13the patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. In addition, petitioners have filed, and may continue to file, challenges to the validity of AbbVie
patents under the 2011 Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, which created inter partes review and post grant review procedures for challenging patent
validity in administrative proceedings at the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
Although most of the challenges to AbbVie's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual
property rights. For example, court decisions and potential legislation relating to patents, such as legislation regarding biosimilars, and other regulatory
initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. In addition, certain governments outside the United States have indicated that
compulsory licenses to patents may be sought to further their domestic policies or on the basis of national emergencies, such as HIV/AIDS. If triggered,
compulsory licenses could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those jurisdictions and negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations.
AbbVie normally responds to challenges by vigorously defending its patents, including by filing patent infringement lawsuits. Patent litigation,
administrative proceedings and other challenges to AbbVie's patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive AbbVie of market exclusivity for a
patented product. To the extent AbbVie's intellectual property is successfully challenged or circumvented or to the extent such intellectual property does
not allow AbbVie to compete effectively, AbbVie's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce AbbVie's intellectual property rights or
require compulsory licensing of AbbVie's intellectual property, AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings will be reduced.
A third party's intellectual property may prevent AbbVie from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's future
profitability and financial condition.
Third parties may claim that an AbbVie product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property infringement claim can
be costly and time consuming and may require AbbVie to enter into license agreements. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain license
agreements on commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject AbbVie to
significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale, or use of the affected AbbVie product or products. Any of these events could have
a material adverse effect on AbbVie's profitability and financial condition.
Any significant event that adversely affects HUMIRA revenues could have a material and negative impact on AbbVie's results of
operations and cash flows.
HUMIRA accounted for approximately 61 percent of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2015. Any significant event that adversely affects HUMIRA's
revenues could have a material adverse impact on AbbVie's results of operations and cash flows. These events could include loss of patent protection for
HUMIRA, the approval of biosimilars of HUMIRA, the discovery of previously unknown side effects or impaired efficacy, increased competition from the
introduction of new, more effective or less expensive treatments, and discontinuation or removal from the market of HUMIRA for any reason.
AbbVie's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing and marketing commercially successful products and
technologies, which may cause its revenues and profitability to decline.
To remain competitive, AbbVie must continue to launch new products and new indications and/or brand extensions for existing products, and such
launches must generate revenue sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace revenues of profitable products
that are lost to or displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenue and
profitability. Accordingly, AbbVie commits substantial effort, funds, and other resources to research and development and must make ongoing
substantial expenditures without any assurance that its efforts will be commercially successful. A high rate of failure in the biopharmaceutical
​ 14 | 2015 Form 10-K ​industry is inherent in the research and development of new products, and failure can occur at any point in the research and development process,
including after significant funds have been invested. Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market for numerous reasons,
including failure to demonstrate effectiveness, safety concerns, superior safety or efficacy of competing therapies, failure to achieve positive clinical or
pre-clinical outcomes beyond the current standards of care, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or delays in the approval of new products
and new indications, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights, or
infringement of the intellectual property rights of others.
Decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a pharmaceutical product candidate can affect the marketing strategy
once such candidate receives approval. More detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they also
consume time and resources and may delay submitting the pharmaceutical product candidate for approval. AbbVie cannot guarantee that a proper
balance of speed and testing will be made with respect to each pharmaceutical product candidate or that decisions in this area would not adversely
affect AbbVie's future results of operations.
Even if AbbVie successfully develops and markets new products or enhancements to its existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete
by changing clinical preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors' innovations. AbbVie's innovations may not be accepted quickly in the
marketplace because of existing clinical practices or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. AbbVie cannot state with certainty when or whether any
of its products under development will be launched, whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether
any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause AbbVie's
products to become obsolete, causing AbbVie's revenues and operating results to suffer.
A portion of AbbVie's near-term pharmaceutical pipeline relies on collaborations with third parties, which may adversely affect the
development and sale of its products.
AbbVie depends on alliances with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for a portion of the products in its near-term pharmaceutical
pipeline. For example, AbbVie is collaborating with Biogen to develop a treatment for the relapsing remitting form of multiple sclerosis. It is also
collaborating with Roche Holding AG to discover, develop, and commercialize a next-generation Bcl-2 inhibitor, ABT-199 (venetoclax), for patients with
relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Failures by these parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, or other obligations to AbbVie, or any disruption in the relationships between AbbVie
and these third parties, could have an adverse effect on AbbVie's pharmaceutical pipeline and business. In addition, AbbVie's collaborative relationships
for research and development extend for many years and may give rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of AbbVie and
its collaboration partners, including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations. This could result in the loss of
intellectual property rights or protection, delay the development and sale of potential pharmaceutical products, and lead to lengthy and expensive
litigation, administrative proceedings or arbitration.
Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations.
The successful discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of biologics is a long, expensive and uncertain process. There are unique risks and
uncertainties with biologics. For example, access to and supply of necessary biological materials, such as cell lines, may be limited, and governmental
regulations restrict access to and regulate the transport and use of such materials. In addition, the development, manufacturing, and sale of biologics is
subject to regulations that are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. Manufacturing
biologics, especially in
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 15large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies. Such manufacturing also requires facilities specifically designed
and validated for this purpose and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures. Biologics are also frequently costly to manufacture
because production inputs are derived from living animal or plant material, and some biologics cannot be made synthetically. Failure to successfully
discover, develop, manufacture and sell biologics—including HUMIRA—could adversely impact AbbVie's business and results of operations.
AbbVie's biologic products may become subject to competition from biosimilars.
The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
The law created a framework for the approval of biosimilars in the United States and could allow competitors to reference data from biologic products
already approved. In Europe, the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and
product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. In addition, companies are developing biosimilars in other
countries that could compete with AbbVie's biologic products. For example, Amgen has submitted a marketing authorization application to the European
Medicines Agency for a biosimilar of HUMIRA and the United States FDA has accepted for review Amgen's application for a HUMIRA biosimilar. If
competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing AbbVie's biologic products, AbbVie's products may become subject to
competition from such biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure and consequences. Expiration or successful challenge of AbbVie's applicable
patent rights could also trigger competition from other products, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. As a result, AbbVie could face
more litigation and administrative proceedings with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to its biologic products.
New products and technological advances by AbbVie's competitors may negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations.
AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that discover, manufacture, market, and sell proprietary
pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, HUMIRA competes with a number of anti-TNF products that are approved for a number of disease
states and AbbVie's virology products compete with protease inhibitors and other anti-HIV treatments. These competitors may introduce new products or
develop technological advances that compete with AbbVie's products in therapeutic areas such as immunology, virology/liver disease, oncology,
dyslipidemia, and neuroscience. AbbVie cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction by competitors of new products or
technological advances. Such competing products may be safer, more effective, more effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or superior
performance features than AbbVie's products, and this could negatively impact AbbVie's business and results of operations.
The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if AbbVie or one of its suppliers
encounters problems manufacturing AbbVie's products, AbbVie's business could suffer.
The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems
may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems
with raw materials, delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future
demand for AbbVie's products, changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes
in the types of products produced, physical limitations that could inhibit continuous supply, man-made or natural disasters, and environmental factors. If
problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded and AbbVie may experience product
shortages or incur added expenses. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and
expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other
​ 16 | 2015 Form 10-K ​batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred.
AbbVie uses a number of products in its pharmaceutical and biologic manufacturing processes that are sourced from single suppliers,
and an interruption in the supply of those products could adversely affect AbbVie's business and results of operations.
AbbVie uses a number of products in its pharmaceutical and biologic manufacturing processes that are sourced from single suppliers. The failure of
these single-source suppliers to fulfill their contractual obligations in a timely manner or as a result of regulatory noncompliance or physical disruption at
a manufacturing site may impair AbbVie's ability to deliver its products to customers on a timely and competitive basis, which could adversely affect
AbbVie's business and results of operations. Finding an alternative supplier could take a significant amount of time and involve significant expense due to
the nature of the products and the need to obtain regulatory approvals. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will be able to reach agreement with alternative
providers or that regulatory authorities would approve AbbVie's use of such alternatives. AbbVie does, however, carry business interruption insurance,
which provides a degree of protection in the case of a failure by a single-source supplier.
Significant safety or efficacy issues could arise for AbbVie's products, which could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenues
and financial condition.
Pharmaceutical products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. Following regulatory
approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more
extensive, studies. If new safety or efficacy issues are reported or if new scientific information becomes available (including results of post-marketing
Phase 4 trials), or if governments change standards regarding safety, efficacy or labeling, AbbVie may be required to amend the conditions of use for a
product. For example, AbbVie may voluntarily provide or be required to provide updated information on a product's label or narrow its approved indication,
either of which could reduce the product's market acceptance. If safety or efficacy issues with an AbbVie product arise, sales of the product could be
halted by AbbVie or by regulatory authorities. Safety or efficacy issues affecting suppliers' or competitors' products also may reduce the market
acceptance of AbbVie's products.
New data about AbbVie's products, or products similar to its products, could negatively impact demand for AbbVie's products due to real or
perceived safety issues or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. Furthermore, new data and information,
including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations
involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of AbbVie's products or the use of related therapies or place
restrictions on sales. Such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of AbbVie's products.
AbbVie is subject to product liability claims and lawsuits that may adversely affect its business and results of operations.
In the ordinary course of business, AbbVie is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that AbbVie's products or the products of
other companies that it promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and
safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business, results of operations, and
reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers. Consequences may also include additional costs, a decrease in market share for the
product in question, lower income and exposure to other claims. Product liability losses are self-insured.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 17AbbVie is subject to cost-containment efforts and pricing pressures that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating
earnings, and changes in the terms of rebate and chargeback programs, which are common in the pharmaceuticals industry, could have a
material adverse effect on AbbVie's operations.
Cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in Item 1, "Business—Regulation—
Commercialization, Distribution, and Manufacturing." To the extent these cost containment efforts are not offset by greater demand, increased patient
access to health care, or other factors, AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings will be reduced. In the United States, the European Union and
other countries, AbbVie's business has experienced downward pressure on product pricing, and this pressure could increase in the future.
In the United States, practices of managed care groups, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and United States federal laws and
regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, contribute to pricing pressures. The potential for continuing changes to the health care system in the United States
and the increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries could result in additional
pricing pressures.
In numerous major markets worldwide, the government plays a significant role in funding health care services and determining the pricing and
reimbursement of pharmaceutical products. Consequently, in those markets, AbbVie is subject to government decision-making and budgetary actions
with respect to its products. In particular, many European countries have ongoing government-mandated price reductions for many pharmaceutical
products, and AbbVie anticipates continuing pricing pressures in Europe. Differences between countries in pricing regulations could lead to third-party
cross-border trading in AbbVie's products that results in a reduction in future revenues and operating earnings.
Rebates related to government programs, such as fee-for-service Medicaid or Medicaid managed care programs, arise from laws and regulations.
AbbVie cannot predict if additional government initiatives to contain health care costs or other factors could lead to new or modified regulatory
requirements that include higher or incremental rebates or discounts. Other rebate and discount programs arise from contractual agreements with private
payers. Various factors, including market factors and the ability of private payers to control patient access to products, may provide payers the leverage
to negotiate higher or additional rebates or discounts that could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's operations.
AbbVie is subject to numerous governmental regulations, and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop
compliant products and processes.
AbbVie's products are subject to rigorous regulation by numerous international, supranational, federal, and state authorities, as described in Item 1,
"Business—Regulation—Discovery and Clinical Development." The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a pharmaceutical product can be
costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely
basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new indications and uses, could result in delayed realization
of product revenues, reduction in revenues, and substantial additional costs.
In addition, AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will remain compliant with applicable regulatory requirements once approval has been obtained for a
product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, and advertising and post-
marketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. AbbVie must incur expense and spend time
and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations.
Possible regulatory actions could result in substantial modifications to AbbVie's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls, or seizures of
AbbVie's products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of AbbVie's or its suppliers' facilities while AbbVie or its supplier remedies the
alleged
​ 18 | 2015 Form 10-K ​violation; the inability to obtain future approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt
AbbVie's business and have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.
Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on AbbVie, require it to change its business
practices, and restrict its operations in the future.
The health care industry is subject to various federal, state, and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit programs
reimbursement, rebates, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse. In the United States, these laws include anti-kickback and false
claims laws, the Medicaid Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care Act, and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices.
Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment, and
exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs.
These laws and regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to change and evolving interpretations, which could require AbbVie to incur
substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or
allegations of such violations, could disrupt AbbVie's business and result in a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.
AbbVie could be subject to increased monetary penalties and/or other sanctions, including exclusion from federal health care programs,
if it fails to comply with the terms of the May 7, 2012 resolution of the Department of Justice's investigation into sales and marketing activities
for Depakote.
On May 7, 2012, Abbott settled United States federal and 49 state investigations into its sales and marketing activities for Depakote by pleading
guilty to a misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, agreeing to pay approximately $700 million in criminal fines and forfeitures and
approximately $900 million to resolve civil claims, and submitting to a term of probation. The term of probation ended January 1, 2016 upon AbbVie
satisfying all of the probation conditions. However, if AbbVie violates any remaining terms of the plea agreement, it may face additional monetary
sanctions and other such remedies as the court deems appropriate.
In addition, Abbott entered into a five-year CIA with the Office of Inspector General for the United States Department of Health and Human Services
(OIG). The effective date of the CIA is October 11, 2012. The obligations of the CIA have transferred to and become fully binding on AbbVie. The CIA
requires enhancements to AbbVie's compliance program, fulfillment of reporting and monitoring obligations, management certifications, and resolutions
from AbbVie's board of directors, among other requirements. Compliance with the requirements of the settlement will impose additional costs and
burdens on AbbVie, including in the form of employee training, third party reviews, compliance monitoring, reporting obligations, and management
attention. If AbbVie fails to comply with the CIA, the OIG may impose monetary penalties or exclude AbbVie from federal health care programs, including
Medicare and Medicaid. AbbVie and Abbott may be subject to third party claims and shareholder lawsuits in connection with the settlement, and AbbVie
may be required to indemnify all or a portion of Abbott's costs.
The international nature of AbbVie's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to
decline.
AbbVie's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including in emerging markets. Net revenues outside of the
United States make up approximately 41 percent of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2015. The risks associated with AbbVie's operations outside the
United States include:
• fluctuations in currency exchange rates;
• changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs;
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 19• multiple legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict AbbVie's ability to manufacture, market, and
sell its products;
• differing local product preferences and product requirements;
• trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;
• difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing operations;
• differing labor regulations;
• potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;
• political and economic instability, including sovereign debt issues;
• price and currency exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other
governmental action;
• inflation, recession and fluctuations in interest rates;
• potential deterioration in the economic position and credit quality of certain non-U.S. countries, including in Europe and Latin America; and
• potential penalties or other adverse consequences for violations of anti-corruption, anti-bribery and other similar laws and regulations,
including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act.
Events contemplated by these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenues and profitability.
AbbVie's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of its merger with Pharmacyclics will depend on its ability to effectively and profitably
commercialize IMBRUVICA® (ibrutinib).
The anticipated benefits of AbbVie's merger with Pharmacyclics will depend on AbbVie's ability to: effectively and profitably commercialize
IMBRUVICA, including AbbVie's ability to create and meet continued market demand, achieve market acceptance and generate product sales; ensure
that the active pharmaceutical ingredient for IMBRUVICA and the finished product are manufactured in sufficient quantities and in compliance with
requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies and with acceptable quality and pricing to meet commercial demand; and ensure that
the entire supply chain efficiently and consistently delivers IMBRUVICA to AbbVie's customers. The commercialization of IMBRUVICA may not be
successful due to, among other things, unexpected challenges from competitors, new safety issues or concerns being reported that may impact or
narrow the approved indications, the relative price of IMBRUVICA as compared to alternative treatment options, and changes to the label for IMBRUVICA
that further restrict its marketing. If the commercialization of IMBRUVICA is unsuccessful, AbbVie's ability to generate revenue from product sales and
realize the anticipated benefits of the merger will be adversely affected.
AbbVie may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of assets, which could cause
it to incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability.
AbbVie may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of some of its assets, as part of its
business strategy. AbbVie may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the
expected benefits. If AbbVie is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may
require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. AbbVie may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its
existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. AbbVie could also experience negative effects on its
reported
​ 20 | 2015 Form 10-K ​results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-
term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of AbbVie's credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.
Additionally, changes in AbbVie's structure, operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from major transactions such as acquisitions,
divestitures, mergers, alliances, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, may result in greater than expected costs, may take longer than expected to
complete or encounter other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approval where appropriate.
AbbVie is dependent on wholesale distributors for distribution of its products in the United States and, accordingly, its results of
operations could be adversely affected if they encounter financial difficulties.
In 2015, three wholesale distributors—AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation—accounted for
substantially all of AbbVie's net revenues in the United States. If one of its significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties,
such distributor may decrease the amount of business that it does with AbbVie, and AbbVie may be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor
owes it on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact AbbVie's business and results of operations.
AbbVie has debt obligations that could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations.
The amount of debt that AbbVie has incurred and intends to incur could have important consequences to AbbVie and its investors. These
consequences include, among other things, requiring a portion of AbbVie's cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt and
reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow AbbVie's business. To the extent AbbVie incurs
additional indebtedness, these risks could increase. In addition, AbbVie's cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding
debt as it becomes due, and AbbVie may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance
its debt.
AbbVie may need additional financing in the future to meet its capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing
may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.
AbbVie may need to seek additional financing for its general corporate purposes. For example, it may need to increase its investment in research
and development activities or need funds to make acquisitions. AbbVie may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to it,
if at all. If AbbVie loses its investment grade credit rating or adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, AbbVie may be unable to fund its
expansion, successfully develop or enhance products, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect AbbVie's business. If
AbbVie raises additional funds by issuing debt or entering into credit facilities, it may be subject to limitations on its operations due to restrictive
covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants could adversely affect AbbVie's business.
AbbVie depends on information technology and a failure of those systems could adversely affect AbbVie's business.
AbbVie relies on sophisticated information technology systems to operate its business. These systems are potentially vulnerable to malicious
intrusion, random attack, loss of data privacy, or breakdown. Although AbbVie has invested in the protection of its data and information technology and
also monitors its systems on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in AbbVie's
information technology systems that could adversely affect AbbVie's business.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 21Other factors can have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's profitability and financial condition.
Many other factors can affect AbbVie's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including:
• changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, product marketing
application standards, and environmental laws;
• differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for pension and post-
employment benefits, stock-based compensation, intangibles, and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation, the absence of
a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the minimum, compared to the actual amount;
• changes in the rate of inflation (including the cost of raw materials, commodities, and supplies), interest rates, market value of AbbVie's
equity investments, and the performance of investments held by it or its employee benefit trusts;
• changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to AbbVie or its employee benefit trusts;
• changes in the ability of third parties that provide information technology, accounting, human resources, payroll, and other outsourced
services to AbbVie to meet their contractual obligations to AbbVie; and
• changes in business, economic, and political conditions, including: war, political instability, terrorist attacks, the threat of future terrorist
activity and related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor
disputes, strikes, slow-downs, or other forms of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups.
Risks Related to AbbVie's Common Stock
AbbVie cannot guarantee the timing, amount, or payment of dividends on its common stock.
Although AbbVie expects to pay regular cash dividends, the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to stockholders will fall
within the discretion of AbbVie's board of directors. The board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as
AbbVie's financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and
other factors that the board deems relevant. For more information, see Item 5, "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities." AbbVie's ability to pay dividends will depend on its ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and
access capital markets. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will continue to pay a dividend in the future.
An AbbVie stockholder's percentage of ownership in AbbVie may be diluted in the future.
In the future, a stockholder's percentage ownership in AbbVie may be diluted because of equity issuances for capital market transactions, equity
awards that AbbVie will be granting to AbbVie's directors, officers and employees, acquisitions, or other purposes. AbbVie's employees have options to
purchase shares of its common stock as a result of conversion of their Abbott stock options (in whole or in part) to AbbVie stock options. AbbVie
anticipates its compensation committee will grant additional stock options or other stock-based awards to its employees. Such awards will have a
dilutive effect on AbbVie's earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of AbbVie's common stock. From time to time, AbbVie will
issue additional options or other stock-based awards to its employees under AbbVie's employee benefits plans.
In addition, AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes AbbVie to issue, without the approval of AbbVie's stockholders,
one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such
​ 22 | 2015 Form 10-K ​designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over AbbVie's common stock
respecting dividends and distributions, as AbbVie's board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred
stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of AbbVie's common stock. For example, AbbVie could grant the holders of preferred stock the
right to elect some number of AbbVie's directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly,
the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences AbbVie could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the
common stock.
Certain provisions in AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, and of Delaware
law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of AbbVie, which could decrease the trading price of AbbVie's common stock.
AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that
are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder
and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with AbbVie's board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include,
among others:
• the inability of AbbVie's stockholders to call a special meeting;
• the division of AbbVie's board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term;
• a provision that stockholders may only remove directors for cause;
• the ability of AbbVie's directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on AbbVie's board of directors; and
• the requirement that the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least 80 percent of AbbVie's voting stock is required to amend certain
provisions in AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and AbbVie's amended and restated by-laws relating to the
number, term and election of AbbVie's directors, the filling of board vacancies, the calling of special meetings of stockholders and director
and officer indemnification provisions.
In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated
with a person that acquires, more than 15 percent of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business
combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on
which that person or its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15 percent of the corporation's outstanding voting stock.
AbbVie believes these provisions protect its stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to
negotiate with AbbVie's board of directors and by providing AbbVie's board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These
provisions are not intended to make the company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial
by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that AbbVie's board of directors determines is not in the best interests of AbbVie and
AbbVie's stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 23CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward looking statements regarding business strategies, market potential, future financial
performance and other matters. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project" and similar expressions, among others, generally identify "forward
looking statements," which speak only as of the date the statements were made. The matters discussed in these forward looking statements are
subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in the
forward looking statements. In particular, information included under Item 1, "Business," Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and Item 7, "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contain forward looking statements. Where, in any forward looking statement, an
expectation or belief as to future results or events is expressed, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of AbbVie
management and expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will
result or be achieved or accomplished. Factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated include the matters
described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." AbbVie
does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or
circumstances after the date hereof, unless AbbVie is required by applicable securities law to do so.
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
AbbVie's corporate offices are located at 1 North Waukegan Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064-6400. AbbVie's principal manufacturing plants are
in the following locations:
United States Outside the United States
Abbott Park, Illinois* Campoverde di Aprilia, Italy
Barceloneta, Puerto Rico Cork, Ireland
Jayuya, Puerto Rico Ludwigshafen, Germany
North Chicago, Illinois Sligo, Ireland
Worcester, Massachusetts
* Leased property.
In addition to the above, AbbVie has other manufacturing facilities in the United States and worldwide. AbbVie believes its facilities are suitable and
provide adequate production capacity.
In the United States, including Puerto Rico, AbbVie has one distribution center. AbbVie also has four research and development facilities in the
United States located at: Abbott Park, Illinois; North Chicago, Illinois; Redwood City, California; and Worcester, Massachusetts. Outside the United
States, AbbVie's principal research and development facilities are located in Ludwigshafen, Germany.
Except as noted, the principal plants in the United States listed above are owned by AbbVie or subsidiaries of AbbVie. The remaining
manufacturing plants and all other facilities are owned or leased by AbbVie or subsidiaries of AbbVie.
​ 24 | 2015 Form 10-K ​ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Information pertaining to legal proceedings is provided in Note 14 entitled "Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 25EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
The following table lists AbbVie's executive officers, each of whom was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in December 2012, except as
otherwise indicated:
Name Age Position
Richard A. Gonzalez 62 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Alban 53 Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations
William J. Chase 48 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Henry O. Gosebruch* 43 Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer
Laura J. Schumacher 52 Executive Vice President, External Affairs, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary
Michael E. Severino, M.D.** 50 Executive Vice President, Research and Development, Chief Scientific
Officer
Timothy J. Richmond 49 Senior Vice President, Human Resources
Azita Saleki-Gerhardt, Ph.D. 52 Senior Vice President, Operations
Thomas A. Hurwich 55 Vice President, Controller
* First appointed as a corporate officer in December 2015.
** First appointed as a corporate officer in June 2014.
Mr. Gonzalez is AbbVie's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. He served as Abbott's Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical
Products Group from 2010 to 2012, and was responsible for Abbott's worldwide pharmaceutical business, including commercial operations, research and
development, and manufacturing. He has also served as President, Abbott Ventures Inc., Abbott's medical technology investment arm, from 2009 to
2011. Mr. Gonzalez joined Abbott in 1977 and held various management positions before briefly retiring in 2007, including Abbott's President and Chief
Operating Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer of Abbott's Medical Products Group, Senior Vice President and President of Abbott's former
Hospital Products Division (now Hospira, Inc.), Vice President and President of Abbott's Health Systems Division, and Divisional Vice President and
General Manager for Abbott's Diagnostics Operations in the United States and Canada.
Mr. Alban is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations. He served as Abbott's Senior Vice President, Proprietary Pharmaceutical
Products, Global Commercial Operations from 2011 to 2012, as Senior Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals from 2009 to 2011, as Vice
President, Western Europe and Canada from 2007 to 2009, and as Vice President, European Operations from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Alban joined Abbott in
1986.
Mr. Chase is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. He served as Abbott's Vice President, Licensing and Acquisitions from
2010 to 2012, as Vice President, Treasurer from 2007 to 2010, and as Divisional Vice President, Controller of Abbott International from 2004 to 2007.
Mr. Chase joined Abbott in 1989.
Mr. Gosebruch is AbbVie's Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer. He worked for more than 20 years in the Mergers & Acquisitions
Group at J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, serving as Managing Director since 2007 and as Co-Head of M&A North America during 2015. Mr. Gosebruch
joined AbbVie in 2015.
Ms. Schumacher is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, External Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, responsible for AbbVie's
externally-facing functions of Health Economics Outcomes Research, Government Affairs, Corporate Responsibility, Brand and Communications. She
also leads all legal functions and biotherapeutics strategy. Prior to AbbVie's separation from Abbott, Ms. Schumacher served as Executive Vice
President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary from 2007 to 2012, and as Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary, and General Counsel from
2005 to 2007. Both at Abbott and AbbVie, Ms. Schumacher
​ 26 | 2015 Form 10-K ​also led Licensing and Acquisition and Ventures and Early Stage Collaborations. At Abbott, Ms. Schumacher was also responsible for its Office of
Ethics and Compliance. Ms. Schumacher joined Abbott in 1990. She serves on the board of General Dynamics Corporation.
Dr. Severino is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Research and Development, Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Severino served at Amgen Inc. as
Senior Vice President, Global Development and Corporate Chief Medical Officer from 2012 to 2014, as Vice President, Global Development from 2010 to
2012 and as Vice President, Therapeutic Area Head, General Medicine and Inflammation Global Clinical Development from 2007 to 2012. He joined
AbbVie in 2014.
Mr. Richmond is AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Human Resources. He served as Abbott's Divisional Vice President of Compensation & Benefits
from 2008 to 2012, as Group Vice President of Talent and Rewards from 2007 to 2008, and as Divisional Vice President of Talent Acquisition from 2006
to 2007. Mr. Richmond joined Abbott in 2006.
Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt is AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Operations. She served as Abbott's Vice President, Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing and
Supply from 2011 to 2012, and as Divisional Vice President, Quality Assurance, Global Pharmaceutical Operations from 2008 to 2011. Dr. Saleki-
Gerhardt joined Abbott in 1993.
Mr. Hurwich is AbbVie's Vice President, Controller. He served as Abbott's Vice President, Internal Audit from 2009 to 2012, and as Divisional Vice
President, Controller, Abbott Diagnostics Division from 2003 to 2009. Mr. Hurwich joined Abbott in 1983.
The executive officers of AbbVie are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers are elected by the board or appointed by the
Chairman of the Board. All officers are either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual stockholder meeting or appointed
by the Chairman of the Board after that board meeting. Each officer holds office until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or
until the officer's death, resignation, or removal. There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers listed above.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 27PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT's COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Principal Market
The principal market for AbbVie's common stock is the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). AbbVie's common stock is also listed on the Chicago
Stock Exchange and traded on various regional and electronic exchanges. Outside the United States, AbbVie's common stock is listed on NYSE
Euronext Paris and the SIX Swiss Exchange.
Market Price Per Share
2015 2014
high low high low
First Quarter $ 68.29 $ 54.78 $ 54.73 $ 46.42
Second Quarter $ 70.75 $ 56.33 $ 56.90 $ 45.50
Third Quarter $ 71.60 $ 51.88 $ 60.02 $ 51.37
Fourth Quarter $ 64.30 $ 45.45 $ 70.76 $ 52.06
Stockholders
There were 53,653 stockholders of record of AbbVie common stock as of January 31, 2016.
Dividends
Four quarterly dividends were paid on common stock in 2015 and 2014. The first quarter 2015 cash dividend of $0.49 per share was payable
February 13, 2015 and the second, third and fourth quarter 2015 dividends of $0.51 per share were payable May 15, 2015, August 14, 2015 and
November 16, 2015, respectively. The first quarter 2014 cash dividend of $0.40 per share was payable February 14, 2014 and the second, third and fourth
quarter 2014 dividends of $0.42 per share were payable May 15, 2014, August 15, 2014 and November 17, 2014, respectively.
On October 30, 2015, AbbVie's board of directors declared an increase in the quarterly cash dividend from $0.51 per share to $0.57 per share,
payable on February 16, 2016 to stockholders of record as of January 15, 2016. The timing, declaration, amount of, and payment of any dividends by
AbbVie in the future is within the discretion of its board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including AbbVie's financial condition, earnings,
capital requirements of its operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory
constraints, industry practice, ability to access capital markets, and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors. Moreover, if AbbVie
determines to pay any dividend in the future, there can be no assurance that it will continue to pay such dividends or the amount of such dividends.
Performance Graph
The following graph compares the cumulative total returns of AbbVie, the S&P 500 Index and the NYSE Arca Pharmaceuticals Index. This graph
covers the period from January 2, 2013 (the first day AbbVie's common stock began "regular-way" trading on the NYSE) through December 31, 2015.
This graph assumes $100 was invested in AbbVie common stock and each index on January 2, 2013 and also assumes the reinvestment of dividends.
The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.
​ 28 | 2015 Form 10-K ​COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN
This performance graph is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" with the SEC or subject to Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
(c) Total
Number of (d) Maximum Number
Shares (or (or
(b) Units) Approximate Dollar
Average Purchased as Value) of
(a) Total Price Part Shares (or Units) that
Number Paid of Publicly May
of Shares per Announced Yet Be Purchased Under
(or Units) Share Plans or the
Period Purchased (or Unit) Programs Plans or Programs
October 1, 2015 - October 31, 2015 1,949(1)$ 38.02 — $ 3,450,133,355(2)
November 1, 2015 - November 30, 2015 10,423,835(1)$ 61.75 10,418,732 $ 2,806,648,800(2)
December 1, 2015 - December 31, 2015 15,129,432(1)$ 58.26 15,088,646 $ 1,927,160,135(2)
Total 25,555,216(1)$ 59.68 25,507,378 $ 1,927,160,135(2)
1. In addition to AbbVie shares repurchased on the open market under a publicly announced program, these shares include the
following:
(i) the shares deemed surrendered to AbbVie to pay the exercise price in connection with the exercise of employee stock
options—1,949 in October; 5,103 in November; and 18,615 in December; and
(ii) the shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the AbbVie Employee Stock Purchase Plan—0
in October; 0 in November; and 22,171 in December.
2. These shares do not include the shares surrendered to AbbVie to satisfy minimum tax withholding obligations in connection with
the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units. On October 20, 2014, AbbVie announced that its board of directors
authorized the purchase of up to $5.0 billion of its common stock. Purchases of AbbVie shares under this program may be made
from time to time at management's discretion. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 29ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The following table sets forth AbbVie's selected financial information derived from its (i) audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the
years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013; and (ii) audited combined financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2012 and
2011. The historical financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 were prepared on a stand-alone basis and were derived from Abbott's
consolidated financial statements and accounting records as if the former research-based pharmaceutical business of Abbott had been part of AbbVie for
all periods presented. Accordingly, AbbVie's financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 are presented on a combined basis and reflect
AbbVie's financial position, results of operations and cash flows as its business was operated as part of Abbott prior to the separation, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States.
The selected financial information should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and accompanying notes included under Item 8,
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
as of and for the years ended December 31
(in millions, except per share data) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Statement of earnings data
Net revenues $ 22,859 $ 19,960 $ 18,790 $ 18,380 $ 17,444
Net earnings(a)(b) $ 5,144 $ 1,774 $ 4,128 $ 5,275 $ 3,433
Basic earnings per share(a)(b) $ 3.15 $ 1.11 $ 2.58 $ 3.35 $ 2.18
Diluted earnings per share(a)(b) $ 3.13 $ 1.10 $ 2.56 $ 3.35 $ 2.18
Cash dividends declared per share $ 2.10 $ 1.75 $ 2.00(c) n/a n/a
Weighted-average basic shares outstanding(d) 1,625 1,595 1,589 1,577 1,577
Weighted-average diluted shares outstanding(d) 1,637 1,610 1,604 1,577 1,577
Balance sheet data
Total assets(e) $ 53,050 $ 27,513 $ 29,241 $ 27,058 $ 19,521
Long-term debt and lease obligations(e)(f) $ 31,265 $ 14,552 $ 14,353 $ 14,702 $ 48
n/a—Not applicable.
(a) AbbVie's historical financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 reflected an allocation of expenses related to certain
Abbott corporate functions, including senior management, legal, human resources, finance, information technology, and quality
assurance. These expenses were allocated to AbbVie based on direct usage or benefit where identifiable, with the remainder
allocated on a pro rata basis of revenues, headcount, square footage, number of transactions or other measures. AbbVie
considers the expense allocation methodology and results to be reasonable. However, the allocations may not be indicative of the
actual expenses that would have been incurred had AbbVie operated as an independent, stand-alone, publicly-traded company for
the periods presented. Accordingly, the historical financial information presented for periods prior to January 1, 2013 may not be
indicative of the results of operations or financial position that would have been achieved if AbbVie had been an independent,
stand-alone, publicly-traded company during the periods shown or of AbbVie's performance for periods subsequent to
December 31, 2012.
(b) Results for 2015, 2014 and 2013 included higher expenses associated with operating as an independent, stand-alone, publicly-
traded company than the historically derived financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013. The increases include the
impact of interest expense on debt issued in November 2012, a higher tax rate and other incremental costs of operating as an
independent company. Refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—
Results of Operations" for a discussion of other items that affected the comparability of financial results for 2015, 2014 and 2013.
​ 30 | 2015 Form 10-K ​(c) AbbVie declared regular quarterly cash dividends in 2013 aggregating $1.60 per share of common stock. In addition, a cash
dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock was declared from pre-separation earnings on January 4, 2013 and was recorded as
a reduction of additional paid-in capital.
(d) On January 1, 2013, Abbott distributed 1,577 million shares of AbbVie common stock to shareholders of Abbott common stock.
For periods prior to the separation, the weighted-average basic and diluted shares outstanding were based on the number of
shares of AbbVie common stock outstanding on the distribution date. Refer to Note 4 to the audited consolidated financial
statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information regarding the calculation of
basic and diluted earnings per common share for 2015, 2014 and 2013.
(e) On May 26, 2015, AbbVie acquired Pharmacyclics, Inc. for approximately $20.8 billion, including cash consideration of
$12.4 billion and equity consideration of approximately 128 million shares of AbbVie common stock valued at $8.4 billion. In
connection with the acquisition, AbbVie issued $16.7 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes, of which
approximately $11.5 billion were used to finance the acquisition of Pharmacyclics Inc. and approximately $5.0 billion were used to
finance an accelerated share repurchase agreement. Refer to Notes 5, 9 and 12 to the audited consolidated financial statements
included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information regarding the acquisition of
Pharmacyclics, Inc., the senior notes and the accelerated share repurchase program, respectively.
(f) Also includes current portion of long-term debt and lease obligations.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 31ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS
The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company) as of December 31, 2015 and 2014
and results of operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015. This commentary should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes appearing in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW
Company Overview
AbbVie is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company formed in 2013 following separation from Abbott Laboratories (Abbott). AbbVie's
mission is to use its expertise, dedicated people and unique approach to innovation to develop and market advanced therapies that address some of the
world's most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie's products are focused on treating conditions such as chronic autoimmune diseases in
rheumatology, gastroenterology and dermatology; oncology, including blood cancers; virology, including hepatitis C (HCV) and human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV); neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease; metabolic diseases, including thyroid disease and complications associated with cystic
fibrosis; as well as other serious health conditions. AbbVie also has a pipeline of promising new medicines across such important medical specialties as
immunology, virology/liver disease, oncology, neurology, cystic fibrosis and women's health.
AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty
pharmacies, and independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. In the United States, AbbVie distributes
pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to pharmacies and patients. Outside the United
States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-
promoted with other companies. AbbVie has approximately 28,000 employees. AbbVie operates in one business segment—pharmaceutical products.
On May 26, 2015, AbbVie completed its acquisition of Pharmacyclics, Inc. (Pharmacyclics), a biopharmaceutical company that develops and
commercializes novel therapies for people impacted by cancer, and its flagship asset IMBRUVICA® (ibrutinib), a novel, orally active, selective covalent
inhibitor of Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase (BTK). As part of a worldwide collaboration and license agreement with Janssen Biotech, Inc., one of the Janssen
Pharmaceutical companies of Johnson & Johnson (Janssen), IMBRUVICA is approved for use in the United States, Canada, and the European Union
(EU) as well as in other countries worldwide. In the United States, AbbVie co-markets IMBRUVICA for four indications approved by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) prior to the acquisition date: (i) for the treatment of patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who have received at least one
prior therapy; (ii) for the treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who have received at least one prior therapy; (iii) for the treatment
of CLL patients with deletion of the short arm chromosome 17 (del 17p CLL); and (iv) for the treatment of patients with Waldenstrom's
macroglobulinemia. In the EU, Janssen markets IMBRUVICA. At the date of the acquisition, IMBRUVICA was indicated in the EU for the treatment of
adult patients with relapsed or refractory MCL, or adult patients with CLL who have received at least one prior therapy, or in first-line in the presence of
17p deletion or TP53 mutation in patients unsuitable for chemoimmunotherapy.
The acquisition will accelerate AbbVie's clinical and commercial presence in oncology, strengthen its pipeline, and establish a leadership position
in hematological oncology. The acquisition will also accelerate AbbVie's revenue and earnings growth and further diversify its revenue base. AbbVie
expects the acquisition to be accretive to earnings beginning in 2017. Refer to Note 5 entitled "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements" of the
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included under
​ 32 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for further information regarding the acquisition of Pharmacyclics.
2015 Financial Results
AbbVie's strategy has focused on delivering strong financial results, advancing and investing in its pipeline, and returning value to shareholders
while ensuring a strong, sustainable growth business over the long term. In 2015, AbbVie's worldwide net revenues grew by 15 percent to $22.9 billion,
driven primarily by the continued strength of HUMIRA, both in the United States and internationally, the global launch of AbbVie's interferon-free HCV
treatment, revenue growth in other key products including Creon and Duodopa, and post-acquisition revenues related to IMBRUVICA. These increases
were partially offset by a decline in net revenues of AndroGel, principally due to continued market declines and the entry of generic competition for the
AndroGel 1% formulation, as well as the continued decline of the company's lipid franchise, and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.
The company's financial performance in 2015 included delivering fully diluted earnings per share of $3.13, including after-tax costs totaling
$410 million incurred in connection with the acquisition and integration of Pharmacyclics, a $350 million after-tax charge for the purchase of a rare
pediatric disease priority review voucher (PRV) from United Therapeutics Corporation, a $100 million after-tax charge as a result of entering into an
exclusive worldwide license agreement with C2N Diagnostics (C2N), after-tax foreign exchange losses of $170 million as a result of the liquidation in
2015 of remaining foreign currency positions related to the terminated proposed combination with Shire plc (Shire) in 2014, after-tax charges of
$129 million to increase the company's litigation reserves, and an $83 million after-tax charge due to the achievement of a development milestone under
the global collaboration with Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Infinity). Refer to Note 5 for further information regarding these items. AbbVie's financial
performance in 2015 also reflected an improvement in gross margin to 80 percent of net revenues, primarily due to favorable product mix across the
product portfolio, operating efficiencies, and the impact of foreign exchange rates. Financial results for 2015 also reflected continued funding in support of
AbbVie's emerging mid-and late-stage pipeline assets, continued investment in AbbVie's growth brands, and the global launch of AbbVie's interferon-free
HCV treatment, VIEKIRA PAK.
In 2015, the company generated cash flows from operations of $7.5 billion. These cash flows enabled the company to pay cash dividends to
shareholders of $3.3 billion, repurchase approximately 46 million shares for $2.8 billion in the open market (excluding the shares repurchased under an
accelerated repurchase agreement), and continue to enhance its pipeline through licensing and collaboration activities including a $500 million payment
to Calico Life Sciences LLC (Calico) as a result of the satisfaction of certain conditions under the research and development (R&D) collaboration with
Calico for which a charge to acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D) was recorded in 2014. In addition, AbbVie issued $16.7 billion
aggregate principal amount of senior notes the proceeds of which were used to finance the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and a $5.0 billion accelerated
share repurchase agreement (ASR) pursuant to which AbbVie paid $5.0 billion for an aggregate 73 million shares of AbbVie's common stock. In October
2015, AbbVie's board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.57 per share of common stock payable in February 2016. This reflects an
increase of approximately 12 percent over the previous quarterly rate of $0.51 per share of common stock.
2016 Strategic Objectives
AbbVie's mission is to be an innovation-driven, patient-focused specialty biopharmaceutical company capable of achieving top-tier financial
performance through outstanding execution and a consistent stream of innovative new medicines. AbbVie intends to continue to advance its mission in a
number of ways, including (i) growing revenues through continued strong performance from its existing portfolio of on-market products, including its
flagship brands, HUMIRA, IMBRUVICA and VIEKIRA PAK, as well as growth from pipeline products; (ii) expanding gross and operating margins;
(iii) continued investment in its pipeline
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 33in support of opportunities in immunology, oncology, and virology, as well as continued investment in key on-market products; (iv) augmentation of its
pipeline through concerted focus on strategic licensing, acquisition and partnering activity with a focus on identifying compelling programs that fit
AbbVie's strategic criteria; and (v) returning cash to shareholders via dividends and share repurchases. In addition, AbbVie anticipates several regulatory
submissions and key data readouts from key clinical trials in 2016.
AbbVie expects to achieve its revenue growth objectives as follows:
• HUMIRA sales growth by driving biologic penetration across disease categories, increasing market leadership, strong commercial
execution and expansion to new indications for hidradenitis suppurativa (regulatory approval in the United States and EU achieved in 2015)
and uveitis (regulatory submissions in the United States and the EU are under review with approval expected in 2016).
• IMBRUVICA revenue growth driven by increasing market share within its four currently approved indications as well as indication expansion
of IMBRUVICA as a first-line therapy for CLL (currently under priority review by the FDA). Revenues for 2016 will also benefit from a full year
of IMBRUVICA revenue.
• VIEKIRA PAK revenue growth driven by continued uptake across geographies, including Japan, the second largest HCV market globally,
as well as indication expansion for a once-daily, fixed-dosed formulation of VIEKIRA PAK to treat genotype 1 (GT1) HCV (currently under
review).
• The favorable impact of pipeline products approved in 2015 or currently under regulatory review where approval is expected in 2016
including venetoclax, Empliciti (elotuzumab), and ZINBRYTA (daclizumab). These pipeline products are described in greater detail in the
section labeled "Research and Development" included as part of this Item 7.
In 2016, AbbVie remains committed to driving continued expansion of gross and operating margins and expects to achieve this objective through
productivity initiatives in supply chain, ongoing efficiency programs to optimize manufacturing, commercial infrastructure, administrative costs and
general corporate expenses, and continued leverage from revenue growth. AbbVie also remains committed to returning cash to shareholders via
dividends and share repurchases.
Research and Development
Research and innovation are the cornerstones of AbbVie's business as a global biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie's long-term success depends
to a great extent on its ability to continue to discover and develop innovative pharmaceutical products and acquire or collaborate on compounds currently
in development at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies.
AbbVie's pipeline currently includes more than 50 compounds or indications in clinical development individually or under collaboration or license
agreements and is focused on such important medical specialties as immunology, oncology, virology/liver disease, and neurology along with targeted
investments in renal disease, cystic fibrosis, and women's health. Of these programs, more than 30 are in mid- and late-stage development.
The following sections summarize transitions of significant programs from Phase 2 development to Phase 3 development as well as developments
in significant Phase 3 and registration programs. AbbVie expects multiple Phase 2 programs to transition into Phase 3 programs during 2016.
​ 34 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Significant Clinical Programs Approved or Submitted
AbbVie submitted for review or received approval for the following significant late-stage development programs:
Immunology
• The FDA granted HUMIRA orphan drug designation for the treatment of moderate-to-severe hidradenitis suppurativa (HS), a painful, chronic
inflammatory skin disease. AbbVie's supplemental Biological License Application (BLA) in the United States and its marketing
authorization in the EU were approved by the FDA and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in 2015, respectively. Approval for this
indication represents the thirteenth indication for HUMIRA in major geographies around the world.
• In April 2015 AbbVie announced that the European Commission (EC) granted marketing authorization for HUMIRA for the treatment of
severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescence from four years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are
inappropriate candidates for topical therapy and phototherapies. With the EC decision, HUMIRA is now approved for use in this indication
in all member states of the EU.
• AbbVie submitted regulatory applications in the United States and the EU for the use of HUMIRA in the treatment of uveitis. AbbVie
expects to receive regulatory approval in 2016.
Oncology
• In July 2015, AbbVie announced that the EC granted marketing authorization for IMBRUVICA as the first treatment option specifically
approved for treatment of adult patients with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, a rare, slow growing blood cancer. Pharmacyclics received
FDA approval for IMBRUVICA for patients with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia in January 2015. The EC approval triggered a $20 million
milestone payment from Janssen.
• In September 2015, AbbVie announced that it submitted a Supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) to the FDA for IMBRUVICA for
treatment-naïve CLL patients. The sNDA is based on results from the Phase 3 RESONATE™-2 study, which evaluated efficacy and safety
of IMBRUVICA versus traditional chemotherapy, chlorambucil, in treatment-naïve CLL patients aged 65 years or older. The application has
received a priority review.
• In November 2015, AbbVie submitted a sNDA to the FDA for labeling considerations based on safety and efficacy results from the Phase 3
HELIOS trial investigating the use of IMBRUVICA, bendamustine, and rituximab, versus placebo plus bendamustine and rituximab, in
patients with relapsed/refractory CLL or small lymphocytic lymphoma.
• In February 2016, the FDA granted IMBRUVICA orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with extranodal marginal zone
lymphoma.
• AbbVie submitted regulatory applications in the United States and the EU for venetoclax (ABT-199), an inhibitor of the B-cell lymphoma-2
(Bcl-2) protein developed in collaboration with Genentech and Roche Holding AG. Priority review status was granted by the FDA and
validation provided by the EMA for these submissions. Venetoclax is also in Phase 3 development for patients with relapsed/refractory
CLL. In addition, venetoclax was granted three Breakthrough Therapy Designations by the FDA: (i) for the treatment of CLL in previously
treated (relapsed/refractory) patients with the 17p deletion mutation; (ii) in combination with rituximab for the treatment of patients with
relapsed/refractory CLL, including patients with chromosome 17p deletion; and (iii) in combination with hypomethylating agents for the
treatment of patients with untreated (treatment-naïve) acute
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 35myeloid leukemia who are ineligible to receive standard induction therapy (high-dose chemotherapy).
• Registration submissions were submitted to the FDA and the EC for Empliciti (elotuzumab), a Signaling Lymphocyte Activation Molecule
(SLAM7)-directed immunostimulatory antibody developed in partnership with Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS) for first-line and
relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (MM). Subsequently, the EMA validated for review the marketing authorization application for
Empliciti (elotuzumab) for the treatment of MM as combination therapy in adult patients who have received one or more prior therapies. The
application was granted accelerated assessment by the EMA's Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). In addition, the
FDA approved Empliciti (elotuzumab) for the treatment of MM as a combination therapy in patients who have received one to three prior
therapies. This is the first FDA approval for an immune-stimulatory antibody for MM in this indication. Empliciti will be marketed by BMS.
Virology/Liver Disease
• On January 16, 2015, AbbVie announced that the EC granted marketing authorizations for its all-oral, short-course, interferon-free
treatment VIEKIRAX (ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir tablets) + EXVIERA (dasabuvir tablets). The treatment was approved with or without
ribavirin (RBV) for patients with GT1 chronic HCV infection, including those with compensated liver cirrhosis, HIV-1 co-infection, patients on
opioid substitution therapy and liver transplant recipients. Additionally, VIEKIRAX/EXVIERA was approved for use with RBV in genotype 4
(GT4) chronic HCV patients.
• AbbVie's regulatory application in Japan for the company's all-oral, RBV and interferon-free, 12-week, two direct-acting antiviral treatment of
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir (OBV/PTV/r), dosed once daily, was approved in September 2015 for the treatment of patients with GT1
chronic HCV infection.
• In July 2015, the FDA approved AbbVie's regulatory application for TECHNIVIE (OBV/PTV/r tablets) in combination with RBV for the
treatment of adults with GT4 chronic HCV infection who do not have cirrhosis. TECHNIVIE is the first and only all-oral, interferon-free,
direct-acting antiviral treatment approved in the United States for adult patients with GT4 chronic HCV infection.
• AbbVie submitted a regulatory application in the United States for a once-daily, fixed-dosed formulation of VIEKIRA PAK to treat GT1
HCV. The proposed dosing for the fixed-dose formulation is three oral tablets, taken once daily with a meal, with or without RBV. AbbVie
anticipates regulatory action on the new formulation in 2016.
• The FDA accepted AbbVie's sNDA and granted priority review for VIEKIRA PAK without RBV in patients with genotype 1b (GT1b) chronic
HCV infection and compensated cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A).
Neurology
• On January 12, 2015, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved Duopa (carbidopa and levodopa), an enteral suspension for the treatment
of motor fluctuations for people with advanced Parkinson's disease. Duopa is administered using a small, portable infusion pump that
delivers carbidopa and levodopa directly into the small intestine for 16 continuous hours via a procedurally-placed tube. This product is sold
under the name Duodopa outside the United States.
• AbbVie is collaborating with Biogen to develop ZINBRYTA (daclizumab), an anti-CD25 monoclonal antibody, for the treatment of the
relapsing/remitting form of multiple sclerosis (MS). In February 2015, the registration submission for ZINBRYTA was made in the United
States followed by the EU submission in March 2015. In March, AbbVie and Biogen announced that the EMA had validated the
companies' marketing authorization application for ZINBRYTA for the treatment of relapsing forms of MS in the EU. Validation confirms that
the submission is complete and signifies the initiation of the
​ 36 | 2015 Form 10-K ​review process by the CHMP. In April 2015, AbbVie and Biogen announced that the FDA accepted for review the registration submission in
the United States.
Other Significant Developments
Transitions of significant programs from Phase 2 to Phase 3 development, as well as other significant developments, included the following:
Immunology
• In January 2016, AbbVie announced the commencement of a Phase 3 clinical trial program to study the use of AbbVie's once-daily
formulation of ABT-494, its internally developed investigational selective Janus Kinase 1 (JAK-1) inhibitor, for the treatment of rheumatoid
arthritis. A Phase 2 trial of ABT-494 for the treatment of Crohn's disease is also ongoing.
• In 2015, AbbVie received a decision by the EC regarding compliance with its pediatric investigation plan for HUMIRA, which ensures that
necessary data are obtained through studies in children. As a result of this positive decision, the company is seeking an extension from
each EU member state where a supplementary protection certificate is held. Once approved, this will extend the HUMIRA composition of
matter patent in the EU by six months from April 2018 to October 2018.
Oncology
• In July 2015, AbbVie initiated a Phase 3 study for the use of Veliparib (ABT-888), a PARP-inhibitor, for the treatment of ovarian cancer in
combination with chemotherapy. Veliparib is also in Phase 3 development for various forms of breast and lung cancer.
• AbbVie recently initiated its first Phase 3 clinical trial for IMBRUVICA in solid tumors. The trial will evaluate the safety and efficacy of
IMBRUVICA in combination with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel for first-line treatment of patients with metastatic pancreatic
adenocarcinoma.
Virology/Liver Disease
• In October 2015, in consultation with the FDA, the product inserts in the United States for VIEKIRA PAK and TECHNIVIE were updated
from "not recommended in Child-Pugh B patients" to a contraindication in patients with Child-Pugh B cirrhosis. Patients classified as
Child-Pugh C remained contraindicated as they have been since approval.
• In January 2016, AbbVie initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial program evaluating the safety and efficacy of its next-generation, all-oral, once-
daily, pan-genotypic, RBV-free investigational HCV regimen, which includes ABT-493, a NS3/4A protease inhibitor, and ABT-530, an NS5A
inhibitor.
Other
• AbbVie is developing a novel oral gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist, Elagolix, under a collaboration with Neurocrine
Biosciences (Neurocrine) for the treatment of endometriosis-related pain and uterine fibroids. In January 2016, AbbVie announced the
initiation of the first of two planned Phase 3 studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of Elagolix in the treatment of patients with uterine
fibroids. AbbVie will make a milestone payment of $15 million to Neurocrine upon enrollment of the first patient. Elagolix is in late-stage
development for endometriosis.
• In 2012, AbbVie entered into a collaboration with Galapagos NV (Galapagos) to develop filgotinib, an oral JAK1 inhibitor. In 2015, following
a thorough review of available data, AbbVie announced that it will not exercise its right to in-license filgotinib from Galapagos. Pursuant to
the terms of the global collaboration agreement with Galapagos, all rights to filgotinib reverted solely to Galapagos.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 37In 2015, AbbVie also augmented its pipeline through strategic licensing and partnering activities including in-licensing an anti-tau antibody (ABBV-
8E12) for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders from C2N, a privately held protein diagnostic and therapeutic discovery
company. Refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
further information regarding the license agreement with C2N.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Net Revenues
The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency net revenues at the prior year's foreign exchange rates.
This measure provides information on the change in net revenues assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and
the current period. AbbVie believes that the non-GAAP measure of change in net revenues at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the
GAAP measure of change in net revenues at actual currency rates, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can
facilitate analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.
Percent change
At actual At constant
currency currency
rates rates
for the years ended (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2015 2014
United States $ 13,561 $ 10,845 $ 10,181 25% 7% 25% 7%
International 9,298 9,115 8,609 2% 6% 18% 9%
Net revenues $ 22,859 $ 19,960 $ 18,790 15% 6% 22% 8%
​ 38 | 2015 Form 10-K ​The following table details AbbVie's worldwide net revenues:
Percent change
At actual At constant
currency currency
rates rates
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2015 2014
HUMIRA
United States $ 8,405 $ 6,524 $ 5,236 29% 25% 29% 25%
International 5,607 6,019 5,423 (7)% 11% 9% 13%
Total $ 14,012 $ 12,543 $ 10,659 12% 18% 19% 19%
IMBRUVICA
United States $ 659 $ — $ — n/a n/a n/a n/a
Collaboration revenues 95 — — n/a n/a n/a n/a
Total $ 754 $ — $ — n/a n/a n/a n/a
VIEKIRA
United States $ 804 $ 48 $ — n/m 100% n/m 100%
International 835 — — n/a n/a n/a n/a
Total $ 1,639 $ 48 $ — n/m 100% n/m 100%
Creon
United States $ 632 $ 516 $ 412 22% 25% 22% 25%
Synagis
International $ 740 $ 835 $ 827 (11)% 1% 1% 9%
Lupron
United States $ 653 $ 580 $ 566 13% 3% 13% 3%
International 173 198 219 (13)% (10)% —% (5)%
Total $ 826 $ 778 $ 785 6% (1)% 9% —%
Synthroid
United States $ 755 $ 709 $ 622 6% 14% 6% 14%
Kaletra
United States $ 163 $ 213 $ 244 (24)% (13)% (24)% (13)%
International 537 657 718 (18)% (9)% (5)% (5)%
Total $ 700 $ 870 $ 962 (20)% (10)% (10)% (7)%
AndroGel
United States $ 694 $ 934 $ 1,035 (26)% (10)% (26)% (10)%
Sevoflurane
United States $ 81 $ 83 $ 77 (3)% 7% (3)% 7%
International 393 467 491 (16)% (5)% (4)% (1)%
Total $ 474 $ 550 $ 568 (14)% (3)% (4)% —%
Duodopa
United States $ 12 $ — $ — n/m n/a n/m n/a
International 219 220 178 (1)% 24% 18% 25%
Total $ 231 $ 220 $ 178 5% 24% 23% 25%
Dyslipidemia products
United States $ 179 $ 328 $ 1,076 (45)% (70)% (45)% (70)%
All other $ 1,223 $ 1,629 $ 1,666 (25)% (2)% (21)% (1)%
Total net revenues $ 22,859 $ 19,960 $ 18,790 15% 6% 22% 8%
n/m—Not meaningful.
n/a—Not applicable.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 39The following discussion and analysis of AbbVie's net revenues by product is presented on a constant currency basis.
Global HUMIRA sales increased 19 percent in both 2015 and 2014, primarily as a result of market growth across therapeutic categories and
geographies, higher market share, approval of new indications, and favorable pricing in certain geographies. In the United States, HUMIRA revenues
increased 29 percent in 2015 and 25 percent in 2014, driven by prescription volume, favorable pricing, and market growth across all indications.
Internationally, HUMIRA revenues increased 9 percent in 2015 and 13 percent in 2014, driven primarily by growth across indications in certain
geographies. AbbVie continues to pursue several new indications to help further differentiate HUMIRA from competing products and add to the
sustainability and future growth of HUMIRA.
Net revenues for IMBRUVICA represent product revenues in the United States as well as collaboration revenues related to AbbVie's 50 percent
share of IMBRUVICA profit outside of the United States following the completion of the acquisition of Pharmacyclics on May 26, 2015. AbbVie expects
IMBRUVICA will be a significant contributor to revenue growth in 2016.
AbbVie launched its HCV regimen, VIEKIRA PAK, in the United States following FDA approval in mid-December 2014 and launched
VIEKIRAX/EXVIERA in the EU in January 2015. In addition to growth in approved markets, international revenues continued to increase during 2015 as
the product was approved in additional geographies. Net revenues of VIEKIRA PAK in 2014 reflect the shipment of launch quantities into the market to
support full commercial launch in 2015.
Net revenues for Creon increased 22 percent in 2015 and 25 percent in 2014, driven primarily by continued market growth and higher market share.
Creon maintains market leadership in the pancreatic enzyme market.
Synagis is a seasonal product with the majority of sales occurring in the first and fourth quarters. Net revenues increased 1 percent in 2015 and
9 percent in 2014. Revenues in 2015 reflected changes in demand in certain markets, as well as an unfavorable comparison to 2014 driven by a less
severe respiratory syncytial virus season.
Global Lupron net revenues increased 9 percent in 2015 primarily due to increased demand and favorable pricing in the United States. Lupron
continues to hold a leadership position and maintains significant share of the market.
Global Kaletra net revenues declined 10 percent in 2015 and 7 percent in 2014 primarily due to lower market share resulting from the impact of
increasing competition in the HIV marketplace.
AndroGel net revenues declined 26 percent in 2015 and 10 percent in 2014, primarily due to a continued decline in the overall U.S. testosterone
replacement market and the entry of generic competition for the AndroGel 1% formulation in January 2015. The company expects the U.S. testosterone
replacement market will continue to decline in 2016.
Net revenues for Duodopa, AbbVie's therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease approved in Europe and other international markets, grew 23 percent
in 2015. AbbVie's regulatory submission for Duopa in the United States was approved by the FDA in January 2015. AbbVie expects net revenues for
Duopa in the United States will continue to gradually increase during 2016 as the product gains acceptance in the marketplace.
Net revenues for AbbVie's consolidated lipid franchise, which included TriCor, Trilipix, Niaspan, Simcor and Advicor, declined 45 percent in 2015
and 70 percent in 2014 due to the introduction of generic versions of these products in the U.S. market. Generic competition began in November 2012 for
TriCor, July 2013 for Trilipix, and September 2013 for Niaspan. AbbVie has voluntarily withdrawn Simcor and Advicor from the market and discontinued
distribution as of December 31, 2015.
​ 40 | 2015 Form 10-K ​All other net revenues declined 21 percent in 2015 primarily due to reduced demand driven by market and share declines and a reduction in price
for several of AbbVie's mature on-market products.
Gross Margin
Percent
change
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014
Gross margin $ 18,359 $ 15,534 $ 14,209 18% 9%
as a percent of net revenues 80% 78% 76%
The gross margin for 2015, 2014 and 2013 reflected the favorable impact of product mix across the product portfolio, including HUMIRA, operational
efficiencies, and price increases, partially offset by the effect of unfavorable foreign exchange rates and the loss of exclusivity for the lipid franchise.
Gross margin in 2015 also includes milestone revenue of $40 million from a collaboration partner related the company's oncology program. Gross margin
in 2014 also includes royalty income of $81 million relating to prior periods as a result of the settlement of a licensing arrangement and lower
amortization expense for intangible assets, partially offset by a $37 million impairment charge for an intangible asset.
Selling, General and Administrative
Percent
change
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014
Selling, general and administrative $ 6,387 $ 7,724 $ 5,352 (17)% 44%
as a percent of net revenues 28% 39% 28%
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses declined in 2015 compared to 2014, principally due to the absence of transaction-related
costs totaling $1.7 billion incurred in 2014 in connection with the termination of the proposed combination with Shire, as further discussed in Note 5 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SG&A expenses in 2014 also included a $129 million charge related to the Branded Prescription Drug
Fee due to the issuance of final rules which resulted in an additional year of expense in 2014. Refer to Note 13 for further information.
Excluding these items, SG&A expenses increased in both 2015 and 2014, reflecting increased selling and marketing support for new products,
including the global launch of VIEKIRA, as well as spending relating to new indications and geographic expansion for HUMIRA and other growth brands.
SG&A expenses in 2015 also included Pharmacyclics acquisition and integration costs of $294 million, charges aggregating $165 million to increase the
company's litigation reserves and restructuring charges of $39 million. These increased costs were partially offset by the impact of favorable foreign
exchange rates in 2015.
Research and Development and Acquired In-Process Research and Development
Percent
change
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014
Research and development $ 4,285 $ 3,297 $ 2,855 30% 15%
as a percent of net revenues 19% 17% 15%
Acquired in-process research and development $ 150 $ 352 $ 338 (57)% 4%
R&D expenses for 2015 included Pharmacyclics acquisition and integration costs of $152 million, a $350 million charge related to the purchase of
a priority review voucher from a third party, a $130 million
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 41charge recorded due to the achievement of a development milestone under the collaboration with Infinity, the post-acquisition R&D expenses of
Pharmacyclics, and restructuring charges of $32 million. R&D expenses in 2014 and 2013 included regulatory milestone payments of $40 million made
to a collaboration partner for regulatory milestones related to the company's HCV program and restructuring charges of $15 million, respectively.
R&D expenses in 2015 and 2014 otherwise reflected added funding to support the company's emerging mid- and late-stage pipeline assets and the
continued pursuit of additional HUMIRA indications. These increases were partially offset by the impact of favorable foreign exchange rates in 2015 and
2014.
IPR&D expenses in 2015 included a charge of $100 million as a result of entering into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with C2N to
develop and commercialize anti-tau antibodies for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders. IPR&D expenses in 2014
included a charge of $275 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration with Infinity to develop and commercialize duvelisib, a treatment for
patients with cancer. IPR&D expense in 2013 included a charge of $175 million as a result of entering into a global license agreement with Ablynx NV to
develop and commercialize ALX-0061, a charge of $70 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration with Alvine Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to
develop ALV003, a charge of $45 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration with Galapagos for cystic fibrosis therapies, and charges
totaling $48 million as a result of entering into several other arrangements. Refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information related to the company's collaborations and other arrangements.
Other Operating Expenses
Other operating expenses in 2014 included a $750 million charge related to an R&D collaboration agreement entered into in September 2014 with
Calico to discover, develop and commercialize new therapies for patients with age-related diseases.
Other Non-Operating Expenses
Interest expense, net was $686 million in 2015, $391 million in 2014, and $278 million in 2013 and was comprised primarily of interest expense on
outstanding debt. Interest expense, net in 2015 increased due to the May 2015 issuance of $16.7 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes,
which were issued primarily to finance the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and an accelerated share repurchase program. Interest expense, net in 2015
also included $86 million of bridge financing related fees incurred in connection with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. Interest expense, net in 2014
included $141 million of financing related fees incurred in connection with the terminated proposed combination with Shire.
In 2014, AbbVie entered into certain undesignated forward contracts to hedge the then anticipated foreign currency cash outflows associated with
the then proposed combination with Shire. Net foreign exchange loss for 2014 included losses of $666 million associated with the Shire-related forward
contracts. Net foreign exchange loss for 2015 included losses totaling $170 million to reflect the completed liquidation of the company's remaining
foreign currency positions related to the terminated proposed combination with Shire.
Other non-operating expense, net for 2015 included impairment charges totaling $36 million related to certain of the company's equity investment
securities. Other non-operating income, net, in 2014 primarily consisted of income of $34 million from the resolution of a contractual agreement.
Income Tax Expense
The effective income tax rate was 23 percent in 2015, 25 percent in 2014, and 23 percent in 2013. The effective tax rate fluctuates from year to year
due to the allocation of the company's taxable earnings among jurisdictions, as well as certain discrete factors and events in each year, including
acquisitions and
​ 42 | 2015 Form 10-K ​collaborations. The effective income tax rate in 2015 included a tax benefit of $103 million from a reduction of state valuation allowances. The effective
income tax rate in 2014 included state valuation allowances of $129 million and additional expenses of $129 million related to the Branded Prescription
Drug Fee, which is non-deductible.
FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013
Cash flows provided by/(used in):
Operating activities $ 7,535 $ 3,549 $ 6,267
Investing activities $ (12,936) $ (926) $ 879
Financing activities $ 5,752 $ (3,293) $ (3,442)
Cash flows provided by operations in 2015 was $7.5 billion compared to $3.5 billion in 2014. The increase was primarily due to improved results of
operations due to revenue growth and an improvement in operating margin as well as the absence of after-tax transaction and financing-related and other
costs of $1.8 billion incurred in connection with the termination of the proposed combination with Shire, including net foreign exchange losses related to
the settlement of undesignated forward contracts used to hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows and the exit of certain foreign currency positions.
Cash provided by operating activities also reflected AbbVie's voluntary contributions to its main domestic defined benefit plan of $150 million and
$370 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively. AbbVie also made a voluntary contribution of $150 million to this plan subsequent to December 31, 2015.
AbbVie also paid $350 million to purchase a priority review voucher from United Therapeutics Corporation in 2015. Realized excess tax benefits
associated with stock-based compensation in 2015, 2014 and 2013 totaled $61 million, $56 million, and $38 million, respectively, and were presented in
the consolidated statements of cash flows as an outflow within the operating section and an inflow within the financing section.
Investing activities in 2015 primarily included the $11.5 billion cash consideration paid to acquire Pharmacyclics in May 2015, net of cash acquired
of $877 million. Investing activities in 2015 also included cash outflows related to other acquisitions and investments of $964 million, including a
$500 million payment to Calico that was accrued in 2014 due to the satisfaction of certain conditions under the R&D collaboration, $100 million related to
an exclusive worldwide license agreement with C2N to develop and commercialize anti-tau antibodies for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other
neurological disorders, and $130 million paid to Infinity due to the achievement of a development milestone under the collaboration agreement. In 2014,
cash outflows related to other acquisitions and investments totaled $622 million, including $275 million paid to Infinity related to a global collaboration to
develop duvelisib (IPI-145), and $250 million to fund a novel R&D collaboration with Calico. Cash flows from investing activities in 2015 and 2014 also
reflected capital expenditures and net sales (purchases) of short-term investments. Capital expenditures in 2014 included the purchase of a small
molecule active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturing facility in Singapore. AbbVie incurred additional expenditures in 2015 to build a new biologics
facility on the site to produce bulk drug substance for HUMIRA as well as to support AbbVie's biologic pipeline.
In 2015 and 2014, the company issued and redeemed commercial paper. The balance of commercial paper outstanding was $400 million and
$416 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. AbbVie may issue additional commercial paper or retire commercial paper to meet liquidity
requirements as needed. In May 2015, the company issued $16.7 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes with various maturities between
2018 and 2045. Approximately $11.5 billion of the net proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and $5.0 billion of the net
proceeds were used to finance the accelerated share repurchase program described below. In September 2015, AbbVie entered into a three-year
$2 billion term loan credit facility and a 364-day $2 billion term loan credit facility. In November
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 432015, AbbVie drew on these term facilities and used the proceeds to refinance its $4 billion of senior notes that matured in 2015. During 2015 in
connection with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics, the company paid $86 million of costs relating to an $18 billion, 364-Day Bridge Term Loan Credit
Agreement as well as $93 million of costs relating to the issuance of senior notes.
Cash dividend payments totaled $3.3 billion in 2015 and $2.7 billion in 2014. On October 30, 2015, AbbVie announced that its board of directors
declared an increase in the company's quarterly cash dividend from $0.51 per share to $0.57 per share beginning with the dividend payable on
February 16, 2016 to stockholders of record as of January 15, 2016. The timing, declaration, amount of, and payment of any dividends is within the
discretion of its board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including AbbVie's financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of its
operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry
practice, ability to access capital markets, and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors.
In October 2014, AbbVie's board of directors authorized a $5.0 billion stock repurchase program. In March 2015, the board of directors authorized a
$5.0 billion increase to the existing stock repurchase program in anticipation of executing an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a financial
institution in connection with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. On May 26, 2015, AbbVie entered into and executed a $5.0 billion ASR with Morgan
Stanley & Co. LLC (Morgan Stanley). Pursuant to the terms of the ASR, Morgan Stanley made an initial delivery of approximately 68 million shares of
AbbVie's common stock on May 27, 2015, which represented approximately 90 percent of the total shares expected to be delivered under the ASR.
Subsequently in 2015, Morgan Stanley delivered an additional 5 million shares of AbbVie's common stock to AbbVie in final settlement of the ASR.
AbbVie recorded the aggregate $5.0 billion purchase price as a reduction to stockholders' equity.
In addition to the ASR, the company repurchased approximately 46 million shares for $2.8 billion in the open market in 2015 and approximately
9 million shares for $550 million in the open market in 2014. AbbVie settled $300 million of its 2015 open market purchases in 2016. Purchases of
AbbVie shares under this program may be made from time to time at management's discretion. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued
at any time. AbbVie's remaining stock repurchase authorization was $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2015. Refer to Note 12 for additional information
related to the ASR.
Cash and equivalents in 2015 and 2014 were also negatively impacted by net unfavorable exchange rate changes totaling $300 million and
$577 million, respectively, principally due to the weakening of the Euro and other foreign currencies on the translation of the company's Euro-
denominated assets and cash denominated in foreign currencies. In 2014, AbbVie had an increased concentration of cash denominated in foreign
currencies accumulated in anticipation of the terminated proposed combination with Shire. While a significant portion of cash and equivalents at
December 31, 2015 are considered reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries, AbbVie does not expect such reinvestment to affect its liquidity and
capital resources. If these funds were needed for operations in the United States, AbbVie would be required to accrue and pay U.S. income taxes to
repatriate these funds. AbbVie believes that it has sufficient sources of liquidity to support its assumption that the disclosed amount of undistributed
earnings at December 31, 2015 has been reinvested indefinitely.
Credit Risk
AbbVie monitors economic conditions, the creditworthiness of customers, and government regulations and funding, both domestically and abroad.
AbbVie regularly communicates with its customers regarding the status of receivable balances, including their payment plans and obtains positive
confirmation of the validity of the receivables. AbbVie establishes an allowance against accounts receivable when it is probable they will not be collected.
AbbVie also monitors the potential for and periodically has utilized factoring
​ 44 | 2015 Form 10-K ​arrangements to mitigate credit risk although the receivables included in such arrangements have historically not been a material amount of total
outstanding receivables.
AbbVie continues to do business with foreign governments in certain countries, including Greece, Portugal, Italy, and Spain, that have experienced
a deterioration in credit and economic conditions. Substantially all of AbbVie's trade receivables in Greece, Portugal, Italy, and Spain are with
governmental health systems. AbbVie continues to monitor the economic health of the economy in Southern Europe, as heightened economic concerns
still exist. Outstanding net governmental receivables in these countries at December 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows:
Net
receivables
over one year
Net receivables past due
(in millions) 2015 2014 2015 2014
Greece $ 53 $ 30 $ — $ —
Portugal 27 27 3 7
Italy 211 176 4 16
Spain 234 213 — 10
Total $ 525 $ 446 $ 7 $ 33
The company also continues to do business with foreign governments in certain oil-exporting countries, which have experienced a deterioration in
economic conditions, including Venezuela and Saudi Arabia. Outstanding net governmental receivables related to Saudi Arabia were $108 million as of
December 31, 2015. Refer to Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Currency Risk" for additional disclosures
related to Venezuela. Due to the decline in the price of oil, liquidity issues in certain countries may result in delays in the collection of receivables.
Global economic conditions and customer-specific factors may require the company to re-evaluate the collectability of its receivables and the company
could potentially incur credit losses.
Currently, AbbVie does not believe the economic conditions in Southern Europe and oil-exporting countries will have a material impact on the
company's liquidity, cash flow or financial flexibility. However, if government funding were to become unavailable in these countries or if significant
adverse changes in their reimbursement practices were to occur, AbbVie may not be able to collect the entire balance outstanding as of December 31,
2015.
Credit Facility, Access to Capital and Credit Ratings
Credit Facility
AbbVie currently has a $3.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility, which matures in October 2019. The revolving credit facility enables the
company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates and contains various covenants. At December 31, 2015, the company was in
compliance with all its credit facility covenants. Commitment fees under the credit facility were not material. There were no amounts outstanding under
the credit facility as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.
Access to Capital
The company intends to fund short-term and long-term financial obligations as they mature through cash on hand, future cash flows from
operations, or by issuing additional debt. The company's ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt, or enter into financing arrangements
on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company's products or in the solvency of its
customers or suppliers, deterioration in the company's key financial ratios or credit ratings, or other material unfavorable changes in business conditions.
At the current time, the company
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 45believes it has sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements, and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to
support the company's growth objectives.
Credit Ratings
On April 7, 2015, following the announcement of the then proposed combination with Pharmacyclics, Moody's Investor Service confirmed its Baa1
senior unsecured long-term rating and Prime-2 short-term rating and revised its ratings outlook to "negative" from "stable". On March 5, 2015,
Standard & Poor's Rating Services (S&P) affirmed AbbVie's "A" corporate credit rating and senior unsecured debt rating and its "A-1" commercial paper
rating and revised its ratings outlook to "negative" from "stable". There were no additional changes in the company's credit ratings in 2015.
Unfavorable changes to the ratings may have an adverse impact on future financing arrangements; however, they would not affect the company's
ability to draw on its credit facility and would not result in an acceleration of scheduled maturities of any of the company's outstanding debt.
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes AbbVie's estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015:
Less One to Three to
than three five More than
(in millions) Total one year years years five years
Short-term borrowings $ 406 $ 406 $ — $ — $ —
Long-term debt and capital lease obligations, including current
portion 31,539 2,025 10,049 3,778 15,687
Interest on long-term debt(a) 12,423 866 1,810 1,574 8,173
Future minimum non-cancelable operating lease commitments 1,010 119 208 164 519
Purchase obligations and other(b) 1,423 1,293 86 24 20
Other long-term liabilities(c) 880 240 171 77 392
Total $ 47,681 $ 4,949 $ 12,324 $ 5,617 $ 24,791
(a) Includes estimated future interest payments on long-term debt securities and capital lease obligations. Interest payments on debt
are calculated for future periods using interest rates in effect at the end of 2015. Projected interest payments include the related
effects of interest rate swap agreements. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in
floating interest rates or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to obligations and agreements
outstanding at December 31, 2015. Refer to Notes 9 and 10 for further discussion regarding the company's debt instruments and
related interest rate agreements outstanding at December 31, 2015. Annual interest on capital lease obligations is not material.
(b) Includes the company's significant unconditional purchase obligations. These commitments do not exceed the company's
projected requirements and are made in the normal course of business.
(c) Amounts less than one year includes a voluntary contribution of $150 million AbbVie made to its main domestic defined benefit
plan subsequent to December 31, 2015. Amounts otherwise exclude pension and other post-employment benefits and related
deferred compensation cash outflows. Timing of funding is uncertain and dependent on future movements in interest rates and
investment returns, changes in laws and regulations, and other variables. Also included in this amount are components of other
long-term liabilities including restructuring. Refer to Notes 8 and 11 for further information.
AbbVie enters into R&D collaboration arrangements with third parties that may require future milestone payments to third parties contingent upon
the achievement of certain development, regulatory, or commercial milestones. Individually, these arrangements are not material in any one annual
reporting
​ 46 | 2015 Form 10-K ​period. However, if milestones for multiple products covered by these arrangements would happen to be reached in the same reporting period, the
aggregate charge to expense could be material to the results of operations in that period. From a business perspective, the payments are viewed as
positive because they signify that the product is successfully moving through development and is now generating or is more likely to generate cash flows
from product sales. It is not possible to predict with reasonable certainty whether these milestones will be achieved or the timing for achievement. As a
result, these potential payments are not included in the table of contractual obligations. Refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for
further discussion of these collaboration arrangements.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States requires the use of
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. A summary of
the company's significant accounting policies is included in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Certain of these policies are considered
critical as these most significantly impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective, or
complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may vary
from these estimates.
Revenue Recognition
AbbVie recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and
collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured. Revenue from product sales is recognized when title and risk of loss have passed to the
customer.
Rebates
AbbVie provides rebates to pharmacy benefit managers, state government Medicaid programs, insurance companies that administer Medicare drug
plans, wholesalers, group purchasing organizations, and other government agencies and private entities.
Rebate and chargeback accruals are recorded as a reduction to revenue in the period the related product is sold. Rebates and chargebacks totaled
$8.6 billion, $5.9 billion and $4.9 billion in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Rebate amounts are typically based upon the volume of purchases using
contractual or statutory prices, which may vary by product and by payer. For each type of rebate, the factors used in the calculations of the accrual for
that rebate include the identification of the products subject to the rebate, the applicable price terms, and the estimated lag time between sale and
payment of the rebate, which can be significant.
In order to establish its rebate and chargeback accruals, the company uses both internal and external data to estimate the level of inventory in the
distribution channel and the rebate claims processing lag time for each type of rebate. To estimate the rebate percentage or net price, the company
tracks sales by product and by customer or payer. The company evaluates inventory data reported by wholesalers, available prescription volume
information, product pricing, historical experience and other factors in order to determine the adequacy of its reserves. AbbVie regularly monitors its
reserves and records adjustments when rebate trends, rebate programs and contract terms, legislative changes, or other significant events indicate that
a change in the reserve is appropriate. Historically, adjustments to rebate accruals have not been material to net earnings.
The following table is an analysis of the three largest rebate accruals and chargeback allowances, which comprise approximately 90 percent of the
total consolidated rebate and chargebacks charged against
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 47revenues in 2015. Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross revenues are not significant in the determination of operating earnings.
Medicaid
and Managed
Medicare Care Wholesaler
(in millions) Rebates Rebates Chargebacks
Balance at December 31, 2012 $ 807 $ 496 $ 224
Provisions 1,028 846 2,362
Payments (1,168) (883) (2,374)
Balance at December 31, 2013 667 459 212
Provisions 1,015 970 2,825
Payments (970) (953) (2,784)
Balance at December 31, 2014 712 476 253
Provisions 1,716 2,215 3,866
Payments (1,396) (1,771) (3,756)
Balance at December 31, 2015 $ 1,032 $ 920 $ 363
Cash Discounts and Product Returns
Allowances for cash discounts and product returns, which totaled $898 million, $610 million and $748 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively,
are recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period the related product is sold. The reserve for cash discounts is readily determinable because the
company's experience of payment history is fairly consistent. Product returns can be reliably estimated based on the company's historical return
experience.
Pension and Other Post-Employment Benefits
AbbVie engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under the plans that are direct obligations of AbbVie.
The valuation of the funded status and the net periodic benefit cost for these plans are calculated using actuarial assumptions. The significant
assumptions, which are reviewed annually, include the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and the health care cost trend
rates. The significant assumptions used in determining these calculations are disclosed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
The discount rate is selected based on current market rates on high-quality, fixed-income investments at December 31 each year. AbbVie employs
a yield-curve approach for countries where a robust bond market exists. The yield curve is developed using high-quality bonds. The yield curve approach
reflects the plans' specific cash flows (i.e., duration) in calculating the benefit obligations by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve.
Beginning in 2016, AbbVie will also reflect the plans' specific cash flows and apply them to the specific spot rates along the yield curve in calculating the
service cost and interest cost portions of expense. For other countries, AbbVie reviews various indices such as corporate bond and government bond
benchmarks to estimate the discount rate. AbbVie's assumed discount rate has a significant effect on the amounts reported for defined benefit pension
and other post-employment plans as of December 31, 2015, and will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in 2016. A 50 basis
​ 48 | 2015 Form 10-K ​point change in the assumed discount rate would have had the following effects on AbbVie's calculation of net periodic benefit costs in 2016 and
projected benefit obligations as of December 31, 2015:
50 basis point
(in millions) (brackets denote a reduction) Increase Decrease
Defined benefit plans
Service cost and interest cost $ (45) $ 51
Projected benefit obligation $ (409) $ 461
Other post-employment plans
Service cost and interest cost $ (5) $ 6
Projected benefit obligation $ (46) $ 52
Effective December 31, 2015, AbbVie elected to change the method it uses to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic
benefit costs for the AbbVie Pension Plan and its primary other post-employment benefit plan in the United States as well as certain international
defined benefit plans and other post-employment benefit plans. Based on current economic conditions, this change is expected to reduce AbbVie's net
periodic benefit cost by approximately $41 million in 2016 as a result of this change. Refer to Note 11 for further information regarding this change.
The expected long-term rate of return is based on the asset allocation, historical performance, and the current view of expected future returns.
AbbVie considers these inputs with a long-term focus to avoid short-term market influences. The current long-term rate of return on plan assets is
supported by the historical performance of the trust's actual and target asset allocation. AbbVie's assumed expected long-term rate of return has a
significant effect on the amounts reported for defined benefit pension plans as of December 31, 2015 and will be used in the calculation of net periodic
benefit cost in 2016. A 1 percentage point change in assumed expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would have increased or decreased the
net period benefit cost of these plans in 2016 by $45 million.
The health care cost trend rate is selected by reviewing historical trends and current views on projected future health care cost increases. The
current health care cost trend rate is supported by the historical trend experience of the plan. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant
effect on the amounts reported for health care plans as of December 31, 2015 and will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in 2016. A
1 percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects on AbbVie's calculation of net periodic benefit costs
in 2016 and the projected benefit obligation as of December 31, 2015:
One percentage
point
(in millions) (brackets denote a reduction) Increase Decrease
Service cost and interest cost $ 20 $ (15)
Projected benefit obligation $ 114 $ (90)
Income Taxes
AbbVie accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Provisions for federal, state, and foreign income taxes are calculated on
reported pretax earnings based on current tax laws. Deferred taxes are provided using enacted tax rates on the future tax consequences of temporary
differences, which are the differences between the financial statement carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and the tax
benefits of carryforwards. A valuation allowance is established or maintained when, based on currently available information, it is more likely than not that
all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 49Litigation
The company is subject to contingencies, such as various claims, legal proceedings and investigations regarding product liability, intellectual
property, commercial, securities and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. Refer to Note 14 for further information. Loss contingency
provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss
contingency amount within a probable range is recorded. Accordingly, AbbVie is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore
the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in
additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed
to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected.
Valuation of Goodwill and Intangible Assets
AbbVie has acquired and may continue to acquire significant intangible assets in connection with business combinations that AbbVie records at
fair value. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the pharmaceuticals
industry, and valuations are usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis incorporating the stage of completion. The discounted cash flow model
requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, cost of capital, terminal values, and market participants. Each of these
factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. IPR&D acquired in a business combination is capitalized as an indefinite-lived intangible
asset until regulatory approval is obtained, at which time it is accounted for as a definite-lived asset and amortized over its estimated useful life. IPR&D
acquired in transactions that are not business combinations is expensed immediately, unless deemed to have an alternative future use. Payments made
to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life.
AbbVie reviews the recoverability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an
asset may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which relate to IPR&D, are reviewed for impairment annually or when an
event occurs that could result in an impairment. Refer to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.
Annually, the company tests its goodwill for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the
fair value is less than its carrying amount. Some of the factors considered in the assessment include general macro-economic conditions, conditions
specific to the industry and market, cost factors, which could have a significant effect on earnings or cash flows, the overall financial performance, and
whether there have been sustained declines in the company's share price. If the company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of
reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is performed. AbbVie tests indefinite-lived intangible assets using a
quantitative impairment test.
For its quantitative impairment tests, the company uses an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to
future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, foreign currency exchange rates, the selection of an appropriate
discount rate, asset groupings, and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company's
business plans and a market participant's views of a company and similar companies. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase
or decrease the estimated fair value of the assets, and potentially result in different impacts to the company's results of operations. Actual results may
differ from the company's estimates.
​ 50 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Summary and
Amendments That Create Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and Other Assets and Deferred Costs—Contracts with Customers
(Subtopic 340-40). The amendments in ASU 2014-09 supersede most current revenue recognition requirements. The core principal of the new guidance
is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration
to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. AbbVie can apply the amendments using one of the following two
methods: (i) retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or (ii) modified retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the
amendments recognized at the date of initial application. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-4, Revenue from Contracts with Customers
(Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date, which deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year for all entities. Accordingly, ASU 2014-09 is
effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early application is
permitted only for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period. AbbVie is currently
assessing the timing of its adoption and the impact of adopting this guidance on its consolidated financial statements and the implementation approach
to be used.
In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, Interest—Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt
Issuance Costs. The amendments in ASU 2015-03 require that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance
sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. This standard is effective for annual and interim
periods beginning after December 15, 2015, with early adoption permitted on a retrospective basis. AbbVie elected to early adopt this new standard,
effective in the three months ended June 30, 2015. As a result, AbbVie reclassified approximately $7 million and $27 million of net deferred financing
costs as of December 31, 2014 that were previously classified as prepaid expenses and other current assets and other long-term assets, respectively, to
long-term debt and lease obligations (current and non-current). Total debt issuance costs classified as a reduction of long-term debt and lease
obligations (current and non-current) were $117 million as of December 31, 2015.
In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period
Adjustments. This standard requires that an acquirer recognize adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period in
the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. Entities are currently required to retrospectively apply adjustments made to
provisional amounts recognized in a business combination. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, including
interim periods within those fiscal years. The guidance is to be applied prospectively to measurement period adjustments that occur after the effective
date of the guidance with earlier application permitted for financial statements that have not been issued. AbbVie elected to early adopt the standard,
effective in the year ended December 31, 2015. The impact of this adoption was not material.
In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes. The standard
requires that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position. Entities are currently required to
separate deferred income tax liabilities and assets into current and noncurrent amounts in a classified statement of financial position. The amendments,
which require non-current presentation only (by jurisdiction), are effective for financial statements issued for annual periods beginning after December 15,
2016 with earlier application permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The guidance is to be applied either prospectively to all
deferred tax liabilities and assets or retrospectively to all periods presented. AbbVie elected to early adopt this standard on a prospective basis, effective
as of December 31, 2015 in order to simplify the presentation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Prior periods were not retrospectively adjusted.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 51In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments—Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. The standard requires several targeted changes including that equity investments (except those accounted for
under the equity method of accounting, or those that result in consolidation of the investee) be measured at fair value with changes in fair value
recognized in net income. The new guidance also changes certain disclosure requirements and other aspects of current US GAAP. Amendments are to
be applied as a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. This standard is effective for fiscal
years starting after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The standard does not permit early adoption with the
exception of certain targeted provisions. AbbVie is currently assessing the impact and timing of adopting this guidance on its consolidated financial
statements.
​ 52 | 2015 Form 10-K ​ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The company is exposed to risk that its earnings, cash flows, and equity could be adversely impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates and
interest rates. Certain derivative instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the company's underlying economic exposures.
Refer to Note 10 entitled "Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8,
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for further information regarding the company's financial instruments and hedging strategies.
Foreign Currency Risk
AbbVie's primary net foreign currency exposures are the Euro, Japanese yen and British pound. Various AbbVie foreign subsidiaries enter into
foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated transactions denominated in a
currency other than the functional currency of the local entity. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows
due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and are marked-to-market with the resulting gains or losses reflected in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) in AbbVie's consolidated balance sheets. Deferred gains or losses on these contracts are included in cost of products sold
at the time the products are sold to a third party, generally not exceeding twelve months. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, AbbVie held $1.5 billion and
$1.4 billion, respectively, in notional amounts of such contracts.
AbbVie enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated trade payables and
receivables and intercompany loans. The contracts, which are not designated as hedges, are marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are
reflected in net foreign exchange on AbbVie's consolidated statements of earnings and are generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency
exposure being managed. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, AbbVie held notional amounts of $6.8 billion and $6.8 billion, respectively, of such foreign
currency forward exchange contracts.
The following table reflects the total foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2015 and 2014:
2015 2014
Fair and Fair and
Weighted carrying Weighted carrying
average value average value
Contract exchange receivable/ Contract exchange receivable/
(in millions) amount rate (payable) amount rate (payable)
Receive primarily U.S. dollars in exchange for the
following currencies:
Euro $ 5,880 1.103 $ 34 $ 6,342 1.263 $ 114
Japanese yen 853 120.9 (2) 333 116.9 6
British pound 163 1.496 1 563 1.618 21
All other currencies 1,387 N/A 8 930 N/A 7
Total $ 8,283 $ 41 $ 8,168 $ 148
The company estimates that a 10 percent appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar, with all
other variables held constant, would decrease the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts by $822 million at December 31, 2015. If realized, this
appreciation would negatively affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts, which would be offset by gains on the underlying hedged items. A
10 percent appreciation is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in foreign currencies. Gains and losses on the hedging instruments
offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and stockholders' equity volatility relating to foreign exchange.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 53The functional currency of the company's Venezuela operations is the U.S. dollar due to the hyperinflationary status of the Venezuelan economy.
Currency restrictions enacted in Venezuela require approval from the Venezuelan government to exchange Venezuelan bolivars (VEF) for U.S. dollars
and require such exchange to be made at the official exchange rate established by the government. In the first quarter of 2014, the Venezuelan
government expanded the number of exchange mechanisms to three rates of exchange. As of December 31, 2015, these were the official rate of 6.3; the
Supplementary System for the Administration of Foreign Currency (SICAD) rate of approximately 13.5; and the Foreign Exchange Marginal System
(SIMADI) rate of approximately 200. In the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015, the company used the
official rate of 6.3 VEF per U.S. dollar, and reported $317 million of net monetary assets and $210 million of net revenues denominated in the Venezuelan
bolivar.
On February 17, 2016, the Venezuelan government announced that it plans to devalue the official rate of 6.3 to 10 VEF to U.S. dollars, and
eliminate the SICAD rate of 13.5 VEF to U.S. dollars. The devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar will result in a charge to AbbVie's results of operations in
the first quarter of 2016. If AbbVie's net monetary assets denominated in the Venezuelan bolivar had been converted at a rate of 10 VEF to U.S. dollars
at December 31, 2015, the company would have reported a devaluation loss of $117 million in 2015. If AbbVie's net monetary assets denominated in the
Venezuelan bolivar had been converted at the SIMADI rate of 200 at December 31, 2015, the company would have reported a devaluation loss of
$307 million in 2015.
The company cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the Venezuelan currency or whether the use of the official rate will
continue to be supported by evolving facts and circumstances, which could result in a significant charge to AbbVie's results of operations at that time.
Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the company's exposure of changes in interest rates on the fair value of fixed-rate debt. The effect of these
hedges is to change the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, AbbVie had interest rate hedge contracts totaling
$11.0 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively. The company estimates that an increase in the interest rates of 100-basis points would decrease the fair value
of our interest rate swap contracts by approximately $464 million at December 31, 2015. If realized, the fair value reduction would affect earnings over the
remaining life of the contracts. The company estimates that an increase of 100-basis points in long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of
long-term debt by $1.9 billion at December 31, 2015. A 100-basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in interest
rates.
Market Price Sensitive Investments
AbbVie holds equity securities in other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are traded on public stock exchanges. The fair value of
these investments was approximately $111 million and $82 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. AbbVie monitors these investments
for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to net earnings when an other than temporary decline in value occurs.
A hypothetical 20 percent decrease in the share prices of these investments would decrease the fair value of these investments by $22 million at
December 31, 2015. A 20 percent decrease is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in share prices.
Non-Publicly Traded Equity Securities
AbbVie holds equity securities in other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are not traded on public stock exchanges. The carrying
value of these investments was approximately $33 million and $63 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. AbbVie monitors these
investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to net earnings when an other than temporary decline in
estimated value occurs. In 2015, AbbVie recorded impairment charges totaling $36 million related to certain of the company's investments in non-publicly
traded equity securities.
​ 54 | 2015 Form 10-K ​ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Page
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statements of Earnings 56
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 57
Consolidated Balance Sheets 58
Consolidated Statements of Equity 59
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 60
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 61
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 103
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 55AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
years ended December 31 (in millions, except per share data) 2015 2014 2013
Net revenues $ 22,859 $ 19,960 $ 18,790
Cost of products sold 4,500 4,426 4,581
Selling, general and administrative 6,387 7,724 5,352
Research and development 4,285 3,297 2,855
Acquired in-process research and development 150 352 338
Other expense — 750 —
Total operating costs and expenses 15,322 16,549 13,126
Operating earnings 7,537 3,411 5,664
Interest expense, net 686 391 278
Net foreign exchange loss 193 678 55
Other expense (income), net 13 (27) (1)
Earnings before income tax expense 6,645 2,369 5,332
Income tax expense 1,501 595 1,204
Net earnings $ 5,144 $ 1,774 $ 4,128
Per share data
Basic earnings per share $ 3.15 $ 1.11 $ 2.58
Diluted earnings per share $ 3.13 $ 1.10 $ 2.56
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 2.10 $ 1.75 $ 2.00(a)
Weighted-average basic shares outstanding 1,625 1,595 1,589
Weighted-average diluted shares outstanding 1,637 1,610 1,604
(a) On January 4, 2013, a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock was declared from pre-separation earnings and was
recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
​ 56 | 2015 Form 10-K ​AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013
Net earnings $ 5,144 $ 1,774 $ 4,128
Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax (benefit) expense of ($139) in 2015,
($158) in 2014, and $71 in 2013 (667) (1,073) 48
Pension and post-employment benefits, net of tax expense (benefit) of $96 in 2015,
($351) in 2014, and $309 in 2013 230 (781) 598
Unrealized gains on marketable equity securities, net of tax expense of $22 in 2015, $1
in 2014, and $— in 2013 44 1 1
Hedging activities, net of tax (benefit) expense of ($6) in 2015, $8 in 2014, and $— in
2013 (137) 264 (77)
Other comprehensive (loss) income (530) (1,589) 570
Comprehensive income $ 4,614 $ 185 $ 4,698
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 57AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Balance Sheets
as of December 31 (in millions, except share data) 2015 2014
Assets
Current assets
Cash and equivalents $ 8,399 $ 8,348
Short-term investments 8 26
Accounts and other receivables, net 4,730 3,735
Inventories, net 1,719 1,124
Deferred income taxes — 896
Prepaid expenses and other 1,458 1,952
Total current assets 16,314 16,081
Investments 145 92
Property and equipment, net 2,565 2,485
Intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization 19,709 1,513
Goodwill 13,168 5,862
Other assets 1,149 1,480
Total assets $ 53,050 $ 27,513
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings $ 406 $ 425
Current portion of long-term debt and lease obligations 2,025 4,014
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 8,463 6,954
Total current liabilities 10,894 11,393
Long-term debt and lease obligations 29,240 10,538
Deferred income taxes 5,276 159
Other long-term liabilities 3,695 3,681
Commitments and contingencies — —
Stockholders' equity
Common stock, $0.01 par value, authorized 4,000,000,000 shares, issued 1,749,027,140 and
1,609,519,046 shares as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively 17 16
Common stock held in treasury, at cost, 139,134,205 and 18,129,715 shares as of
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively (8,839) (972)
Additional paid-in-capital 13,080 4,194
Retained earnings 2,248 535
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (2,561) (2,031)
Total stockholders' equity 3,945 1,742
Total liabilities and equity $ 53,050 $ 27,513
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
​ 58 | 2015 Form 10-K ​AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Equity
Accumulated
Common Additional other Net parent
years ended shares Common Treasury paid-in Retained comprehensive company
December 31 (in millions) outstanding stock stock capital earnings loss investment Total
Balance at December 31,
2012 — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ (350) $ 3,713 $ 3,363
Separation-related
adjustments — — — (1,316) — (662) 707 (1,271)
Reclassification of parent
company net investment
in connection with
separation — — — 4,420 — — (4,420) —
Issuance of common
shares at separation 1,577 16 — (16) — — — —
Net earnings — — — — 4,128 — — 4,128
Other comprehensive
income, net of tax — — — — — 570 — 570
Dividends declared — — — — (2,561) — — (2,561)
Share repurchases (4) — (223) — — — — (223)
Stock-based compensation
plans and other 14 — (97) 583 — — — 486
Balance at December 31,
2013 1,587 16 (320) 3,671 1,567 (442) — 4,492
Net earnings — — — — 1,774 — — 1,774
Other comprehensive loss,
net of tax — — — — — (1,589) — (1,589)
Dividends declared — — — — (2,806) — — (2,806)
Share repurchases (9) — (550) — — — — (550)
Stock-based compensation
plans and other 13 — (102) 523 — — — 421
Balance at December 31,
2014 1,591 16 (972) 4,194 535 (2,031) — 1,742
Net earnings — — — — 5,144 — — 5,144
Other comprehensive loss,
net of tax — — — — — (530) — (530)
Dividends declared — — — — (3,431) — — (3,431)
Common shares issued to
Pharrmacyclics Inc.
stockholders 128 1 — 8,404 — — — 8,405
Share repurchases (119) — (7,774) — — — — (7,774)
Stock-based compensation
plans and other 10 — (93) 482 — — — 389
Balance at December 31,
2015 1,610 $ 17 $ (8,839) $ 13,080 $ 2,248 $ (2,561) $ — $ 3,945
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 59AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
years ended December 31 (in millions) (brackets denote cash outflows) 2015 2014 2013
Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings $ 5,144 $ 1,774 $ 4,128
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash from operating activities:
Depreciation 417 383 388
Amortization of intangible assets 419 403 509
Stock-based compensation 282 241 212
Upfront costs and milestones related to collaborations 280 1,102 338
Other, net 489 434 34
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:
Accounts and other receivables (1,076) (172) 681
Inventories (434) (203) (56)
Prepaid expenses and other assets 511 (220) 459
Accounts payable and other liabilities 1,503 (193) (426)
Cash flows from operating activities 7,535 3,549(a) 6,267
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of Pharmacyclics, Inc., net of cash acquired (11,488) — —
Other acquisitions and investments (964) (622) (405)
Acquisitions of property and equipment (532) (612) (491)
Purchases of investment securities (851) (1,169) (930)
Sales and maturities of investment securities 880 1,477 2,705
Other 19 — —
Cash flows from investing activities (12,936) (926) 879
Cash flows from financing activities
Net change in short-term borrowings (19) 12 (601)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 20,660 — —
Repayments of long-term debt and capital leases (4,018) (17) —
Debt issuance cost (182) (141) —
Dividends paid (3,294) (2,661) (2,555)
Purchases of treasury stock (7,567) (652) (320)
Proceeds from the exercise of stock options 142 225 347
Net transactions with Abbott Laboratories, excluding non-cash items
— — (247)
Other, net 30 (59) (66)
Cash flows from financing activities 5,752 (3,293) (3,442)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and equivalents (300) (577) (10)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and equivalents 51 (1,247) 3,694
Cash and equivalents, beginning of year 8,348 9,595 5,901
Cash and equivalents, end of year $ 8,399 $ 8,348 $ 9,595
Other supplemental information
Interest paid, net of portion capitalized $ 536 $ 419 $ 283
Income taxes paid $ 1,108 $ 498 $ 1,305
Supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing activities
Issuance of common shares associated with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics, Inc. $ 8,405 $ — $ —
(a) Cash flows from operating activities included the impact of transaction and financing-related and other costs incurred in connection
with the terminated proposed combination with Shire plc. Refer to Note 5 for additional information.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
​ 60 | 2015 Form 10-K ​AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1 Background and Basis of Presentation
Background
The principal business of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company) is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of
pharmaceutical products. AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care
facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Substantially all of AbbVie's
net revenues in the United States are to three wholesalers. Outside the United States, products are sold primarily to customers or through distributors,
depending on the market served.
AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent, publicly-traded company as a result
of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. AbbVie's
common stock began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "ABBV" on the New York Stock Exchange on January 2, 2013.
During 2013, separation-related adjustments totaling $1.3 billion were recorded in stockholders' equity. Separation-related adjustments to additional
paid-in capital principally reflected dividends to AbbVie shareholders that were declared from pre-separation earnings during the first quarter of 2013 and
the transfer of certain pension plan liabilities and assets from Abbott to AbbVie upon the legal split of those plans in 2013. In addition, because AbbVie's
historical financial statements prior to January 1, 2013 were derived from Abbott's records, separation-related adjustments also included an adjustment
to accumulated other comprehensive loss to reflect the appropriate opening balances associated with currency translation adjustments related to
AbbVie's legal entities at the separation date. Refer to Note 11 for further information regarding the separation of the pension plans.
In connection with the separation, AbbVie and Abbott entered into transition services agreements covering certain corporate support and back
office services that AbbVie historically received from Abbott. Such services included information technology, accounts payable, payroll, receivables
collection, treasury and other financial functions, as well as order entry, warehousing, engineering support, quality assurance support and other
administrative services. These agreements facilitated the separation by allowing AbbVie to operate independently prior to establishing stand-alone back
office functions across its organization. The transition services agreements had original terms of up to 24 months, with an option for a one-year
extension. The majority of these transaction service agreements expired without extension at December 31, 2014. With certain limited exceptions, the
remaining transition services agreements terminated on or prior to December 31, 2015.
During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, AbbVie incurred $270 million, $445 million, and $254 million, respectively, of
separation-related expenses, which were principally classified in selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) in the consolidated statements of
earnings. These charges principally related to information technology, legal and regulatory fees.
Basis of Historical Presentation
For a certain portion of AbbVie's operations, the legal transfer of AbbVie's assets (net of liabilities) did not occur with the separation of AbbVie on
January 1, 2013 due to the time required to transfer marketing authorizations and satisfy other regulatory requirements in certain countries. Under the
terms of the separation agreement with Abbott, AbbVie is responsible for the business activities conducted by Abbott on its behalf, and is subject to the
risks and entitled to the benefits generated by these operations and assets.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 61As a result, the related assets and liabilities and results of operations have been reported in AbbVie's consolidated financial statements as of and for the
years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013. Net revenues related to these operations for 2015, 2014, and 2013 totaled approximately $213 million,
$282 million, and $738 million, respectively. With the exception of Venezuela, all of these operations have been transferred to AbbVie as of
December 31, 2015.
Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Use of Estimates
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and
assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for rebates, pension and post-
employment benefits, income taxes, litigation, valuation of intangible assets and goodwill, financial instruments, and inventory and accounts receivable
exposures.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 include the accounts of AbbVie and all of its
subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is maintained. Controlling interest is determined by majority ownership interest and the absence of substantive
third-party participating rights or, in the case of variable interest entities, where AbbVie is determined to be the primary beneficiary. Investments in
companies over which AbbVie has a significant influence but not a controlling interest are accounted for using the equity method with AbbVie's share of
earnings or losses reported in other expense (income), net in the consolidated statements of earnings. All other investments are generally accounted for
using the cost method. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated.
Certain reclassifications have been made to conform the prior period consolidated financial statements to the current period presentation.
Revenue Recognition
AbbVie recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and
collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured. Revenue from product sales is recognized when title and risk of loss have passed to the
customer. Provisions for discounts, rebates and sales incentives to customers and returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the
related revenues are recorded. Rebate amounts are typically based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices, which may vary
by product and by payer. For each type of rebate, the factors used in the calculations of the accrual for that rebate include the identification of the
products subject to the rebate, the applicable price terms, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of the rebate, which can be significant.
Sales incentives to customers are not material. Historical data is readily available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in
gross revenues. Revenue from the launch of a new product, from an improved version of an existing product, or for shipments in excess of a customer's
normal requirements are recorded when the conditions noted above are met. In those situations, management records a returns reserve for such revenue,
if necessary. Sales of product rights for marketable products are recorded as revenue upon disposition of the rights.
Research and Development Expenses
Internal research and development (R&D) expenses are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the
contracted work is performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development collaborations for pre-
commercialization milestones, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results are achieved.
​ 62 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized to cost of products sold over the
remaining useful life of the related product.
Collaborations and Other Arrangements
The company enters into collaborative agreements with third parties to develop and commercialize drug candidates. Collaborative activities may
include joint research and development and commercialization of new products. AbbVie generally receives certain licensing rights under these
arrangements. These collaborations often require upfront payments and may include additional milestone, research and development cost sharing,
royalty or profit share payments, contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development and
commercialization. Upfront payments associated with collaborative arrangements during the development stage are expensed to acquired in-process
research and development (IPR&D) expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Subsequent payments made to the partner for the
achievement of milestones during the development stage are expensed to R&D expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings when the milestone
is achieved. Milestone payments made to the partner subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized to cost of
products sold over the estimated useful life of the related asset. Royalties are expensed to cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of
earnings when incurred.
Advertising
Costs associated with advertising are expensed as incurred and are included in SG&A expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings.
Advertising expenses were $704 million, $665 million, and $626 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.
Pension and Other Post-Employment Benefits
AbbVie records annual expenses relating to its defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans based on calculations which include
various actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, assumed asset rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost
trend rates. AbbVie reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and
trends. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method, in
accordance with the rules for accounting for post-employment benefits. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual
annual return are amortized to net periodic benefit cost over a five-year period.
Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Provisions for federal, state and foreign income taxes are calculated on
reported pretax earnings based on current tax laws. Deferred taxes are provided using enacted tax rates on the future tax consequences of temporary
differences, which are the differences between the financial statement carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and the tax
benefits of carryforwards. A valuation allowance is established or maintained when, based on currently available information, it is more likely than not that
all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.
Cash and Equivalents
Cash and equivalents include time deposits and money market funds with original maturities at the time of purchase of three months or less.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 63Investments
Short-term investments consist primarily of time deposits and held-to-maturity debt securities. Investments in marketable equity securities are
classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other
comprehensive loss (AOCI) in AbbVie's consolidated balance sheets. Investments in equity securities that are not traded on public stock exchanges and
held-to-maturity debt securities are recorded at cost.
AbbVie reviews the carrying value of investments each quarter to determine whether an other than temporary decline in fair value exists. AbbVie
considers factors affecting the investee, factors affecting the industry the investee operates in and general equity market trends. The company considers
the length of time an investment's fair value has been below cost and the near-term prospects for recovery. When AbbVie determines that an other than
temporary decline has occurred, a cost basis investment is written down with a charge to other expense (income), net in the consolidated statements of
earnings and an available-for-sale investment's unrealized loss is reclassified from AOCI to other expense (income), net in the consolidated statements
of earnings.
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable are stated at their net realizable value. The allowance against gross accounts receivable reflects the best estimate of probable
losses inherent in the receivables portfolio determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled accounts and other
currently available information. Accounts receivable are written off after all reasonable means to collect the full amount (including litigation, where
appropriate) have been exhausted. The allowance was $78 million and $74 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs. Inventories, net, consist
of the following:
as of December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014
Finished goods $ 469 $ 341
Work-in-process 1,081 629
Raw materials 169 154
Inventories, net $ 1,719 $ 1,124
Inventories, net as of December 31, 2015 included $356 million acquired through the acquisition of Pharmacyclics, Inc. (Pharmacyclics) on
May 26, 2015. Refer to Note 5 for additional information.
Property and Equipment
as of December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014
Land $ 46 $ 48
Buildings 1,284 1,228
Equipment 5,656 5,324
Construction in progress 348 505
Property and equipment, gross 7,334 7,105
Less accumulated depreciation (4,769) (4,620)
Property and equipment, net $ 2,565 $ 2,485
​ 64 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Depreciation for property and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful life
for buildings ranges from 10 to 50 years and five to 20 years for equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the related facility
lease (including any renewal periods, if appropriate) or the asset, whichever is shorter. Depreciation expense was $417 million, $383 million, and
$388 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Equipment includes certain computer software and software development costs incurred in
connection with developing or obtaining software for internal use and is amortized over three to 10 years. Assets under capital leases included in
property and equipment in the consolidated balance sheets are not material.
Litigation and Contingencies
Loss contingency provisions are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably
estimated based on existing information. When a best estimate cannot be made, the minimum loss contingency amount in a probable range is
recorded. Legal fees are expensed as incurred.
AbbVie accrues for product liability claims, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the
liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. The liabilities are evaluated quarterly and adjusted if necessary as additional
information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries, if any, for product liability claims are recorded as assets, on an undiscounted
basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized.
Business Combinations
Results of operations of acquired companies are included in AbbVie's results of operations beginning on the respective acquisition dates. Assets
acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the fair value consideration
transferred over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. Contingent consideration is recognized at the estimated
fair value on the acquisition date, which is determined by utilizing a probability weighted discounted cash flow model. Subsequent changes to the fair
value of contingent payments are recognized in other expense (income), net in the consolidated statements of earnings. The fair value of assets acquired
and liabilities assumed in certain cases may be subject to revision based on the final determination of fair value. Legal costs, due diligence costs,
business valuation costs and all other business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recorded at fair value using a discounted cash flow model. The discounted cash flow
model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, and terminal values of market participants.
Definite-lived intangibles are amortized over their estimated useful lives. AbbVie reviews the recoverability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. AbbVie first compares the projected undiscounted
cash flows to be generated by the asset to its carrying value. If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value of an
intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is usually the discounted cash flow amount, and a loss is recorded equal to
the excess of the asset's net carrying value over its fair value. Where cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the
lowest level for which cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities.
Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized but are subject to an impairment review annually and more frequently when indicators of
impairment exist. An impairment of goodwill would occur if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeded the fair value of that reporting unit. Indefinite-
lived
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 65intangible assets, which consist of capitalized IPR&D, would occur if the fair value of the IPR&D intangible asset is less than the carrying amount.
The company tests its goodwill for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value
is less than its carrying amount. If the company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a
quantitative impairment test is performed. AbbVie tests indefinite-lived intangible assets using a quantitative impairment test. For its quantitative
impairment test, the company uses an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and
expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, foreign currency exchange rates, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings
and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company's business plans and a market
participant's views of a company and similar companies. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair
value of the assets, and potentially result in different impacts to the company's results of operations. Actual results may differ from the company's
estimates.
Based upon the company's most recent annual impairment test performed in the third quarter of 2015, the company concluded goodwill was not
impaired. In 2015 and 2013, no intangible impairment charges were recorded. In 2014, AbbVie recorded an impairment charge of $37 million related to
certain on-market product rights in Japan due to increased generic competition. The charge was included in cost of products sold in the consolidated
statements of earnings.
Acquired In-Process Research and Development
The initial costs of rights to IPR&D projects acquired in an asset acquisition are expensed as IPR&D in the consolidated statements of earnings
unless the project has an alternative future use. These costs include initial payments incurred prior to regulatory approval in connection with research
and development collaboration agreements that provide rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products. The fair value of
IPR&D projects acquired in a business combination are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets until the underlying project
receives regulatory approval, at which point the intangible asset will be accounted for as a definite-lived intangible asset, or discontinuation, at which
point the intangible asset will be written off. Development costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Indefinite- and definite-lived
assets are subject to impairment reviews as discussed previously.
Foreign Currency Translation
Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into
U.S. dollars using period end exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates
are recognized in other comprehensive (loss) income (OCI) in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. The net assets of subsidiaries in
highly inflationary economies are remeasured as if the functional currency were the reporting currency. The remeasurement is recognized in net foreign
exchange loss in the consolidated statements of earnings and is immaterial for all years presented.
Derivatives
All derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities at fair value in AbbVie's consolidated balance sheets and are classified as
current or long-term based on the scheduled maturity of the instrument. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends
on whether it has been formally designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship under the applicable accounting standards and, further, on the
type of hedging relationship.
​ 66 | 2015 Form 10-K ​For derivatives formally designated as hedges, the company assesses at inception and quarterly thereafter, whether the hedging derivatives are
highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. The changes in fair value of a derivative designated as a fair value
hedge and of the hedged item attributable to the hedge risk are recognized in earnings immediately. Fair value hedges are used to hedge the interest
rate risk associated with certain of the company's fixed-rate debt. The effective portions of changes in the fair value of a derivative designated as a cash
flow hedge are reported in AOCI and are subsequently recognized in earnings consistent with the underlying hedged item. Cash flow hedges are used to
manage exposures from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The derivatives that are not designated and do not qualify as hedges are adjusted to fair value through current earnings. If it is determined that a
derivative is no longer highly effective as a hedge, the company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively. Gains or losses are immediately
reclassified from AOCI to earnings relating to hedged forecasted transactions that are no longer probable of occurring. Gains or losses relating to
terminations of effective cash flow hedges in which the forecasted transactions are still probable of occurring are deferred and recognized consistent with
the income or loss recognition of the underlying hedged items. Terminations of fair value hedges result in fair value adjustments to the hedged items until
the date of termination with the new bases being accreted to par value on the date of maturity.
Derivatives, including those that are not designated as a hedge, are principally classified in the operating section of the consolidated statements of
cash flows, consistent with the underlying hedged item.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Summary and
Amendments That Create Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and Other Assets and Deferred Costs—Contracts with Customers
(Subtopic 340-40). The amendments in this standard supersede most current revenue recognition requirements. The core principal of the new guidance
is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration
to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. AbbVie can apply the amendments using one of the following two
methods: (i) retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or (ii) modified retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the
amendments recognized at the date of initial application. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-4, Revenue from Contracts with Customers
(Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date, which deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year for all entities. Accordingly, this standard is
effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early application is
permitted only for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period. AbbVie is currently
assessing the timing of its adoption and the impact of adopting this guidance on its consolidated financial statements and the implementation approach
to be used.
In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, Interest—Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt
Issuance Costs. The amendments in ASU 2015-03 require that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance
sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. The standard is effective for annual and interim
periods beginning after December 15, 2015, with early adoption permitted on a retrospective basis. AbbVie elected to early adopt this new standard,
effective in the three months ended June 30, 2015. As a result, AbbVie reclassified approximately $7 million and $27 million of net deferred financing
costs as of December 31, 2014 that were previously classified as prepaid expenses and other current assets and other long-term assets, respectively, to
long-term debt and lease obligations (current and non-current). Total debt issuance costs classified as a reduction of long-term debt and lease
obligations (current and non-current) were $117 million as of December 31, 2015.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 67In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period
Adjustments. This standard requires that an acquirer recognize adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period in
the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. Entities are currently required to retrospectively apply adjustments made to
provisional amounts recognized in a business combination. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, including
interim periods within those fiscal years. The guidance is to be applied prospectively to measurement period adjustments that occur after the effective
date of the guidance with earlier application permitted for financial statements that have not been issued. AbbVie elected to early adopt the standard,
effective in the year ended December 31, 2015. The impact of this adoption was not material.
In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes. ASU 2015-17
requires that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position. Entities are currently required to
separate deferred income tax liabilities and assets into current and noncurrent amounts in a classified statement of financial position. The amendments,
which require non-current presentation only (by jurisdiction), are effective for financial statements issued for annual periods beginning after December 15,
2016 with earlier application permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The guidance is to be applied either prospectively to all
deferred tax liabilities and assets or retrospectively to all periods presented. AbbVie elected to early adopt this standard on a prospective basis, effective
as of December 31, 2015 in order to simplify the presentation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Prior periods were not retrospectively adjusted.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments—Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. The standard requires several targeted changes including that equity investments (except those accounted for
under the equity method of accounting, or those that result in consolidation of the investee) be measured at fair value with changes in fair value
recognized in net income. The new guidance also changes certain disclosure requirements and other aspects of current US GAAP. Amendments are to
be applied as a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. This standard is effective for fiscal
years starting after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The standard does not permit early adoption with the
exception of certain targeted provisions. AbbVie is currently assessing the impact and timing of adopting this guidance on its consolidated financial
statements.
Note 3 Supplemental Financial Information
Interest Expense, Net
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013
Interest expense $ 719 $ 429 $ 299
Interest income (33) (38) (21)
Interest expense, net $ 686 $ 391 $ 278
Interest expense, net in 2015 included $86 million of bridge financing-related costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics.
Refer to Note 5 for additional information. Interest expense, net in 2014 included $141 million of financing related fees incurred in connection with the
terminated proposed combination with Shire plc, a company incorporated in Jersey (Shire).
Other Expense (Income), Net
Other expense (income), net, includes income or expense from the resolution of certain contractual agreements, impairments of equity securities,
and gains and losses on the sale of equity securities. Other
​ 68 | 2015 Form 10-K ​expense, net in 2015 primarily consisted of impairments of certain equity securities. Other income, net in 2014 primarily consisted of income of
$34 million from the resolution of a contractual agreement.
Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities
as of December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014
Sales rebates $ 2,355 $ 1,384
Accounts payable 1,597 1,401
Dividends payable 924 791
Salaries, wages and commissions 632 623
Royalty and license arrangements 411 821
Other 2,544 1,934
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities $ 8,463 $ 6,954
Other Long-Term Liabilities
as of December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014
Pension and other post-employment benefits $ 1,949 $ 2,220
Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits 902 471
Other 844 990
Other long-term liabilities $ 3,695 $ 3,681
Note 4 Earnings Per Share
AbbVie calculates earnings per share (EPS) using the more dilutive of the treasury stock or the two-class method. The two-class method is an
earnings allocation formula that determines earnings per share for common stock and participating securities according to dividends declared and
participation rights in undistributed earnings. Under this method, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) are allocated to common shares and
participating securities based on their respective rights to receive dividends. In addition, participating securities may include certain performance-based
awards that may otherwise be excluded from the calculation of EPS under the treasury-stock method. AbbVie's forfeitable restricted stock units (RSUs)
and restricted stock awards (RSAs), including most performance-based awards, participate in dividends on the same basis as common shares and such
dividends are nonforfeitable to the holder once declared. As a result, these forfeitable RSUs and RSAs meet the definition of a participating security.
For all periods presented, the two-class method was more dilutive. As such, the dilutive effect of unvested RSUs and RSAs of approximately
4 million, 4 million, and 5 million shares for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, were excluded from the denominator for the calculation of diluted EPS.
These awards otherwise would have been included in the calculation of EPS under the treasury stock method. Additionally, all earnings (distributed and
undistributed) allocable to participating securities, including performance-based awards not otherwise included in the calculation of EPS under the
treasury stock method, were excluded from the numerator for the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share under the two-class method.
Earnings allocable to participating securities for 2015, 2014, and 2013 were $26 million, $9 million, and $26 million, respectively.
As further described in Note 12, AbbVie entered into and executed a $5.0 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement (ASR) with Morgan
Stanley & Co. LLC (Morgan Stanley) on May 26, 2015, pursuant to which AbbVie paid $5.0 billion for an initial delivery of 68 million shares of AbbVie's
common stock. The initial delivery of shares represented approximately 90 percent of the total shares expected to be delivered under the ASR. Morgan
Stanley subsequently delivered an additional 5 million shares of AbbVie's common
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 69stock to AbbVie in final settlement of the ASR in August 2015. For purposes of calculating EPS, AbbVie reflected the ASR as a repurchase of AbbVie
common stock.
The number of common shares issuable under stock-based compensation plans that were excluded from the computation of earnings per common
share because the effect would have been antidilutive were not material for all periods presented.
Note 5 Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements
Acquisition of Pharmacyclics
On May 26, 2015, AbbVie acquired Pharmacyclics through a tender offer for approximately $20.8 billion, including cash consideration of
$12.4 billion and equity consideration of $8.4 billion. Pharmacyclics is a biopharmaceutical company that develops and commercializes novel therapies
for people impacted by cancer. Pharmacyclics markets IMBRUVICA® (ibrutinib), a Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor, targeting B-cell
malignancies. Each outstanding Pharmacyclics share was exchanged for (i) $152.25 in cash and $109.00 in fair market value of AbbVie common stock,
(ii) $261.25 in cash, or (iii) $261.25 in fair market value of AbbVie common stock, at the election of each holder, subject to the election and proration of
the consideration at 58 percent cash and 42 percent AbbVie common stock.
The total consideration for the acquisition of Pharmacyclics was approximately $20.8 billion, consisting of cash and approximately 128 million
shares of AbbVie common stock, and is summarized as follows:
(in millions)
Fair value of AbbVie common stock issued to Pharmacyclics stockholders $ 8,405
Cash consideration paid to Pharmacyclics stockholders 11,749
Cash consideration paid to Pharmacyclics equity award holders 616
Total consideration $ 20,770
The acquisition of Pharmacyclics was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. This method requires,
among other things, that assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at fair value as of the acquisition date. The valuation of assets acquired
and liabilities assumed in the acquisition has not yet been finalized as of December 31, 2015. As a result, AbbVie recorded preliminary estimates for the
fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. The completion of the valuation will occur no later than one year from the
acquisition date and may result in significant changes to the recognized assets and liabilities.
​ 70 | 2015 Form 10-K ​The following table summarizes preliminary fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the May 26, 2015 acquisition date:
(in millions)
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Cash and equivalents $ 877
Short-term investments 11
Accounts and other receivables 106
Inventories 492
Other assets 212
Intangible assets
Definite-lived developed product rights 4,590
Definite-lived license agreements 6,780
Indefinite-lived research and development 7,180
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (381)
Deferred income taxes (6,453)
Other long-term liabilities (254)
Total identifiable net assets 13,160
Goodwill 7,610
Total assets acquired and liabilities assumed $ 20,770
The fair market value step-up adjustment to inventories of $445 million is being amortized to cost of products sold when the inventory is sold to
customers, which is expected to be a period of approximately 18 months from the acquisition date.
Intangible assets relate to the IMBRUVICA developed product rights, IPR&D in the United States related to additional indications for IMBRUVICA,
and the contractual rights to IMBRUVICA profits and losses outside the United States as a result of the collaboration agreement with Janssen
Biotech, Inc. and its affiliates (Janssen), one of the Janssen Pharmaceutical companies of Johnson & Johnson. Refer to Note 6 for additional information
regarding the collaboration with Janssen. The acquired definite-lived intangible assets are being amortized over a weighted-average estimated useful life
of 12 years using the estimated pattern of economic benefit. The estimated fair value of the IPR&D and identifiable intangible assets was determined
using the "income approach," which is a valuation technique that provides an estimate of the fair value of an asset based on market participant
expectations of the cash flows an asset would generate over its remaining useful life. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in the
development of those asset valuations include the estimated net cash flows for each year for each asset or product (including net revenues, cost of
sales, R&D costs, selling and marketing costs, and working capital/contributory asset charges), the appropriate discount rate to select in order to
measure the risk inherent in each future cash flow stream, the assessment of each asset's life cycle, the potential regulatory and commercial success
risks, competitive trends impacting the asset and each cash flow stream, as well as other factors.
Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits
arising from the other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. Specifically, the goodwill recognized from the
acquisition of Pharmacyclics includes expected synergies, including the ability to leverage the respective strengths of each business, expanding the
combined company's product portfolio, acceleration of clinical and commercial presence in oncology and establishment of a strong leadership position in
hematological oncology. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 71From the acquisition date through December 31, 2015, AbbVie's consolidated statement of earnings for 2015 included net revenues of $774 million
and a pre-tax operating loss of $519 million associated with the acquisition. The operating loss included $346 million of acquisition-related compensation
expense, $261 million of inventory step-up and intangible asset amortization, and $100 million of transaction and integration costs. Of these costs,
$294 million was recorded within SG&A expenses, $152 million within R&D expenses, and $261 million within cost of products sold in the consolidated
statement of earnings for 2015.
Pro Forma Financial Information
The following table presents the unaudited pro forma combined results of operations of AbbVie and Pharmacyclics for 2015 and 2014 as if the
acquisition of Pharmacyclics had occurred on January 1, 2014:
years ended December 31 (in millions, except per share data) 2015 2014
Net revenues $ 23,215 $ 20,690
Net earnings $ 5,345 $ 812
Basic earnings per share $ 3.18 $ 0.47
Diluted earnings per share $ 3.16 $ 0.47
The unaudited pro forma financial information was prepared using the acquisition method of accounting and was based on the historical financial
information of AbbVie and Pharmacyclics. In order to reflect the occurrence of the acquisition on January 1, 2014 as required, the unaudited pro forma
financial information includes adjustments to reflect the incremental amortization expense to be incurred based on the current preliminary fair values of
the identifiable intangible assets acquired; the incremental cost of products sold related to the fair value adjustments associated with acquisition-date
inventory; the additional interest expense associated with the issuance of debt to finance the acquisition; and the reclassification of acquisition,
integration and financing-related costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2015 to the year ended December 31, 2014. The unaudited pro
forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of what the consolidated results of operations would have been had the acquisition been
completed on January 1, 2014. In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial information is not a projection of the future results of operations of the
combined company nor does it reflect the expected realization of any cost savings or synergies associated with the acquisition.
Other Licensing & Acquisitions Activity
Excluding the acquisition of Pharmacyclics, cash outflows related to other acquisitions and investments totaled $964 million, $622 million, and
$405 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. AbbVie recorded IPR&D charges of $150 million, $352 million, and $338 million in 2015, 2014, and
2013, respectively. In 2014, AbbVie also recorded other operating expenses of $750 million related to the collaboration with Calico Life Sciences LLC
(Calico). Significant arrangements impacting 2015, 2014, and 2013, some of which require contingent milestone payments, are summarized below.
In addition to the significant arrangements described below, AbbVie entered into several other arrangements resulting in charges to IPR&D of
$50 million in 2015, $77 million in 2014, and $48 million in 2013. In connection with the other individually insignificant arrangements entered into in 2015,
AbbVie could make additional payments of up to $1.2 billion upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones.
C2N Diagnostics
In March 2015, AbbVie entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with C2N Diagnostics (C2N) to develop and commercialize anti-tau
antibodies for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders. As part of the agreement, AbbVie made an initial upfront payment of
$100 million,
​ 72 | 2015 Form 10-K ​which was expensed to IPR&D in 2015. Upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory, and commercial milestones, AbbVie could make
additional payments of up to $685 million, as well as royalties on net sales.
Calico Life Sciences LLC
In September 2014, AbbVie and Calico entered into a novel R&D collaboration agreement to discover, develop and commercialize new therapies for
patients with age-related diseases, including neurodegeneration and cancer. In 2014, AbbVie recorded $750 million in other operating expense in the
consolidated statement of earnings related to its commitments under the agreement of which $250 million was paid in 2014 and $500 million was paid in
early 2015. Calico is responsible for research and early development during the first five years and will continue to advance collaboration projects through
Phase 2a for a ten year period. AbbVie will have the option to exclusively license collaboration compounds after completion of Phase 2a. AbbVie will
support Calico in its early R&D efforts and, upon option exercise, would be responsible for all late-stage development and commercial activities.
Collaboration costs and profits will be shared equally by both companies post option exercise.
Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
In September 2014, AbbVie entered into a global collaboration agreement with Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Infinity) to develop and commercialize
duvelisib (IPI-145) for the treatment of patients with cancer. As part of the agreement, AbbVie made an initial upfront payment of $275 million, which was
expensed to IPR&D in the third quarter of 2014. In 2015, AbbVie made an additional payment of $130 million, which was recorded in R&D expense in the
consolidated statement of earnings, due to the achievement of a development milestone under the collaboration agreement. Upon the achievement of
certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones, AbbVie could make additional payments of up to $400 million. In the United States, the
companies will jointly commercialize duvelisib and will share equally in any potential profits. Outside the United States, AbbVie will be responsible for
the commercialization of duvelisib, and Infinity is eligible to receive tiered double-digit royalties on net product sales.
Ablynx NV
In September 2013, AbbVie entered into a global collaboration agreement with Ablynx NV to develop and commercialize the anti-IL-6R Nanobody,
ALX-0061, for the treatment of inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus, resulting in a charge to IPR&D of
$175 million. Upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones, AbbVie could make additional payments of up to
$665 million, as well as royalties on net sales.
Galapagos NV
In September 2013, AbbVie recorded a charge to IPR&D of $45 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration with Galapagos NV
(Galapagos) to discover, develop and commercialize cystic fibrosis therapies. Upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial
milestones, AbbVie could make additional payments of up to $360 million, as well as royalties on net sales.
Alvine Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
In May 2013, AbbVie entered into a global collaboration with Alvine Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to develop ALV003, a novel oral treatment for patients
with celiac disease. As part of the agreement, AbbVie made an initial upfront payment of $70 million, which was expensed to IPR&D in the second
quarter of 2013. As of December 31, 2015, AbbVie will not make any additional payments pursuant to this arrangement.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 73Other Activity
United Therapeutics Corporation
In August 2015, AbbVie entered into an agreement to purchase a rare pediatric disease priority review voucher (PRV) from United Therapeutics
Corporation. The PRV entitles AbbVie to receive an FDA priority review of a single New Drug Application or Biologics License Application, which reduces
the target review time and could lead to an expedited approval. In exchange for the PRV, AbbVie made a payment of $350 million, which was recorded in
R&D expenses in the consolidated statement of earnings and as an operating cash outflow in the consolidated statement of cash flows for 2015. AbbVie
intends to use the PRV for an existing R&D project.
Termination of Proposed Combination with Shire
On October 15, 2014, AbbVie's board of directors withdrew its previous recommendation to AbbVie stockholders in favor of a proposed combination
with Shire, and recommended stockholders vote against the proposed combination. On October 20, 2014, AbbVie and Shire mutually agreed to
terminate the proposed combination. In 2014, the company incurred transaction and financing-related costs totaling $1.8 billion, of which $1.7 billion was
recorded in SG&A expenses and $141 million was recorded in interest expense, net in the consolidated statement of earnings. Included in SG&A
expenses was a break fee of $1.6 billion, which was tax deductible, paid by AbbVie to Shire in October 2014 as a result of the termination of the
proposed combination. In addition, the company recorded $666 million of net foreign exchange losses primarily due to undesignated forward contracts
that were entered into to hedge anticipated foreign currency cash outflows associated with the terminated proposed combination with Shire and the exit
of certain foreign currency positions. The forward contracts were settled in 2014. In the first quarter of 2015, AbbVie recorded additional foreign exchange
losses of $170 million to reflect the completed liquidation of its remaining foreign currency positions. Refer to Note 10 for further information regarding
these forward contracts entered into in anticipation of the proposed combination with Shire.
Note 6 Collaboration with Janssen Biotech, Inc.
In December 2011, Pharmacyclics entered into a worldwide collaboration and license agreement with Janssen for the joint development and
commercialization of IMBRUVICA, a novel, orally active, selective covalent inhibitor of BTK, and certain compounds structurally related to IMBRUVICA,
for oncology and other indications, excluding all immune and inflammatory mediated diseases or conditions and all psychiatric or psychological
diseases or conditions, in the United States and outside the United States.
The collaboration provides Janssen with an exclusive license to commercialize IMBRUVICA outside of the United States and co-exclusively with
AbbVie in the United States. Both parties are responsible for the development, manufacturing and marketing of any products generated as a result of the
collaboration. The collaboration has no set duration or specific expiration date and provides for potential future development, regulatory and approval
milestone payments of up to $200 million to AbbVie.
The collaboration includes a cost sharing arrangement for associated collaboration activities. Except in certain cases, in general, Janssen is
responsible for approximately 60 percent of collaboration development costs and AbbVie is responsible for the remaining 40 percent of collaboration
development costs. AbbVie and Janssen share pre-tax profits and losses equally from the commercialization of products. Janssen is responsible for and
has exclusive rights to commercialize IMBRUVICA outside the United States. While both parties have co-exclusive rights to commercialize the products
in the United States, AbbVie is the principal in the end customer product sales. Operating expenses for costs incurred under the collaboration are
reported in their respective expense line items, net of any payments due or reimbursements due from Janssen. Revenues and profit share costs related
to sales of IMBRUVICA in the United States are included in net revenues and cost of products sold, respectively. Amounts payable to AbbVie by
Janssen for IMBRUVICA sales outside the United States are included in net revenues.
​ 74 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Janssen's share of the pre-tax profits in the United States under the collaboration was $306 million for 2015 and was recorded within cost of
products sold in the consolidated statement of earnings. For 2015, AbbVie's share of pre-tax profits outside the United States and cost sharing
expenses under the collaboration were $95 million and $159 million, respectively.
At December 31, 2015, AbbVie's receivable from Janssen was $45 million and AbbVie's payable to Janssen was $134 million, which were
classified in accounts and other receivables, net and accounts payable and accrued liabilities, respectively, in AbbVie's consolidated balance sheet.
Note 7 Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill
The following table summarizes the changes in the carrying amount of AbbVie's goodwill:
(in millions)
Balance as of December 31, 2013 $ 6,277
Additions —
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments (415)
Balance as of December 31, 2014 5,862
Additions 7,610
Foreign currency translation and other adjustments (304)
Balance as of December 31, 2015 $ 13,168
Goodwill additions in 2015 related to the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. Refer to Note 5 for additional information regarding this acquisition. The
latest impairment assessment of goodwill was completed in the third quarter of 2015. As of December 31, 2015, there were no accumulated goodwill
impairment losses. Future impairment tests for goodwill will be performed annually in the third quarter, or earlier if indicators of impairment exist.
Intangible Assets, Net
The following table summarizes AbbVie's intangible assets:
2015 2014
Gross Net Gross Net
carrying Accumulated carrying carrying Accumulated carrying
as of December 31 (in millions) amount amortization amount amount amortization amount
Definite-lived intangible assets
Developed product rights $ 9,103 $ (3,944) $ 5,159 $ 4,546 $ (3,706) $ 840
License agreements 8,000 (1,023) 6,977 1,097 (869) 228
Total definite-lived intangible assets 17,103 (4,967) 12,136 5,643 (4,575) 1,068
Indefinite-lived research and development 7,573 — 7,573 445 — 445
Total intangible assets, net $ 24,676 $ (4,967) $ 19,709 $ 6,088 $ (4,575) $ 1,513
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range between 3 to 16 years with an average of
12 years and 11 years for developed product rights and license agreements, respectively. Additions in 2015 were primarily due to the acquisition of
Pharmacyclics and those amounts will be amortized using the estimated pattern of economic benefit. Refer to Note 5 for additional information regarding
this acquisition. Additions in 2014 are primarily related to the acquisition of $80 million of amortizable intangible assets under license agreements for on-
market product rights in the United States with an average amortization period of 10 years.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 75Amortization expense for 2015, 2014, and 2013 was $419 million, $403 million, and $509 million, respectively, and is included in cost of products
sold in the consolidated statements of earnings. The anticipated annual amortization expense for definite lived intangible assets recorded as of
December 31, 2015 is $655 million in 2016, $740 million in 2017, $894 million in 2018, $1.0 billion in 2019 and $1.1 billion in 2020. In the third quarter of
2014, an impairment charge of $37 million was recorded related to certain on-market product rights in Japan due to increased generic competition. The
charge was based on a discounted cash flow analysis and was included in cost of products sold in the consolidated statement of earnings.
The indefinite-lived intangible assets represent acquired IPR&D associated with products that have not yet received regulatory approval. The
indefinite-lived intangible assets as of December 31, 2014 relate to IPR&D acquired in a business combination. The increase in 2015 was primarily due
to the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. The latest impairment assessment of intangible assets not subject to amortization was completed in the third
quarter of 2015. No impairment charges were recorded in 2015. Impairment charges recorded in 2014 related to indefinite-lived intangible assets were not
material. Future impairment tests for indefinite-lived intangible assets will be performed annually in the third quarter, or earlier if indicators of impairment
exist.
Note 8 Restructuring Plans
AbbVie continuously evaluates its operations to identify opportunities to optimize its manufacturing and R&D operations, commercial infrastructure,
and administrative costs and to respond to changes in its business environment, for example, in conjunction with the loss and expected loss of
exclusivity of certain products. As a result, AbbVie management periodically approves individual restructuring plans to achieve these objectives. In 2015,
2014 and 2013, no such plans were individually material. Restructuring charges recorded in 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $138 million, $23 million,
$83 million, respectively, and were primarily related to employee severance and contractual obligations. These charges were recorded in cost of products
sold, R&D expenses, and SG&A expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings based on classification of the affected employees or operations.
The following summarizes the cash activity in the restructuring reserve for 2015, 2014 and 2013:
(in millions)
Accrued balance at December 31, 2012 $ 233
2013 restructuring charges 76
Payments and other adjustments (118)
Accrued balance at December 31, 2013 191
2014 restructuring charges 16
Payments and other adjustments (85)
Accrued balance at December 31, 2014 122
2015 restructuring charges 126
Payments and other adjustments (100)
Accrued balance at December 31, 2015 $ 148
Payments and other adjustments for 2013 included a $23 million reversal of a previously recorded restructuring reserve due to the company's re-
evaluation of a prior year decision to exit a manufacturing facility.
​ 76 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Note 9 Debt, Credit Facilities, and Commitments and Contingencies
The following is a summary of AbbVie's long-term debt:
Effective Effective
interest interest
rate rate
as of December 31 (in millions) in 2015(a) 2015 in 2014(a) 2014
Senior notes issued in 2012:
Floating rate notes due 2015 1.13% $ — 1.09% $ 500
1.2% notes due 2015 1.29% — 1.31% 3,500
1.75% notes due 2017 1.86% 4,000 1.86% 4,000
2.0% notes due 2018 2.15% 1,000 2.15% 1,000
2.9% notes due 2022 2.97% 3,100 2.97% 3,100
4.4% notes due 2042 4.46% 2,600 4.46% 2,600
Senior notes issued in 2015:
1.8% notes due 2018 1.92% 3,000 — —
2.5% notes due 2020 2.65% 3,750 — —
3.2% notes due 2022 3.28% 1,000 — —
3.6% notes due 2025 3.66% 3,750 — —
4.5% notes due 2035 4.58% 2,500 — —
4.7% notes due 2045 4.73% 2,700 — —
Term loan facilities:
Floating rate notes due 2016 1.23% 2,000 — —
Floating rate notes due 2018 1.38% 2,000 — —
Other — 139 — 115
Fair value hedges — (72) — (180)
Unamortized bond discounts — (85) — (49)
Unamortized deferred financing costs — (117) — (34)
Total long-term debt and lease obligations 31,265 14,552
Current portion 2,025 4,014
Noncurrent portion $ 29,240 $ 10,538
(a) Excludes the effect of any related interest rate swaps.
On September 25, 2015, AbbVie entered into a $2 billion three-year term loan credit agreement and a $2 billion 364-day term loan credit agreement
(collectively, the term loan facilities). In November 2015, AbbVie drew on these term loan facilities and used the proceeds to refinance its $4 billion of
senior notes that matured in November 2015. The borrowings under the term loan facilities bear interest at variable rates which will adjust based on
AbbVie's public debt ratings. The term loan facilities may be prepaid without penalty upon prior notice and contain customary covenants, all of which the
company was in compliance with as of December 31, 2015.
In May 2015, the company issued $16.7 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes. The senior notes rank equally with all other
unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the company. AbbVie may redeem the senior notes prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the
principal amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium and, except for the 1.8% notes due 2018, AbbVie may redeem the senior
notes at par between one and six months prior to maturity. Debt issuance costs incurred in connection with the offering totaled $93 million and are being
amortized over the respective terms of the senior notes to interest expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. The senior notes contain
customary covenants, all of which the company was in compliance with as of December 31, 2015.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 77Approximately $11.5 billion of the net proceeds from the issuance of the senior notes were used to finance the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and
approximately $5.0 billion of the net proceeds were used to finance the ASR with Morgan Stanley. Refer to Notes 5 and 12 for additional information
related to the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and the ASR, respectively.
In March 2015, AbbVie entered into an $18 billion, 364-Day Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement (the bridge loan) in support of the then planned
acquisition of Pharmacyclics. No amounts were drawn under the bridge loan, which was terminated as a result of the company's May 2015 issuance of
the senior notes. Interest expense, net in 2015 include $86 million of costs related to the bridge loan.
AbbVie has outstanding $10.7 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes which were issued in 2012. AbbVie may redeem all of
the senior notes of each series, at any time, and some of the senior notes of each series, from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the principal
amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium. At December 31, 2015, the company was in compliance with its senior note
covenants.
Short-Term Borrowings
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, short-term borrowings included $400 million and $416 million, respectively, of commercial paper borrowings. The
weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings was 0.3 percent and 0.2 percent for 2015 and 2014, respectively.
In October 2014, AbbVie entered into a $3.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility, which matures in October 2019 and replaced a $2.0 billion five-
year revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility enables the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates and
contains various covenants. At December 31, 2015, the company was in compliance with all its credit facility covenants. Commitment fees under
AbbVie's revolving credit facilities were not material in 2015, 2014 and 2013. No amounts were outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31,
2015 and December 31, 2014.
Maturities of Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations
The following table summarizes AbbVie's future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases and debt maturities and future
minimum lease payments for capital lease obligations as of December 31, 2015:
Debt maturities
Operating and capital
as of and for the years ended December 31 (in millions) leases leases
2016 $ 119 $ 2,025
2017 111 4,024
2018 97 6,025
2019 86 18
2020 78 3,760
Thereafter 519 15,687
Total obligations and commitments 1,010 31,539
Fair value hedges and unamortized bond discounts and deferred financing costs — (274)
Total debt and lease obligations $ 1,010 $ 31,265
Lease expense was $146 million in 2015, $115 million in 2014, and $107 million in 2013. AbbVie's operating leases generally include renewal
options and provide for the company to pay taxes, maintenance, insurance and other operating costs of the leased property. As of December 31, 2015,
annual future minimum lease payments for capital lease obligations are not material.
​ 78 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Debt maturities and capital leases in 2016 include the $2.0 billion floating rate notes due in 2016 drawn under the 364-day term loan credit
agreement.
Contingencies and Guarantees
In connection with the separation, AbbVie has indemnified Abbott for all liabilities resulting from the operation of AbbVie's business other than
income tax liabilities with respect to periods prior to the distribution date and other liabilities as agreed to by AbbVie and Abbott. AbbVie has no material
exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements, no special-purpose entities and no activities that included non-exchange-traded contracts accounted for at
fair value. In the ordinary course of business, AbbVie has periodically entered into third-party agreements, such as the assignment of product rights,
which have resulted in AbbVie becoming secondarily liable for obligations for which AbbVie had previously been primarily liable. Based upon past
experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. AbbVie periodically acquires a business or product rights in which AbbVie
agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain future events.
Note 10 Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures
Risk Management Policy
The company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks related to its business operations. The company's hedging
policy attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on the company's judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity
and costs. The company uses derivative instruments to reduce its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. The company is also exposed to the
risk that its earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. The company periodically enters into interest rate
swaps, based on judgment, to manage interest costs in which the company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and
floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional amount. Derivative instruments are not used for trading purposes or to
manage exposure to changes in interest rates for investment securities, and none of the company's outstanding derivative instruments contain credit risk
related contingent features; collateral is generally not required.
Financial Instruments
Various AbbVie foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange
rates for anticipated intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the local entity. These contracts, with
notional amounts totaling $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, are designated as cash flow hedges
and are recorded at fair value. Resulting gains or losses are reflected in OCI. Accumulated gains and losses as of December 31, 2015 will be reclassified
from AOCI and included in cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally not exceeding twelve months.
The company also enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated trade payables
and receivables and intercompany loans. These contracts are not designated as hedges and are recorded at fair value. Resulting gains or losses are
reflected in net foreign exchange loss in the consolidated statements of earnings and are generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency
exposure being managed. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, AbbVie held notional amounts of $6.8 billion and $6.8 billion, respectively, of
such undesignated foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
In 2014, the company entered into undesignated forward exchange contracts with a total notional amount of $16.9 billion to hedge anticipated
foreign currency cash outflows associated with the terminated proposed combination with Shire. A large portion of these contracts were originally due to
mature in the
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 79first quarter of 2015 but were net settled in the fourth quarter of 2014. In 2014, the company realized $490 million in net foreign exchange losses
associated with the Shire-related forward exchange contracts.
AbbVie is a party to interest rate hedge contracts, designated as fair value hedges, totaling $11.0 billion and $8.0 billion at December 31, 2015 and
December 31, 2014, respectively. The effect of the hedge is to change a fixed-rate interest obligation to a floating rate for that portion of the debt. AbbVie
recorded the contracts at fair value and adjusted the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt by an offsetting amount.
The following table summarizes the amounts and location of AbbVie's derivative instruments in the consolidated balance sheets:
Fair value—Derivatives in asset
position Fair value—Derivatives in liability position
Balance sheet
as of December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 caption 2015 2014 Balance sheet caption
Foreign currency forward exchange
contracts—
Hedging instruments Prepaid expenses Accounts payable and
$ 33 $ 141 and other $ — $ — accrued liabilities
Others not designated as hedges Prepaid expenses Accounts payable and
28 70 and other 21 63 accrued liabilities
Interest rate swaps designated as Prepaid expenses
fair value hedges 9 — and other 81 180 Other long-term liabilities
Total derivatives $ 70 $ 211 $ 102 $ 243
While certain derivatives are subject to netting arrangements with the company's counterparties, the company does not offset derivative assets and
liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets.
The unrealized gains/(losses) for the effective portions of the derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges recognized in OCI were
$122 million, $193 million and ($77) million for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. The amount of hedge ineffectiveness was not significant for any of the
years presented.
The following table summarizes the pre-tax amounts and location in the consolidated statements of earnings of net gains/(losses) recognized in the
consolidated statements of earnings for derivative instruments, including the effective portions of the net gains/(losses) reclassified out of AOCI into net
earnings for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. See Note 12 for the amount of net gains/(losses) reclassified out of AOCI.
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Statement of earnings caption
Foreign currency forward exchange contracts—
Designated as cash flow hedges $ 265 $ (79) $ — Cost of products sold
Not designated as hedges (155) (523) 81 Net foreign exchange loss
Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 108 252 (351) Interest expense, net
Total $ 218 $ (350) $ (270)
The gain/(loss) related to fair value hedges is recognized in interest expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings and directly offsets the
(loss)/gain on the underlying hedged item, the fixed-rate debt, resulting in no net impact to interest expense, net for all periods presented.
​ 80 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Fair Value Measures
The fair value hierarchy under the accounting standard for fair value measurements consists of the following three levels:
• Level 1—Valuations based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets that the company has the ability to access;
• Level 2—Valuations based on quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in
markets that are not active, and model-based valuations in which all significant inputs are observable in the market; and
• Level 3—Valuations using significant inputs that are unobservable in the market and include the use of judgment by the company's
management about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis in the
consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015:
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices
in Significant
active markets other Significant
for observable unobservable
identical assets inputs Inputs
(in millions) Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets
Cash and equivalents $ 8,399 $ 798 $ 7,601 $ —
Time deposits 8 — 8 —
Equity securities 111 111 — —
Interest rate hedges 9 — 9 —
Foreign currency contracts 61 — 61 —
Total assets $ 8,588 $ 909 $ 7,679 $ —
Liabilities
Interest rate hedges $ 81 $ — $ 81 $ —
Foreign currency contracts 21 — 21 —
Total liabilities $ 102 $ — $ 102 $ —
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 81The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis in the
consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2014:
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices
in Significant
active markets other Significant
for observable unobservable
identical assets inputs Inputs
(in millions) Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets
Cash and equivalents $ 8,348 $ 1,214 $ 7,134 $ —
Time deposits 9 — 9 —
Equity securities 13 13 — —
Foreign currency contracts 211 — 211 —
Total assets $ 8,581 $ 1,227 $ 7,354 $ —
Liabilities
Interest rate hedges $ 180 $ — $ 180 $ —
Foreign currency contracts 63 — 63 —
Total liabilities $ 243 $ — $ 243 $ —
The fair values for time deposits included in cash and equivalents and short-term investments are determined based on a discounted cash flow
analysis reflecting quoted market rates for the same or similar instruments. The fair values of time deposits approximate their amortized cost due to the
short maturities of these instruments. Available-for-sale equity securities consists of investments for which the fair values are determined by using the
published market price per unit multiplied by the number of units held, without consideration of transaction costs. The derivatives entered into by the
company are valued using publicized spot curves for interest rate hedges and publicized forward curves for foreign currency contracts.
Cumulative net unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale equity securities totaled $47 million and $3 million at December 31, 2015 and
December 31, 2014, respectively.
There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between the fair value measurement levels.
In addition to the financial instruments that the company is required to recognize at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets, the company
has certain financial instruments that are recognized at historical cost or some basis other than fair value. The carrying values and fair values of certain
financial instruments are summarized in the table below:
Approximate
Book values fair values
as of December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2015 2014
Assets
Investments $ 34 $ 95 $ 37 $ 145
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings $ 406 $ 425 $ 406 $ 425
Current portion of long-term debt and lease obligations $ 2,025 $ 4,014 $ 2,016 $ 4,026
Long-term debt and lease obligations, excluding fair value hedges $ 29,312 $ 10,718 $ 29,143 $ 10,803
​ 82 | 2015 Form 10-K ​The following table summarizes the bases used to measure the approximate fair values of the financial instruments as of December 31, 2015:
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices
in Significant
active markets other Significant
for observable unobservable
identical assets inputs Inputs
(in millions) Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets
Investments $ 37 $ — $ — $ 37
Total assets $ 37 $ — $ — $ 37
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings $ 406 $ — $ 406 $ —
Current portion of long-term debt and lease obligations 2,016 — 2,016 —
Long-term debt and lease obligations, excluding fair value
hedges 29,143 27,061 2,082 —
Total liabilities $ 31,565 $ 27,061 $ 4,504 $ —
The following table summarizes the bases used to measure the approximate fair values of the financial instruments as of December 31, 2014:
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted
prices
in active Significant
markets for other Significant
identical observable unobservable
assets inputs Inputs
(in millions) Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets
Investments $ 145 $ 68 $ 13 $ 64
Total assets $ 145 $ 68 $ 13 $ 64
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings $ 425 $ — $ 425 $ —
Current portion of long-term debt and lease obligations 4,026 4,005 21 —
Long-term debt and lease obligations, excluding fair value hedges 10,803 10,710 93 —
Total liabilities $ 15,254 $ 14,715 $ 539 $ —
Investments consist of cost method investments and held-to-maturity debt securities. To determine the fair values of other cost method
investments, the company takes into consideration recent transactions, as well as the financial information of the investee, which represents a Level 3
basis of fair value measurement. The fair value of held-to-maturity debt securities was estimated based upon the quoted market prices for the same or
similar debt instruments. The fair values of short-term and current borrowings approximate the carrying values due to the short maturities of these
instruments.
The fair values of long-term debt, excluding fair value hedges and the term loans, were determined by using the published market price for the debt
instruments, without consideration of transaction costs, which represents a Level 1 basis of fair value measurement. The fair values of the term loans
were determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis using quoted market rates, which represents a Level 2 basis of fair value measurement. The
counterparties to financial instruments consist of select major international financial institutions.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 83Concentrations of Risk
The company invests excess cash in time deposits and money market funds and diversifies the concentration of cash among different financial
institutions. The company monitors concentrations of credit risk associated with deposits with financial institutions. Credit exposure limits have been
established to limit a concentration with any single issuer or institution.
The functional currency of the company's Venezuela operations is the U.S. dollar due to the hyperinflationary status of the Venezuelan economy.
Currency restrictions enacted in Venezuela require approval from the Venezuelan government to exchange Venezuelan bolivars (VEF) for U.S. dollars
and require such exchange to be made at the official exchange rate established by the government. In the first quarter of 2014, the Venezuelan
government expanded the number of exchange mechanisms to three rates of exchange. As of December 31, 2015, these were the official rate of 6.3; the
Supplementary System for the Administration of Foreign Currency (SICAD) rate of approximately 13.5; and the Foreign Exchange Marginal System
(SIMADI) rate of approximately 200. In the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015, the company used the
official rate of 6.3 VEF per U.S. dollar, and reported $317 million of net monetary assets and $210 million of net revenues denominated in the Venezuelan
bolivar.
On February 17, 2016, the Venezuelan government announced that it plans to devalue the official rate of 6.3 to 10 VEF to U.S. dollars, and
eliminate the SICAD rate of 13.5 VEF to U.S. dollars. The devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar will result in a charge to AbbVie's results of operations in
the first quarter of 2016. If AbbVie's net monetary assets denominated in the Venezuelan bolivar had been converted at a rate of 10 VEF to U.S. dollars
at December 31, 2015, the company would have reported a devaluation loss of $117 million in 2015. If AbbVie's net monetary assets denominated in the
Venezuelan bolivar had been converted at the SIMADI rate of 200 at December 31, 2015, the company would have reported a devaluation loss of
$307 million in 2015.
The company cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the Venezuelan currency or whether the use of the official rate will
continue to be supported by evolving facts and circumstances, which could result in a significant charge to AbbVie's results of operations at that time.
The company also continues to do business with foreign governments in certain oil-exporting countries, including Venezuela and Saudi Arabia,
which have experienced a deterioration in economic conditions. Due to the decline in the price of oil, liquidity issues in certain countries may result in
delays in the collection of receivables.
Three U.S. wholesalers accounted for 51 percent and 49 percent of total net accounts receivable as of December 31, 2015 and December 31,
2014, respectively, and substantially all of AbbVie's net revenues in the United States are to these three wholesalers. In addition, net governmental
receivables outstanding in Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain totaled $525 million at December 31, 2015 and $446 million at December 31, 2014.
HUMIRA (adalimumab) is AbbVie's single largest product and accounted for approximately 61 percent, 63 percent, and 57 percent of AbbVie's total
net revenues in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.
Note 11 Post-Employment Benefits
AbbVie sponsors various pension and other post-employment benefit plans, including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination
indemnity plans, which cover most employees worldwide. In addition, AbbVie provides medical benefits, primarily to eligible retirees in the United States
and Puerto Rico, through other post-retirement benefit plans. Net obligations for these plans have been reflected in the consolidated balance sheets as of
December 31, 2015 and 2014.
AbbVie's principal domestic defined benefit plan is the AbbVie Pension Plan. AbbVie employees who were eligible to participate in the Abbott
pension plan on December 31, 2012 automatically became eligible for the AbbVie Pension Plan. During the first quarter of 2013, the AbbVie Pension
Plan assumed the obligations and related assets for AbbVie employees from Abbott. AbbVie made voluntary contributions of
​ 84 | 2015 Form 10-K ​$150 million, $370 million, and $145 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013 respectively, to this plan. AbbVie also made a voluntary contribution of $150 million
to this plan subsequent to December 31, 2015.
The benefit plan information in the table below pertains to the global AbbVie-sponsored defined benefit and other post-employment plans:
Other
Defined post-employment
benefit plans plans
as of and for the years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2015 2014
Projected benefit obligations
Beginning of period $ 5,681 $ 4,484 $ 538 $ 403
Service cost 227 173 25 22
Interest cost 219 217 23 22
Employee contributions 2 1 — —
Plan amendments — 1 — (13)
Actuarial (gain) loss (467) 1,108 (17) 111
Benefits paid (158) (163) (11) (8)
Other, primarily foreign currency translation adjustments (117) (140) (1) 1
End of period 5,387 5,681 557 538
Fair value of plan assets
Beginning of period 4,173 3,666 — —
Actual (loss) return on plan assets (25) 282 — —
Company contributions 217 430 11 8
Employee contributions 2 1 — —
Benefits paid (158) (163) (11) (8)
Other, primarily foreign currency translation adjustments (35) (43) — —
End of period 4,174 4,173 — —
Funded status end of period $ (1,213) $ (1,508) $ (557) $ (538)
Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets
Other non-current assets $ 214 $ 210 $ — $ —
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (24) (26) (11) (10)
Other long-term liabilities (1,403) (1,692) (546) (528)
Net obligation $ (1,213) $ (1,508) $ (557) $ (538)
Actuarial losses, net $ 1,939 $ 2,216 $ 154 $ 181
Prior service cost 16 19 (45) (53)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31 $ 1,955 $ 2,235 $ 109 $ 128
The projected benefit obligations (PBO) in the table above included $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively,
related to international defined benefit plans, a number of which generally are not funded as permitted by local regulations. Benefit payments under those
plans are funded from company assets. AbbVie considered the release of the new mortality tables and projection scales by the Society of Actuaries in
2014 and determined they were an improvement of the estimate of future mortality and opted to change to the new tables in determining the funded
status as of December 31, 2014. In 2015, the Society of Actuaries released an improvement scale that adjusted the previously issued 2014 scale which
AbbVie determined was appropriate to utilize in determining the funded status as of December 31, 2015.
For plans reflected in the table above, the accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) were $4.8 billion and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014,
respectively. For those plans reflected in the table above in which the ABO exceeded plan assets at December 31, 2015, the ABO, PBO and aggregate
plan assets were $3.1 billion, $3.6 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 85Amounts Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income
The defined benefit and other post-employment plans' actuarial (gains) or losses and prior service costs or (credits) not yet recognized in net
periodic benefit cost are included in AOCI, net of tax, and will be amortized to net periodic benefit cost in future periods. The following table summarizes
the pre-tax gains and losses included in other comprehensive (loss) income:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013
Defined benefit plans
Actuarial (gain) loss $ (117) $ 1,127 $ (715)
Prior service cost — 1 15
Amortization of actuarial losses and prior service costs (127) (68) (114)
Foreign exchange (gain) loss (37) (41) 2
Total pre-tax (gain) loss recognized in other comprehensive (income) loss $ (281) $ 1,019 $ (812)
Other post-employment plans
Actuarial (gain) loss $ (17) $ 111 $ (42)
Prior service cost — (13) (53)
Amortization of actuarial losses and prior service costs (2) 3 —
Total pre-tax (gain) loss recognized in other comprehensive (income) loss $ (19) $ 101 $ (95)
The pre-tax amount of actuarial loss and prior service cost included in AOCI at December 31, 2015 that is expected to be recognized in net
periodic benefit cost in 2016 is $87 million for defined benefit plans and $1 million for other post-employment plans.
Net Periodic Benefit Cost
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013
Defined benefit plans
Service cost $ 227 $ 173 $ 184
Interest cost 219 217 196
Expected return on plan assets (325) (302) (259)
Amortization of actuarial losses and prior service costs 127 68 114
Net periodic benefit cost $ 248 $ 156 $ 235
Other post-employment plans
Service cost $ 25 $ 22 $ 23
Interest cost 23 22 19
Amortization of actuarial (gain) loss and prior service costs 2 (2) (1)
Net periodic benefit cost $ 50 $ 42 $ 41
Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Benefit Obligations at the Measurement Date
as of December 31 2015 2014
Defined benefit plans
Discount rate 4.4% 3.9%
Rate of compensation increases 4.4% 4.4%
Other post-employment plans
Discount rate 4.9% 4.5%
The assumptions used in calculating the December 31, 2015 measurement date benefit obligations will be used in the calculation of net periodic
benefit cost in 2016.
​ 86 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Net Periodic Benefit Cost
years ended December 31 2015 2014 2013
Defined benefit plans
Discount rate 3.9% 4.9% 4.3%
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 7.8% 7.9% 8.2%
Expected rate of change in compensation 4.4% 5.0% 5.0%
Other post-employment plans
Discount rate 4.5% 5.3% 4.5%
Effective December 31, 2015, AbbVie elected to change the method it uses to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic
benefit costs for the AbbVie Pension Plan and its primary other post-employment benefit plan in the United States as well as certain international
defined benefit plans and other post-employment benefit plans. Historically, AbbVie estimated these service and interest cost components of this
expense utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation at the beginning of the
period. In late 2015, AbbVie elected to utilize a full yield curve approach in the estimation of these components by applying the specific spot rates along
the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. AbbVie elected to make this change to provide a
more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected benefit cash flows to the corresponding spot
yield curve rates. AbbVie has accounted for this change prospectively as a change in accounting estimate that is inseparable from a change in
accounting principle. Based on current economic conditions, this change is expected to reduce AbbVie's net periodic benefit cost by approximately
$41 million in 2016. This change had no effect on the 2015 expense and will not affect the measurement of AbbVie's total benefit obligations as the
change in service cost and interest cost will be completely offset in the actuarial (gain) loss reported.
For 2015, for purposes of measuring post-retirement health care obligations as of the measurement date, the company assumed a 7.3 percent pre-
65 (8.3 percent post-65) annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to
4.5 percent in 2064 and remain at that level thereafter. For purposes of measuring post-retirement health care costs, the company assumed a
7.5 percent pre-65 (7.3 percent post-65) annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits. The rate was assumed to decrease
gradually to 4.5 percent for 2064 and remain at that level thereafter.
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for health care plans. As of December 31, 2015, a
1 percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
One percentage
point
year ended December 31, 2015 (in millions) (brackets denote a reduction) Increase Decrease
Service cost and interest cost $ 12 $ (9)
Projected benefit obligation $ 116 $ (90)
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 87Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices
in Significant
active markets other Significant
for observable unobservable
identical assets inputs inputs
as of December 31 (in millions) 2015 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Equities
U.S. large cap(a) $ 1,041 $ 542 $ 499 $ —
U.S. mid cap(b) 260 35 225 —
International(c) 688 100 588 —
Fixed income securities
U.S. government securities(d) 178 15 163 —
Corporate debt instruments(d) 440 124 297 19
Non-U.S. government securities(d) 182 33 149 —
Other(d) 156 122 34 —
Absolute return funds(e) 1,097 2 498 597
Real assets 39 8 7 24
Other(f) 93 93 — —
Fair value of plan assets $ 4,174 $ 1,074 $ 2,460 $ 640
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices
in Significant
active markets other Significant
for observable unobservable
identical assets inputs inputs
as of December 31 (in millions) 2014 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Equities
U.S. large cap(a) $ 1,314 $ 588 $ 726 $ —
U.S. mid cap(b) 267 67 200 —
International(c) 608 137 471 —
Fixed income securities
U.S. government securities(d) 216 — 216 —
Corporate debt instruments(d) 326 101 225 —
Non-U.S. government securities(d) 425 201 224 —
Other(d) 37 29 8 —
Absolute return funds(e) 848 3 371 474
Real assets 53 7 46 —
Other(f) 79 79 — —
Fair value of plan assets $ 4,173 $ 1,212 $ 2,487 $ 474
(a) A mix of pooled index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various large cap indices.
(b) A mix of pooled index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various mid cap indices.
(c) A mix of pooled index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various non-US equity indices in both
developed and emerging markets.
(d) Securities held by actively managed accounts, pooled index funds, and mutual funds.
(e) Funds having global mandates with the flexibility to allocate capital broadly across a wide range of asset classes and strategies,
including but not limited to equities, fixed income, commodities, financial futures, currencies, and other securities, with objectives
to outperform agreed upon benchmarks of specific return and volatility targets.
(f) Investments in cash and cash equivalents.
​ 88 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Equities that are valued using quoted prices are valued at the published market prices. Equities in a common collective trust or a registered
investment company that are valued using significant other observable inputs are valued at the net asset value (NAV) provided by the fund administrator.
The NAV is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund minus its liabilities. Fixed income securities that are valued using significant
other observable inputs are valued at prices obtained from independent financial service industry-recognized vendors. Absolute return funds and
commodities are valued at the NAV provided by the fund administrator.
The following table summarizes the change in the value of plan assets that are measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3):
as of and for the years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014
Beginning of period $ 474 $ 411
Actual return on plan assets on hand at end of period 5 21
Purchases, sales and settlements, net 161 42
End of period $ 640 $ 474
The investment mix of equity securities, fixed income and other asset allocation strategies is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing
higher return, more volatile equity securities, and lower return, less volatile fixed income securities. Investment allocations are established for each plan
and are generally made across a range of markets, industry sectors, capitalization sizes, and in the case of fixed income securities, maturities and
credit quality. The target investment allocations for the AbbVie Pension Plan is 35 percent in equity securities, 20 percent in fixed income securities and
45 percent in asset allocation strategies and other holdings. There are no known significant concentrations of risk in the plan assets of the AbbVie
Pension Plan or any other plans' assets.
The plans' expected return on plan assets assumption, as shown above, is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of
return to be achieved by the underlying investment portfolios. In establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for
the asset classes in which the plans are invested, as well as current economic and capital market conditions.
Expected Defined Benefit and Other Post-Employment Plan Payments
Other
Defined post-
benefit employment
years ended December 31 (in millions) plans plans
2016 $ 168 $ 11
2017 $ 177 $ 14
2018 $ 188 $ 17
2019 $ 199 $ 20
2020 $ 212 $ 19
2021 to 2025 $ 1,295 $ 133
The above table reflects total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which includes payments funded from company assets as well
as paid from the plans.
Other
AbbVie's principal defined contribution plan is the AbbVie Savings Plan. AbbVie recorded expense of $73 million in 2015, $67 million in 2014, and
$62 million in 2013 related to this plan. AbbVie provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation arrangements, to qualifying
employees and accrues for the related cost over the service lives of the employees.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 89Note 12 Equity
Stock-Based Compensation
Stock-based compensation expense was $282 million, $241 million, and $212 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, and is principally
classified in SG&A for all periods presented, with the remainder classified in R&D expenses and cost of products sold. The related tax benefit
recognized in 2015, 2014, and 2013 was $89 million, $73 million, and $68 million, respectively.
Compensation expense for stock-based awards is measured based on the fair value of the awards, as of the date the stock-based awards are
granted and adjusted to the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience at the time
of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Compensation cost for stock-based awards is amortized over
their service period, which could be shorter than the vesting period if an employee is retirement eligible, with a charge to compensation expense. For
stock-based awards granted to retirement-eligible employees, compensation expense is recognized immediately at the grant date because the
employee is able to retain the award without continuing to provide service. Retirement eligible employees are generally those that are age 55 and have at
least ten years of service.
Prior to separation, AbbVie employees participated in Abbott's incentive stock program. The AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program, adopted at the
time of separation, facilitated the assumption of certain awards granted under Abbott's incentive stock program and authorizes the post-separation grant
of several different forms of benefits, including nonqualified stock options, RSAs, RSUs, and performance-based RSAs and RSUs. Under the AbbVie
2013 Incentive Stock Program, 100 million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance with respect to post-separation awards for participants.
In connection with the separation, outstanding Abbott employee stock options, RSAs and RSUs previously issued under Abbott's incentive stock
program were adjusted and converted into new Abbott and AbbVie stock-based awards using a formula designed to preserve the intrinsic value and fair
value of the awards immediately prior to the separation. Upon the separation on January 1, 2013, holders of Abbott stock options, RSAs and RSUs
generally received one AbbVie stock-based award for each Abbott stock-based award outstanding. These adjusted awards retained the vesting schedule
and expiration date of the original awards. No AbbVie awards have been granted to Abbott employees other than in connection with the separation.
In 2015, 2014, and 2013, realized excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation and recorded in additional paid-in capital totaled
$61 million, $56 million, and $38 million, respectively, and were presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an outflow in operating
activities and an inflow in financing activities.
Stock Options
The exercise price for options granted is at least equal to 100 percent of the fair value on the date of grant. Stock options typically have a
contractual term of 10 years and generally vest in one-third increments over a three-year period.
​ 90 | 2015 Form 10-K ​The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes model. The weighted-average grant-date fair values of stock options granted
were $9.96, $9.83, and $6.87 in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Stock-based compensation expense attributable to options during each of the years
presented was not material.
The following table summarizes AbbVie stock option activity in 2015:
Weighted-
Weighted- average
average remaining Aggregate
year ended December 31 exercise life (in intrinsic
(options in thousands, aggregate intrinsic value in millions) Options price years) value
Outstanding at beginning of period 28,280 $ 28.53 3.3 $ 1,044
Granted 1,207 58.83
Exercised (5,871) 26.31
Lapsed (47) 27.50
Outstanding at end of period 23,569 $ 30.64 3.0 $ 674
Exercisable at end of period 21,091 $ 28.16 2.4 $ 656
The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the difference between the exercise price and the company's closing share price on the
last day of trading in 2015. The total intrinsic value of options exercised in 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $216 million, $253 million, and $229 million
respectively. The total fair value of options vested during 2015 was $10 million.
RSAs & RSUs
RSAs and RSUs generally vest in one-third increments over three years. Upon vesting, the recipient receives one share of common stock for each
vested award. AbbVie grants performance-based RSAs and RSUs to selected executives and other key employees with vesting primarily contingent
upon AbbVie achieving a minimum return on equity. The fair value of RSAs and RSUs (including performance-based awards) is determined based on the
number of shares granted and the quoted price of AbbVie's common stock on the date of grant. For purposes of determining compensation expense,
AbbVie periodically evaluates whether the performance goals will be achieved. If such goals are not met, no compensation expense is recognized and
any previously recognized compensation expense is reversed.
The following table summarizes AbbVie RSA and RSU activity (including performance-based awards) for both AbbVie and Abbott employees for
2015:
Weighted-
average
Share grant date fair
year ended December 31 (share units in thousands) units value
Outstanding at beginning of period 12,815 $ 40.98
Granted 6,052 60.85
Vested (5,702) 37.46
Lapsed (675) 51.11
Outstanding at end of period 12,490 $ 51.66
The fair market value of RSAs and RSUs vested in 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $335 million, $338 million and $285 million, respectively.
As of December 31, 2015, $239 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to RSAs and RSUs is expected to be recognized as expense
over approximately the next two years.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 91Cash Dividends
On February 13, May 15, August 14 and November 16, 2015, AbbVie paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.49, $0.51, $0.51 and $0.51 per share of
common stock, respectively, which were declared by the board of directors on October 20, 2014 and February 19, June 18, and September 11, 2015
respectively. The dividends declared on October 20, 2014 and February 19, 2015, represented an increase of nearly 17 percent and approximately
4 percent, respectively, over the previous quarterly rates of $0.42 per share and $0.49 per share, respectively. On October 30, 2015, the company
announced that its board of directors declared an increase in the company's quarterly cash dividend from $0.51 per share to $0.57 per share beginning
with the dividend payable on February 16, 2016 to stockholders of record as of January 15, 2016. This reflects an increase of approximately 12 percent
over the previous quarterly rate.
On February 14, May 15, August 15, and November 17, 2014, AbbVie paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.40, $0.42, $0.42 and $0.42 per share of
common stock, respectively, which were declared by the board of directors on December 12, 2013 and February 20, June 19, and September 19, 2014,
respectively.
Stock Repurchase Program
On February 15, 2013, AbbVie's board of directors authorized a $1.5 billion stock repurchase program. On October 20, 2014, AbbVie's board of
directors authorized a new $5.0 billion stock repurchase program, which was effective immediately and superseded the previous authorization. The
current stock repurchase authorization permits purchases of AbbVie shares from time to time in open market or private transactions at management's
discretion depending on the company's cash flows, net debt level and market conditions. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued at any
time.
In March 2015, the board of directors authorized a $5.0 billion increase to the existing stock repurchase program in anticipation of executing an
accelerated share repurchase agreement in connection with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. On May 26, 2015, AbbVie entered into and executed the
$5.0 billion ASR with Morgan Stanley. Pursuant to the terms of ASR, Morgan Stanley made an initial delivery of approximately 68 million shares of
AbbVie's common stock on May 27, 2015, which represented approximately 90 percent of the total shares expected to be delivered under the ASR.
Morgan Stanley subsequently delivered an additional 5 million shares of AbbVie's common stock to AbbVie in final settlement of the ASR in 2015.
AbbVie recorded the aggregate $5.0 billion purchase price as a reduction to common stock held in treasury in the consolidated balance sheet as of
December 31, 2015.
In addition to the ASR, AbbVie repurchased approximately 46 million shares, 9 million shares, and 4 million shares for $2.8 billion, $550 million,
and $223 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, in the open market. AbbVie settled $300 million of its 2015 open market purchases in 2016.
Shares repurchased under these programs are recorded at acquisition cost, including related expenses, and are available for general corporate
purposes. AbbVie's remaining share repurchase authorization was $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2015.
​ 92 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
The following table summarizes the changes in each component of AOCI, net of tax, for 2015, 2014 and 2013:
Unrealized
gains
Foreign Pension (losses) on
currency and post- marketable
translation employment equity Hedging
(in millions) (brackets denote losses) adjustments benefits securities activities Total
Balance as of December 31, 2012 $ 181 $ (511) $ 1 $ (21) $ (350)
Other comprehensive income (loss) before
reclassifications 48 519 1 (77) 491
Net losses reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive loss — 79 — — 79
Net current-period other comprehensive income (loss) 48 598 1 (77) 570
Separation-related adjustments 241 (914) — 11 (662)
Balance as of December 31, 2013 470 (827) 2 (87) (442)
Other comprehensive (loss) income before
reclassifications (1,073) (827) 1 187 (1,712)
Net losses reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive loss — 46 — 77 123
Net current-period other comprehensive (loss) income (1,073) (781) 1 264 (1,589)
Balance as of December 31, 2014 (603) (1,608) 3 177 (2,031)
Other comprehensive income before reclassifications (667) 147 48 122 (350)
Net losses (gains) reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive loss — 83 (4) (259) (180)
Net current-period other comprehensive (loss) income (667) 230 44 (137) (530)
Balance as of December 31, 2015 $ (1,270) $ (1,378) $ 47 $ 40 $ (2,561)
Other comprehensive loss in 2014 includes foreign currency translation adjustments totaling a loss of $1.1 billion, which was principally driven by
(i) the impact of the substantial weakening of the Euro in 2014 on the translation of the company's Euro-denominated assets, and (ii) the weakening of
foreign currencies in combination with an increased concentration of cash denominated in foreign currencies accumulated in anticipation of the
terminated proposed combination with Shire plc. Other comprehensive loss in 2015 includes foreign currency translation adjustments totaling a loss of
$667 million, which was principally driven by the impact of the continued weakening of the Euro on the translation of the company's Euro-denominated
assets.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 93The table below presents the impact on AbbVie's consolidated statements of earnings for significant amounts reclassified out of each component of
accumulated other comprehensive loss:
years ended December 31 (in millions) (brackets denote gains) 2015 2014 2013
Pension and post-employment benefits
Amortization of actuarial losses and other(a) $ 129 $ 66 $ 114
Less tax benefit (46) (20) (35)
Total reclassifications, net of tax $ 83 $ 46 $ 79
Hedging activities
(Gains) losses on designated cash flow hedges(b) $ (265) $ 79 $ —
Less tax expense (benefit) 6 (2) —
Total reclassifications, net of tax $ (259) $ 77 $ —
(a) Amounts are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost (see Note 11).
(b) Amounts are included in cost of products sold (see Note 10).
Other
In addition to common stock, AbbVie's authorized capital includes 200 million shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01. As of December 31, 2015,
no shares of preferred stock were issued or outstanding.
Note 13 Income Taxes
Earnings Before Income Tax Expense
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013
Domestic $ (1,038) $ (3,245) $ (581)
Foreign 7,683 5,614 5,913
Total earnings before income tax expense $ 6,645 $ 2,369 $ 5,332
The domestic loss before income taxes in 2014 was driven by transaction and financing-related costs associated with the terminated proposed
combination with Shire. Refer to Note 5 for further information.
Income Tax Expense
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013
Current
Domestic $ 1,036 $ 634 $ 226
Foreign 313 341 354
Total current taxes $ 1,349 $ 975 $ 580
Deferred
Domestic $ 141 $ (301) $ 678
Foreign 11 (79) (54)
Total deferred taxes $ 152 $ (380) $ 624
Total income tax expense $ 1,501 $ 595 $ 1,204
​ 94 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation
years ended December 31 2015 2014 2013
Statutory tax rate 35.0% 35.0% 35.0%
State taxes, net of federal benefit 0.1 — 0.3
Effect of foreign operations (9.4) (11.3) (11.5)
U.S. tax credits (4.5) (8.9) (2.7)
Branded prescription drug fee 0.7 3.7 0.4
Valuation allowances (1.6) 3.6 0.1
All other, net 2.3 3.0 1.0
Effective tax rate 22.6% 25.1% 22.6%
The effective tax rate fluctuates year to year due to the allocation of the company's taxable earnings among jurisdictions, as well as certain
discrete factors and events in each year, including acquisitions and collaborations. The effective tax rates in 2015, 2014 and 2013 differed from the
statutory tax rate principally due to the benefit from foreign operations which reflects the impact of lower income tax rates in locations outside the United
States, tax exemptions and incentives in Puerto Rico and other foreign tax jurisdictions, and business development activities together with the cost of
repatriation decisions. The effective tax rates for these periods also reflected the benefit from U.S. tax credits principally related to research and
development credits, the orphan drug tax credit and Puerto Rico excise tax credits. The research and development credits for 2015 and 2014 were due to
legislation enacted in the fourth quarter of each year that retroactively extended the credit. The Puerto Rico excise tax credits relate to legislation
enacted by Puerto Rico that assesses an excise tax beginning in 2011 on certain products manufactured in Puerto Rico. The tax is levied on gross
inventory purchases from entities in Puerto Rico and is included in cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of earnings. The majority of the
tax is creditable for U.S. income tax purposes. The effective income tax rate in 2015 included a tax benefit of $103 million from a reduction of state
valuation allowances.
The effective tax rate in 2014 included additional expenses of $129 million related to the Branded Prescription Drug Fee, which is non-deductible,
and state valuation allowances of $129 million. On July 28, 2014, the Internal Revenue Service issued final rules and regulations for the Branded
Prescription Drug Fee, an annual non-tax-deductible fee payable to the federal government under the Affordable Care Act based on an allocation of a
company's market share for branded prescription drugs sold to certain government programs in the prior year. The final rules accelerated the expense
recognition criteria for the fee obligation from the year in which the fee is paid, to the year in which the market share used to allocate the fee is
determined. This change required AbbVie and other industry participants to recognize an additional year of expense in 2014.
The effective income tax rate in 2015, 2014 and 2013 reflects income tax expenses relating to current earnings outside the United States that are
not deemed indefinitely reinvested.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 95Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
as of December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014
Deferred tax assets
Compensation and employee benefits $ 584 $ 627
Accruals and reserves 368 376
Chargebacks and rebates 472 297
Deferred revenue 372 382
Depreciation 45 53
Net operating losses and other credit carryforwards 282 125
Other 316 292
Total deferred tax assets 2,439 2,152
Valuation allowances (70) (172)
Total net deferred tax assets 2,369 1,980
Deferred tax liabilities
Excess of book basis over tax basis of intangible assets (4,459) (331)
Excess of book basis over tax basis in investments (2,958) (326)
Total deferred tax liabilities (7,417) (657)
Net deferred tax (liabilities) assets $ (5,048) $ 1,323
The increases in the deferred tax liabilities are primarily due to the acquisition of Pharmacyclics in which AbbVie recorded the excess of book
basis over tax basis of intangible assets and investments.
Gross federal net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2015 were $293 million and $147 million, respectively, and are
available for use through 2035. Gross state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2015 were $1.3 billion and $152 million,
respectively. The state tax carryforwards expire between 2017 and 2035. As of December 31, 2015, foreign net operating loss carryforwards were
$232 million. Foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $177 million expire between 2018 and 2023, and the remaining do not have an expiration period.
As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the company had valuation allowances of $70 million and $172 million, respectively, principally related to state
net operating losses and credit carryforwards that are not expected to be realized.
Deferred income taxes have not been provided on approximately $25 billion of the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as these earnings
have been indefinitely reinvested for continued use in foreign operations. Due to the complexities in tax laws and assumptions that would have to be
made, it is not practicable to estimate the amount of income taxes that would be due if these earnings were distributed.
Unrecognized Tax Benefits
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013
Balance as of January 1 $ 421 $ 247 $ 1,140
Increase due to current year tax positions 187 115 195
Increase due to prior year tax positions 369 67 —
Decrease due to prior year tax positions (15) (6) —
Lapse of statutes of limitations (8) (2) —
Separation-related adjustments — — (1,088)
Balance as of December 31 $ 954 $ 421 $ 247
​ 96 | 2015 Form 10-K ​AbbVie and Abbott entered into a tax sharing agreement, effective on the date of separation, which provides that Abbott is liable for and has
indemnified AbbVie against all income tax liabilities for periods prior to the separation. AbbVie will be responsible for unrecognized tax benefits and
related interest and penalties for periods after separation or in instances where an existing entity was transferred to AbbVie upon separation.
The table above reflects the 2013 reduction of $1.1 billion relating to tax periods prior to the separation for which Abbott is the primary obligor.
However, under U.S. Treasury Regulations, each member of a consolidated group is severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of each other
member of the consolidated group. Accordingly, with respect to periods in which AbbVie was included in Abbott's consolidated group, AbbVie could be
liable to the U.S. government for any U.S. federal income tax liability incurred by the consolidated group, to the extent not discharged by any other
member. However, if any such liability were imposed, AbbVie would be entitled to be indemnified by Abbott pursuant to the tax sharing agreement.
If recognized, the net amount of potential tax benefits that would impact the company's effective tax rate is $901 million and $389 million in 2015
and 2014, respectively. Of the unrecognized tax benefits recorded in the table above as of December 31, 2015, AbbVie would be indemnified for
approximately $107 million. The "Increase due to prior year tax positions" in the table above includes amounts relating to federal, state, and international
items as well as prior positions acquired through business development activities during the year. Uncertain tax positions are generally included as a
long-term liability on the consolidated balance sheets.
AbbVie recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. In 2015, 2014, and 2013, AbbVie recognized gross
income tax expense of $13 million, $10 million, and $3 million, respectively, for interest and penalties related to income tax matters. At December 31,
2015, 2014, and 2013, AbbVie had $83 million, $25 million, and $15 million accrued for the payment of gross interest and penalties.
The company is routinely audited by the tax authorities in significant jurisdictions, and a number of audits are currently underway. It is reasonably
possible during the next twelve months that uncertain tax positions may be settled, which could result in a decrease in the gross amount of
unrecognized tax benefits. Due to the potential for resolution of federal, state, and foreign examinations, and the expiration of various statutes of
limitation, the company's gross unrecognized tax benefits balance may change within the next twelve months up to $15 million. All significant federal,
state, local, and international matters have been concluded for years through 2005. The company believes adequate provision has been made for all
income tax uncertainties.
Note 14 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies
AbbVie is subject to contingencies, such as various claims, legal proceedings and investigations regarding product liability, intellectual property,
commercial, securities and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. Loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at
management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount within a probable range is
recorded. The recorded accrual balance for litigation at December 31, 2015 was $166 million and at December 31, 2014 was not significant. Initiation of
new legal proceedings or a change in the status of existing proceedings may result in a change in the estimated loss accrued by AbbVie. While it is not
feasible to predict the outcome of all proceedings and exposures with certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a
material adverse effect on AbbVie's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Subject to certain exceptions specified in the separation agreement by and between Abbott and AbbVie, AbbVie assumed the liability for, and
control of, all pending and threatened legal matters related to its business, including liabilities for any claims or legal proceedings related to products that
had been part
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 97of its business but were discontinued prior to the distribution, as well as assumed or retained liabilities, and will indemnify Abbott for any liability arising
out of or resulting from such assumed legal matters.
Several pending lawsuits filed against Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company Abbott acquired in February 2010
and now known as AbbVie Products LLC) and others are consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Georgia under the Multi-District Litigation (MDL) Rules as In re: AndroGel Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 2084. These cases, brought by private plaintiffs
and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), generally allege Solvay's 2006 patent litigation involving AndroGel was sham litigation and the patent litigation
settlement agreement and related agreements with three generic companies violate federal and state antitrust laws and state consumer protection and
unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. MDL No. 2084 includes: (a) four
individual plaintiff lawsuits; (b) six purported class actions; and (c) Federal Trade Commission v. Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al. Following the
district court's dismissal of all plaintiffs' claims, appellate proceedings led to the reinstatement of the claims regarding the patent litigation settlement,
which are proceeding in discovery in the district court. The Attorney General of the State of Alaska has served AbbVie with a Civil Investigative Demand,
primarily seeking documents that AbbVie produced in these lawsuits.
In November 2007, GlaxoSmithKline plc (GSK) filed a lawsuit against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California
alleging that Abbott violated federal antitrust and various state laws in connection with the 2003 Norvir re-pricing. In March 2011, a jury found that Abbott
did not violate antitrust laws, but breached its license agreement with GSK. In January 2014, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
reversed this verdict and remanded the case for a new trial due to the alleged improper exclusion of a potential juror. The case was returned to the
district court in California, but after GSK dismissed its federal antitrust claims, the case was transferred in April 2015 to the United States District Court
for the Middle District of North Carolina, where pre-trial proceedings are pending. AbbVie assumed the liability for and control of this proceeding in
connection with its separation from Abbott.
Lawsuits are pending against AbbVie and others generally alleging that the 2005 patent litigation settlement involving Niaspan entered into between
Kos Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company acquired by Abbott in 2006 and presently a subsidiary of AbbVie) and a generic company violates federal and
state antitrust laws and state unfair and deceptive trade practices and unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or
injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. The lawsuits consist of three individual plaintiff lawsuits and two consolidated purported class actions: one brought by
three named direct purchasers of Niaspan and the other brought by ten named end-payor purchasers of Niaspan. The cases are consolidated for pre-trial
proceedings in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania under the MDL Rules as In re: Niaspan Antitrust Litigation, MDL
No. 2460. The office of the Attorney General of the State of Alaska has served AbbVie with a Civil Investigative Demand, primarily seeking documents
that AbbVie produced in this lawsuit.
In September 2014, the FTC filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against AbbVie and others,
alleging that the 2011 patent litigation with two generic companies regarding AndroGel was sham litigation and the patent litigation settlement with one of
those generic companies violates federal antitrust laws. The FTC's complaint seeks monetary damages and injunctive relief. In May 2015, the court
dismissed the FTC's claim regarding the patent litigation settlement. The office of the Attorney General of the State of Alaska has served AbbVie with a
Civil Investigative Demand, primarily seeking documents that AbbVie produced in this lawsuit.
In March 2015, the State of Louisiana filed a lawsuit, State of Louisiana v. Fournier Industrie et Sante, et al., against AbbVie, Abbott and affiliated
Abbott entities in Louisiana state court. Plaintiff alleges that patent applications and patent litigation filed and other alleged conduct from the early 2000's
and before related to the drug TriCor violated Louisiana state antitrust and unfair trade practices laws. The lawsuit
​ 98 | 2015 Form 10-K ​seeks monetary damages and attorneys' fees. In August 2015, the court dismissed the case as time-barred. The state's appeal of that dismissal is
pending.
In August 2013, a putative class action lawsuit, Sidney Hillman Health Center of Rochester, et al. v. AbbVie Inc., et al., was filed against AbbVie
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois by three healthcare benefit providers alleging violations of Federal Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) statutes and state deceptive business practice and unjust enrichment laws in connection with
reimbursements for certain uses of Depakote from 1998 to 2012. Plaintiffs seek monetary damages and/or equitable relief and attorneys' fees.
In November 2014, a putative class action lawsuit, Medical Mutual of Ohio v. AbbVie Inc., et al., was filed against several manufacturers of
testosterone replacement therapies (TRTs), including AbbVie, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois on behalf of all
insurance companies, health benefit providers, and other third party payors who paid for TRTs, including AndroGel. The claims asserted include
violations of the federal RICO Act and state consumer fraud and deceptive trade practices laws. The complaint seeks monetary damages and injunctive
relief. A similar lawsuit, Allied Services Division Welfare Fund v. AbbVie Inc., et al., was filed in the same court in October 2015 on behalf of the same
putative class members and a putative class of consumers.
Product liability cases are pending in which plaintiffs generally allege that AbbVie and other manufacturers of TRTs did not adequately warn about
risks of certain injuries, primarily heart attacks, strokes and blood clots. Approximately 2,500 claims are consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois under the MDL Rules as In re: Testosterone Replacement Therapy Products Liability Litigation,
MDL No. 2545. Approximately 170 claims are pending in various state courts. Plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages.
Product liability cases are pending in which plaintiffs generally allege that AbbVie did not adequately warn about risk of certain injuries, primarily
various birth defects, arising from use of Depakote. Over ninety percent of the approximately 715 claims are pending in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of Illinois, and the rest are pending in various other federal and state courts. Plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages.
In November 2014, five individuals filed a putative class action lawsuit on behalf of purchasers and sellers of certain Shire securities between
June 20 and October 14, 2014, against AbbVie and its chief executive officer in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging
that the defendants made and/or are responsible for material misstatements in violation of federal securities laws in connection with AbbVie's proposed
transaction with Shire. The complaint seeks monetary damages and injunctive relief.
In December 2014, a shareholder derivative lawsuit, Plumbers & Steamfitters Local 60 Pension Plans v. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, et al., was
filed in Delaware Chancery Court, alleging that AbbVie's directors breached their fiduciary duties in connection with the approval and termination of
AbbVie's proposed transaction with Shire. The lawsuit seeks monetary damages for AbbVie, among other relief.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 99Note 15 Segment and Geographic Area Information
AbbVie operates in one business segment—pharmaceutical products. Substantially all of AbbVie's net revenues in the United States are to three
wholesalers. Outside the United States, products are sold primarily to health care providers or through distributors, depending on the market served. The
following tables detail AbbVie's worldwide net revenues:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013
HUMIRA $ 14,012 $ 12,543 $ 10,659
IMBRUVICA 754 — —
VIEKIRA 1,639 48 —
Creon 632 516 412
Synagis 740 835 827
Lupron 826 778 785
Synthroid 755 709 622
Kaletra 700 870 962
AndroGel 694 934 1,035
Sevoflurane 474 550 568
Duodopa 231 220 178
Dyslipidemia products 179 328 1,076
All other 1,223 1,629 1,666
Total net revenues $ 22,859 $ 19,960 $ 18,790
Net revenues to external customers by geographic area, based on product shipment destination, were as follows:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2015 2014 2013
United States $ 13,561 $ 10,845 $ 10,181
Germany 1,082 1,035 911
United Kingdom 688 722 606
Spain 618 534 543
Japan 599 581 625
France 597 584 540
Canada 551 551 538
Italy 452 432 404
Brazil 376 435 439
The Netherlands 334 345 332
All other countries 4,001 3,896 3,671
Total net revenues $ 22,859 $ 19,960 $ 18,790
Long-lived assets include net property and equipment of $2.6 billion and $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, of which $1.9 billion and
$1.8 billion, respectively, was located in the United States and Puerto Rico and $513 million and $551 million, respectively, was located in Europe.
​ 100 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Note 16 Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
(in millions except per share data) 2015 2014
First Quarter
Net revenues $ 5,040 $ 4,563
Gross margin $ 4,098 $ 3,463
Net earnings(a) $ 1,022 $ 980
Basic earnings per share $ 0.64 $ 0.61
Diluted earnings per share $ 0.63 $ 0.61
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.51 $ 0.42
Second Quarter
Net revenues $ 5,475 $ 4,926
Gross margin $ 4,559 $ 3,813
Net earnings(b) $ 1,366 $ 1,098
Basic earnings per share $ 0.84 $ 0.69
Diluted earnings per share $ 0.83 $ 0.68
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.51 $ 0.42
Third Quarter
Net revenues $ 5,944 $ 5,019
Gross margin $ 4,777 $ 3,925
Net earnings(c) $ 1,239 $ 506
Basic earnings per share $ 0.75 $ 0.32
Diluted earnings per share $ 0.74 $ 0.31
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.51 $ 0.42
Fourth Quarter
Net revenues(d) $ 6,400 $ 5,452
Gross margin(d) $ 4,925 $ 4,333
Net earnings (loss)(e) $ 1,517 $ (810)
Basic earnings (loss) per share $ 0.93 $ (0.51)(f)
Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 0.92 $ (0.51)(f)
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.57 $ 0.49
(a) Results for the first quarter of 2015 included after-tax foreign exchange losses of $170 million related to the liquidation in 2015 of
remaining foreign currency positions related to the terminated proposed combination with Shire in 2014, a $100 million after-tax
charge as a result of entering into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with C2N and after-tax costs of $41 million incurred in
connection with the with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics.
(b) Second quarter results for 2015 included after-tax costs totaling $215 million incurred in connection with the acquisition and
integration of Pharmacyclics. In 2014, second quarter results included an after-tax charge of $40 million related to a regulatory
milestone made to a collaboration partner for regulatory milestones related to the company's HCV program.
(c) Results for the third quarter of 2015 included a $350 million after-tax charge related to the purchase of a rare pediatric disease
PRV from United Therapeutics Corporation, after after-tax costs totaling $85 million incurred in connection with the acquisition and
integration of Pharmacyclics, and an $83 million after-tax charge due to the achievement of a development milestone under the
global collaboration with Infinity. In 2014, third quarter results included a $173 million after-tax charge as a result of entering into a
global collaboration with Infinity, a $250 million after-tax charge related to a research and development collaboration agreement
with Calico, and transaction and financing-related
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 101and other costs aggregating $172 million after-tax that were incurred in connection with the terminated proposed combination with
Shire. Refer to Note 5 for further information relating to the termination of the proposed combination with Shire and the
collaborations with Calico and Infinity.
(d) Net revenues and gross margin in 2015 included milestone revenue of $40 million from a collaboration partner related the
company's oncology program. Net revenues and gross margin in 2014 include royalty income of $81 million relating to prior periods
as a result of the settlement of a licensing arrangement.
(e) Fourth quarter results for 2015 included after-tax costs totaling $68 million incurred in connection with the acquisition and
integration of Pharmacyclics and after-tax charges of $101 million to increase the company's litigation reserves. For 2014, results
for the fourth quarter included after-tax transaction and financing-related and other costs incurred in connection with the terminated
proposed combination with Shire aggregating $1.6 billion and a $500 million after-tax charge related to the research and
development collaboration agreement with Calico.
(f) Basic loss per share for the fourth quarter of 2014 was calculated under the treasury-stock method as it was more dilutive.
Approximately 36 million common shares were excluded from the computation of diluted (loss) per share assuming dilution
because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
​ 102 | 2015 Form 10-K ​REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of AbbVie Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the
related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2015. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of AbbVie Inc.
and subsidiaries at December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2015, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), AbbVie Inc. and
subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 19, 2016 expressed
an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
February 19, 2016
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 103ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures. The Chief Executive Officer, Richard A. Gonzalez, and the Chief Financial Officer,
William J. Chase, evaluated the effectiveness of AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and
concluded that AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information AbbVie is required to disclose in the reports that it
files or submits with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by AbbVie in the
reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to AbbVie's management, including its
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting. Management's report on internal control over financial reporting is
included on page 105 hereof. The report of AbbVie's independent registered public accounting firm related to its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting is included on page 106 hereof.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting. As part of its separation from Abbott, in 2014 AbbVie began a phased global
implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system, related technology infrastructure and transaction processing services to replace the
information technology infrastructure and transactional services provided to AbbVie by Abbott under various transition services agreements. These
initiatives, which were completed in 2015, included modifications to the design and operation of controls over financial reporting. AbbVie reviewed these
controls for design effectiveness prior to the implementation of each phase.
There were no other changes in AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended
December 31, 2015.
Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls. AbbVie's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer,
do not expect that AbbVie's disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system,
no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. The
design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their
costs. Further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements
due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the
realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be
circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls.
The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance
that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to
future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of
compliance with policies or procedures.
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
None.
​ 104 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management of AbbVie is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States. However, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even
those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and reporting.
Management assessed the effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015. In making this assessment,
management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-
Integrated Framework (2013 framework). Based on that assessment, management concluded that AbbVie maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the COSO criteria.
On May 26, 2015, AbbVie acquired Pharmacyclics, Inc. (Pharmacyclics), which represents a material change in the internal control over financial
reporting since management's last assessment of effectiveness. Management has excluded Pharmacyclics from its assessment of and conclusion on
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015. AbbVie's consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015
included $1 billion of total assets (excluding goodwill and other intangible assets which were included in management's assessment of internal controls
over financial reporting) related to Pharmacyclics. In addition, AbbVie's consolidated statement of net earnings for 2015 included $774 million of net
revenues and reflected a net loss of $331 million related to Pharmacyclics.
The effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report appearing on page 106 hereof, which expresses an unqualified opinion
on the effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 105REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of AbbVie Inc.
We have audited AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the
COSO criteria). AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries' management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained
in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
As indicated in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management's assessment of and
conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include internal controls of Pharmacyclics, Inc., which was acquired on
May 26, 2015 and is included in the 2015 consolidated financial statements of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries and constituted $1 billion of total assets
(excluding goodwill and other intangible assets which were included in management's assessment of and conclusions on the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting) as of December 31, 2015 and $774 million and $331 million of revenues and net loss, respectively, for the year then
ended. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over
financial reporting of Pharmacyclics, Inc.
In our opinion, AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries' maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2015, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated
balance sheets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries and our report dated February 19, 2016 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
February 19, 2016
​ 106 | 2015 Form 10-K ​PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Incorporated herein by reference are "Information Concerning Director Nominees," "The Board of Directors and its Committees—Committees of the
Board of Directors," "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance," and "Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and
Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting" to be included in the 2016 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement. The 2016 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed
on or about March 21, 2016. Also incorporated herein by reference is the text found under the caption, "Executive Officers of the Registrant" on pages 26
and 27 hereof.
AbbVie's code of business conduct requires all its business activities to be conducted in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and
ethical principles and values. All directors, officers, and employees of AbbVie are required to read, understand, and abide by the requirements of the
code of business conduct applicable to them. AbbVie's code of business conduct is available in the corporate governance section of AbbVie's investor
relations website at www.abbvieinvestor.com.
Any waiver of the code of business conduct for directors or executive officers may be made only by AbbVie's audit committee. AbbVie will disclose
any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of the code of conduct for the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting
officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions, on its website within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver. In
addition, AbbVie will disclose any waiver from the code of business conduct for the other executive officers and for directors on the website.
AbbVie has a chief ethics and compliance officer who reports to the chief executive officer and to the public policy committee. The chief ethics and
compliance officer is responsible for overseeing, administering, and monitoring AbbVie's compliance program.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The material to be included in the 2016 Proxy Statement under the headings "Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and
"Compensation Committee Report" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2016 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 21, 2016.
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
(a) Equity Compensation Plan Information.
The following table presents information as of December 31, 2015 about AbbVie's equity compensation plans under which AbbVie common stock
has been authorized for issuance:
(c)
Number of
securities
remaining
(a) available for
Number of (b) future
securities to Weighted- issuance
be average under equity
issued upon exercise compensation
exercise of price of plans
outstanding outstanding (excluding
options, options, securities
warrants and warrants and reflected in
Plan Category rights(1) rights(2) column (a))
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 34,485,674 $ 30.64 86,286,146
Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders — — —
Total 34,485,674 $ 30.64 86,286,146
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 107(1) Includes 20,061,746 shares issuable under AbbVie's Incentive Stock Program pursuant to awards granted by Abbott and adjusted
into AbbVie awards in connection with AbbVie's separation from Abbott.
(2) The weighted-average exercise price does not include outstanding restricted stock units and restricted stock awards that have no
exercise price.
(b) Information Concerning Security Ownership. Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the heading "Securities Ownership—
Securities Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in the 2016 Proxy Statement. The 2016 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or
about March 21, 2016.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The material to be included in the 2016 Proxy Statement under the headings "The Board of Directors and its Committees," "Corporate Governance
Materials," and "Procedures for Approval of Related Person Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2016 Definitive Proxy Statement will
be filed on or about March 21, 2016.
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
The material to be included in the 2016 Proxy Statement under the headings "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" and "Policy on Audit Committee
Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" is incorporated herein by reference.
The 2016 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 21, 2016.
​ 108 | 2015 Form 10-K ​PART IV
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a) Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K.
(1) Financial Statements: See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," on page 47 hereof, for a list of financial statements.
(2) Financial Statement Schedules: All schedules omitted are inapplicable or the information required is shown in the consolidated financial
statements or notes thereto.
(3) Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K: The information called for by this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the
Exhibit Index on pages 111 through 113 of this Form 10-K.
(b) Exhibits filed: See Exhibit Index on pages 111 through 113.
(c) Financial Statement Schedules: None applicable.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 109SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, AbbVie Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
AbbVie Inc.
By: /s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ
Name: Richard A. Gonzalez
Title: Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer
Date: February 19, 2016
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
AbbVie Inc. on February 19, 2016 in the capacities indicated below.
/s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ /s/ WILLIAM J. CHASE
Richard A. Gonzalez William J. Chase
Chairman of the Board and Executive Vice President,
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Executive Officer) (Principal Financial Officer)
/s/ THOMAS A. HURWICH
Thomas A. Hurwich
Vice President, Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
/s/ ROBERT J. ALPERN, M.D. /s/ ROXANNE S. AUSTIN
Robert J. Alpern, M.D. Roxanne S. Austin
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ WILLIAM H.L. BURNSIDE /s/ EDWARD M. LIDDY
William H.L. Burnside Edward M. Liddy
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ EDWARD J. RAPP /s/ ROY S. ROBERTS
Edward J. Rapp Roy S. Roberts
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ GLENN F. TILTON /s/ FREDERICK H. WADDELL
Glenn F. Tilton Frederick H. Waddell
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
​ 110 | 2015 Form 10-K ​EXHIBIT INDEX
ABBVIE INC.
ANNUAL REPORT
FORM 10-K
2015
Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description
2.1 *Agreement and Plan of Reorganization by and among AbbVie Inc., Oxford Amherst Corporation, Oxford
Amherst LLC and Pharmacyclics, Inc. dated as of March 4, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 6, 2015).
2.2 *Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Reorganization by and among AbbVie Inc., Oxford Amherst
Corporation, Oxford Amherst LLC and Pharmacyclics, Inc. dated as of March 22, 2015 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 23, 2015).
3.1 *Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of
the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).
3.2 *Amended and Restated By-Laws of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Company's
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).
4.1 *Indenture dated as of November 8, 2012 between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's Registration Statement on
Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012).
4.2 *Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated as of November 8, 2012 among AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National
Association, including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of Amendment No. 5 to the
Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012).
4.3 *Supplemental Indenture No. 2 dated May 14, 2015, between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association,
as trustee, including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company's Current Report
on Form 8-K filed on May 14, 2015).
4.4 *Support Agreement by and among AbbVie Inc., Oxford Amherst Corporation and Robert W. Duggan dated as
of March 4, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
March 6, 2015).
10.1 *Form of Agreement Regarding Change in Control by and between AbbVie Inc. and its named executive officers
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's Registration Statement on
Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012).**
10.2 *AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the AbbVie Inc. Definitive
Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A dated March 15, 2013).**
10.3 *AbbVie 2013 Management Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed on March 15, 2013).**
10.4 AbbVie Performance Incentive Plan, as amended and restated.**
10.5 AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated.**
10.6 AbbVie Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, as amended and restated.**
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 111Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description
10.7 *AbbVie Supplemental Pension Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 of the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed on March 15, 2013).**
10.8 AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan, as amended and restated. **
10.9 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31,
2013).**
10.10 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Restricted Stock Agreement (CEO/Chairman) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).**
10.11 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Restricted Stock Agreement (Annual) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.5 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).**
10.12 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Restricted Stock Agreement (Interim) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.6 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).**
10.13 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the
Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).**
10.14 *Pharmacyclics, Inc. 2014 Equity Incentive Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the
Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed on May 27, 2015).**
10.15 *Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2014, among AbbVie Inc., AbbVie Private Limited, AbbVie
Holdings Private Limited, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the lenders and other parties party thereto
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 21,
2014).
10.16 *Amendment No. 1 to Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2015, by and among AbbVie Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the lenders party thereto (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 20, 2015).
10.17 *Three-Year Term Loan Agreement, dated as of September 25, 2015, among AbbVie, Bank of America, N.A.
and the lenders and other parties party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 29, 2015).
10.18 *364-Day Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of September 25, 2015, among AbbVie, Bank of America,
N.A. and the lenders and other parties party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 29, 2015).
10.19 *364-Day Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of March 27, 2015, among the Company, as borrower,
the various financial institutions party thereto, as lenders, and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as
administrative agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on March 30, 2015).
10.20 *Underwriting Agreement, dated as of May 5, 2015, by and among AbbVie Inc., and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC,
Barclays Capital Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated,
as representatives of the several other underwriters named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of
the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 7, 2015).
​ 112 | 2015 Form 10-K ​Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description
12 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
21 Subsidiaries of AbbVie Inc.
23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).
31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).
32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
101 The following financial statements and notes from the AbbVie Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2015 filed on February 19, 2016, formatted in XBRL: (i) Consolidated Statements of
Earnings; (ii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income; (iii) Consolidated Balance Sheets;
(iv) Consolidated Statements of Equity; (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows; and (vi) the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.
The AbbVie Inc. 2016 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
under separate cover on or about March 21, 2016.
* Incorporated herein by reference. Commission file number 001-35565.
** Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.
AbbVie will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a stockholder upon written request to the Secretary, AbbVie Inc., 1 North Waukegan
Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064.
​ ​ 2015 Form 10-K | 113