UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021
OR
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from to
Commission file number 001-35565
AbbVie Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 32-0375147
(State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. employer
incorporation or organization) identification number)
1 North Waukegan Road
North Chicago, Illinois 60064-6400
(847) 932-7900
(Address, including zip code, and telephone number of principal executive offices)
Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of Each Class Trading Symbol(s) Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share ABBV New York Stock Exchange
Chicago Stock Exchange
1.500% Senior Notes due 2023 ABBV23B New York Stock Exchange
1.375% Senior Notes due 2024 ABBV24 New York Stock Exchange
1.250% Senior Notes due 2024 ABBV24B New York Stock Exchange
0.750% Senior Notes due 2027 ABBV27 New York Stock Exchange
2.125% Senior Notes due 2028 ABBV28 New York Stock Exchange
2.625% Senior Notes due 2028 ABBV28B New York Stock Exchange
2.125% Senior Notes due 2029 ABBV29 New York Stock Exchange
1.250% Senior Notes due 2031 ABBV31 New York Stock Exchange
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.
Yes ☐ No ☒
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.
Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).
Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer ☒ Accelerated Filer ☐
Non-Accelerated Filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or
revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control
over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit
report. ☒
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
Yes ☐ No ☒
The aggregate market value of the 1,751,117,802 shares of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price asreported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of AbbVie Inc.'s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2021), was
$197,245,909,217. AbbVie has no non-voting common equity.
Number of common shares outstanding as of January 31, 2022: 1,768,753,829
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the 2022 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 21,
2022.ABBVIE INC.
FORM 10-K
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2021
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PART I
Item 1. BUSINESS 1
Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 15
Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 25
Item 2. PROPERTIES 25
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 26
Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 26
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 27
PART II
Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY 29
SECURITIES
Item 6. [RESERVED] 31
Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 32
Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 48
Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 49
Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 103
Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 103
Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 105
PART III
Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 106
Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 106
Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 107
Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 107
Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 107
PART IV
Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 108
Item 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 112
SIGNATURES 113PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Overview
AbbVie(1) is a global, diversified research-based biopharmaceutical company positioned for success with a comprehensive product portfolio that has
leadership positions across immunology, hematologic oncology, neuroscience, aesthetics and eye care. AbbVie uses its expertise, dedicated people and unique
approach to innovation to develop and market advanced therapies that address some of the world’s most complex and serious diseases.
AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent, publicly-traded company as a result of the
distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100% of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders.
Impact of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic continues to spread throughout the United States and around the world. As COVID-19 continues to have an impact
worldwide, AbbVie is focused on the health and safety of its employees, health care professionals and patients and communities. In the continued operation of its
business, AbbVie has followed health and safety guidance from relevant health authorities, managed manufacturing and supply chain resources and monitored
closely its clinical trial sites. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Impact of the Coronavirus
Disease 2019 (COVID-19)."
Segments
AbbVie operates as a single global business segment dedicated to the research and development, manufacturing, commercialization and sale of innovative
medicines and therapies. This operating structure enables the Chief Executive Officer, as chief operating decision maker (CODM), to allocate resources and assess
business performance on a global basis in order to achieve established long-term strategic goals. Consistent with this structure, a global research and development
and supply chain organization is responsible for the discovery, development, manufacturing and supply of products. Commercial efforts that coordinate the
marketing, sales and distribution of these products are organized by geographic region or therapeutic area. All of these activities are supported by a global
corporate administrative staff. The determination of a single business segment is consistent with the consolidated financial information regularly reviewed by the
CODM for purposes of assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods. See Note 16, "Segment and Geographic Area
Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information related to
AbbVie's key products and geographies included under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
_______________________________________________________________________________
(1) As used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the terms "AbbVie" or "the company" refer to AbbVie Inc., a Delaware corporation, or AbbVie Inc.
and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.
|
1 2021 Form 10-KProducts
AbbVie's portfolio of products includes a broad line of therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases.
Immunology products. AbbVie maintains an extensive immunology portfolio across rheumatology, dermatology and gastroenterology. AbbVie's immunology
products address unmet needs for patients with autoimmune diseases. These products are:
Humira. Humira (adalimumab) is a biologic therapy administered as a subcutaneous injection. It is approved to treat the following autoimmune diseases
in the United States, Canada and Mexico (collectively, North America) and in the European Union:
Condition Principal Markets
Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Psoriatic arthritis North America, European Union
Ankylosing spondylitis North America, European Union
Adult Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Plaque psoriasis (moderate to severe chronic) North America, European Union
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (moderate to severe polyarticular) North America, European Union
Ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Axial spondyloarthropathy European Union
Pediatric Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Hidradenitis suppurativa (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Pediatric enthesitis-related arthritis European Union
Non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis North America, European Union
Pediatric ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) U.S., Canada, European Union
Pediatric uveitis North America, European Union
Humira is also approved in Japan for the treatment of intestinal Behçet's disease and pyoderma gangrenosum.
Humira is sold in numerous other markets worldwide, including Japan, China, Brazil and Australia, and accounted for approximately 37% of AbbVie's total
net revenues in 2021.
Skyrizi. Skyrizi (risankizumab) is an interleukin-23 (IL-23) inhibitor that selectively blocks IL-23 by binding to its p19 subunit. It is a biologic therapy
administered as a quarterly subcutaneous injection following two induction doses. Skyrizi is approved in the United States, Canada, Mexico and the European
Union and is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy. In the United
States and the European Union, Skyrizi is additionally approved for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis in adult patients who have an inadequate response
or intolerance to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). In Japan, Skyrizi is approved for the treatment of plaque psoriasis, generalized pustular
psoriasis, erythrodermic psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis in adult patients who have an inadequate response to conventional therapies.
Rinvoq. Rinvoq (upadacitinib) is an oral, once-daily selective and reversible JAK inhibitor that is approved to treat the following inflammatory diseases in
North America, Japan and the European Union:
Condition Principal Markets
Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union, Japan
Psoriatic arthritis U.S., Canada, European Union, Japan
Ankylosing spondylitis European Union
Atopic dermatitis (moderate to severe) U.S., Canada, European Union, Japan
In the United States, Rinvoq is indicated for both the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis, and for active psoriatic arthritis, in adult
patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. It is also indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe atopic
dermatitis in adults and children 12 years of age and older whose disease is not adequately controlled with other systemic drug products, including biologics, or
when use of those therapies are inadvisable.
|
2021 Form 10-K 2Oncology products. AbbVie’s oncology products target some of the most complex and difficult-to-treat cancers. These products are:
Imbruvica. Imbruvica (ibrutinib) is an oral, once-daily therapy that inhibits a protein called Bruton's tyrosine kinase. Imbruvica was one of the first
medicines to receive a United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval after being granted a Breakthrough Therapy Designation and is one of the few
therapies to receive four separate designations. Imbruvica currently is approved for the treatment of adult patients with blood cancers such as chronic
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), as well as certain forms of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Venclexta/Venclyxto. Venclexta (venetoclax) is a B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) inhibitor used to treat hematological malignancies. Venclexta is approved by the
FDA for adults with CLL or SLL. In addition, Venclexta is approved in combination with azacitidine, or decitabine, or low-dose cytarabine to treat adults with
newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia who are 75 years of age or older or have other medical conditions that prevent the use of standard chemotherapy.
Aesthetics products. AbbVie’s Aesthetics portfolio consists of facial injectables, plastics and regenerative medicine, body contouring and skincare products,
which hold market-leading positions in the U.S. and in key markets around the world. These products are:
Botox Cosmetic. Botox Cosmetic is an acetylcholine release inhibitor and a neuromuscular blocking agent indicated for treatment in three areas: temporary
improvement in the appearance of moderate to severe glabellar lines (frown lines between the eyebrows), moderate to severe crow's feet and moderate to severe
forehead lines in adults. Having received its initial FDA approval in 2002, Botox Cosmetic is now approved for use in all major markets around the world and has
become one of the world’s most recognized and iconic brands.
The Juvederm Collection of Fillers. The Juvederm Collection of Fillers is a portfolio of hyaluronic acid-based dermal fillers with a variety of approved
indications in the U.S. and in other major markets around the world to augment or treat volume loss in the cheeks, chin, lips and lower face.
Other aesthetics. Other aesthetics products include, but are not limited to, Coolsculpting body contouring technology, Alloderm regenerative dermal tissue,
Natrelle breast implants, the SkinMedica skincare line and DiamondGlow dermabrasion technology.
Neuroscience products. AbbVie’s neuroscience products address some of the most difficult-to-treat neurologic diseases. These products are:
Botox Therapeutic. Botox Therapeutic (onabotulinumtoxinA injection) is a neuromuscular blocking agent that is injected into muscle tissue in treatment for
the following indications in the United States:
• Prophylaxis of headaches in adult patients with chronic migraine (≥ 15 days per month with headache lasting 4 hours a day or longer).
• Overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency and frequency, in adults who have an inadequate response to or are
intolerant of an anticholinergic medication.
• Urinary incontinence due to detrusor overactivity associated with a neurologic condition (e.g., spinal cord injury, multiple sclerosis) in adults who
have an inadequate response to or are intolerant of an anticholinergic medication.
• Spasticity in patients 2 years of age and older.
• Cervical dystonia in adults to reduce the severity of abnormal head position and neck pain associated with cervical dystonia.
• Strabismus and blepharospasm associated with dystonia, including benign essential blepharospasm or VII nerve disorders in patients 12 years of age
and older.
• Severe primary axillary hyperhidrosis that is inadequately managed with topical agents. Licenses around the world vary.
• Focal spasticity associated with dynamic equinus foot deformity due to spasticity in ambulant pediatric cerebral palsy patients 2 years of age or older.
|
3 2021 Form 10-K• Focal spasticity of the wrist and hand in adult post stroke patients.
• Focal spasticity of the ankle and foot in adult post stroke patients.
Vraylar. Vraylar (cariprazine) is a dopamine D3-preferring D3/D2 receptor partial agonist and a 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist. Its D3 binding profile may
be linked to observed improvements in the negative symptoms of schizophrenia and to antidepressant effects in bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression). Vraylar
is indicated for acute and maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adults, acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder in
adults and acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults.
Duopa and Duodopa (carbidopa and levodopa). AbbVie's levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease is
marketed as Duopa in the United States and as Duodopa outside of the United States.
Ubrelvy. Ubrelvy (ubrogepant) is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults and is only commercialized in the United
States.
Other neuroscience. Other neuroscience products include Qulipta (atogepant), which is indicated for preventive treatment of episodic migraine in adults.
Eye care products. AbbVie’s eye care products address unmet needs and new approaches to help preserve and protect patients’ vision. These products are:
Lumigan/Ganfort. Lumigan (bimatoprost ophthalmic solution) 0.01% is a once daily, topical prostaglandin analog indicated for the reduction of elevated
intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open angle glaucoma (OAG) or ocular hypertension (OHT). Ganfort is a once daily topical fixed combination of
bimatoprost 0.03% and timolol 0.5% for the reduction of IOP in adult patients with OAG or OHT. Lumigan is sold in the United States and numerous markets
around the world, while Ganfort is approved in the European Union and some markets in South America, the Middle East and Asia.
Alphagan/Combigan. Alphagan (brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution) is an alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the reduction of elevated
IOP in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Combigan (brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) is approved for
reducing elevated IOP in patients with glaucoma who require additional or adjunctive IOP-lowering therapy. Both Alphagan and Combigan are available for sale
in the United States and numerous markets around the world.
Restasis. Restasis is a calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated to increase tear production in patients whose tear production is presumed to be
suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca. Restasis is approved in the United States and a number of other markets in
South America, the Middle East and Asia.
Other eye care. Other eye care products include Xen, Durysta, Ozurdex, Refresh/Optive and Vuity.
Women's health products. AbbVie’s women's health products are:
Lo Loestrin. Lo Loestrin Fe is an oral contraceptive. It is indicated for prevention of pregnancy with the lowest dose of estrogen with only 10mcg and is
dispensed in a unique 24/2/2 regimen with a two-day hormone-free interval. It is marketed in the U.S. as Lo Loestrin Fe (norethindrone acetate and ethinyl
estradiol tablets, ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous fumarate tablets) and in select markets outside the U.S. as Lolo.
Orilissa/Oriahnn. Orilissa (elagolix) is the first and only orally-administered, nonpeptide small molecule gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)
antagonist specifically developed for women with moderate to severe endometriosis pain. It represents the first FDA-approved oral treatment for the management
of moderate to severe pain associated with endometriosis in over a decade. Orilissa inhibits endogenous GnRH signaling by binding competitively to GnRH
receptors in the pituitary gland. Administration results in dose-dependent suppression of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone, leading to
decreased blood concentrations of ovarian sex hormones, estradiol and progesterone. Outside the United States, Orilissa is also launched in Canada. Oriahnn
(elagolix, estradiol and norethindrone acetate capsules; elagolix capsules) is a combination prescription medicine used to control heavy menstrual bleeding
related to uterine fibroids in women before menopause.
Other women's health. Other women's health includes Liletta, a sterile, levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system indicated for prevention of pregnancy
for up to six years.
Other key products. AbbVie’s other key products include, among other things, treatments for patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV), metabolic and hormone
products that target a number of conditions, including exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and hypothyroidism, as well as endocrinology products for the
palliative treatment of advanced prostate
|
2021 Form 10-K 4cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. These
products are:
Mavyret/Maviret. Mavyret (glecaprevir/pibrentasvir) is approved in the United States and European Union (Maviret) for the treatment of adult and pediatric
patients (12 years and older or weighing at least 45 kilograms) with chronic HCV genotype 1-6 infection without cirrhosis and with compensated cirrhosis (Child-
Pugh A). It is also indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients (12 years and older or weighing at least 45 kilograms) with HCV genotype 1 infection,
who previously have been treated with a regimen containing an HCV NS5A inhibitor or an NS3/4A protease inhibitor, but not both. It is an 8-week, pan-genotypic
treatment for patients without cirrhosis and following the EXPEDITION-8 study, also in patients with compensated cirrhosis who are new to treatment.
Creon. Creon (pancrelipase) is a pancreatic enzyme therapy for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, a condition that occurs in patients with cystic fibrosis,
chronic pancreatitis and several other conditions.
Lupron. Lupron (leuprolide acetate), which is also marketed as Lucrin and Lupron Depot, is a product for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate
cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. Lupron
is approved for daily subcutaneous injection and one-month, three-month, four-month and six-month intramuscular injection.
Linzess/Constella. Linzess (linaclotide) is a once-daily guanylate cyclase-C agonist used in adults to treat irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS‑C)
and chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC). The product is marketed as Linzess in the United States and as Constella outside of the United States.
Synthroid. Synthroid (levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP) is used in the treatment of hypothyroidism.
AbbVie has the rights to sell Creon and Synthroid only in the United States.
Marketing, Sales and Distribution Capabilities
AbbVie utilizes a combination of dedicated commercial resources, regional commercial resources and distributorships to market, sell and distribute its
products worldwide. AbbVie directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its brand of products by physicians, key
opinion leaders and other health care providers. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers),
hospitals and state and federal government agencies (for example, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are
also important customers. AbbVie also markets directly to consumers themselves, although in the United States many of the company's products must be sold
pursuant to a prescription. Outside of the United States, AbbVie focuses its promotional and market access efforts on key opinion leaders, payers, physicians and
health systems. AbbVie also provides patient support programs closely related to its products. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic AbbVie has maintained its
promotional activities with key stakeholders by leveraging digital engagement where permitted and in compliance with the locally applicable government guidance.
AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies and
independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Certain products (including aesthetic products and devices) are also sold
directly to physicians and other licensed healthcare providers. Although AbbVie's business does not have significant seasonality, AbbVie's product revenues may be
affected by end customer and retail buying patterns, fluctuations in wholesaler inventory levels and other factors.
In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to retailers,
pharmacies, patients or other customers. In 2021, three wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and AmerisourceBergen Corporation)
accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's pharmaceutical product sales in the United States. No individual wholesaler accounted for greater than 37% of AbbVie's
2021 gross revenues in the United States. Outside the United States, AbbVie sells products primarily to customers or through distributors, depending on the market
served.
Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have a material
adverse effect on the company's business. No material portion of AbbVie's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election
of the government. Orders are generally filled on a current basis and order backlog is not material to AbbVie's business.
Competition
The markets for AbbVie's products are highly competitive. AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies that
discover, manufacture, market and sell proprietary pharmaceutical products, therapies
|
5 2021 Form 10-Kand biologics. For example, Humira competes with anti-TNF products, JAK inhibitors and other competitive products intended to treat a number of disease states and
Mavyret/Maviret competes with other available HCV treatment options. In addition, in the past few years, a number of other companies have started to develop,
have successfully developed and/or are currently marketing products that are being positioned as competitors to Botox. The search for technological innovations in
pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures
can result in product obsolescence. Price is also a competitive factor. In addition, the substitution of generic pharmaceutical products for branded conventional
(small-molecule) pharmaceutical products creates competitive pressures on AbbVie's products that do not have patent protection. New products or treatments
brought to market by AbbVie’s competitors could cause revenues for AbbVie’s products to decrease due to price reductions and sales volume decreases.
Biosimilars. Competition for AbbVie’s biologic products is affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as “biosimilars.” Biologics have added
major therapeutic options for the treatment of many diseases, including some for which therapies were unavailable or inadequate. The cost of developing and
producing biologic therapies is typically dramatically higher than for small molecule medications, and many biologic medications are used for ongoing treatment
of chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease, or for the treatment of previously untreatable cancer. Significant investments in
biologics infrastructure and manufacturing are necessary to produce biologic products.
Humira is now facing direct biosimilar competition in Europe and other countries, and AbbVie will continue to face competitive pressure from these biologics
and from orally administered products.
In the United States, the FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the FFDCA), the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) and the
regulations implementing these statutes. The enactment of federal health care reform legislation in March 2010 provided a pathway for approval of biosimilars
under the PHSA, but the approval process for, and science behind, biosimilars is complex. Approval by the FDA is dependent upon many factors, including a showing
that the biosimilar is "highly similar" to the original product and has no clinically meaningful differences from the original product in terms of safety, purity and
potency. The types of data that could ordinarily be required in an application to show similarity may include analytical data, bioequivalence studies and studies to
demonstrate chemical similarity, animal studies (including toxicity studies) and clinical studies.
Furthermore, the law provides that only a biosimilar product that is determined to be "interchangeable" will be considered by the FDA as substitutable for the
original biologic product without the intervention of the health care provider who prescribed the original biologic product. To prove that a biosimilar product is
interchangeable, the applicant must demonstrate that the product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the original biologic product in any given
patient, and if the product is administered more than once in a patient, that safety risks and potential for diminished efficacy of alternating or switching between
the use of the interchangeable biosimilar biologic product and the original biologic product is no greater than the risk of using the original biologic product without
switching. The law continues to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its full ultimate impact, implementation and meaning remains subject to
uncertainty.
Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity
Generally, upon approval, products may be entitled to certain kinds of exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and regulatory regimes. AbbVie’s
intellectual property is materially valuable to the company, and AbbVie seeks patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or countries for
each product in development. In the United States, the expiration date for patents is 20 years after the filing date. Given that patents relating to pharmaceutical
products are often obtained early in the development process and given the amount of time needed to complete clinical trials and other development activities
required for regulatory approval, the length of time between product launch and patent expiration is significantly less than 20 years. The Drug Price Competition
and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent holder to seek a patent extension, commonly called a “patent
term restoration,” for patents on products (or processes for making the product) regulated by the FFDCA. The length of the patent extension is roughly based on
50 percent of the period of time from the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application (NDA) for a compound to the submission of the NDA for such compound,
plus 100 percent of the time period from NDA submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years and the patent term remaining
after regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years. Biological products licensed under the PHSA are similarly eligible for terms of patent restoration.
Pharmaceutical products may be entitled to other forms of legal or regulatory exclusivity upon approval. The scope, length and requirements for each of these
exclusivities vary both in the United States and in other jurisdictions. In the United States, if the FDA approves a conventional drug product that contains an active
ingredient not previously approved, the product is typically entitled to five years of non-patent regulatory exclusivity. Specific conditions of use approved for
|
2021 Form 10-K 6individual products may also be entitled to three years of exclusivity if approval was based on the FDA’s reliance on new clinical studies essential to approval
submitted by the NDA applicant. If the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days all
existing exclusivities (patent and regulatory) related to the product. For products that are either used to treat conditions that afflict a relatively small population or
for which there is not a reasonable expectation that the research and development costs will be recovered, the FDA may designate the pharmaceutical as an orphan
drug and grant it seven years of exclusivity. Other types of regulatory exclusivity may also be available, such as Generating New Antibiotic Incentives Now (GAIN)
exclusivity, which can provide new antibiotic or new antifungal drugs an additional five years of exclusivity to be added to certain exclusivities already provided for
by law.
Applicable laws and regulations dictate the scope of any exclusivity to which a product or particular characteristics of a product is entitled upon approval in
any particular country. In certain instances, regulatory exclusivity may offer protection where patent protection is no longer available or for a period of time in
excess of patent protection. It is not possible to estimate for each product in development the total period and scope of exclusivity to which it may become entitled
until regulatory approval is obtained or sometimes even later. However, given the length of time required to complete clinical development of a pharmaceutical
product, the periods of exclusivity that might be achieved in any individual case would not generally be expected to exceed a minimum of three years and a
maximum of 14 years. These estimates do not consider other factors, such as the difficulty of recreating the manufacturing process for a particular product or other
proprietary knowledge that may delay the introduction of a generic or other follow-on product after the expiration of applicable patent and other regulatory
exclusivity periods.
Biologics may be entitled to exclusivity under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, which was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII to the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The law provides a pathway for approval of biosimilars following the expiration of 12 years of regulatory exclusivity for
the innovator biologic and a potential additional 180 day-extension term for conducting pediatric studies. Biologics are also eligible for orphan drug exclusivity, as
discussed above. The law also includes an extensive process for the innovator biologic and biosimilar manufacturer to litigate patent infringement, validity and
enforceability. The European Union has also created a pathway for approval of biosimilars and has published guidelines for approval of certain biosimilar
products. The more complex nature of biologics and biosimilar products has led to close regulatory scrutiny over follow-on biosimilar products, which can reduce
the effect of biosimilars on sales of the innovator biologic as compared to the sales erosion caused by generic versions of small molecule pharmaceutical products.
AbbVie owns or has licensed rights to a substantial number of patents and patent applications. AbbVie licenses or owns a patent portfolio of thousands of
patent families, each of which includes United States patent applications and/or issued patents and may also contain the non-United States counterparts to these
patents and applications.
These patents and applications, including various patents that expire during the period 2022 to the early 2040s, in aggregate are believed to be of material
importance in the operation of AbbVie’s business. However, AbbVie believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents, licenses, or
trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark Humira), are material in relation to the company’s business as a whole. The
United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab expired in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent expired
in October 2018 in the majority of European Union countries. In the United States, non-composition of matter patents covering adalimumab expire no earlier than
2022. AbbVie has entered into settlement and license agreements with several adalimumab biosimilar manufactures. Under the agreements, the licenses in the
United States will begin in 2023 and the licenses in Europe began in 2018.
In addition, the following patents, licenses and trademarks are significant: those related to ibrutinib (which is sold under the trademark Imbruvica) and those
related to risankizumab (which is sold under the trademark Skyrizi). The United States composition of matter patent covering ibrutinib is expected to expire in 2027,
however no generic entry for any ibrutinib product is expected prior to March 30, 2032, assuming pediatric exclusivity is granted. The United States composition of
matter patent covering risankizumab is expected to expire in 2033.
AbbVie may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect its technology. AbbVie seeks to protect its technology and product candidates, in part, by
confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors, contractors and collaborators. These agreements may be breached and AbbVie may not have
adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, AbbVie’s trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent
that AbbVie’s employees, consultants, advisors, contractors and collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for the company, disputes
may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions.
|
7 2021 Form 10-KLicensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements
In addition to its independent efforts to develop and market products, AbbVie enters into arrangements such as acquisitions, option-to-acquire agreements,
licensing arrangements, option-to-license arrangements, strategic alliances, co-promotion arrangements, co-development and co-marketing agreements and joint
ventures. The acquisitions and option-to-acquire agreements typically include, among other terms and conditions, non-refundable purchase price payments or
option fees, option exercise payments, milestones or earn-outs and other customary terms and obligations. The licensing and other arrangements typically include,
among other terms and conditions, non-refundable upfront license fees, option fees and option exercise payments, milestone payments and royalty and/or profit
sharing obligations. See Note 5, "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements—Other Licensing & Acquisitions Activity," to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."
Third Party Agreements
AbbVie has agreements with third parties for process development, product distribution, analytical services and manufacturing of certain products. AbbVie
procures certain products and services from a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, a single supply source. In addition, AbbVie has agreements with third
parties for active pharmaceutical ingredient and product manufacturing, formulation and development services, fill, finish and packaging services, transportation
and distribution and logistics services for certain products. AbbVie does not believe that these manufacturing related agreements are material because AbbVie's
business is not substantially dependent on any individual agreement. In most cases, AbbVie maintains alternate supply relationships that it can utilize without
undue disruption of its manufacturing processes if a third party fails to perform its contractual obligations. AbbVie seeks to maintain sufficient inventory of
product to minimize the impact of any supply disruption.
AbbVie is also party to certain collaborations and other arrangements, as discussed in Note 5, "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements—Other
Licensing & Acquisitions Activity," to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."
Sources and Availability of Raw Materials
AbbVie purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to its operations from numerous suppliers around the world. In
addition, certain medical devices and components necessary for the manufacture of AbbVie products are provided by unaffiliated third party suppliers. Despite the
disruption to the global supply chain caused by COVID-19, AbbVie has continued to supply patients with no material supply impact, except for the previously-
disclosed near-term supply issues impacting Lupron. Given the general increased global volatility due to the pandemic, AbbVie is monitoring and taking actions to
mitigate potential supply shortages which may impact the fulfillment of product demand.
Research and Development Activities
AbbVie makes a significant investment in research and development and has numerous compounds (and complementary devices) in clinical development,
including potential treatments for complex, life-threatening diseases. AbbVie's ability to discover and develop new compounds is enhanced by the company's use of
integrated discovery and development project teams, which include chemists, biologists, physicians and pharmacologists who work on the same compounds as a
team. AbbVie also partners with third parties, such as biotechnology companies, other pharmaceutical companies and academic institutions to identify and
prioritize promising new treatments that complement and enhance AbbVie’s existing portfolio. AbbVie also supplements its research and development efforts with
acquisitions.
The research and development process generally begins with discovery research which focuses on the identification of a molecule that has a desired effect
against a given disease. If preclinical testing of an identified compound proves successful, the compound moves into clinical development which generally includes
the following phases:
• Phase 1— involves the first human tests in a small number of healthy volunteers or patients to assess safety, tolerability and doses for later phases.
• Phase 2— tests different doses of the drug in a disease state in order to assess efficacy.
• Phase 3— tests a drug that demonstrates favorable results in the earlier phases in a significantly larger patient population to further demonstrate
efficacy and safety in order to meet requirements to enable global approval.
Preclinical data and clinical trials from all of the development phases provide the data required to prepare and submit an NDA, a Biological License
Application (BLA) or other submission for regulatory approval to the FDA or similar government agencies outside the United States. The specific requirements
(e.g., scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions.
|
2021 Form 10-K 8The research and development process from discovery through a new drug launch typically takes 8 to 12 years and can be even longer. The research and
development of new pharmaceutical products has a significant amount of inherent uncertainty. There is no guarantee when, or if, a molecule will receive the
regulatory approval required to launch a new drug or indication.
In addition to the development of new products, delivery devices, and new formulations, research and development projects also may include Phase 4 trials,
sometimes called post-marketing studies. For such projects, clinical trials are designed and conducted to collect additional data regarding, among other
parameters, the benefits and risks of an approved drug.
Regulation—Discovery and Clinical Development
United States. Securing approval to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States requires substantial effort and financial resources and takes
several years to complete. The applicant must complete preclinical tests and submit protocols to the FDA before commencing clinical trials. Clinical trials are
intended to establish the safety and efficacy of the pharmaceutical product and typically are conducted in sequential phases, although the phases may overlap or
be combined. If the required clinical testing is successful, the results are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA or BLA requesting approval to market the
product for one or more indications. The FDA reviews an NDA or BLA to determine whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its
manufacturing is compliant with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP).
Compliance with regulatory requirements is assured through periodic, announced or unannounced inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities,
and these inspections associated with clinical development may include the sponsor, investigator sites, laboratories, hospitals and manufacturing facilities of
AbbVie's subcontractors or other third-party manufacturers. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA,
including rejection of an NDA or BLA.
Even if an NDA or a BLA receives approval, the applicant must comply with post-approval requirements. For example, holders of an approval must report
adverse reactions, provide updated safety and efficacy information and comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional materials and activities.
Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval, and certain changes to the manufacturing procedures and
finished product must be submitted and approved by the FDA prior to implementation. The FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance
with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural and record keeping requirements. In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require post-marketing
testing and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product's safety or efficacy after commercialization, which may require additional clinical trials, patient
registries, observational data or additional work on chemistry, manufacturing and controls. Any post-approval regulatory obligations, and the cost of complying
with such obligations, could expand in the future. Further, the FDA continues to regulate product labeling, and prohibits the promotion of products for unapproved
or “off-label” uses along with other labeling restrictions.
Outside the United States. AbbVie is subject to similar regulatory requirements outside the United States for approval and marketing of pharmaceutical
products. AbbVie must obtain approval of a clinical trial application or product from applicable supervising regulatory authorities before it can commence clinical
trials or marketing of the product in target markets. The approval requirements and process for each country can vary, and the time required to obtain approval may
be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval in the United States. For example, AbbVie may submit marketing authorizations in the European Union under
either a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure is mandatory for the approval of biotechnology products and many pharmaceutical
products and provides for a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. Under the centralized procedure, a single marketing
authorization application is submitted to the European Medicines Agency. After the agency evaluates the application, it makes a recommendation to the European
Commission, which then makes the final determination on whether to approve the application. The decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of
individual national approval decisions and is available for products that are not subject to the centralized procedure.
In Japan, applications for approval of a new product are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Japan-specific trials and/or
bridging studies to demonstrate that the non-Japanese clinical data applies to Japanese patients may be required. After completing a comprehensive review, the
PMDA reports to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, which then approves or denies the application.
Similarly, applications for a new product in China are submitted to the Center for Drug Evaluation (CDE) of the National Medical Products Administration for
technical review and approval of a product for marketing in China. Clinical data in Chinese subjects are usually required to support approval in China, requiring the
inclusion of China in global pivotal studies, or a separate China/Asian clinical trial.
|
9 2021 Form 10-KThe regulatory process in many emerging markets continues to evolve. Many emerging markets, including those in Asia, generally require regulatory approval
to have been obtained in a large developed market (such as the United States or Europe) before the country will begin or complete its regulatory review process.
Similar to the requirements in Japan and China, certain countries (notably South Korea, Taiwan, India and Russia) also generally require that local clinical studies
be conducted in order to support regulatory approval in the country.
The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and product licensing also vary. In addition, post-approval regulatory obligations such as adverse
event reporting and cGMP compliance generally apply and may vary by country. For example, after a marketing authorization has been granted in the European
Union, periodic safety reports must be submitted and other pharmacovigilance measures may be required (such as Risk Management Plans).
Regulation—Commercialization, Distribution and Manufacturing
The manufacturing, marketing, sale, promotion and distribution of AbbVie's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Government
regulation by various national, regional, federal, state and local agencies, both in the United States and other countries, addresses (among other matters) inspection
of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing and
promotion, pricing and reimbursement, sampling, distribution, quality control, post-marketing surveillance, record keeping, storage and disposal practices.
AbbVie's operations are also affected by trade regulations in many countries that limit the import of raw materials and finished products and by laws and
regulations that seek to prevent corruption and bribery in the marketplace (including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery
Act, which provide guidance on corporate interactions with government officials) and require safeguards for the protection of personal data. In addition, AbbVie is
subject to laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including state and federal anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United States.
Prescription drug manufacturers such as AbbVie are also subject to taxes, as well as application, product, user and other fees.
Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects AbbVie's business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially
increase the time, difficulty and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. AbbVie expects compliance
with these regulations to continue to require significant technical expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can delay the release of
a new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for a
product's production and sale and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties.
In addition to regulatory initiatives, AbbVie's business can be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy and outcomes of health care
products and their components that are regularly conducted by industry participants, government agencies and others. These studies can lead to updates to the data
regarding utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the
discontinuance of, or limitations on, marketing of such products domestically or worldwide, and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they
have been injured as a result of their use.
Access to human health care products continues to be a subject of oversight, investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies and
private organizations in the United States and other countries. A major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the
private sector, notably by health care payers and providers, which have instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. AbbVie expects insurers and
providers to continue attempts to reduce the cost of health care products. Outside the United States, many countries control the price of health care products
directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage limitations, or compulsory licensing. Political and budgetary pressures in the United
States and in other countries may also heighten the scope and severity of pricing pressures on AbbVie's products for the foreseeable future.
United States. Specifically, U.S. federal laws require pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid
programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under state Medicaid plans, and the efforts by states to seek additional rebates may affect AbbVie's business. Similarly,
the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, as a prerequisite to participation in Medicaid and other federal health care programs, requires that manufacturers extend
additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense
and Public Health Service entities and institutions. In addition, recent legislative changes would require similarly discounted prices to be offered to TRICARE
program beneficiaries. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 also established the 340B drug discount program, which requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to
provide products at reduced prices to various designated health care entities and facilities.
In the United States, most states also have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different
manufacturer's generic version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In
|
2021 Form 10-K 10addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or Medicaid
and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle
a health care facility to a fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing
the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures for many health care products. Medicare reimburses Part B drugs based on average sales price plus a
certain percentage to account for physician administration costs, which have been reduced in the hospital outpatient setting. Medicare enters into contracts with
private plans to negotiate prices for most patient-administered medicine delivered under Part D.
Under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the Affordable Care Act), AbbVie pays a
fee related to its pharmaceuticals sales to government programs. In addition, AbbVie provides a discount of 70% for branded prescription drugs sold to patients
who fall into the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole."
The Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs and biologics covered
under Medicare and Medicaid to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data to the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level in the United States, and an increasing
number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring disclosure of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to
report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties.
AbbVie expects debate to continue during 2022 at all government levels worldwide over the marketing, availability, method of delivery and payment for health
care products and services. AbbVie believes that future legislation and regulation in the markets it serves could affect access to health care products and services,
increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, change health care delivery systems, create new fees and
obligations for the pharmaceuticals industry, or require additional reporting and disclosure. It is difficult to predict the extent to which AbbVie or the health care
industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.
European Union. The European Union has adopted directives and other legislation governing labeling, advertising, distribution, supply, pharmacovigilance
and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Such legislation provides mandatory standards throughout the European Union and permits member states to
supplement these standards with additional regulations. European governments also regulate pharmaceutical product prices through their control of national
health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of such products to consumers. As a result, patients are unlikely to use a pharmaceutical product that is not
reimbursed by the government. In many European countries, the government either regulates the pricing of a new product at launch or subsequent to launch through
direct price controls or reference pricing. In recent years, many countries have also imposed new or additional cost containment measures on pharmaceutical
products. Differences between national pricing regimes create price differentials within the European Union that can lead to significant parallel trade in
pharmaceutical products.
Most governments also promote generic substitution by mandating or permitting a pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a
pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed and by permitting or mandating that health care professionals prescribe generic versions in certain circumstances.
Many governments are also following a similar path for biosimilar therapies. In addition, governments use reimbursement lists to limit the pharmaceutical
products that are eligible for reimbursement by national health care systems.
Japan. In Japan, the National Health Insurance system maintains a Drug Price List specifying which pharmaceutical products are eligible for reimbursement,
and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare sets the prices of the products on this list. The government generally introduces price cut rounds every other year
and also mandates price decreases for specific products. New products judged innovative or useful, that are indicated for pediatric use, or that target orphan or
small population diseases, however, may be eligible for a pricing premium. The government has also promoted the use of generics, where available.
Emerging Markets. Many emerging markets take steps to reduce pharmaceutical product prices, in some cases through direct price controls and in others
through the promotion of generic/biosimilar alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals.
Since AbbVie markets its products worldwide, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines must also meet other local regulatory
requirements. Certain additional risks are inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in
currency exchange rates, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization and other governmental action.
|
11 2021 Form 10-KRegulation – Medical Devices
Medical devices are subject to regulation by the FDA, state agencies and foreign government health authorities. FDA regulations, as well as various U.S. federal
and state laws, govern the development, clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, record keeping and marketing of medical device products agencies in the United
States. AbbVie’s medical device product candidates, including AbbVie’s breast implants, must undergo rigorous clinical testing and an extensive government
regulatory clearance or approval process prior to sale in the United States and other countries. The lengthy process of clinical development and submissions for
clearance or approval, and the continuing need for compliance with applicable laws and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial resources. Regulatory
clearance or approval, when and if obtained, may be limited in scope, and may significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. Cleared
or approved products and their manufacturers are subject to ongoing review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with products may result in
restrictions on their manufacture, sale and/or use or require their withdrawal from the market.
United States. AbbVie’s medical device products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States. Unless an exemption applies, each medical
device AbbVie markets in the United States must have a 510(k) clearance or a Premarket Approval Application (PMA) in accordance with the FFDCA and its
implementing regulations. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes, depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the
extent of controls that are needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. Devices deemed to pose a lower risk are placed in either Class I or Class II, and devices deemed
by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or a device deemed to be not substantially equivalent to a
previously cleared 510(k) device, are placed in Class III. In general, a Class III device cannot be marketed in the United States unless the FDA approves the device
after submission of a PMA, and any changes to the device subsequent to initial FDA approval must also be reviewed and approved by the FDA. The majority of
AbbVie’s medical device products, including AbbVie’s breast implants, are regulated as Class III medical devices. A Class III device may have significant additional
obligations imposed in its conditions of approval, and the time in which it takes to obtain approval can be long. Compliance with regulatory requirements is
assured through periodic, unannounced facility inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, and these inspections may include the manufacturing
facilities of AbbVie’s subcontractors or other third-party manufacturers. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action
by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: warning letters or untitled letters; fines, injunctions and civil penalties; recall or seizure of AbbVie’
products; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; refusing AbbVie’ request for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new
products; withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals that are already granted; and criminal prosecution.
A clinical trial is almost always required to support a PMA application and is sometimes required for a 510(k) premarket notification. Clinical trials generally
require submission of an application for an investigational device exemption (IDE), which must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory
testing results, showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. A study sponsor must obtain approval for its
IDE from the FDA, and it must also obtain approval of its study from the Institutional Review Board overseeing the trial. The results of clinical testing may not be
sufficient to obtain approval of the investigational device.
Once a device is approved, the manufacture and distribution of the device remains subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including Quality System
Regulation requirements, which involve design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process. Medical
device manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments and list their manufactured devices with the FDA and are subject to
periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with regulatory requirements. Manufacturers must also report to the FDA if
their devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that could likely cause or contribute to a death or serious
injury, or if the manufacturer conducts a field correction or product recall or removal to reduce a risk to health posed by a device or to remedy a violation of the
FFDCA that may present a health risk. Further, the FDA continues to regulate device labeling, and prohibits the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label”
uses along with other labeling restrictions.
European Union. Medical device products that are marketed in the European Union must comply with the requirements of the Medical Device Regulation (the
MDR), which came into effect in May 2021. The MDR provides for regulatory oversight with respect to the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling and adverse
event reporting for medical devices to ensure that medical devices marketed in the European Union are safe and effective for their intended uses. Medical devices
that comply with the MDR are entitled to bear a Conformité Européenne marking evidencing such compliance and may be marketed in the European Union. Failure to
comply with these domestic and international regulatory requirements could affect AbbVie’s ability to market and sell AbbVie’s products in these countries.
|
2021 Form 10-K 12Environmental Matters
AbbVie believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection. Regulations
under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations.
AbbVie's capital expenditures for pollution control in 2021 were approximately $17 million and operating expenditures were approximately $33 million. In 2022,
capital expenditures for pollution control are estimated to be approximately $14 million and operating expenditures are estimated to be approximately $34 million.
Abbott was identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including
Puerto Rico, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Some of these locations were
transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and distribution, and AbbVie has become a party to these investigations and remediations. Abbott was also
engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which have been transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and distribution, in cooperation
with the Environmental Protection Agency or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and
remediation activities, AbbVie believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning
environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.
Employees
AbbVie employed approximately 50,000 employees in over 70 countries as of January 31, 2022. Outside the United States, some of AbbVie's employees are
represented by unions or works councils. AbbVie believes that it has good relations with its employees.
Human Capital Management
Attracting, retaining and providing meaningful growth and development opportunities to AbbVie's employees is critical to the company's success in making a
remarkable impact on people’s lives around the world. AbbVie leverages numerous resources to identify and enhance strategic and leadership capability, foster
employee engagement and create a culture where diverse talent is productive and engaged. AbbVie invests in its employees through competitive compensation,
benefits and employee support programs and offers best-in-class development and leadership opportunities. AbbVie has developed a deep talent base through
ongoing investment in functional and leadership training and by sourcing world-class external talent, ensuring a sustainable talent pipeline. AbbVie continuously
cultivates and enhances its working culture and embraces equality, diversity and inclusion as fundamental to the company's mission.
Attracting and Developing Talent. Attracting and developing high-performing talent is essential to AbbVie’s continued success. AbbVie implements detailed
talent attraction strategies, with an emphasis on STEM skill sets, a diverse talent base and other critical skillsets, including drug discovery, clinical development,
market access and business development. AbbVie also invests in competitive compensation and benefits programs. In addition to offering a comprehensive suite of
benefits ranging from medical and dental coverage to retirement, disability and life insurance programs, AbbVie also provides health promotion programs, mental
health awareness campaigns and employee assistance programs in several countries, financial wellness support, on-site health screenings and immunizations in
several countries and on-site fitness and rehabilitation centers. In addition, the AbbVie Employee Assistance Fund (a part of the AbbVie Foundation) supports two
programs for global employees: the AbbVie Possibilities Scholarship for children of employees, which is an annual merit-based scholarship for use at accredited
colleges, universities or vocational-technical schools; and the Employee Relief Program, which is financial assistance to support short term needs of employees
when faced with large-scale disasters (e.g. a hurricane), individual disasters (e.g. a home fire) or financial hardship (e.g. the death of a spouse). Finally, AbbVie
empowers managers and their teams with tools, tips and guidelines on effectively managing workloads, managing teams from a distance and supporting flexible
work practices.
New AbbVie employees are given a tailored onboarding experience for faster integration and to support performance. AbbVie's mentorship program allows
employees to self-nominate as mentors or mentees and facilitates meaningful relationships supporting employees’ career and development goals.
AbbVie also provides structured, broad-based development opportunities, focusing on high-performance skills and leadership training. AbbVie's talent
philosophy holds leaders accountable for building a high-performing organization, and the company provides development opportunities to all levels of leadership.
AbbVie's Learn, Develop, Perform program offers year-long, self-directed leadership education, supplemented with tools and resources, and leverages leaders as
role models and teachers. In addition, the foundation to AbbVie's leadership pipeline is the company's Professional Development
|
13 2021 Form 10-KPrograms, which attract graduates, postgraduates and post-doctoral talent to participate in formal development programs lasting up to three years, with the
objective of strengthening functional and leadership capabilities.
Culture. AbbVie’s shared values of transforming lives, acting with integrity, driving innovation, embracing diversity and inclusion and serving the community
form the core of the company's culture. AbbVie articulates the behaviors associated with these values in the Ways We Work, a core set of working behaviors that
emphasize how the company achieves results is equally as important as achieving them. The Ways We Work are designed to ensure that every AbbVie employee is
aware of the company's cultural expectations. AbbVie integrates the Ways We Work into all talent processes, forming the basis for assessing performance,
prioritizing development and ultimately rewarding employees. AbbVie believes its culture creates strong engagement, which is measured regularly through a
confidential, third party all-employee survey, and this engagement supports AbbVie’s mission of making a remarkable impact on people’s lives.
Equity, Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EED&I). A cornerstone of AbbVie’s human capital management approach is to prioritize fostering an inclusive and diverse
workforce. In 2019, AbbVie adopted a five-year Equality, Diversity & Inclusion roadmap that defines key global focus areas, objectives and associated initiatives,
and includes implementation plans organized by business function and geography. AbbVie’s senior leaders have adopted formal goals aligned with executing this
strategy. In recent years, AbbVie's board of directors has prioritized oversight of AbbVie's response to the U.S. racial justice movement, including overseeing internal
programs designed to ensure that AbbVie is attracting, retaining and developing diverse talent. Through December 2021, women represented 51 percent of
management positions globally and in the United States, 35 percent of AbbVie's workforce was comprised of members of historically underrepresented populations,
an increase from 2020. Further, AbbVie is committed to pay equity and conducts pay equity analyses annually. A critical component of AbbVie's strategy is to instill
an inclusive mindset in all AbbVie leaders and employees, so the company can realize the full value of a diverse workforce from recruitment through retirement.
AbbVie recently launched a new resource for people who manage others to reinforce the importance of EED&I to the business, educate leaders on inclusive recruiting
practices and modeling inclusive behavior, and encourage participation in the company's inclusive culture learning opportunities. AbbVie's Employee Resource
Groups also help the company nurture an inclusive culture by building community, hosting awareness events and providing leadership and career opportunities. In
2021, AbbVie reiterated its commitment to racial equality and social justice by, among other things, expanding its employee matching program to $3-to-$1 for
donations to civil rights nonprofits fostering racial equity and by reaffirming its commitment to clinical trial diversity. Additional information about AbbVie's
efforts on racial equality and social justice is provided on the company's website at: https://abbvie.com/our-company/equality-inclusion-diversity/our-
commitment-to-racial-justice.html.
COVID-19 Health and Safety. AbbVie has effectively prioritized the health and safety of its employees during the COVID-19 pandemic, while continuing to drive
strong business performance. AbbVie implemented, among other things, temporary office and facility closures and establishment of new safety and cleaning
protocols and procedures; regular communication regarding the effect of the pandemic on AbbVie's business and employees; establishment of physical distancing
procedures, modification of workspaces and provision of personal protective equipment and cleaning supplies for employees; provision of on-site vaccinations and
temperature screenings; a variety of testing and vaccination resources including on-site vaccinations and on-site and at-home testing and COVID case management
programs; and remote working accommodations and related services to support employees’ needs for flexibility. In addition, COVID-19 is a covered event under the
AbbVie Employee Assistance Fund's Employee Relief Program, entitling eligible AbbVie employees and their families to financial assistance to pay for mortgage/rent,
utilities, food, childcare and medical expenses not covered by insurance. AbbVie also provided paid leave and other support and accommodations to the company's
employees with relevant medical, pharmaceutical, research and development, science, public health and public safety skills, knowledge, training and experience
who desired or were requested or mandated to serve as volunteers during the pandemic. Lastly, AbbVie’s commitment to employees has been evidenced by no
workforce reductions and no salary reductions associated with COVID-19.
Internet Information
Copies of AbbVie's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through AbbVie's investor relations website
(investors.abbvie.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after AbbVie electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC).
AbbVie's corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of AbbVie's audit committee,
compensation committee, nominations and governance committee and public policy committee are all available on AbbVie's investor relations website
(investors.abbvie.com).
|
2021 Form 10-K 14ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating AbbVie and AbbVie's common stock. Any of the following
risks could materially and adversely affect AbbVie's results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The risk factors generally have been separated into two groups:
risks related to AbbVie's business and risks related to AbbVie's common stock. Based on the information currently known to it, AbbVie believes that the following
information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting it in each of these categories of risks. However, the risks and uncertainties AbbVie faces are not limited to
those set forth in the risk factors described below and may not be in order of importance or probability of occurrence. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently
known to AbbVie or that AbbVie currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect its business. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable
indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.
If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business, results of
operations, financial condition or cash flows. In such case, the trading price of AbbVie's common stock could decline.
Risks Related to AbbVie's Business
Public health outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics, such as the coronavirus (COVID-19), have had, and could in the future have, an adverse impact on AbbVie’s
operations and financial condition.
Public health outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics have had, and could in the future have, an adverse impact on AbbVie’s operations and financial condition.
The continuing pandemic caused by the novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) has caused many countries, including the United States, to declare national
emergencies and implement preventive measures such as travel bans and shelter in place or total lock-down orders, some of which have eased. The continuation or
re-implementation of these bans and orders remains uncertain. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused AbbVie to modify its business practices (including instituting
remote work for many of AbbVie’s employees), and AbbVie may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or as AbbVie determines are in the
best interests of AbbVie’s employees, patients, customers and business partners.
While the impact of COVID-19 on AbbVie’s operations, including, among others, its manufacturing and supply chain, sales and marketing, commercial and
clinical trial operations, to date has not been material, AbbVie has experienced lower new patient starts in certain products and markets. The impact of COVID-19 on
AbbVie over the long-term is uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence. The extent of the adverse impact of COVID-19 on AbbVie’s operations will depend on
the extent and severity of the continued spread of COVID-19 globally, the timing and nature of actions taken to respond to COVID-19 and the resulting economic
consequences. Ultimately, efforts to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 may not completely prevent AbbVie's business from being adversely affected and future impacts
remain uncertain.
The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may adversely affect AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings.
AbbVie relies on patent, trademark and other intellectual property protection in the discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of its products. In
particular, patent protection is, in the aggregate, important in AbbVie's marketing of pharmaceutical products in the United States and most major markets outside
of the United States. Patents covering AbbVie products normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the profitability of many of AbbVie's products.
As patents for certain of its products expire, AbbVie will or could face competition from lower priced generic or biosimilar products. The expiration or loss of
patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by substitutes that may significantly reduce sales for that product in a short amount of time. If
AbbVie's competitive position is compromised because of generics, biosimilars or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business and
results of operations. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs or
biosimilars. Any such proposals that are enacted into law could increase the impact of generic competition.
AbbVie's principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in Item 1, "Business—Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity"
and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations," and litigation regarding these
patents is described in Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." The United States composition of matter patent for Humira, which is AbbVie's largest product and had worldwide
net revenues of approximately $20.7 billion in 2021, expired in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent expired in the majority of European
Union countries in October 2018.
|
15 2021 Form 10-KAbbVie's major products could lose patent protection earlier than expected, which could adversely affect AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings.
Third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent AbbVie's patents and patent applications. For example,
manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products file, and may continue to file, Abbreviated New Drug Applications with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of
AbbVie's products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by AbbVie by asserting that the patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or not
infringed. In addition, petitioners have filed, and may continue to file, challenges to the validity of AbbVie patents under the 2011 Leahy-Smith America Invents Act,
which created inter partes review and post grant review procedures for challenging patent validity in administrative proceedings at the United States Patent and
Trademark Office.
Although most of the challenges to AbbVie's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property
rights. For example, court decisions and potential legislation relating to patents, such as legislation regarding biosimilars, and other regulatory initiatives may
result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. In addition, certain governments outside the United States have indicated that compulsory licenses to
patents may be sought to further their domestic policies or on the basis of national emergencies, such as HIV/AIDS. If triggered, compulsory licenses could diminish
or eliminate sales and profits from those jurisdictions and negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations.
AbbVie normally responds to challenges by vigorously defending its patents, including by filing patent infringement lawsuits. Patent litigation, administrative
proceedings and other challenges to AbbVie's patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive AbbVie of market exclusivity for a patented product. To the
extent AbbVie's intellectual property is successfully challenged, circumvented or weakened, or to the extent such intellectual property does not allow AbbVie to
compete effectively, AbbVie's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce AbbVie's intellectual property rights or require compulsory licensing of
AbbVie's intellectual property, AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings will be reduced.
A third party's intellectual property may prevent AbbVie from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's future profitability and financial
condition.
Third parties may claim that an AbbVie product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property infringement claim can be costly
and time consuming and may require AbbVie to enter into license agreements. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain license agreements on
commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject AbbVie to significant damages or an
injunction preventing the manufacture, sale, or use of the affected AbbVie product or products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's
profitability and financial condition.
Any significant event that adversely affects Humira revenues could have a material and negative impact on AbbVie's results of operations and cash flows.
Humira accounted for approximately 37% of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2021. Any significant event that adversely affects Humira's revenues could have a
material adverse impact on AbbVie's results of operations and cash flows. These events could include loss of patent protection for Humira (as described further in
“—The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may adversely affect AbbVie’s future revenues and operating earnings” above), the commercialization of
biosimilars of Humira, the discovery of previously unknown side effects or impaired efficacy, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective or
less expensive treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of Humira for any reason.
AbbVie's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing and marketing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause its
revenues and profitability to decline.
To remain competitive, AbbVie must continue to launch new products and new indications and/or brand extensions for existing products, and such launches
must generate revenue sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace revenues of profitable products that are lost to or
displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenue and profitability. Accordingly, AbbVie
commits substantial effort, funds, and other resources to research and development and must make ongoing substantial expenditures without any assurance that
its efforts will be commercially successful. A high rate of failure in the biopharmaceutical industry is inherent in the research and development of new products,
and failure can occur at any point in the research and development process, including after significant funds have been invested. Products that appear promising in
development may fail to reach the market for numerous reasons, including failure to demonstrate effectiveness, safety concerns, superior safety or efficacy of
competing therapies, failure to achieve positive clinical or pre-clinical outcomes beyond the current standards of care,
|
2021 Form 10-K 16inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or delays in the approval of new products and new indications, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs
to manufacture, the failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights, or infringement of the intellectual property rights of others.
Decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a pharmaceutical product candidate can affect the marketing strategy once such
candidate receives approval. More detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they also consume time and resources
and may delay submitting the pharmaceutical product candidate for approval. AbbVie cannot guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made
with respect to each pharmaceutical product candidate or that decisions in this area would not adversely affect AbbVie's future results of operations.
Even if AbbVie successfully develops and markets new products or enhancements to its existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing
clinical preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors' innovations. AbbVie's innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of
existing clinical practices or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. AbbVie cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development
will be launched, whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful.
Failure to launch successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause AbbVie's products to become obsolete, causing AbbVie's revenues and
operating results to suffer.
A portion of AbbVie's near-term pharmaceutical pipeline relies on collaborations with third parties, which may adversely affect the development and sale of its
products.
AbbVie depends on alliances and joint ventures with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for a portion of the products in its near-term
pharmaceutical pipeline. Failures by these parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, or other obligations to AbbVie, or any disruption in the relationships
between AbbVie and these third parties, could have an adverse effect on AbbVie's pharmaceutical pipeline and business. In addition, AbbVie's collaborative
relationships for research and development extend for many years and may give rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of AbbVie
and its collaboration partners, including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations. This could result in the loss of intellectual
property rights or protection, delay the development and sale of potential pharmaceutical products and lead to lengthy and expensive litigation, administrative
proceedings or arbitration.
Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations.
The successful discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of biologics is a long, expensive and uncertain process. There are unique risks and
uncertainties with biologics. For example, access to and supply of necessary biological materials, such as cell lines, may be limited and governmental regulations
restrict access to and regulate the transport and use of such materials. In addition, the development, manufacturing and sale of biologics is subject to regulations
that are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. Manufacturing biologics, especially in large
quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies. Such manufacturing also requires facilities specifically designed and validated for
this purpose and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures. Biologics are also frequently costly to manufacture because production inputs
are derived from living animal or plant material, and some biologics cannot be made synthetically. Failure to successfully discover, develop, manufacture and sell
biologics—including Humira—could adversely impact AbbVie's business and results of operations.
AbbVie's biologic products are subject to competition from biosimilars.
The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act creates a framework for the approval of biosimilars in the United States and could allow competitors to
reference data from biologic products already approved. In Europe, the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars
pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. In addition, companies are developing
biosimilars in other countries that could and do compete with AbbVie’s biologic products, including Humira. As competitors obtain marketing approval for
biosimilars referencing AbbVie’s biologic products, AbbVie’s products may become subject to competition from such biosimilars, with the attendant competitive
pressure and consequences. Expiration or successful challenge of AbbVie’s applicable patent rights could also trigger competition from other products, assuming
any relevant exclusivity period has expired. As a result, AbbVie could face more litigation and administrative proceedings with respect to the validity and/or scope
of patents relating to its biologic products.
New products and technological advances by AbbVie's competitors may negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations.
AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that discover, manufacture, market and sell proprietary
pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, Humira competes with anti-TNF products
|
17 2021 Form 10-Kand other competitive products intended to treat a number of disease states and Mavyret/Maviret competes with other available hepatitis C treatment options. In
addition, in the past few years, a number of other companies have started to develop, have successfully developed and/or are currently marketing products that are
being positioned as competitors to Botox. All of these competitors may introduce new products or develop technological advances that compete with AbbVie’s
products in therapeutic areas such as immunology, hematologic oncology, aesthetics, neuroscience, eye care and women's health. AbbVie cannot predict with
certainty the timing or impact of the introduction by competitors of new products or technological advances. Such competing products may be safer, more effective,
more effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or superior performance features than AbbVie’s products, and this could negatively impact AbbVie’s
business and results of operations.
The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if AbbVie or one of its suppliers encounters problems manufacturing
AbbVie's products, AbbVie's business could suffer.
The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise
during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials,
delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for AbbVie's products,
changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in the types of products produced,
physical limitations that could inhibit continuous supply, man-made or natural disasters and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a
batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded and AbbVie may experience product shortages or incur added expenses. This could, among other
things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar
losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may
also be incurred.
AbbVie uses a number of products in its pharmaceutical and biologic manufacturing processes that are sourced from single suppliers, and an interruption in the
supply of those products could adversely affect AbbVie's business and results of operations.
AbbVie uses a number of products in its pharmaceutical and biologic manufacturing processes that are sourced from single suppliers. The failure of these
single-source suppliers to fulfill their contractual obligations in a timely manner or as a result of regulatory noncompliance or physical disruption at a
manufacturing site may impair AbbVie's ability to deliver its products to customers on a timely and competitive basis, which could adversely affect AbbVie's
business and results of operations. Finding an alternative supplier could take a significant amount of time and involve significant expense due to the nature of the
products and the need to obtain regulatory approvals. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will be able to reach agreement with alternative providers or that regulatory
authorities would approve AbbVie's use of such alternatives. AbbVie does, however, carry business interruption insurance, which provides a degree of protection in
the case of a failure by a single-source supplier.
Certain aspects of AbbVie’s operations are highly dependent upon third party service providers.
AbbVie relies on suppliers, vendors and other third party service providers to research, develop, manufacture, commercialize, promote and sell its products.
Reliance on third party manufacturers reduces AbbVie’s oversight and control of the manufacturing process. Some of these third party providers are subject to legal
and regulatory requirements, privacy and security risks and market risks of their own. The failure of a critical third party service provider to meet its obligations
could have a material adverse impact on AbbVie’s operations and results. If any third party service providers have violated or are alleged to have violated any laws
or regulations during the performance of their obligations to AbbVie, it is possible that AbbVie could suffer financial and reputational harm or other negative
outcomes, including possible legal consequences.
Significant safety or efficacy issues could arise for AbbVie's products, which could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenues and financial condition.
Pharmaceutical products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. Following regulatory approval,
these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If new
safety or efficacy issues are reported or if new scientific information becomes available (including results of post-marketing Phase 4 trials), or if governments
change standards regarding safety, efficacy or labeling, AbbVie may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, AbbVie may voluntarily
provide or be required to provide updated information on a product's label or narrow its approved indication, either of which could reduce the product's market
acceptance. If safety or efficacy issues with an AbbVie product arise, sales of the product could be halted by AbbVie or by regulatory authorities and regulatory
action could be
|
2021 Form 10-K 18taken by such regulatory authorities. Safety or efficacy issues affecting suppliers' or competitors' products also may reduce the market acceptance of AbbVie's
products.
New data about AbbVie's products, or products similar to its products, could negatively impact demand for AbbVie's products due to real or perceived safety
issues or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. Furthermore, new data and information, including information
about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to
publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of AbbVie's products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. Such guidelines or
recommendations may lead to lower sales of AbbVie's products.
AbbVie is subject to product liability claims and other lawsuits that may adversely affect its business and results of operations.
In the ordinary course of business, AbbVie is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that AbbVie's products or the products of other
companies that it promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for or injury to patients. For example, lawsuits are pending against Allergan,
AbbVie’s recently acquired subsidiary, and certain of its current and former officers alleging they made misrepresentations and omissions regarding Allergan’s
textured breast implants. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, may have a material
adverse effect on AbbVie's business, results of operations and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers. Consequences may also include
additional costs, a decrease in market share for the product in question, lower income and exposure to other claims. Product liability losses are self-insured.
AbbVie is also the subject of other claims, legal proceedings and investigations in the ordinary course of business, which relate to the intellectual property,
commercial, securities and other matters. Adverse outcomes in such claims, legal proceedings and investigations may also adversely affect AbbVie’s business and
results of operations. Additionally, Allergan has been named as a defendant in approximately 3,130 matters relating to the promotion and sale of prescription
opioid pain relievers and additional suits may be filed. See Note 15, "Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under
Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." AbbVie cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings.
AbbVie is subject to cost-containment efforts and pricing pressures that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating earnings, and changes in the
terms of rebate and chargeback programs, which are common in the pharmaceuticals industry, could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's operations.
Cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in Item 1, "Business—Regulation—Commercialization,
Distribution and Manufacturing." To the extent these cost containment efforts are not offset by greater demand, increased patient access to health care, or other
factors, AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings will be reduced. In the United States, the European Union and other countries, AbbVie's business has
experienced downward pressure on product pricing, and this pressure could increase in the future.
AbbVie is subject to increasing public and legislative pressure with respect to pharmaceutical pricing. In the United States, practices of managed care groups,
and institutional and governmental purchasers, and United States federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare
Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, contribute to pricing pressures. The potential for
continuing changes to the health care system in the United States and the increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid and
private sector beneficiaries could result in additional pricing pressures.
In numerous major markets worldwide, the government plays a significant role in funding health care services and determining the pricing and reimbursement
of pharmaceutical products. Consequently, in those markets, AbbVie is subject to government decision-making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. In
particular, many European countries have ongoing government-mandated price reductions for many pharmaceutical products, and AbbVie anticipates continuing
pricing pressures in Europe. Differences between countries in pricing regulations could lead to third-party cross-border trading in AbbVie's products that results in
a reduction in future revenues and operating earnings.
Rebates related to government programs, such as fee-for-service Medicaid or Medicaid managed care programs, arise from laws and regulations. AbbVie
cannot predict if additional government initiatives to contain health care costs or other factors could lead to new or modified regulatory requirements that include
higher or incremental rebates or discounts. Other rebate and discount programs arise from contractual agreements with private payers. Various factors, including
market factors and the ability of private payers to control patient access to products, may provide payers the leverage to negotiate higher or additional rebates or
discounts that could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's operations.
|
19 2021 Form 10-KAbbVie is subject to numerous governmental regulations, and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes.
AbbVie's products are subject to rigorous regulation by numerous international, supranational, federal and state authorities, as described in Item 1,
"Business—Regulation—Discovery and Clinical Development,” “Business—Regulation—Commercialization, Distribution and Manufacturing,” and “Business—
Regulation—Medical Devices.” The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a pharmaceutical product can be costly and time consuming, and approvals
might not be granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to
obtain approvals for, future products, or new indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in revenues and substantial
additional costs.
In addition, AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will remain compliant with applicable regulatory requirements once approval has been obtained for a product.
These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising and post-marketing reporting,
including adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. AbbVie must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance
with these complex regulations.
Possible regulatory actions could result in substantial modifications to AbbVie's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of AbbVie's
products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of AbbVie's or its suppliers' facilities while AbbVie or its supplier remedies the alleged violation;
the inability to obtain future approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt AbbVie's business
and have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.
Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on AbbVie, require it to change its business practices, and restrict its
operations in the future.
The health care industry is subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit programs reimbursement,
rebates, price reporting and regulation and health care fraud and abuse. In the United States, these laws include anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid
Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care Act, the U.S. Physician Payments Sunshine Act, the TRICARE program, the government pricing rules applicable to the
Medicaid, Medicare Part B, 340B Drug Pricing Program and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of these laws may
be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and
state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and they
are subject to change and evolving interpretations, which could require AbbVie to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its
sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt AbbVie's business and result in a material
adverse effect on its business and results of operations.
The international nature of AbbVie's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline.
AbbVie's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including in emerging markets. Net revenues outside of the United States
made up approximately 23% of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2021. The risks associated with AbbVie's operations outside the United States include:
• fluctuations in currency exchange rates;
• changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs;
• multiple legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict AbbVie's ability to manufacture, market and sell its
products;
• differing local product preferences and product requirements;
• trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;
• international trade disruptions or disputes;
• difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing operations;
• differing labor regulations;
• potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;
|
2021 Form 10-K 20• political and economic instability, including as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union and the COVID-19 pandemic;
• sovereign debt issues;
• price and currency exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization and other governmental action
and regulation;
• inflation, recession and fluctuations in interest rates;
• restrictions on transfers of funds;
• potential deterioration in the economic position and credit quality of certain non-U.S. countries; and
• potential penalties or other adverse consequences for violations of anti-corruption, anti-bribery and other similar laws and regulations, including the
United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act.
Events contemplated by these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenues and profitability.
If AbbVie does not effectively and profitably commercialize its products, AbbVie's revenues and financial condition could be adversely affected.
AbbVie must effectively and profitably commercialize its principal products by creating and meeting continued market demand; achieving market acceptance
and generating product sales; ensuring that the active pharmaceutical ingredient(s) for a product and the finished product are manufactured in sufficient quantities
and in compliance with requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies and with acceptable quality and pricing to meet commercial demand; and
ensuring that the entire supply chain efficiently and consistently delivers AbbVie's products to its customers. The commercialization of AbbVie products may not be
successful due to, among other things, unexpected challenges from competitors, new safety issues or concerns being reported that may impact or narrow approved
indications, the relative price of AbbVie's product as compared to alternative treatment options and changes to a product's label that further restrict its marketing.
If the commercialization of AbbVie's principal products is unsuccessful, AbbVie's ability to generate revenue from product sales will be adversely affected.
AbbVie may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of assets, which could cause it to incur significant
expenses and could negatively affect profitability.
AbbVie may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, joint ventures and strategic alliances, or dispose of some of its assets, as part of its
business strategy. AbbVie may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits. If
AbbVie is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources
and investments than originally anticipated. AbbVie may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume
significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. AbbVie could also experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or
disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. These effects could cause a
deterioration of AbbVie's credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.
Additionally, changes in AbbVie's structure, operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from major transactions such as acquisitions, divestitures,
mergers, alliances, joint ventures, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, may result in greater than expected costs, may take longer than expected to complete
or encounter other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approval where appropriate.
AbbVie is dependent on wholesale distributors for distribution of its products in the United States and, accordingly, its results of operations could be adversely
affected if they encounter financial difficulties.
In 2021, three wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) accounted for substantially all of
AbbVie's pharmaceutical product sales in the United States. If one of its significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, such
distributor may decrease the amount of business that it does with AbbVie, and AbbVie may be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes it on a
timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact AbbVie's business and results of operations.
|
21 2021 Form 10-KAbbVie has debt obligations that could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations.
The amount of debt that AbbVie has incurred and intends to incur could have important consequences to AbbVie and its investors. These consequences
include, among other things, requiring a portion of AbbVie's cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt and reducing the cash flow available
to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow AbbVie's business. In particular, AbbVie incurred significant debt in connection with its
acquisition of Allergan. AbbVie’s substantially increased indebtedness and higher debt to equity ratio as a result of the acquisition may exacerbate these risks and
have the effect of, among other things, reducing its flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and/or lowering its credit ratings. To the
extent AbbVie incurs additional indebtedness or interest rates increase, these risks could increase further. In addition, AbbVie's cash flow from operations may not
be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and AbbVie may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, or otherwise raise funds on acceptable
terms, or at all, to refinance its debt.
AbbVie may need additional financing in the future to meet its capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on
favorable terms, if at all.
AbbVie may need to seek additional financing for its general corporate purposes. For example, it may need to increase its investment in research and
development activities or need funds to make acquisitions. AbbVie may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to it, if at all. If
AbbVie loses its investment grade credit rating or adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, AbbVie may be unable to fund its expansion, successfully
develop or enhance products, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect AbbVie's business. If AbbVie raises additional funds by
issuing debt or entering into credit facilities, it may be subject to limitations on its operations due to restrictive covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants
could adversely affect AbbVie's business.
AbbVie depends on information technology and a failure of those systems could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business.
AbbVie relies on sophisticated software applications and complex information technology systems to operate its business. These systems are potentially
vulnerable to malicious intrusion, random attack, loss of data privacy, disruption, degradation or breakdown. Data privacy or security breaches by employees or
others may in the future result in the failure of critical business operations. Such breaches may cause sensitive data, including intellectual property, trade secrets
or personal information belonging to AbbVie, its patients, customers or business partners, to be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. To date, AbbVie’s
business or operations have not been materially impacted by such incidents. Although AbbVie has invested in the protection of its data and information technology
and also monitors its systems on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent material breakdowns or breaches in AbbVie's
information technology systems that could adversely affect AbbVie's business. Such adverse consequences could include loss of revenue, or the loss of critical or
sensitive information from AbbVie’s or third-party providers’ databases or IT systems and could also result in legal, financial, reputational or business harm to
AbbVie and potentially substantial remediation costs.
In connection with the acquisition of Allergan, AbbVie’s balances of intangible assets, including developed product rights and goodwill acquired, have increased
significantly. Such balances are subject to impairment testing and may result in impairment charges, which will adversely affect AbbVie’s results of operations
and financial condition.
A significant amount of AbbVie’s total assets is related to acquired intangibles and goodwill. As of December 31, 2021, the carrying value of AbbVie’s
developed product rights and other intangible assets was $76.0 billion and the carrying value of AbbVie’s goodwill was $32.4 billion.
AbbVie’s developed product rights are stated at cost, less accumulated amortization. AbbVie determines original fair value and amortization periods for
developed product rights based on its assessment of various factors impacting estimated useful lives and cash flows of the acquired products. Significant adverse
changes to any of these factors require AbbVie to perform an impairment test on the affected asset and, if evidence of impairment exists, require AbbVie to take an
impairment charge with respect to the asset. For assets that are not impaired, AbbVie may adjust the remaining useful lives. Such a charge could have a material
adverse effect on AbbVie’s results of operations and financial condition.
AbbVie’s other significant intangible assets include in-process research and development (IPR&D) intangible projects, acquired in recent business
combinations, which are indefinite-lived intangible assets.
Goodwill and AbbVie’s IPR&D intangible assets are tested for impairment annually, or when events occur or circumstances change that could potentially
reduce the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset. Impairment testing compares the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset to its carrying
amount. A goodwill or IPR&D impairment, if any, would be recorded in operating income and could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie’s results of operations
and financial condition.
|
2021 Form 10-K 22Failure to attract, develop and retain highly qualified personnel could affect AbbVie’s ability to successfully develop and commercialize products.
AbbVie’s success is largely dependent on its continued ability to attract, develop and retain diverse, highly qualified scientific, technical and management
personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical research and development (R&D), governmental regulation and commercialization. Competition for
qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense. AbbVie cannot be sure that it will be able to attract and retain quality personnel or that the costs of
doing so will not materially increase.
Other factors can have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's profitability and financial condition.
Many other factors can affect AbbVie's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including:
• changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, product marketing
application standards, data privacy laws, particularly in the European Union and the United States, and environmental laws;
• differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for pension and post-employment benefits,
stock-based compensation, intangibles and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation and contingent consideration, the absence of a
recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the minimum, compared to the actual amount;
• changes in the rate of inflation (including the cost of raw materials, commodities and supplies), interest rates, market value of AbbVie's equity
investments and the performance of investments held by it or its employee benefit trusts;
• changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to AbbVie or its employee benefit trusts;
• environmental liabilities in connection with AbbVie’s manufacturing processes and distribution logistics, including the handling of hazardous
materials;
• changes in the ability of third parties that provide information technology, accounting, human resources, payroll and other outsourced services to
AbbVie to meet their contractual obligations to AbbVie;
• business interruptions stemming from natural disasters, such as climate change, earthquakes, hurricanes, flooding, fires, or efforts taken by third
parties to prevent or mitigate such disasters; and
• changes in business, economic and political conditions, including: war, political instability, terrorist attacks, the threat of future terrorist activity and
related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor disputes, strikes, slow-downs,
or other forms of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups.
Risks Related to AbbVie's Common Stock
AbbVie cannot guarantee the timing, amount, or payment of dividends on its common stock.
Although AbbVie expects to pay regular cash dividends, the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to stockholders will fall within the
discretion of AbbVie's board of directors. The board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as AbbVie's financial
condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that the board
deems relevant. For more information, see Item 5, "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities."
AbbVie's ability to pay dividends will depend on its ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and access capital markets. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it
will continue to pay a dividend in the future.
An AbbVie stockholder's percentage of ownership in AbbVie may be diluted in the future.
In the future, a stockholder's percentage ownership in AbbVie may be diluted because of equity issuances for capital market transactions, equity awards that
AbbVie will be granting to AbbVie's directors, officers and employees, acquisitions or other purposes. AbbVie's employees have options to purchase shares of its
common stock as a result of conversion of their Abbott stock options (in whole or in part) to AbbVie stock options. AbbVie anticipates its compensation committee
will grant additional stock options or other stock-based awards to its employees. Such awards will have a dilutive effect on AbbVie's earnings per share, which
could adversely affect the market price of AbbVie's common stock. From time to time, AbbVie will issue additional options or other stock-based awards to its
employees under AbbVie's employee benefits plans.
|
23 2021 Form 10-KIn addition, AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes AbbVie to issue, without the approval of AbbVie's stockholders, one or
more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including
preferences over AbbVie's common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as AbbVie's board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more
classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of AbbVie's common stock. For example, AbbVie could grant the holders of
preferred stock the right to elect some number of AbbVie's directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions.
Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences AbbVie could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the
common stock.
Certain provisions in AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay
an acquisition of AbbVie, which could decrease the trading price of AbbVie's common stock.
AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are
intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by encouraging prospective acquirors to negotiate with AbbVie's board of directors
rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:
• the inability of AbbVie's stockholders to call a special meeting;
• the division of AbbVie's board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term;
• a provision that stockholders may only remove directors for cause;
• the ability of AbbVie's directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on AbbVie's board of directors; and
• the requirement that the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least 80% of AbbVie's voting stock is required to amend certain provisions in
AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and AbbVie's amended and restated by-laws relating to the number, term and election of
AbbVie's directors, the filling of board vacancies, the calling of special meetings of stockholders and director and officer indemnification provisions.
In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a
person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation,
including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the
holder of more than 15% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock.
AbbVie believes these provisions protect its stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with
AbbVie's board of directors and by providing AbbVie's board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to
make the company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or
prevent an acquisition that AbbVie's board of directors determines is not in the best interests of AbbVie and AbbVie's stockholders. These provisions may also
prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.
|
2021 Form 10-K 24CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward looking statements regarding business strategies, market potential, future financial performance
and other matters. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project" and similar expressions, among others, generally identify "forward looking statements,"
which speak only as of the date the statements were made. The matters discussed in these forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. In particular, information
included under Item 1, "Business," Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
contain forward looking statements. Where, in any forward looking statement, an expectation or belief as to future results or events is expressed, such expectation
or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of AbbVie management and expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can
be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. Factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from
those anticipated include the matters described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations." AbbVie does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect
events or circumstances after the date hereof, unless AbbVie is required by applicable securities law to do so.
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
AbbVie's corporate offices are located at 1 North Waukegan Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064-6400. As of December 31, 2021, AbbVie owns or leases
approximately 645 facilities worldwide, containing an aggregate of approximately 20 million square feet of floor space dedicated to production, distribution, and
administration. AbbVie's significant manufacturing facilities are in the following locations:
United States Outside the United States
Abbott Park, Illinois* Campoverde di Aprilia, Italy
Barceloneta, Puerto Rico Clonshaugh, Ireland
Branchburg, New Jersey* La Aurora, Costa Rica
Campbell, California Ludwigshafen, Germany
Cincinnati, Ohio Pringy, France
Dublin, California* Singapore*
Irvine, California Sligo, Ireland
North Chicago, Illinois Westport, Ireland*
Waco, Texas
Worcester, Massachusetts*
Wyandotte, Michigan*
_______________________________________________________________________________
* Leased property.
AbbVie believes its facilities are suitable and provide adequate production capacity for its current and projected operations. There are no material
encumbrances on AbbVie's owned properties.
In the United States, including Puerto Rico, AbbVie has two central distribution centers. AbbVie also has research and development facilities in the United
States located at: Abbott Park, Illinois; Branchburg, New Jersey; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Irvine, California; Madison, New Jersey; North Chicago, Illinois;
Pleasanton, California; Santa Cruz, California; South San Francisco, California; and Worcester, Massachusetts. Outside the United States, AbbVie's principal
research and development facilities are located in Ludwigshafen, Germany.
|
25 2021 Form 10-KITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Information pertaining to legal proceedings is provided in Note 15, "Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included
under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
|
2021 Form 10-K 26INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
The following table lists AbbVie's executive officers:
Name Age Position
Richard A. Gonzalez 68 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Robert A. Michael 51 Vice Chairman, Finance and Commercial Operations and Chief Financial Officer
Laura J. Schumacher 58 Vice Chairman, External Affairs and Chief Legal Officer
Michael E. Severino, M.D. 56 Vice Chairman and President
Henry O. Gosebruch 49 Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer
Timothy J. Richmond 55 Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer
Azita Saleki-Gerhardt, Ph.D. 58 Executive Vice President, Operations
Jeffrey R. Stewart 53 Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer
Thomas J. Hudson, M.D. 60 Senior Vice President, Research & Development and Chief Scientific Officer
Elaine K. Sorg 55 Senior Vice President, U.S. Commercial Operations
Carrie Strom 44 Senior Vice President, AbbVie and President, Global Allergan Aesthetics
Brian L. Durkin 61 Vice President, Controller
_______________________________________________________________________________
Mr. Gonzalez is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AbbVie. He served as Abbott’s Executive Vice President of the Pharmaceutical Products Group from
July 2010 to December 2012, and was responsible for Abbott’s worldwide pharmaceutical business, including commercial operations, research and development,
and manufacturing. He also served as President, Abbott Ventures Inc., Abbott’s medical technology investment arm, from 2009 to 2011. Mr. Gonzalez joined Abbott in
1977 and held various management positions. He was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in December 2012.
Mr. Michael is AbbVie’s Vice Chairman, Finance and Commercial Operations and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Michael previously served as Executive Vice
President, Chief Financial Officer from 2019 to 2021, as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer from 2018 to 2019, and as Vice President, Controller from
2017 to 2018. He served as AbbVie’s Vice President, Treasurer from 2015 to 2016, as Vice President, Controller, Commercial Operations from 2013 to 2015 and Vice
President, Financial Planning and Analysis from 2012 to 2013. At Abbott, Mr. Michael served as Division Controller, Nutrition Supply Chain from 2010 to 2012. Mr.
Michael joined Abbott in 1993 and was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in December 2015.
Ms. Schumacher is AbbVie’s Vice Chairman, External Affairs and Chief Legal Officer, responsible for global legal, health economics outcomes research,
corporate responsibility, brand and communications and government affairs. Prior to her current appointment in 2018, she served as AbbVie’s Executive Vice
President, External Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Prior to AbbVie’s separation from Abbott, Ms. Schumacher served as Executive Vice President,
General Counsel from 2007 to 2012. Both at Abbott and AbbVie, Ms. Schumacher also led Business Development and Ventures and Early Stage Collaborations. Ms.
Schumacher was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in December 2012. She serves on the board of General Dynamics Corporation and CrowdStrike
Holdings, Inc.
Dr. Severino is AbbVie’s Vice Chairman and President, responsible for research and development and the corporate strategy office. He served as Executive Vice
President, Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer from 2014 to 2018. Dr. Severino served at Amgen Inc. as Senior Vice President, Global Development
and Corporate Chief Medical Officer from 2012 to 2014, as Vice President, Global Development from 2010 to 2012 and as Vice President, Therapeutic Area Head,
General Medicine and Inflammation Global Clinical Development from 2007 to 2012. He joined AbbVie in 2014 and was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate
officer in June 2014. Dr. Severino also serves on the board of Avantor, Inc.
Mr. Gosebruch is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer. He worked for more than 20 years in the Mergers & Acquisitions Group at J.P.
Morgan Securities LLC, serving as Managing Director since 2007 and as Co-Head of M&A North America during 2015. Mr. Gosebruch joined AbbVie in 2015 and was
first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in December 2015. He serves on the board of Aptinyx Inc.
Mr. Richmond is AbbVie’s Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer. He served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources from 2013 to 2018.
Mr. Richmond served as Abbott’s Divisional Vice President of Compensation & Benefits from 2008 to 2012, as Group Vice President of Talent and Rewards from 2007
to 2008, and as Divisional Vice President of
|
27 2021 Form 10-KTalent Acquisition from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Richmond joined Abbott in 2006 and was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in December 2012.
Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt is AbbVie’s Executive Vice President, Operations. She served as Senior Vice President, Operations from 2013 to 2018. Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt
served as Abbott’s Vice President, Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing and Supply from 2011 to 2012, and as Divisional Vice President, Quality Assurance, Global
Pharmaceutical Operations from 2008 to 2011. Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt joined Abbott in 1993 and was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in December 2012.
She serves on the board of Entegris Inc.
Mr. Stewart is AbbVie’s Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer. He previously served as Senior Vice President, U.S. Commercial Operations from
2018 to 2020 and as AbbVie’s President, Commercial Operations from 2013 to 2018. Prior to AbbVie’s separation from Abbott, he served as Vice President, Abbott
Proprietary Pharmaceutical Division, United States. Mr. Stewart joined Abbott in 1992 and was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in December 2018.
Dr. Hudson is AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Research & Development and Chief Scientific Officer. He previously served as Vice President, Head of Oncology
Discovery and Early Development from 2016 to 2019. Prior to joining AbbVie, Dr. Hudson served at the Ontario Institute for Cancer Research as President and
Scientific Director. He also previously served as Founder and Director of the McGill University and Genome Quebec Innovation Centre and Assistant Director of the
Whitehead/MIT Center for Genome Research. Dr. Hudson was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in July 2019.
Ms. Sorg is AbbVie’s Senior Vice President, U.S. Commercial Operations. She previously served as AbbVie’s President, U.S. Immunology and Patient Services
from 2019 to 2020 and as Vice President, Immunology and Oncology from 2016 to 2018. She served as Vice President, Immunology prior to AbbVie’s separation from
Abbott and until 2016 at AbbVie. Ms. Sorg joined Abbott in 2012 and was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in November 2020. Prior to joining Abbott,
Ms. Sorg served in management roles at Eli Lilly and Company for 23 years.
Ms. Strom is AbbVie’s Senior Vice President, AbbVie, and President, Global Allergan Aesthetics, responsible for the worldwide operations of the aesthetics
franchise. She was appointed to the position upon AbbVie’s acquisition of Allergan in 2020 and was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in May 2020. At
Allergan, Ms. Strom previously served as Senior Vice President, U.S. Medical Aesthetics from 2018 to 2020. She joined Allergan in 2011.
Mr. Durkin is AbbVie’s Vice President, Controller. Mr. Durkin previously served as Vice President, Internal Audit from 2016 to 2018. Prior to joining AbbVie, he
served as Vice President of Finance and Division Controller for Abbott’s Vision Care business from 2009 to 2016 and Controller Pharmaceutical Research and
Development from 2005 to 2009. Mr. Durkin joined Abbott in 1986 and was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in October 2018.
The executive officers of AbbVie are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers are elected by the board or appointed by the Chairman of the
Board. All officers are either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual stockholder meeting or appointed by the Chairman of the
Board after that board meeting. Each officer holds office until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officer's death, resignation,
or removal. There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers listed above.
|
2021 Form 10-K 28PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES
Principal Market
The principal market for AbbVie's common stock is the New York Stock Exchange (Symbol: ABBV). AbbVie's common stock is also listed on the Chicago Stock
Exchange and traded on various regional and electronic exchanges.
Stockholders
There were 46,139 stockholders of record of AbbVie common stock as of January 31, 2022.
Performance Graph
The following graph compares the cumulative total returns of AbbVie, the S&P 500 Index and the NYSE Arca Pharmaceuticals Index for the period from
December 31, 2016 through December 31, 2021. This graph assumes $100 was invested in AbbVie common stock and each index on December 31, 2016 and also
assumes the reinvestment of dividends. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.
This performance graph is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" with the SEC or subject to Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be
deemed incorporated by reference in any of AbbVie's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
|
29 2021 Form 10-KDividends
On October 29, 2021, AbbVie's board of directors declared an increase in the quarterly cash dividend from $1.30 per share to $1.41 per share, payable on
February 15, 2022 to stockholders of record as of January 14, 2022. The timing, declaration, amount of and payment of any dividends by AbbVie in the future is
within the discretion of its board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including AbbVie's financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of its
operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, ability
to access capital markets and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors. Moreover, if AbbVie determines to pay any dividend in the future, there can be
no assurance that it will continue to pay such dividends or the amount of such dividends.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
(c) Total
Number of
Shares (or Units)
(a) Total Purchased as Part (d) Maximum Number (or
Number (b) Average of Publicly Approximate Dollar Value) of
of Shares Price Announced Shares (or Units) that May
(or Units) Paid per Share Plans or Yet Be Purchased Under the
Period Purchased (or Unit) Programs Plans or Programs
October 1, 2021 - October 31, 2021 3,808 (1) $ 108.90 (1) — $ 2,643,316,927
November 1, 2021 - November 30, 2021 845 (1) $ 116.08 (1) — $ 2,643,316,927
December 1, 2021 - December 31, 2021 904,176 (1) $ 136.23 (1) 879,703 $ 2,523,316,993
Total 908,829 (1) $ 136.10 (1) 879,703 $ 2,523,316,993
1. In addition to AbbVie shares repurchased on the open market under a publicly announced program, if any, these shares also included the shares purchased on
the open market for the benefit of participants in the AbbVie Employee Stock Purchase Plan – 3,808 in October; 845 in November; and 24,473 in December.
These shares do not include the shares surrendered to AbbVie to satisfy minimum tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting or exercise of
stock-based awards.
|
2021 Form 10-K 30ITEM 6. [RESERVED]
|
31 2021 Form 10-KITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company). This commentary should be read in conjunction
with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes appearing in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." This section of this Form
10-K generally discusses 2021 and 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020. Discussions of 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons
between 2020 and 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020.
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW
Company Overview
AbbVie is a global, diversified research-based biopharmaceutical company positioned for success with a comprehensive product portfolio that has
leadership positions across immunology, hematologic oncology, neuroscience, aesthetics and eye care. AbbVie uses its expertise, dedicated people and unique
approach to innovation to develop and market advanced therapies that address some of the world’s most complex and serious diseases.
AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies and
independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Certain products (including aesthetic products and devices) are also sold
directly to physicians and other licensed healthcare providers. In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent
wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to retailers, pharmacies, patients or other customers. Outside the United States, AbbVie sells products primarily to
customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has
approximately 50,000 employees. AbbVie operates as a single global business segment.
2021 Financial Results
AbbVie's strategy has focused on delivering strong financial results, maximizing the benefits of the Allergan acquisition, advancing and investing in its
pipeline and returning value to shareholders while ensuring a strong, sustainable growth business over the long term. The company's financial performance in 2021
included delivering worldwide net revenues of $56.2 billion, operating earnings of $17.9 billion, diluted earnings per share of $6.45 and cash flows from operations
of $22.8 billion. Worldwide net revenues increased by 23% on a reported basis and 22% on a constant currency basis, reflecting growth across its immunology,
hematologic oncology, neuroscience, aesthetics and eye care portfolios as well as a full period of Allergan results in 2021 compared to the prior year.
Diluted earnings per share in 2021 was $6.45 and included the following after-tax costs: (i) $6.4 billion related to the amortization of intangible assets; (ii)
$2.7 billion for the change in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities; (iii) $948 million for acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D); (iv)
$500 million as a result of a collaboration agreement extension with Calico Life Sciences LLC; (v) $307 million for milestones and other research and development
(R&D) expenses; (vi) $253 million for charges related to litigation matters; and (vii) $215 million of acquisition and integration expenses. These costs were partially
offset by $265 million of certain tax benefits. Additionally, financial results reflected continued funding to support all stages of AbbVie’s pipeline assets and
continued investment in AbbVie’s on-market brands.
In October 2021, AbbVie's board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.41 per share of common stock payable in February 2022. This reflects
an increase of approximately 8.5% over the previous quarterly dividend of $1.30 per share of common stock.
Following the closing of the Allergan acquisition, AbbVie implemented an integration plan designed to reduce costs, integrate and optimize the combined
organization. The integration plan is expected to realize approximately $2.5 billion of annual cost synergies in 2022.
|
2021 Form 10-K 32To achieve these integration objectives, AbbVie expects to incur total cumulative charges of approximately $2 billion through 2022. These costs consist of
severance and employee benefit costs (cash severance, non-cash severance, including accelerated equity award compensation expense, retention and other
termination benefits) and other integration expenses.
Impact of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
In response to the ongoing public health crisis posed by COVID-19, AbbVie continues to focus on ensuring the safety of employees. Throughout the pandemic,
AbbVie has followed health and safety guidance from state and local health authorities and implemented safety measures for those employees who are returning to
the workplace.
AbbVie also continues to closely manage manufacturing and supply chain resources around the world to help ensure that patients continue to receive an
uninterrupted supply of their medicines. Clinical trial sites are being monitored locally to protect the safety of study participants, staff and employees. While the
impact of COVID-19 on AbbVie's operations to date has not been material, AbbVie continues to experience lower new patient starts in certain products and markets.
AbbVie expects this matter could continue to negatively impact its results of operations throughout the duration of the pandemic.
The extent to which COVID-19 may impact AbbVie's financial condition and results of operations remains uncertain and is dependent on numerous evolving
factors, including the measures being taken by authorities to mitigate against the spread of COVID-19, the emergence of new variants and the availability and
successful administration of effective vaccines.
2022 Strategic Objectives
AbbVie's mission is to discover and develop innovative medicines and products that solve serious health issues today and address the medical challenges of
tomorrow while achieving top-tier financial performance through outstanding execution. AbbVie intends to continue to advance its mission in a number of ways,
including: (i) maximizing the benefits of a diversified revenue base with multiple long-term growth drivers; (ii) growing revenues by leveraging AbbVie's commercial
strength and international infrastructure across therapeutic areas and ensuring strong commercial execution of new product launches; (iii) continuing to invest in
and expand its pipeline in support of opportunities in immunology, oncology, aesthetics, neuroscience and eye care as well as continued investment in key on-
market products; (iv) expanding operating margins; and (v) returning cash to shareholders via a strong and growing dividend while also reducing debt. In addition,
AbbVie anticipates several regulatory submissions and data readouts from key clinical trials in the next 12 months.
AbbVie expects to achieve its strategic objectives through:
• Immunology revenue growth driven by increasing market share and indication expansion of Skyrizi and Rinvoq, as well as Humira U.S. sales growth.
• Hematologic oncology revenue growth driven by increasing market share and indication expansion of Venclexta, as well as maintaining the strong
leadership position of Imbruvica.
• Aesthetics revenue growth driven by global expansion and increasing market penetration of Botox and Juvederm Collection.
• Neuroscience revenue growth driven by Vraylar, Botox Therapeutic, Ubrelvy and recently launched Qulipta.
• Sustaining eye care leadership by maximizing AbbVie's current eye care portfolio.
• The favorable impact of pipeline products and indications recently approved or currently under regulatory review where approval is expected in 2022.
These products are described in greater detail in the section labeled "Research and Development" included as part of this Item 7.
AbbVie remains committed to driving continued expansion of operating margins and expects to achieve this objective through continued realization of
expense synergies from the Allergan acquisition, leverage from revenue growth, productivity initiatives in supply chain and ongoing efficiency programs to optimize
manufacturing, commercial infrastructure, administrative costs and general corporate expenses.
|
33 2021 Form 10-KResearch and Development
Research and innovation are the cornerstones of AbbVie's business as a global biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie's long-term success depends to a great
extent on its ability to continue to discover and develop innovative products and acquire or collaborate on compounds currently in development by other
biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies.
AbbVie's pipeline currently includes approximately 90 compounds, devices or indications in development individually or under collaboration or license
agreements and is focused on such important specialties as immunology, oncology, aesthetics, neuroscience and eye care. Of these programs, more than 50 are in
mid- and late-stage development.
The following sections summarize transitions of significant programs from mid-stage development to late-stage development as well as developments in
significant late-stage and registration programs. AbbVie expects multiple mid-stage programs to transition into late-stage programs in the next 12 months.
Significant Programs and Developments
Immunology
Skyrizi
• In January 2021, AbbVie announced top-line results from its Phase 3 KEEPsAKE-1 and KEEPsAKE-2 clinical trials of Skyrizi in adults with active psoriatic
arthritis (PsA) met the primary and ranked secondary endpoints.
• In January 2021, AbbVie announced top-line results from its Phase 3 ADVANCE and MOTIVATE induction studies of Skyrizi in patients with Crohn’s
disease met the primary and key secondary endpoints.
• In April 2021, AbbVie received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval of Skyrizi in a single dose pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen. This
approval will reduce the number of injections administered per treatment.
• In June 2021, AbbVie announced top-line results from its Phase 3 FORTIFY study for Skyrizi in patients with moderate to severe Crohn’s disease met the
co-primary endpoints.
• In September 2021, AbbVie submitted a supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) to the FDA for Skyrizi for the treatment of patients 16 years and
older with moderate to severe Crohn’s disease.
• In November 2021, AbbVie submitted a marketing authorization application (MAA) to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Skyrizi for the treatment
of patients 16 years or older with moderate to severe active Crohn's disease who have had inadequate response, lost response or were intolerant to
conventional or biologic therapy.
• In November 2021, AbbVie announced that the European Commission (EC) approved Skyrizi alone or in combination with methotrexate for the treatment
of active PsA in adults who have had an inadequate response or who have been intolerant to one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs.
• In January 2022, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved Skyrizi for the treatment of adults with active PsA.
Rinvoq
• In January 2021, AbbVie announced that the EC approved Rinvoq for the treatment of adults with active PsA and ankylosing spondylitis (AS).
• In February 2021, AbbVie announced its Phase 3 U-ACCOMPLISH induction study of Rinvoq for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe
ulcerative colitis (UC) met the primary and all ranked secondary endpoints.
• In June 2021, AbbVie announced the FDA will not meet the Prescription Drug User Fee Act action dates for the sNDA of Rinvoq for the treatment of adults
with active AS. No formal regulatory action has been taken on the sNDA for Rinvoq in AS.
• In June 2021, AbbVie announced the results from its Phase 3 maintenance study of Rinvoq in patients with UC met the primary and all secondary
endpoints.
• In August 2021, AbbVie announced that the EC approved Rinvoq for the treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (AD) in adults and adolescents
12 years and older who are candidates for systemic therapy.
|
2021 Form 10-K 34• In September 2021, AbbVie submitted an sNDA to the FDA and an MAA to the EMA for Rinvoq for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely
active UC.
• In October 2021, AbbVie announced the results from Study 1 of the Phase 3 SELECT-AXIS 2 clinical trial for Rinvoq in patients with active AS and
inadequate response to biologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs met the primary and all ranked secondary endpoints.
• In October 2021, AbbVie announced the results from Study 2 of the Phase 3 SELECT-AXIS 2 clinical trial for Rinvoq in adults with non-radiographic axial
spondyloarthritis met the primary and 12 of 14 ranked secondary endpoints.
• In December 2021, AbbVie announced top-line results from its Phase 3 U-EXCEED induction study for Rinvoq in patients with moderate to severe Crohn's
disease who had an inadequate response or were intolerant to biologic therapy met the primary and key secondary endpoints.
• In December 2021, AbbVie announced an update to the U.S. Prescribing Information and Medication Guide for Rinvoq for the treatment of adults with
moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This update follows a Drug Safety Communication (DSC) issued by the FDA in September 2021 based on its
final review of the post-marketing study evaluating another JAK inhibitor (tofacitinib) in patients with RA. The DSC and this label update apply to the
class of systematically administered FDA-approved JAK inhibitors for the treatment of RA and other inflammatory diseases. Based on this class-wide
update, the U.S. label for Rinvoq will now include additional information about risks within the Boxed Warnings and Warnings Precautions sections.
The indication has also been updated to be indicated for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active RA who have had an inadequate
response or intolerance to one or more tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers.
• In December 2021, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved Rinvoq for the treatment of adults with active PsA who have had an inadequate response
or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers.
• In January 2022, AbbVie announced its submission of an sNDA to the FDA and an MAA to the EMA for Rinvoq for the treatment of adults with active nr-
axSpA with objective signs of inflammation who have responded inadequately to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
• In January 2022, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved Rinvoq for the treatment of moderate to severe AD in adults and children 12 years of age and
older whose disease did not respond to previous treatment and is not well controlled with other pills or injections, including biologic medicines, or
when use of other pills or injections is not recommended.
• In February 2022, AbbVie was notified that the EC is requesting the EMA to assess safety concerns associated with JAK inhibitor products authorized in
inflammatory diseases and to evaluate the impact of these events on their benefit-risk balance. The assessment covers all JAK inhibitors approved for
use in inflammatory diseases. The request is for an opinion from the EMA by September 30, 2022.
Oncology
Imbruvica
• In June 2021, AbbVie announced results from its Phase 3 GLOW study comparing the efficacy and safety of Imbruvica in combination with Venclexta
versus chlorambucil plus obinutuzumab for first-line treatment in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma
met its primary endpoint.
Venclexta
• In May 2021, AbbVie received European Commission approval for Venclyxto in combination with a hypomethylating agent for patients with newly
diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who are ineligible for intensive chemotherapy.
|
35 2021 Form 10-K• In July 2021, AbbVie announced that the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation to Venclexta in combination with azacitidine for the potential
treatment of adult patients with previously untreated intermediate-, high- and very high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes.
Teliso-V
• In January 2022, AbbVie announced that the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation to investigational telisotuzumab vedotin (Teliso-V) for the
treatment of patients with advanced/metastatic epidermal growth factor receptor wild type, nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer with high levels
of c-Met overexpression whose disease has progressed on or after platinum-based therapy.
Neuroscience
Botox Therapeutic
• In February 2021, AbbVie received FDA approval of Botox for the treatment of detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition in certain
pediatric patients 5 years of age and older.
Qulipta
• In September 2021, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved Qulipta (atogepant) for the preventive treatment of episodic migraine in adults.
Vraylar
• In October 2021, AbbVie announced top-line results from two Phase 3 clinical trials, Study 3111-301-001 and Study 3111-302-001, evaluating the
efficacy and safety of cariprazine (Vraylar) as an adjunctive treatment for patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). In Study 3111-301-001,
Vraylar met its primary endpoint demonstrating statistically significant change from baseline to week six in the Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating
Scale (MADRS) total score compared with placebo in patients with MDD. In Study 3111-302-001, Vraylar demonstrated numerical improvement in
depressive symptoms from baseline to week six in MADRS total score compared with placebo but did not achieve statistical significance. Safety data
were consistent with the established safety profile of Vraylar across indications with no new safety signals identified.
ABBV-951
• In October 2021, AbbVie announced that results from its pivotal Phase 3 M15-736 study of ABBV-951 (foslevodopa/foscarbidopa) in patients with
advanced Parkinson’s disease met its primary endpoint in a 12-week study.
Eye Care
Vuity
• In October 2021, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved Vuity (pilocarpine HCl ophthalmic solution) for the treatment of presbyopia.
|
2021 Form 10-K 36RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Net Revenues
The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency net revenues at the prior year's foreign exchange rates. This measure
provides information on the change in net revenues assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and current periods. AbbVie
believes that the non-GAAP measure of change in net revenues at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the GAAP measure of change in net
revenues at actual currency rates, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate analysis of the company's results of
operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.
Percent change
At actual currency rates At constant currency rates
years ended
(dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2021 2020
United States $ 43,510 $ 34,879 $ 23,907 24.7 % 45.9 % 24.7 % 45.9 %
International 12,687 10,925 9,359 16.1 % 16.7 % 12.6 % 17.8 %
Net revenues $ 56,197 $ 45,804 $ 33,266 22.7 % 37.7 % 21.9 % 38.0 %
|
37 2021 Form 10-KThe following table details AbbVie's worldwide net revenues:
Percent change
At actual currency rates At constant currency rates
years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2021 2020
Immunology
Humira United States $ 17,330 $ 16,112 $ 14,864 7.6 % 8.4 % 7.6 % 8.4 %
International 3,364 3,720 4,305 (9.6)% (13.6)% (12.8)% (12.5)%
Total $ 20,694 $ 19,832 $ 19,169 4.3 % 3.5 % 3.7 % 3.7 %
Skyrizi United States $ 2,486 $ 1,385 $ 311 79.6 % >100.0% 79.6 % >100.0%
International 453 205 44 >100.0 % >100.0% >100.0 % >100.0%
Total $ 2,939 $ 1,590 $ 355 84.9 % >100.0% 84.0 % >100.0%
Rinvoq United States $ 1,271 $ 653 $ 47 94.8 % >100.0% 94.8 % >100.0%
International 380 78 — >100.0 % >100.0% >100.0 % >100.0%
Total $ 1,651 $ 731 $ 47 >100.0 % >100.0% >100.0 % >100.0%
Hematologic Oncology
Imbruvica United States $ 4,321 $ 4,305 $ 3,830 0.4 % 12.4 % 0.4 % 12.4 %
Collaboration revenues 1,087 1,009 844 7.7 % 19.5 % 7.7 % 19.5 %
Total $ 5,408 $ 5,314 $ 4,674 1.8 % 13.7 % 1.8 % 13.7 %
Venclexta United States $ 934 $ 804 $ 521 16.1 % 54.4 % 16.1 % 54.4 %
International 886 533 271 66.2 % 97.0 % 60.9 % 97.8 %
Total $ 1,820 $ 1,337 $ 792 36.1 % 69.0 % 34.0 % 69.3 %
Aesthetics
Botox Cosmetic (a) United States $ 1,424 $ 687 $ — >100.0 % n/m >100.0 % n/m
International 808 425 — 90.0 % n/m 83.9 % n/m
Total $ 2,232 $ 1,112 $ — >100.0 % n/m 98.4 % n/m
Juvederm Collection (a) United States $ 658 $ 318 $ — >100.0 % n/m >100.0 % n/m
International 877 400 — >100.0 % n/m >100.0 % n/m
Total $ 1,535 $ 718 $ — >100.0 % n/m >100.0 % n/m
Other Aesthetics (a) United States $ 1,268 $ 666 $ — 90.2 % n/m 90.2 % n/m
International 198 94 — >100.0 % n/m >100.0 % n/m
Total $ 1,466 $ 760 $ — 93.0 % n/m 91.9 % n/m
Neuroscience
Botox Therapeutic (a) United States $ 2,012 $ 1,155 $ — 74.3 % n/m 74.3 % n/m
International 439 232 — 89.0 % n/m 78.8 % n/m
Total $ 2,451 $ 1,387 $ — 76.7 % n/m 75.0 % n/m
Vraylar (a) United States $ 1,728 $ 951 $ — 81.7 % n/m 81.7 % n/m
Duodopa United States $ 102 $ 103 $ 97 (1.0)% 5.9 % (1.0)% 5.9 %
International 409 391 364 4.6 % 7.4 % (0.1)% 6.3 %
Total $ 511 $ 494 $ 461 3.4 % 7.1 % (0.3)% 6.2 %
Ubrelvy (a) United States $ 552 $ 125 $ — >100.0 % n/m >100.0 % n/m
Other Neuroscience (a) United States $ 667 $ 528 $ — 26.3 % n/m 26.3 % n/m
International 18 11 — 77.4 % n/m 64.7 % n/m
Total $ 685 $ 539 $ — 27.2 % n/m 27.0 % n/m
|
2021 Form 10-K 38Percent change
At actual currency rates At constant currency rates
years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2021 2020
Eye Care
Lumigan/Ganfort (a) United States $ 273 $ 165 $ — 64.7 % n/m 64.7 % n/m
International 306 213 — 44.1 % n/m 38.1 % n/m
Total $ 579 $ 378 $ — 53.1 % n/m 49.7 % n/m
Alphagan/Combigan (a) United States $ 373 $ 223 $ — 66.5 % n/m 66.5 % n/m
International 156 103 — 52.5 % n/m 50.6 % n/m
Total $ 529 $ 326 $ — 62.1 % n/m 61.5 % n/m
Restasis (a) United States $ 1,234 $ 755 $ — 63.3 % n/m 63.3 % n/m
International 56 32 — 75.3 % n/m 80.1 % n/m
Total $ 1,290 $ 787 $ — 63.8 % n/m 64.0 % n/m
Other Eye Care (a) United States $ 523 $ 305 $ — 72.7 % n/m 72.7 % n/m
International 646 388 — 66.1 % n/m 61.0 % n/m
Total $ 1,169 $ 693 $ — 69.0 % n/m 66.1 % n/m
Women's Health
Lo Loestrin (a) United States $ 423 $ 346 $ — 21.9 % n/m 21.9 % n/m
International 14 10 — 43.3 % n/m 33.0 % n/m
Total $ 437 $ 356 $ — 22.5 % n/m 22.2 % n/m
Orilissa/Oriahnn United States $ 139 $ 121 $ 91 15.4 % 33.3 % 15.4 % 33.3 %
International 6 4 2 57.7 % 96.1 % 47.6 % 97.7 %
Total $ 145 $ 125 $ 93 16.7 % 34.6 % 16.4 % 34.6 %
Other Women's Health (a) United States $ 209 $ 181 $ — 16.2 % n/m 16.2 % n/m
International 5 11 — (57.5)% n/m (61.5)% n/m
Total $ 214 $ 192 $ — 11.7 % n/m 11.5 % n/m
Other Key Products
Mavyret United States $ 754 $ 785 $ 1,473 (4.0)% (46.7)% (4.0)% (46.7)%
International 956 1,045 1,420 (8.5)% (26.4)% (10.8)% (26.8)%
Total $ 1,710 $ 1,830 $ 2,893 (6.5)% (36.7)% (7.8)% (36.9)%
Creon United States $ 1,191 $ 1,114 $ 1,041 6.9 % 6.9 % 6.9 % 6.9 %
Lupron United States $ 604 $ 600 $ 720 0.5 % (16.6)% 0.5 % (16.6)%
International 179 152 167 18.0 % (9.1)% 15.0 % (5.4)%
Total $ 783 $ 752 $ 887 4.0 % (15.2)% 3.4 % (14.5)%
Linzess/Constella (a) United States $ 1,006 $ 649 $ — 55.1 % n/m 55.1 % n/m
International 32 18 — 77.3 % n/m 66.4 % n/m
Total $ 1,038 $ 667 $ — 55.7 % n/m 55.4 % n/m
Synthroid United States $ 767 $ 771 $ 786 (0.6)% (1.9)% (0.6)% (1.9)%
All other $ 2,673 $ 2,923 $ 2,068 (8.6)% 41.3 % (9.7)% 42.4 %
Total net revenues $ 56,197 $ 45,804 $ 33,266 22.7 % 37.7 % 21.9 % 38.0 %
n/m – Not meaningful
(a) Net revenues include Allergan product revenues after the acquisition closing date of May 8, 2020.
The following discussion and analysis of AbbVie's net revenues by product is presented on a constant currency basis.
Global Humira sales increased 4% in 2021 primarily driven by market growth across therapeutic categories, partially offset by direct biosimilar competition
in certain international markets. In the United States, Humira sales increased 8% in 2021 driven by market growth across all indications. This increase was partially
offset by slightly lower market share following corresponding market share gains of Skyrizi and Rinvoq. Internationally, Humira revenues decreased 13% in 2021
primarily driven by direct biosimilar competition in certain international markets.
Net revenues for Skyrizi increased 84% in 2021 primarily driven by continued strong volume and market share uptake since launch in 2019 as a treatment for
plaque psoriasis as well as market growth over the prior year.
Net revenues for Rinvoq increased by more than 100% in 2021 primarily driven by continued strong volume and market share uptake since launch in 2019 for
the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis as well as market growth over the prior year. Net revenues were also favorably impacted by recent
regulatory approvals and expansion of Rinvoq for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis, atopic dermatitis and ankylosing spondylitis in certain international markets.
|
39 2021 Form 10-KNet revenues for Imbruvica represent product revenues in the United States and collaboration revenues outside of the United States related to AbbVie's 50%
share of Imbruvica profit. AbbVie's global Imbruvica revenues increased 2% in 2021 as a result of modest favorable pricing in the United States and increased
collaboration revenues, partially offset by lower new patient starts due to the COVID-19 pandemic and share loss in the United States.
Net revenues for Venclexta increased 34% in 2021 primarily due to continued expansion of Venclexta for the treatment of patients with first-line CLL,
relapsed/refractory CLL and first-line AML.
Net revenues for Botox Cosmetic used in facial aesthetics increased 98% in 2021 due to increased brand investment and strong recovery from the COVID-19
pandemic. Net revenues were also favorably impacted by a full period of Allergan results in 2021 compared to the prior year.
Net revenues for Juvederm Collection (including Juvederm Ultra XC, Juvederm Voluma XC and other Juvederm products) used in facial aesthetics increased by
more than 100% in 2021 due to increased brand investment and strong recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. Net revenues were also favorably impacted by a full
period of Allergan results in 2021 compared to the prior year.
Net revenues for Botox Therapeutic used primarily in neuroscience and urology therapeutic areas increased 75% in 2021 due to a strong recovery from the
COVID-19 pandemic. Net revenues were also favorably impacted by a full period of Allergan results in 2021 compared to the prior year.
Net revenues for Vraylar for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar I disorder and bipolar depression increased 82% in 2021 due to higher market share and
market growth. Net revenues were also favorably impacted by a full period of Allergan results in 2021 compared to the prior year.
Net revenues for Ubrelvy for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults increased by more than 100% in 2021 primarily due to increased
volume and market share uptake since launch in 2020.
Net revenues for Mavyret decreased 8% in 2021 primarily driven by the continued disruption of global HCV markets due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Gross Margin
Percent change
years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020
Gross margin $ 38,751 $ 30,417 $ 25,827 27 % 18 %
as a percent of net revenues 69 % 66 % 78 %
Gross margin as a percentage of net revenues in 2021 increased from 2020 primarily due to lower amortization of inventory fair value step-up adjustment
associated with the Allergan acquisition and favorable changes in product mix, partially offset by higher amortization of intangible assets associated with the
Allergan acquisition.
Selling, General and Administrative
Percent change
years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020
Selling, general and administrative $ 12,349 $ 11,299 $ 6,942 9 % 63 %
as a percent of net revenues 22 % 25 % 21 %
SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues in 2021 decreased primarily due to lower transaction and integration costs related to the acquisition of
Allergan as well as leverage from revenue growth and synergies realized in the period subsequent to completion of the Allergan acquisition.
|
2021 Form 10-K 40Research and Development and Acquired In-Process Research and Development
Percent change
years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020
Research and development $ 7,084 $ 6,557 $ 6,407 8 % 2 %
as a percent of net revenues 13 % 14 % 19 %
Acquired in-process research and development $ 962 $ 1,198 $ 385 (20)% >100%
R&D expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased in 2021 primarily due to the increased scale of the combined company and synergies realized for the
period subsequent to completion of the Allergan acquisition as well as lower integration costs related to the acquisition of Allergan.
Acquired IPR&D expenses represent initial costs to acquire rights to in-process R&D projects through R&D collaborations, licensing arrangements or other
asset acquisitions. Acquired IPR&D expense in 2021 included a charge of $400 million as a result of exercising the company's exclusive right to acquire TeneoOne,
an affiliate of Teneobio, Inc., and TNB-383B, a BCMA-targeting immunotherapeutic for the potential treatment of relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma and a
charge of $370 million as a result of entering into a collaboration agreement with REGENXBIO Inc. for the development and commercialization of RGX-314, an
investigational gene therapy for wet age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy and other chronic retinal diseases. Acquired IPR&D expense in 2020
included a charge of $750 million as a result of entering into a collaboration agreement with Genmab A/S to research, develop and commercialize investigational
bispecific antibody therapeutics for the treatment of cancer. Acquired IPR&D expense in 2020 also included a charge of $200 million as a result of entering into a
collaboration agreement with I-Mab Biopharma for the development and commercialization of lemzoparlimab for the treatment of multiple cancers. See Note 5 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Other Operating Expense (Income), Net
Other operating expense in 2021 included a $500 million charge related to the extension of the Calico collaboration to discover, develop and bring to market
new therapies for patients with age-related diseases, including neurodegeneration and cancer.
Other Non-Operating Expenses
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Interest expense $ 2,423 $ 2,454 $ 1,784
Interest income (39) (174) (275)
Interest expense, net $ 2,384 $ 2,280 $ 1,509
Net foreign exchange loss $ 51 $ 71 $ 42
Other expense, net 2,500 5,614 3,006
Interest expense in 2021 decreased compared to 2020 primarily due to the favorable impact of lower interest rates on the company’s floating rate debt
obligations and deleveraging, partially offset by a higher average debt balance associated with the incremental Allergan debt acquired.
Interest income in 2021 decreased compared to 2020 primarily due to a lower average cash and cash equivalents balance as a result of the cash paid for the
Allergan acquisition and the unfavorable impact of lower interest rates.
Other expense, net included charges related to changes in fair value of the contingent consideration liabilities of $2.7 billion in 2021 and $5.8 billion in 2020.
The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities is impacted by the passage of time and multiple other inputs, including the probability of success of achieving
regulatory/commercial milestones, discount rates, the estimated amount of future sales of the acquired products and other market-based factors. In 2021, the
change in fair value included the increase in the Skyrizi contingent consideration liability due to higher estimated sales driven by stronger market share uptake,
favorable clinical trial results and the passage of time, partially offset by higher discount rates. In 2020, the change in fair value primarily included the increase in
the Skyrizi contingent consideration liability due to higher estimated sales driven by stronger market share uptake, lower discount rates, the passage of time and
favorable clinical trial results.
|
41 2021 Form 10-KIncome Tax Expense
The effective income tax rate was 11% in 2021, negative 36% in 2020 and 6% in 2019. The effective income tax rates differed from the statutory tax rate
principally due to the impact of foreign operations which reflects the impact of lower income tax rates in locations outside the United States, tax incentives in
Puerto Rico and other foreign tax jurisdictions, business development activities, changes in enacted tax rates and laws and related restructuring, tax audit
settlements and accretion on contingent consideration. The 2020 effective income tax rate included the recognition of a net tax benefit of $1.7 billion related to
changes in tax laws and related restructuring, including certain intra-group transfers of intellectual property and deferred tax remeasurement. The effective tax
rates for these periods also reflected the benefit from U.S. tax credits principally related to research and development credits, the orphan drug tax credit and Puerto
Rico excise tax credits. The Puerto Rico excise tax credits relate to legislation enacted by Puerto Rico that assesses an excise tax on certain products manufactured
in Puerto Rico. The tax is levied on gross inventory purchases from entities in Puerto Rico and is included in cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of
earnings. The majority of the tax is creditable for U.S. income tax purposes.
FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Cash flows provided by (used in)
Operating activities $ 22,777 $ 17,588 $ 13,324
Investing activities (2,344) (37,557) 596
Financing activities (19,039) (11,501) 18,708
Operating cash flows in 2021 increased from 2020. Operating cash flows in 2021 were favorably impacted by higher net revenues of the combined company
and lower acquisition-related cash expenses, partially offset by higher income tax payments and the timing of working capital cash flows. Operating cash flows
also reflected AbbVie’s contributions to its defined benefit plans of $376 million in 2021 and $367 million in 2020.
Investing cash flows in 2021 included $535 million cash consideration paid to acquire Soliton, Inc. offset by cash acquired, payments made for other
acquisitions and investments of $1.4 billion, capital expenditures of $787 million and net purchases of investment securities totaling $21 million. Investing cash
flows in 2020 included $39.7 billion cash consideration paid to acquire Allergan offset by cash acquired of $1.5 billion, net sales and maturities of investment
securities totaling $1.5 billion, payments made for other acquisitions and investments of $1.4 billion and capital expenditures of $798 million.
Financing cash flows in 2021 included early repayments of $1.8 billion aggregate principal amount of the company's 2.3% principal notes, $1.2 billion
aggregate principal amount of the company's 5.0% senior notes and €750 million aggregate principal amount of the company's 0.5% senior Euro notes. Financing
cash flows also included the May 2021 repayment of $750 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior notes and the November 2021 repayment of
$1.3 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.375% senior notes, $1.8 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.15% senior notes and $750 million aggregate principal
amount of floating rate senior notes at maturity. Additionally, financing cash flows included repayment of a $1.0 billion floating rate term loan due May 2023 and
issuance of a new $1.0 billion floating rate term loan as part of the term loan refinancing in September 2021.
Financing cash flows in 2020 included the issuance of term loans totaling $3.0 billion under the existing $6.0 billion term loan credit agreement which were
used to finance the acquisition of Allergan. Subsequent to these borrowings, AbbVie terminated the unused commitments of the lenders under the term loan.
Additionally, financing cash flows included the May 2020 repayment of $3.8 billion aggregate principal amount of the company's 2.50% senior notes, the September
2020 repayment of $650 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375% senior notes and the November 2020 repayments of €700 million aggregate principal amount
of floating rate senior Euro notes at maturity as well as the $450 million aggregate principal amount of 4.875% senior notes due February 2021.
Financing cash flows also included cash dividend payments of $9.3 billion in 2021 and $7.7 billion in 2020. The increase in cash dividend payments was
primarily driven by an increase of the dividend rate and higher outstanding shares following the 286 million shares of AbbVie common stock issued to Allergan
shareholders in May 2020.
The company's stock repurchase authorization permits purchases of AbbVie shares from time to time in open-market or private transactions at management’s
discretion. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time. Under this authorization, AbbVie repurchased 6 million shares for $670 million in
2021 and 8 million shares for $757 million in 2020. AbbVie's remaining stock repurchase authorization was $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2021.
|
2021 Form 10-K 42No commercial paper borrowings were issued during 2021. In 2020, the company issued and redeemed commercial paper. There were no commercial paper
borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2021 or December 31, 2020. AbbVie may issue additional commercial paper or retire commercial paper to meet liquidity
requirements as needed.
Credit Risk
AbbVie monitors economic conditions, the creditworthiness of customers and government regulations and funding, both domestically and abroad. AbbVie
regularly communicates with its customers regarding the status of receivable balances, including their payment plans and obtains positive confirmation of the
validity of the receivables. AbbVie establishes an allowance for credit losses equal to the estimate of future losses over the contractual life of outstanding accounts
receivable. AbbVie may also utilize factoring arrangements to mitigate credit risk, although the receivables included in such arrangements have historically not
been a significant amount of total outstanding receivables.
Credit Facility, Access to Capital and Credit Ratings
Credit Facility
AbbVie currently has a $4.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility that matures in August 2024. This amended facility enables the company to borrow funds
on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates and contains various covenants. At December 31, 2021, the company was in compliance with all covenants, and
commitment fees under the credit facility were insignificant. No amounts were outstanding under the company's credit facility as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Access to Capital
The company intends to fund short-term and long-term financial obligations as they mature through cash on hand, future cash flows from operations or has
the ability to issue additional debt. The company's ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt or enter into financing arrangements on acceptable
terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company's products or in the solvency of its customers or suppliers,
deterioration in the company's key financial ratios or credit ratings, or other material unfavorable changes in business conditions. At the current time, the company
believes it has sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to support the
company's growth objectives.
Credit Ratings
There were no changes to the company's credit ratings during 2021. Following the acquisition of Allergan in 2020, S&P Global Ratings revised its ratings
outlook to stable from negative and lowered the issuer credit rating by one notch to BBB+ from A- and the short-term rating to A-2 from A-1. There were no changes in
Moody's Investor Service of its Baa2 senior unsecured long-term rating and Prime-2 short-term rating with a stable outlook.
Unfavorable changes to the ratings may have an adverse impact on future financing arrangements; however, they would not affect the company’s ability to
draw on its credit facility and would not result in an acceleration of scheduled maturities of any of the company’s outstanding debt.
Future Cash Requirements
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes AbbVie's estimated material contractual obligations as of December 31, 2021:
(in millions) Total Current Long-term
Long-term debt, including current portion $ 75,962 $ 12,428 $ 63,534
Interest on long-term debt(a) 30,002 2,392 27,610
Contingent consideration liabilities(b) 14,887 1,249 13,638
(a) Includes estimated future interest payments on long-term debt. Interest payments on debt are calculated for future periods using forecasted interest rates in
effect at the end of 2021. Projected interest payments include the related effects of interest rate swap agreements. Certain of these projected interest payments
may differ in the future based on changes in floating interest rates or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to obligations and
agreements outstanding at December 31, 2021. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the company's debt
instruments and Note 11 for additional information on the interest rate swap agreements outstanding at December 31, 2021.
|
43 2021 Form 10-K(b) Includes contingent consideration liabilities which are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. Potential contingent consideration payments
that exceed the fair value recorded on the consolidated balance sheet are not included in the table of contractual obligations. See Note 11 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information regarding these liabilities.
AbbVie enters into certain unconditional purchase obligations and other commitments in the normal course of business. There have been no changes to these
commitments that would have a material impact on the company’s ability to meet either short-term or long-term future cash requirements.
Income Taxes
Future income tax cash requirements include a one-time transition tax liability on a mandatory deemed repatriation of previously untaxed earnings of foreign
subsidiaries resulting from U.S. tax reform enacted in 2017. The one-time transition tax liability was $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2021 and is payable in five
future annual installments.
Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits totaled $6.0 billion as of December 31, 2021. It is not possible to reliably estimate the timing of the future cash
outflows related to these liabilities. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these unrecognized tax benefits.
Quarterly Cash Dividend
On October 29, 2021, AbbVie announced that its board of directors declared an increase in the quarterly cash dividend from $1.30 per share to $1.41 per
share beginning with the dividend payable on February 15, 2022 to stockholders of record as of January 14, 2022. This reflects an increase of approximately 8.5%
over the previous quarterly rate. The timing, declaration, amount of and payment of any dividends by AbbVie in the future is within the discretion of its board of
directors and will depend upon many factors, including AbbVie's financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of its operating subsidiaries, covenants
associated with certain of AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, ability to access capital markets and
other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors.
Collaborations, Licensing and Other Arrangements
AbbVie enters into collaborative, licensing, and other arrangements with third parties that may require future milestone payments to third parties contingent
upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory, or commercial milestones. Individually, these arrangements are insignificant in any one annual reporting
period. However, if milestones for multiple products covered by these arrangements would happen to be reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate charge
to expense could be material to the results of operations in that period. From a business perspective, the payments are viewed as positive because they signify that
the product is successfully moving through development and is now generating or is more likely to generate future cash flows from product sales. It is not possible
to predict with reasonable certainty whether these milestones will be achieved or the timing for achievement. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information on these collaboration arrangements.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States requires the use of estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. A summary of the company's significant
accounting policies is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of these policies are considered critical as these most significantly
impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to
make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may vary from these estimates.
Revenue Recognition
AbbVie recognizes revenue when control of promised goods or services is transferred to the company’s customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration
AbbVie expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Sales, value add and other taxes collected concurrent with revenue-producing activities are
excluded from revenue. AbbVie generates revenue primarily from product sales. For the majority of sales, the company transfers control, invoices the customer and
recognizes revenue upon shipment to the customer.
|
2021 Form 10-K 44Rebates
AbbVie provides rebates to pharmacy benefit managers, state government Medicaid programs, insurance companies that administer Medicare drug plans,
wholesalers, group purchasing organizations and other government agencies and private entities.
Rebate and chargeback accruals are accounted for as variable consideration and are recorded as a reduction to revenue in the period the related product is
sold. Provisions for rebates and chargebacks totaled $33.9 billion in 2021, $27.0 billion in 2020 and $18.8 billion in 2019. Rebate amounts are typically based
upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices, which may vary by product and by payer. For each type of rebate, the factors used in the
calculations of the accrual for that rebate include the identification of the products subject to the rebate, the applicable price terms and the estimated lag time
between sale and payment of the rebate, which can be significant.
In order to establish its rebate and chargeback accruals, the company uses both internal and external data to estimate the level of inventory in the
distribution channel and the rebate claims processing lag time for each type of rebate. To estimate the rebate percentage or net price, the company tracks sales by
product and by customer or payer. The company evaluates inventory data reported by wholesalers, available prescription volume information, product pricing,
historical experience and other factors in order to determine the adequacy of its reserves. AbbVie regularly monitors its reserves and records adjustments when
rebate trends, rebate programs and contract terms, legislative changes, or other significant events indicate that a change in the reserve is appropriate. Historically,
adjustments to rebate accruals have not been material to net earnings.
The following table is an analysis of the three largest accruals for rebates and chargebacks, which comprise approximately 95% of the total consolidated rebate and
chargebacks recorded as reductions to revenues in 2021. Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross revenues are not significant in the determination of
operating earnings.
Medicaid
and Managed
Medicare Care Wholesaler
(in millions) Rebates Rebates Chargebacks
Balance at December 31, 2018 $ 1,645 $ 1,439 $ 656
Provisions 4,035 5,772 7,947
Payments (3,915) (5,275) (7,917)
Balance at December 31, 2019 1,765 1,936 686
Additions(a) 1,266 649 71
Provisions 6,715 8,656 8,677
Payments (6,801) (8,334) (8,693)
Balance at December 31, 2020 2,945 2,907 741
Provisions 9,622 11,306 11,286
Payments (8,751) (11,116) (11,125)
Balance at December 31, 2021 $ 3,816 $ 3,097 $ 902
(a) Represents rebate accruals and chargeback allowances assumed in the Allergan acquisition.
Cash Discounts and Product Returns
Cash discounts and product returns, which totaled $3.6 billion in 2021, $2.4 billion in 2020 and $1.6 billion in 2019, are accounted for as variable
consideration and are recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period the related product is sold. The reserve for cash discounts is readily determinable
because the company's experience of payment history is fairly consistent. Product returns can be reliably estimated based on the company's historical return
experience.
Pension and Other Post-Employment Benefits
AbbVie engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under the pension and other post-employment benefit plans that
are direct obligations of AbbVie. The valuation of the funded status and the net periodic benefit cost for these plans are calculated using actuarial assumptions. The
significant assumptions, which are reviewed annually, include the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the health care cost trend
rates, and are disclosed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
|
45 2021 Form 10-KThe discount rate is selected based on current market rates on high-quality, fixed-income investments at December 31 each year. AbbVie employs a yield-curve
approach for countries where a robust bond market exists. The yield curve is developed using high-quality bonds. The yield-curve approach reflects the plans'
specific cash flows (i.e. duration) in calculating the benefit obligations by applying the corresponding individual spot rates along the yield curve. AbbVie reflects the
plans' specific cash flows and applies them to the corresponding individual spot rates along the yield curve in calculating the service cost and interest cost
portions of expense. For other countries, AbbVie reviews various indices such as corporate bond and government bond benchmarks to estimate the discount rate.
AbbVie's assumed discount rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans as of
December 31, 2021. A 50 basis point change in the assumed discount rate would have had the following effects on AbbVie's calculation of net periodic benefit costs
in 2022 and projected benefit obligations as of December 31, 2021:
50 basis point
(in millions) (brackets denote a reduction) Increase Decrease
Defined benefit plans
Service and interest cost $ (90) $ 100
Projected benefit obligation (1,014) 1,159
Other post-employment plans
Service and interest cost $ (7) $ 7
Projected benefit obligation (61) 69
The expected long-term rate of return is based on the asset allocation, historical performance and the current view of expected future returns. AbbVie
considers these inputs with a long-term focus to avoid short-term market influences. The current long-term rate of return on plan assets for each plan is supported
by the historical performance of the trust's actual and target asset allocation. AbbVie's assumed expected long-term rate of return has a significant effect on the
amounts reported for defined benefit pension plans as of December 31, 2021 and will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in 2022. A
one percentage point change in assumed expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would increase or decrease the net period benefit cost of these plans in
2022 by $101 million.
The health care cost trend rate is selected by reviewing historical trends and current views on projected future health care cost increases. The current health
care cost trend rate is supported by the historical trend experience of each plan. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts
reported for health care plans as of December 31, 2021 and will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in 2022.
Income Taxes
AbbVie accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Provisions for federal, state and foreign income taxes are calculated on reported
pretax earnings based on current tax laws. Deferred taxes are provided using enacted tax rates on the future tax consequences of temporary differences, which are
the differences between the financial statement carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and the tax benefits of carryforwards. A
valuation allowance is established or maintained when, based on currently available information, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax
asset will not be realized.
Litigation
The company is subject to contingencies, such as various claims, legal proceedings and investigations regarding product liability, intellectual property,
commercial, securities and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information. Loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a
minimum loss contingency amount within a probable range is recorded. Accordingly, AbbVie is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss and
therefore, the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in
additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed to a lower
amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected.
Valuation of Goodwill and Intangible Assets
AbbVie has acquired and may continue to acquire significant intangible assets in connection with business combinations that AbbVie records at fair value.
Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur between companies in
|
2021 Form 10-K 46the pharmaceuticals industry and valuations are usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis incorporating the stage of completion. The discounted cash flow
model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, cost of capital, terminal values and market participants. Each of these
factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. IPR&D acquired in a business combination is capitalized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset
until regulatory approval is obtained, at which time it is accounted for as a definite-lived asset and amortized over its estimated useful life, or discontinuation, at
which point the intangible asset will be written off. IPR&D acquired in transactions that are not business combinations is expensed immediately, unless deemed to
have an alternative future use. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life.
AbbVie reviews the recoverability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may
not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually or when an event occurs that could result in an
impairment. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Annually, the company tests its goodwill for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value
is less than its carrying amount. Some of the factors considered in the assessment include general macro-economic conditions, conditions specific to the industry
and market, cost factors, the overall financial performance and whether there have been sustained declines in the company's share price. If the company concludes
it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is performed. AbbVie tests
indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than
its carrying amount. If the company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is
performed.
For its quantitative impairment tests, the company uses an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future
volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings and other assumptions
and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company's business plans and a market participant's views. The use of alternative
estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair value of the assets and could potentially impact the company's results of operations.
Actual results may differ from the company's estimates.
Contingent Consideration
The fair value measurements of contingent consideration liabilities are determined as of the acquisition date based on significant unobservable inputs,
including the discount rate, estimated probabilities and timing of achieving specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones and the estimated
amount of future sales of the acquired products. Contingent consideration liabilities are revalued to fair value at each subsequent reporting date until the related
contingency is resolved. The potential contingent consideration payments are estimated by applying a probability-weighted expected payment model for contingent
milestone payments and a Monte Carlo simulation model for contingent royalty payments, which are then discounted to present value. Changes to the fair value of
the contingent consideration liabilities can result from changes to one or a number of inputs, including discount rates, the probabilities of achieving the milestones,
the time required to achieve the milestones and estimated future sales. Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of certain of these
inputs, which are disclosed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes to the inputs described above could have a material impact on the
company's financial position and results of operations in any given period.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on recent accounting pronouncements.
|
47 2021 Form 10-KITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The company is exposed to risk that its earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Certain derivative instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the company's underlying economic exposures. See Note 11 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the company's financial instruments and hedging strategies.
Foreign Currency Risk
AbbVie's primary net foreign currency exposures are the Euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, Chinese yuan and British pound. The following table reflects the
total foreign currency forward exchange contracts outstanding at December 31, 2021 and 2020:
2021 2020
Weighted Fair and Weighted Fair and
average exchange carrying value average exchange carrying value
as of December 31 (in millions) Contract amount rate receivable/(payable) Contract amount rate receivable/(payable)
Receive primarily U.S. dollars in
exchange for the following currencies:
Euro $ 10,253 1.155 $ 195 $ 7,818 1.213 $ (39)
Chinese yuan 673 6.400 (1) 247 6.584 (1)
British pound 605 1.331 9 275 1.341 3
Japanese yen 602 113.3 9 837 103.9 (7)
Canadian dollar 571 1.258 9 591 1.328 (23)
All other currencies 1,549 n/a 5 1,459 n/a (14)
Total $ 14,253 $ 226 $ 11,227 $ (81)
The company estimates that a 10% appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar, with all other variables
held constant, would decrease the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts by $1.4 billion at December 31, 2021. If realized, this appreciation would
negatively affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. However, gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged
transactions and reduce the earnings and stockholders' equity volatility relating to foreign exchange. A 10% appreciation is believed to be a reasonably possible
near-term change in foreign currencies.
As of December 31, 2021, the company has €5.9 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior Euro notes outstanding, which are exposed to foreign
currency risk. The company designated these foreign currency denominated notes as hedges of its net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. As a
result, any foreign currency translation gains or losses related to the Euro notes will be included in accumulated other comprehensive loss. See Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding to the senior Euro notes and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding to the net investment hedging program.
Interest Rate Risk
The company estimates that an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points would adversely impact the fair value of AbbVie's interest rate swap contracts by
approximately $244 million at December 31, 2021. If realized, the fair value reduction would affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. The company
estimates that an increase of 100 basis points in long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of long-term debt by $5.0 billion at December 31, 2021. A
100 basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in interest rates.
|
2021 Form 10-K 48ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Page
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statements of Earnings 50
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 51
Consolidated Balance Sheets 52
Consolidated Statements of Equity 53
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 54
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 55
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42) 100
|
49 2021 Form 10-KAbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
years ended December 31 (in millions, except per share data) 2021 2020 2019
Net revenues $ 56,197 $ 45,804 $ 33,266
Cost of products sold 17,446 15,387 7,439
Selling, general and administrative 12,349 11,299 6,942
Research and development 7,084 6,557 6,407
Acquired in-process research and development 962 1,198 385
Other operating expense (income), net 432 — (890)
Total operating costs and expenses 38,273 34,441 20,283
Operating earnings 17,924 11,363 12,983
Interest expense, net 2,384 2,280 1,509
Net foreign exchange loss 51 71 42
Other expense, net 2,500 5,614 3,006
Earnings before income tax expense 12,989 3,398 8,426
Income tax expense (benefit) 1,440 (1,224) 544
Net earnings 11,549 4,622 7,882
Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest 7 6 —
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 11,542 $ 4,616 $ 7,882
Per share data
Basic earnings per share attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 6.48 $ 2.73 $ 5.30
Diluted earnings per share attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 6.45 $ 2.72 $ 5.28
Weighted-average basic shares outstanding 1,770 1,667 1,481
Weighted-average diluted shares outstanding 1,777 1,673 1,484
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
|
2021 Form 10-K 50AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Net earnings $ 11,549 $ 4,622 $ 7,882
Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax expense (benefit) of $(35) in 2021, $28 in 2020
and $(4) in 2019 (1,153) 1,511 (98)
Net investment hedging activities, net of tax expense (benefit) of $193 in 2021, $(221) in 2020 and
$22 in 2019 699 (799) 74
Pension and post-employment benefits, net of tax expense (benefit) of $124 in 2021, $(47) in 2020
and $(323) in 2019 521 (102) (1,243)
Marketable security activities, net of tax expense (benefit) of $— in 2021, $— in 2020 and $— in
2019 — — 10
Cash flow hedging activities, net of tax expense (benefit) of $20 in 2021, $(23) in 2020 and $70 in
2019 151 (131) 141
Other comprehensive income (loss) $ 218 $ 479 $ (1,116)
Comprehensive income 11,767 5,101 6,766
Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interest 7 6 —
Comprehensive income attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 11,760 $ 5,095 $ 6,766
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
|
51 2021 Form 10-KAbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Balance Sheets
as of December 31 (in millions, except share data) 2021 2020
Assets
Current assets
Cash and equivalents $ 9,746 $ 8,449
Short-term investments 84 30
Accounts receivable, net 9,977 8,822
Inventories 3,128 3,310
Prepaid expenses and other 4,993 3,562
Total current assets 27,928 24,173
Investments 277 293
Property and equipment, net 5,110 5,248
Intangible assets, net 75,951 82,876
Goodwill 32,379 33,124
Other assets 4,884 4,851
Total assets $ 146,529 $ 150,565
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings $ 14 $ 34
Current portion of long-term debt and finance lease obligations 12,481 8,468
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 22,699 20,159
Total current liabilities 35,194 28,661
Long-term debt and finance lease obligations 64,189 77,554
Deferred income taxes 3,009 3,646
Other long-term liabilities 28,701 27,607
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders' equity (deficit)
Common stock, $0.01 par value, 4,000,000,000 shares authorized, 1,803,195,293 shares issued as of December 31, 2021
and 1,792,140,764 as of December 31, 2020 18 18
Common stock held in treasury, at cost, 34,857,597 shares as of December 31, 2021 and 27,007,945 as of December 31,
2020 (3,143) (2,264)
Additional paid-in capital 18,305 17,384
Retained earnings 3,127 1,055
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (2,899) (3,117)
Total stockholders' equity 15,408 13,076
Noncontrolling interest 28 21
Total equity 15,436 13,097
Total liabilities and equity $ 146,529 $ 150,565
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
|
2021 Form 10-K 52AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Equity
Common shares Common Treasury Additional Retained Accumulated other Noncontrolling
years ended December 31 (in millions) outstanding stock stock paid-in capital earnings comprehensive loss interest Total
Balance at December 31, 2018 1,479 $ 18 $ (24,108) $ 14,756 $ 3,368 $ (2,480) $ — $ (8,446)
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie Inc. — — — — 7,882 — — 7,882
Other comprehensive loss, net of tax — — — — — (1,116) — (1,116)
Dividends declared — — — — (6,533) — — (6,533)
Purchases of treasury stock (5) — (428) — — — — (428)
Stock-based compensation plans and other 5 — 32 437 — — — 469
Balance at December 31, 2019 1,479 18 (24,504) 15,193 4,717 (3,596) — (8,172)
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie Inc. — — — — 4,616 — — 4,616
Other comprehensive income, net of tax — — — — — 479 — 479
Dividends declared — — — — (8,278) — — (8,278)
Common shares and equity awards issued for
acquisition of Allergan plc 286 — 23,166 1,243 — — — 24,409
Purchases of treasury stock (10) — (978) — — — — (978)
Stock-based compensation plans and other 10 — 52 948 — — — 1,000
Change in noncontrolling interest — — — — — — 21 21
Balance at December 31, 2020 1,765 18 (2,264) 17,384 1,055 (3,117) 21 13,097
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie Inc. — — — — 11,542 — — 11,542
Other comprehensive income, net of tax — — — — — 218 — 218
Dividends declared — — — — (9,470) — — (9,470)
Purchases of treasury stock (8) — (934) — — — — (934)
Stock-based compensation plans and other 11 — 55 921 — — — 976
Change in noncontrolling interest — — — — — — 7 7
Balance at December 31, 2021 1,768 $ 18 $ (3,143) $ 18,305 $ 3,127 $ (2,899) $ 28 $ 15,436
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
|
53 2021 Form 10-KAbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
years ended December 31 (in millions) (brackets denote cash outflows) 2021 2020 2019
Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings $ 11,549 $ 4,622 $ 7,882
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash from operating activities:
Depreciation 803 666 464
Amortization of intangible assets 7,718 5,805 1,553
Deferred income taxes (898) (2,325) 122
Change in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities 2,679 5,753 3,091
Stock-based compensation 692 753 430
Upfront costs and milestones related to collaborations 1,624 1,376 490
Gain on divestitures (68) — (330)
Stemcentrx impairment — — 1,030
Other, net — 832 43
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:
Accounts receivable (1,321) (929) (74)
Inventories (142) (40) (231)
Prepaid expenses and other assets (197) 134 (225)
Accounts payable and other liabilities 1,628 1,514 97
Income tax assets and liabilities, net (1,290) (573) (1,018)
Cash flows from operating activities 22,777 17,588 13,324
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (525) (38,260) —
Other acquisitions and investments (1,377) (1,350) (1,135)
Acquisitions of property and equipment (787) (798) (552)
Purchases of investment securities (119) (61) (583)
Sales and maturities of investment securities 98 1,525 2,699
Other, net 366 1,387 167
Cash flows from investing activities (2,344) (37,557) 596
Cash flows from financing activities
Net change in commercial paper borrowings — — (699)
Repayments of other short-term borrowings — — (3,000)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 1,000 3,000 31,482
Repayments of long-term debt and finance lease obligations (9,414) (5,683) (1,536)
Debt issuance costs — (20) (424)
Dividends paid (9,261) (7,716) (6,366)
Purchases of treasury stock (934) (978) (629)
Proceeds from the exercise of stock options 244 209 8
Payments of contingent consideration liabilities (698) (321) (163)
Other, net 24 8 35
Cash flows from financing activities (19,039) (11,501) 18,708
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and equivalents (97) (5) 7
Net change in cash and equivalents 1,297 (31,475) 32,635
Cash and equivalents, beginning of year 8,449 39,924 7,289
Cash and equivalents, end of year $ 9,746 $ 8,449 $ 39,924
Other supplemental information
Interest paid, net of portion capitalized $ 2,712 $ 2,619 $ 1,794
Income taxes paid 3,648 1,674 1,447
Supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing activities
Issuance of common shares associated with acquisitions of businesses — 23,979 —
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
|
2021 Form 10-K 54AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1 Background
Background
The principal business of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company) is the discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of a broad line of therapies that address
some of the world's most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies,
health care facilities, specialty pharmacies and independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Certain products (including
aesthetic products and devices) are also sold directly to physicians and other licensed healthcare providers. In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical
products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to retailers, pharmacies, patients or other customers. Outside the United
States, AbbVie sells products primarily to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.
AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent, publicly-traded company as a result of the
distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100% of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders.
On May 8, 2020, AbbVie completed its acquisition of Allergan plc (Allergan). Refer to Note 5 for additional information regarding this acquisition.
Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Use of Estimates
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and necessarily include
amounts based on estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for rebates,
pension and other post-employment benefits, income taxes, litigation, valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, contingent consideration liabilities, financial
instruments and inventory and accounts receivable exposures.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of AbbVie and all of its subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is maintained. Controlling
interest is determined by majority ownership interest and the absence of substantive third-party participating rights or, in the case of variable interest entities,
where AbbVie is determined to be the primary beneficiary. Investments in companies over which AbbVie has a significant influence but not a controlling interest are
accounted for using the equity method with AbbVie's share of earnings or losses reported in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings.
Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated.
Certain reclassifications have been made to conform the prior period consolidated financial statements to the current period presentation.
Revenue Recognition
AbbVie recognizes revenue when control of promised goods or services is transferred to the company’s customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration
AbbVie expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Sales, value add and other taxes collected concurrent with revenue-producing activities are
excluded from revenue. AbbVie generates revenue primarily from product sales. For the majority of sales, the company transfers control, invoices the customer and
recognizes revenue upon shipment to the customer. The company recognizes shipping and handling costs as an expense in cost of products sold when the company
transfers control to the customer. Payment terms vary depending on the type and location of the customer, are based on customary commercial terms and are
generally less than one year. AbbVie does not adjust revenue for the effects of a significant financing component for contracts where AbbVie expects the period
between the transfer of the good or service and collection to be one year or less.
Discounts, rebates, sales incentives to customers, returns and certain other adjustments are accounted for as variable consideration. Provisions for variable
consideration are based on current pricing, executed contracts, government pricing legislation and historical data and are provided for in the period the related
revenues are recorded. Rebate amounts are
|
55 2021 Form 10-Ktypically based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices, which may vary by product and by payer. For each type of rebate, factors used
in the calculation of the accrual include the identification of the products subject to the rebate, the applicable price terms and the estimated lag time between sale
and payment of the rebate, which can be significant. Sales incentives to customers are insignificant.
In addition to revenue from contracts with customers, the company also recognizes certain collaboration revenues. See Note 6 for additional information
related to the collaborations with Janssen Biotech, Inc. and Genentech, Inc. Additionally, see Note 16 for disaggregation of revenue by product and geography.
Research and Development Expenses
Internal research and development (R&D) costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted work is
performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development collaborations, prior to regulatory approval, the
payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results are achieved. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized as
intangible assets and amortized to cost of products sold over the remaining useful life of the related product.
Collaborations and Other Arrangements
The company enters into collaborative agreements with third parties to develop and commercialize drug candidates. Collaborative activities may include joint
research and development and commercialization of new products. AbbVie generally receives certain licensing rights under these arrangements. These
collaborations often require upfront payments and may include additional milestone, research and development cost sharing, royalty or profit share payments,
contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development and commercialization. Upfront payments associated with
collaborative arrangements during the development stage are expensed to acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D) expenses in the consolidated
statements of earnings. Subsequent payments made to the partner for the achievement of milestones during the development stage are expensed to R&D expense in
the consolidated statements of earnings when the milestone is achieved. Milestone payments made to the partner subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized
as intangible assets and amortized to cost of products sold over the estimated useful life of the related asset. Royalties are expensed to cost of products sold in the
consolidated statements of earnings when incurred.
Advertising
Costs associated with advertising are expensed as incurred and are included in selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense in the consolidated
statements of earnings. Advertising expenses were $2.1 billion in 2021, $1.8 billion in 2020 and $1.1 billion in 2019.
Pension and Other Post-Employment Benefits
AbbVie records annual expenses relating to its defined benefit pension and other post-employment benefit plans based on calculations which utilize various
actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, rates of return on assets, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. AbbVie reviews
its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends. Actuarial gains and losses are
deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI), net of tax and are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees
under the corridor method. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual annual return are generally amortized to net periodic
benefit cost over a five-year period.
Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Provisions for federal, state and foreign income taxes are calculated on reported pretax
earnings based on current tax laws. Deferred taxes are provided using enacted tax rates on the future tax consequences of temporary differences, which are the
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and the tax benefits of carryforwards. A
valuation allowance is established or maintained when, based on currently available information, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax
asset will not be realized.
Cash and Equivalents
Cash and equivalents include money market funds and time deposits with original maturities of three months or less.
|
2021 Form 10-K 56Investments
Investments consist primarily of equity securities, held-to-maturity debt securities, marketable debt securities and time deposits. Investments in equity
securities that have readily determinable fair values are recorded at fair value. Investments in equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values
are recorded at cost and are remeasured to fair value based on certain observable price changes or impairment events as they occur. Held-to-maturity debt
securities are recorded at cost. Gains or losses on investments are included in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. Investments in
marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in
AOCI on the consolidated balance sheets until realized, at which time the gains or losses are recognized in earnings.
AbbVie periodically assesses its marketable debt securities for impairment and credit losses. When a decline in fair value of marketable debt security is due
to credit related factors, an allowance for credit losses is recorded with a corresponding charge to other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings.
When AbbVie determines that a non-credit related impairment has occurred, the amortized cost basis of the investment, net of allowance for credit losses, is written
down with a charge to other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings and an available-for-sale investment's unrealized loss is reclassified from AOCI
to other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are computed using the first-in, first-out method
adjusted for any impairments and credit losses that were recorded in net earnings.
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable are stated at amortized cost less allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses reflects the best estimate of future losses
over the contractual life of outstanding accounts receivable and is determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled
accounts, other currently available information including customer financial condition, and both current and forecasted economic conditions.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs. Inventories consisted of the
following:
as of December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020
Finished goods $ 932 $ 1,318
Work-in-process 1,193 1,201
Raw materials 1,003 791
Inventories $ 3,128 $ 3,310
Property and Equipment
as of December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020
Land $ 287 $ 288
Buildings 2,791 2,555
Equipment 6,850 6,976
Construction in progress 799 1,040
Property and equipment, gross 10,727 10,859
Less accumulated depreciation (5,617) (5,611)
Property and equipment, net $ 5,110 $ 5,248
Depreciation for property and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful life for
buildings ranges from 10 to 50 years. Buildings include leasehold improvements which are amortized over the life of the related facility lease (including any
renewal periods, if appropriate) or the asset, whichever is shorter. The estimated useful life for equipment ranges from 2 to 25 years. Equipment includes certain
computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining software for internal use and is amortized over 3 to 10
years. Depreciation expense was $803 million in 2021, $666 million in 2020 and $464 million in 2019.
|
57 2021 Form 10-KLeases
Short-term leases with a term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet. For leases commencing or modified in 2019 or later, AbbVie does not
separate lease components from non-lease components.
The company records lease liabilities based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. AbbVie generally uses an incremental borrowing rate
to discount its lease liabilities, as the rate implicit in the lease is typically not readily determinable. Certain lease agreements include renewal options that are
under the company's control. AbbVie includes optional renewal periods in the lease term only when it is reasonably certain that AbbVie will exercise its option.
Variable lease payments include payments to lessors for taxes, maintenance, insurance and other operating costs as well as payments that are adjusted
based on an index or rate. The company's lease agreements do not contain any significant residual value guarantees or restrictive covenants.
Litigation and Contingencies
Loss contingency provisions are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated
based on existing information. When a best estimate cannot be made, the minimum loss contingency amount in a probable range is recorded. Legal fees are
expensed as incurred. AbbVie accrues for product liability claims on an undiscounted basis. The liabilities are evaluated quarterly and adjusted if necessary as
additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries for product liability claims, if any, are recorded as assets on an undiscounted
basis when it is probable that a recovery will be realized.
Business Combinations
AbbVie utilizes the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. This method requires, among other things, that results of operations of
acquired companies are included in AbbVie's results of operations beginning on the respective acquisition dates and that assets acquired and liabilities assumed
are recognized at fair value as of the acquisition date. Any excess of the fair value of consideration transferred over the fair values of the net assets acquired is
recognized as goodwill. Contingent consideration liabilities are recognized at the estimated fair value on the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value
of contingent consideration liabilities are recognized in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. The fair value of assets acquired and
liabilities assumed in certain cases may be subject to revision based on the final determination of fair value during a period of time not to exceed 12 months from
the acquisition date. Legal costs, due diligence costs, business valuation costs and all other business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recorded at fair value using a discounted cash flow model. The discounted cash flow model requires
assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital and terminal values of market participants. Definite-lived intangibles are
amortized over their estimated useful lives using the estimated pattern of economic benefit. AbbVie reviews the recoverability of definite-lived intangible assets
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. AbbVie first compares the projected undiscounted cash
flows to be generated by the asset to its carrying value. If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value, the intangible asset is
written down to its fair value. Where cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest level for which cash flows are
largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities.
Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized, but are subject to an impairment review annually and more frequently when indicators of impairment
exist. An impairment of goodwill could occur if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeded the fair value of that reporting unit. An impairment of indefinite-
lived intangible assets would occur if the fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value.
The company tests its goodwill for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value is less
than its carrying amount. If the company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative
impairment test is performed. AbbVie tests indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more
likely than not that the fair value is less than its carrying amount. If the company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than its carrying
amount, a quantitative impairment test is performed. For its quantitative impairment tests, the company uses an estimated future cash flow approach that requires
significant judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, the selection of an appropriate discount rate,
asset groupings and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company's business plans and a market
participant's views. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease
|
2021 Form 10-K 58the estimated fair value of the assets and potentially result in different impacts to the company's results of operations. Actual results may differ from the company's
estimates.
Acquired In-Process Research and Development
In an asset acquisition, the initial costs to acquire rights to IPR&D projects are expensed as IPR&D in the consolidated statements of earnings unless the
project has an alternative future use. These costs include initial payments incurred prior to regulatory approval in connection with research and development
collaboration agreements that provide rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products. In a business combination, the fair value of
IPR&D projects acquired are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets until the underlying project receives regulatory approval, at which
point the intangible asset will be accounted for as a definite-lived intangible asset, or discontinuation, at which point the intangible asset will be written off. R&D
costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred.
Foreign Currency Translation
Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S.
dollars using period-end exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recognized in
other comprehensive income (loss) in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. The net assets of subsidiaries in highly inflationary economies are
remeasured as if the functional currency were the reporting currency. The remeasurement is recognized in net foreign exchange loss in the consolidated statements
of earnings.
Derivatives
All derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets and are classified as current or long-
term based on the scheduled maturity of the instrument.
For derivatives formally designated as hedges, the company assesses at inception and quarterly thereafter whether the hedging derivatives are highly effective
in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. The changes in fair value of a derivative designated as a fair value hedge and of the hedged
item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings immediately. The effective portions of changes in the fair value of a derivative designated as a cash
flow hedge are reported in AOCI and are subsequently recognized in earnings consistent with the underlying hedged item. If it is determined that a derivative is no
longer highly effective as a hedge, the company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively. If a hedged forecasted transaction becomes probable of not occurring,
any gains or losses are reclassified from AOCI to earnings. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are adjusted to fair value through current earnings.
The company also uses derivative instruments or foreign currency denominated debt to hedge its net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and affiliates.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses from these hedges are included in AOCI.
Derivative cash flows, with the exception of net investment hedges, are principally classified in the operating section of the consolidated statements of cash
flows, consistent with the underlying hedged item. Cash flows related to net investment hedges are classified in the investing section of the consolidated statements
of cash flows.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
ASU No. 2019-12
In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740). The standard includes simplifications related to accounting for income taxes
including removing certain exceptions related to the approach for intraperiod tax allocation and the recognition of deferred tax liabilities for outside basis
differences. The standard also clarifies the accounting for transactions that result in a step-up in the tax basis of goodwill. AbbVie adopted the standard in the first
quarter of 2021. The adoption did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
|
59 2021 Form 10-KNote 3 Supplemental Financial Information
Interest Expense, Net
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Interest expense $ 2,423 $ 2,454 $ 1,784
Interest income (39) (174) (275)
Interest expense, net $ 2,384 $ 2,280 $ 1,509
Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities
as of December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020
Sales rebates $ 8,254 $ 7,188
Dividends payable 2,543 2,335
Accounts payable 2,882 2,276
Salaries, wages and commissions 1,785 1,669
Royalty and license arrangements 661 483
Other 6,574 6,208
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities $ 22,699 $ 20,159
Other Long-Term Liabilities
as of December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020
Contingent consideration liabilities $ 13,638 $ 12,289
Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits 5,970 5,680
Income taxes payable 3,442 3,847
Pension and other post-employment benefits 3,153 3,413
Other 2,498 2,378
Other long-term liabilities $ 28,701 $ 27,607
|
2021 Form 10-K 60Note 4 Earnings Per Share
AbbVie grants certain restricted stock units (RSUs) that are considered to be participating securities. Due to the presence of participating securities, AbbVie
calculates earnings per share (EPS) using the more dilutive of the treasury stock or the two-class method. For all periods presented, the two-class method was more
dilutive.
The following table summarizes the impact of the two-class method:
Years ended December 31,
(in millions, except per share data) 2021 2020 2019
Basic EPS
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 11,542 $ 4,616 $ 7,882
Earnings allocated to participating securities 74 60 40
Earnings available to common shareholders $ 11,468 $ 4,556 $ 7,842
Weighted average basic shares of common stock outstanding 1,770 1,667 1,481
Basic earnings per share attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 6.48 $ 2.73 $ 5.30
Diluted EPS
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 11,542 $ 4,616 $ 7,882
Earnings allocated to participating securities 74 60 40
Earnings available to common shareholders $ 11,468 $ 4,556 $ 7,842
Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 1,770 1,667 1,481
Effect of dilutive securities 7 6 3
Weighted average diluted shares of common stock outstanding 1,777 1,673 1,484
Diluted earnings per share attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 6.45 $ 2.72 $ 5.28
Certain shares issuable under stock-based compensation plans were excluded from the computation of EPS because the effect would have been antidilutive.
The number of common shares excluded was insignificant for all periods presented.
Note 5 Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements
Acquisition of Allergan
On May 8, 2020, AbbVie completed its acquisition of all outstanding equity interests in Allergan in a cash and stock transaction. Allergan is a global
pharmaceutical leader focused on developing, manufacturing and commercializing branded pharmaceutical, device, biologic, surgical and regenerative medicine
products for patients around the world. The combination created a diverse entity with leadership positions across immunology, hematologic oncology, aesthetics,
neuroscience, eye care and women's health. AbbVie's existing product portfolio and pipeline is enhanced with numerous Allergan assets and Allergan's product
portfolio benefits from AbbVie's commercial strength, expertise and international infrastructure. Under the terms of the acquisition, each ordinary share of Allergan
common stock was converted into the right to receive (i) $120.30 in cash and (ii) 0.8660 of a share of AbbVie common stock.
Total consideration for the acquisition of Allergan is summarized as follows:
(in millions)
Cash consideration paid to Allergan shareholders (a) $ 39,675
Fair value of AbbVie common stock issued to Allergan shareholders (b) 23,979
Fair value of AbbVie equity awards issued to Allergan equity award holders (c) 430
Total consideration $ 64,084
(a) Represents cash consideration transferred of $120.30 per outstanding Allergan ordinary share based on 330 million Allergan ordinary shares
outstanding at closing.
|
61 2021 Form 10-K(b) Represents the acquisition date fair value of 286 million shares of AbbVie common stock issued to Allergan shareholders based on the exchange ratio of
0.8660 AbbVie shares for each outstanding Allergan ordinary share at the May 8, 2020 closing price of $83.96 per share.
(c) Represents the pre-acquisition service portion of the fair value of 11 million AbbVie stock options and 8 million RSUs issued to Allergan equity
award holders.
The acquisition of Allergan has been accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. The acquisition method requires,
among other things, that assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date. The
valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed was finalized during the second quarter of 2021. Measurement period adjustments to the preliminary purchase
price allocation during 2021 included (i) an increase to intangible assets of $710 million; (ii) an increase to deferred income tax liabilities of $148 million; (iii)
other individually insignificant adjustments for a net increase to identifiable net assets of $2 million; and (iv) a corresponding decrease to goodwill of
$564 million. The measurement period adjustments primarily resulted from the completion of the valuation of certain license agreement intangible assets based on
facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and did not result from intervening events subsequent to such date. These adjustments did not have a
significant impact on AbbVie's results of operations in 2021 and would not have had a significant impact on prior period results if these adjustments had been
made as of the acquisition date.
The following table summarizes the final fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date:
(in millions)
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Cash and equivalents $ 1,537
Short-term investments 1,421
Accounts receivable 2,374
Inventories 2,340
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 1,982
Investments 137
Property and equipment 2,129
Intangible assets
Definite-lived intangible assets 68,190
In-process research and development 1,600
Other noncurrent assets 1,395
Short-term borrowings (60)
Current portion of long-term debt and finance lease obligations (1,899)
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (5,852)
Long-term debt and finance lease obligations (18,937)
Deferred income taxes (3,940)
Other long-term liabilities (4,765)
Total identifiable net assets 47,652
Goodwill 16,432
Total assets acquired and liabilities assumed $ 64,084
The fair value step-up adjustment to inventories of $1.2 billion was amortized to cost of products sold when the inventory was sold to customers and was fully
amortized as of December 31, 2021.
Intangible assets relate to $68.2 billion of definite-lived intangible assets and $1.6 billion of IPR&D. The acquired definite-lived intangible assets consist of
developed product rights and license agreements and are being amortized over a weighted-average estimated useful life of approximately twelve years using the
estimated pattern of economic benefit. The estimated fair values of identifiable intangible assets were determined using the "income approach" which is a valuation
technique that provides an estimate of the fair value of an asset based on market participant expectations of the cash flows an asset would generate over its
remaining useful life. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in the development of these asset valuations include the estimated net cash flows for each
year for each asset or product, the appropriate discount rate necessary to measure the risk inherent in each future cash flow stream, the life cycle of each asset, the
potential regulatory and commercial success risk, competitive trends impacting the asset and each cash flow stream, as well as other factors.
|
2021 Form 10-K 62The fair value of long-term debt was determined by quoted market prices as of the acquisition date and the total purchase price adjustment of $1.3 billion is
being amortized as a reduction to interest expense, net over the lives of the related debt.
Goodwill was calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising
from the other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. Specifically, the goodwill recognized from the acquisition of
Allergan represents the value of additional growth platforms and an expanded revenue base as well as anticipated operational synergies and cost savings from the
creation of a single combined global organization. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
Following the acquisition date, the operating results of Allergan have been included in the consolidated financial statements. For the period from the
acquisition date through December 31, 2020, net revenues attributable to Allergan were $10.3 billion and operating losses attributable to Allergan were $1.1 billion,
inclusive of $4.0 billion of intangible asset amortization and $1.2 billion of inventory fair value step-up amortization.
Acquisition-related expenses, which were comprised primarily of regulatory, financial advisory and legal fees, totaled $781 million for the year ended
December 31, 2020 and $103 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 which were included in SG&A expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. In the
fourth quarter of 2021, AbbVie recovered certain acquisition-related regulatory fees totaling $401 million which was recorded as a reduction to SG&A expenses in
the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2021.
Pro Forma Financial Information
The following table presents the unaudited pro forma combined results of AbbVie and Allergan for 2020 and 2019 as if the acquisition of Allergan had
occurred on January 1, 2019:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2020 2019
Net revenues $ 50,521 $ 49,028
Net earnings (loss) 6,746 (38)
The unaudited pro forma combined financial information was prepared using the acquisition method of accounting and was based on the historical financial
information of AbbVie and Allergan. In order to reflect the occurrence of the acquisition on January 1, 2019 as required, the unaudited pro forma financial
information includes adjustments to reflect incremental amortization expense to be incurred based on the final fair values of the identifiable intangible assets
acquired; the incremental cost of products sold related to the fair value adjustments associated with acquisition date inventory; the additional interest expense
associated with the issuance of debt to finance the acquisition; and the reclassification of acquisition-related costs incurred during the year ended December 31,
2020 to the year ended December 31, 2019. The unaudited pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of what the consolidated results of
operations would have been had the acquisition been completed on January 1, 2019. In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial information is not a projection
of future results of operations of the combined company nor does it reflect the expected realization of any synergies or cost savings associated with the acquisition.
Acquisition of Soliton, Inc.
In December 2021, AbbVie completed its previously announced acquisition of Soliton, Inc. (Soliton). Soliton's RESONIC (Rapid Acoustic Pulse device) has U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 510(k) clearance for the long-term improvement in the appearance of cellulite up to one year. The transaction was accounted
for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. Total consideration transferred allocated to the purchase price consisted of cash
consideration of $535 million paid to holders of Soliton common stock, equity-based awards and warrants. As of the transaction date, AbbVie acquired $407
million of intangible assets for developed product rights and assumed deferred tax liabilities totaling $63 million. Other assets and liabilities were insignificant.
The acquisition resulted in the recognition of $177 million of goodwill which is not deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition of Luminera
In October 2020, AbbVie entered into an agreement with Luminera, a privately held aesthetics company based in Israel, to acquire Luminera's full dermal filler
portfolio and R&D pipeline including HArmonyCa, a dermal filler intended for facial soft tissue augmentation. The aggregate accounting purchase price of
$186 million was comprised of a $122 million upfront cash payment and $64 million for the acquisition date fair value of contingent consideration liabilities, for
which AbbVie may owe up to $90 million in future payments upon achievement of certain commercial milestones. The agreement was accounted for as a business
combination using the acquisition method of accounting. As of the acquisition date, AbbVie acquired $127 million of intangible assets for in-process research and
development and $33 million of intangible assets for developed
|
63 2021 Form 10-Kproduct rights. Other assets and liabilities assumed were insignificant. The acquisition resulted in the recognition of $12 million of goodwill which is not
deductible for tax purposes.
Other Licensing & Acquisitions Activity
Cash outflows related to other acquisitions and investments totaled $1.4 billion in 2021, $1.4 billion in 2020 and $1.1 billion in 2019. AbbVie recorded
acquired IPR&D charges of $962 million in 2021, $1.2 billion in 2020 and $385 million in 2019. Significant arrangements impacting 2021, 2020 and 2019, some of
which require contingent milestone payments, are summarized below.
Calico Life Sciences LLC
In July 2021, AbbVie and Calico Life Sciences LLC (Calico) entered into an extension of their collaboration to discover, develop and bring to market new
therapies for patients with age-related diseases, including neurodegeneration and cancer. This is the second collaboration extension and builds on the partnership
established in 2014 and extended in 2018. Under the terms of the agreement, AbbVie and Calico will each contribute an additional $500 million and the term is
extended for an additional three years. AbbVie’s contribution is payable in two equal installments beginning in 2023. Calico will be responsible for research and
early development until 2025 and will advance collaboration projects into Phase 2a through 2030. Following completion of the Phase 2a studies, AbbVie will have
the option to exclusively license the collaboration compounds. Upon exercise, AbbVie would be responsible for late-stage development and commercial activities.
Collaboration costs and profits will be shared equally by both parties post option exercise. During the third quarter of 2021, AbbVie recorded $500 million as other
operating expense in the consolidated statement of earnings related to its commitments under the agreement.
TeneoOne and TNB-383B
In September 2021, AbbVie acquired TeneoOne, an affiliate of Teneobio, Inc., and TNB-383B, a BCMA-targeting immunotherapeutic for the potential treatment of
relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (R/R MM). In February 2019, AbbVie and TeneoOne entered a strategic transaction to develop and commercialize TNB-383B,
a bispecific antibody that simultaneously targets BCMA and CD3 and is designed to direct the body's own immune system to target and kill BCMA-expressing tumor
cells. AbbVie exercised its exclusive right to acquire TeneoOne and TNB-383B based on an interim analysis of an ongoing Phase 1 study and accounted for the
transaction as an asset acquisition. Under the terms of the agreement, AbbVie made an exercise payment of $400 million which was recorded to IPR&D in the
consolidated statement of earnings in the third quarter of 2021. The agreement also included additional payments of up to $250 million upon the achievement of
certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones.
REGENXBIO Inc.
In September 2021, AbbVie and REGENXBIO Inc. (REGENXBIO) entered into a collaboration to develop and commercialize RGX-314, an investigational gene
therapy for wet age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy and other chronic retinal diseases. The collaboration provides AbbVie with an exclusive
global license to develop and commercialize RGX-314. REGENXBIO will be responsible for completion of ongoing trials, AbbVie and REGENXBIO will collaborate and
share costs of additional trials, and AbbVie will lead the clinical development and commercialization of RGX-314 globally. REGENXBIO and AbbVie will share
equally in pre-tax profits from net revenues of RGX-314 in the U.S. and AbbVie will pay REGENXBIO tiered royalties on net revenues outside the U.S. Upon closing in
the fourth quarter of 2021, AbbVie made an upfront payment of $370 million to exclusively license RGX-314 which was recorded to IPR&D in the consolidated
statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2021. The agreement also included additional payments of up to $1.4 billion upon the achievement of certain
development, regulatory and commercial milestones.
I-Mab Biopharma
In September 2020, AbbVie and I-Mab Biopharma (I-Mab) entered into a collaboration agreement for the development and commercialization of
lemzoparlimab, an anti-CD47 monoclonal antibody internally discovered and developed by I-Mab for the treatment of multiple cancers. Both companies will
collaborate to design and conduct further global clinical trials to evaluate lemzoparlimab. The collaboration provides AbbVie an exclusive global license, excluding
greater China, to develop and commercialize lemzoparlimab. The companies will share manufacturing responsibilities with AbbVie being the primary manufacturer
for global supply. The agreement also allows for potential collaboration on future CD47-related therapeutic agents, subject to further licenses to explore each
other's related programs in their respective territories. The terms of the arrangement include an initial upfront payment of $180 million to exclusively license
lemzoparlimab along with a milestone payment of $20 million based on the Phase I results, for a total of $200 million, which was recorded to IPR&D in the
consolidated statement of earnings in the fourth quarter of 2020 after regulatory approval of the transaction. In addition, I-Mab will be eligible to receive up to $1.7
billion upon the achievement of certain clinical development, regulatory and
|
2021 Form 10-K 64commercial milestones, and AbbVie will pay tiered royalties from low-to-mid teen percentages on global net revenues outside of greater China.
Genmab A/S
In June 2020, AbbVie and Genmab A/S (Genmab) entered into a collaboration agreement to jointly develop and commercialize three of Genmab's early-stage
investigational bispecific antibody therapeutics and entered into a discovery research collaboration for future differentiated antibody therapeutics for the
treatment of cancer. Under the terms of the agreement, Genmab granted to AbbVie an exclusive license to its epcoritamab (DuoBody-CD3xCD20), DuoHexaBody-CD37
and DuoBody-CD3x5T4 programs. For epcoritamab, the companies will share commercial responsibilities in the U.S. and Japan, with AbbVie responsible for further
global commercialization. Genmab will record net revenues in the U.S. and Japan, and the parties will share equally in pre-tax profits from these sales. Genmab will
receive tiered royalties on remaining global sales. For the discovery research partnership, Genmab will conduct Phase 1 studies for these programs and AbbVie
retains the right to opt-in to program development. During 2020, AbbVie made an upfront payment of $750 million, which was recorded to IPR&D in the consolidated
statement of earnings. AbbVie could make additional payments of up to $3.2 billion upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial
milestones for all programs.
Reata Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
In October 2019, AbbVie and Reata Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Reata) entered into an amended and restated license agreement. Under the terms of the agreement,
Reata reacquired exclusive development, manufacturing and commercialization rights concerning its proprietary Nrf2 activator product platform originally licensed
to AbbVie for territories outside of the United States with respect to bardoxolone methyl and worldwide with respect to omaveloxolone and other next-generation
Nrf2 activators. As consideration for the rights reacquired by Reata, AbbVie received a total of $250 million as of December 31, 2020 and $80 million in cash in
2021. Total consideration of $330 million was recognized in other operating (income) expense in the consolidated statement of earnings in 2019. In addition,
AbbVie will receive low single-digit, tiered royalties from worldwide sales of omaveloxolone and certain next-generation Nrf2 activators.
Other Arrangements
In addition to the significant arrangements described above, AbbVie entered into several other arrangements resulting in charges to IPR&D of $192 million in
2021, $248 million in 2020 and $385 million in 2019. In connection with the other individually insignificant early-stage arrangements entered into in 2021, AbbVie
could make additional payments of up to $5.5 billion upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones.
Note 6 Collaborations
The company has ongoing transactions with other entities through collaboration agreements. The following represent the significant collaboration
agreements impacting 2021, 2020 and 2019.
Collaboration with Janssen Biotech, Inc.
In December 2011, Pharmacyclics, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AbbVie, entered into a worldwide collaboration and license agreement with Janssen Biotech,
Inc. and its affiliates (Janssen), one of the Janssen Pharmaceutical companies of Johnson & Johnson, for the joint development and commercialization of Imbruvica,
a novel, orally active, selective covalent inhibitor of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) and certain compounds structurally related to Imbruvica, for oncology and other
indications, excluding all immune and inflammatory mediated diseases or conditions and all psychiatric or psychological diseases or conditions, in the United
States and outside the United States.
The collaboration provides Janssen with an exclusive license to commercialize Imbruvica outside of the United States and co-exclusively with AbbVie in the
United States. Both parties are responsible for the development, manufacturing and marketing of any products generated as a result of the collaboration. The
collaboration has no set duration or specific expiration date and provides for potential future development, regulatory and approval milestone payments of up to
$200 million to AbbVie. The collaboration also includes a cost sharing arrangement for associated collaboration activities. Except in certain cases, Janssen is
responsible for approximately 60% of collaboration development costs and AbbVie is responsible for the remaining 40% of collaboration development costs.
|
65 2021 Form 10-KIn the United States, both parties have co-exclusive rights to commercialize the products; however, AbbVie is the principal in the end-customer product sales.
AbbVie and Janssen share pre-tax profits and losses equally from the commercialization of products. Sales of Imbruvica are included in AbbVie's net revenues.
Janssen's share of profits is included in AbbVie's cost of products sold. Other costs incurred under the collaboration are reported in their respective expense line
items, net of Janssen's share.
Outside the United States, Janssen is responsible for and has exclusive rights to commercialize Imbruvica. AbbVie and Janssen share pre-tax profits and
losses equally from the commercialization of products. AbbVie's share of profits is included in AbbVie's net revenues. Other costs incurred under the collaboration
are reported in their respective expense line items, net of Janssen's share.
The following table shows the profit and cost sharing relationship between Janssen and AbbVie:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
United States - Janssen's share of profits (included in cost of products sold) $ 2,018 $ 2,012 $ 1,803
International - AbbVie's share of profits (included in net revenues) 1,087 1,009 844
Global - AbbVie's share of other costs (included in respective line items) 304 295 321
AbbVie’s receivable from Janssen, included in accounts receivable, net, was $294 million at December 31, 2021 and $283 million at December 31, 2020.
AbbVie’s payable to Janssen, included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, was $509 million at December 31, 2021 and $562 million at December 31, 2020.
Collaboration with Genentech, Inc.
AbbVie and Genentech, Inc. (Genentech), a member of the Roche Group, are parties to a collaboration and license agreement executed in 2007 to jointly
research, develop and commercialize human therapeutic products containing BCL-2 inhibitors and certain other compound inhibitors which includes Venclexta, a
BCL-2 inhibitor used to treat certain hematological malignancies. AbbVie shares equally with Genentech all pre-tax profits and losses from the development and
commercialization of Venclexta in the United States. AbbVie pays royalties on Venclexta net revenues outside the United States.
AbbVie manufactures and distributes Venclexta globally and is the principal in the end-customer product sales. Sales of Venclexta are included in AbbVie's net
revenues. Genentech's share of United States profits is included in AbbVie's cost of products sold. AbbVie records sales and marketing costs associated with the
United States collaboration as part of SG&A expenses and global development costs as part of R&D expenses, net of Genentech’s share. Royalties paid for Venclexta
revenues outside the United States are also included in AbbVie’s cost of products sold.
The following table shows the profit and cost sharing relationship between Genentech and AbbVie:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Genentech's share of profits, including royalties (included in cost of products sold) $ 703 $ 533 $ 320
AbbVie's share of sales and marketing costs from U.S. collaboration (included in SG&A) 40 46 41
AbbVie's share of development costs (included in R&D) 140 129 128
|
2021 Form 10-K 66Note 7 Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill
The following table summarizes the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill:
(in millions)
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 15,604
Additions(a) 17,008
Foreign currency translation adjustments 512
Balance as of December 31, 2020 33,124
Additions(b) 177
Measurement period adjustments(c) (564)
Foreign currency translation adjustments and other (358)
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 32,379
(a) Goodwill additions related to the acquisition of Allergan in the second quarter of 2020 and the acquisition of Luminera in the fourth quarter of 2020 (see Note
5).
(b) Goodwill additions related to the acquisition of Soliton in the fourth quarter of 2021 (see Note 5).
(c) Measurement period adjustments recorded in 2021 related to the acquisition of Allergan (see Note 5).
The company performs its annual goodwill impairment assessment in the third quarter, or earlier if impairment indicators exist. As of December 31, 2021,
there were no accumulated goodwill impairment losses.
Intangible Assets, Net
The following table summarizes intangible assets:
2021 2020
Gross Net Gross Net
as of December 31 (in carrying Accumulated carrying carrying Accumulated carrying
millions) amount amortization amount amount amortization amount
Definite-lived
intangible assets
Developed product
rights $ 88,945 $ (18,463) $ 70,482 $ 87,707 $ (11,620) $ 76,087
License
agreements 8,487 (3,688) 4,799 7,828 (2,916) 4,912
Total definite-lived
intangible assets 97,432 (22,151) 75,281 95,535 (14,536) 80,999
Indefinite-lived
research and development 670 — 670 1,877 — 1,877
Total intangible
assets, net $ 98,102 $ (22,151) $ 75,951 $ 97,412 $ (14,536) $ 82,876
Definite-Lived Intangible Assets
The increase in definite-lived intangible assets during 2021 was primarily due to the measurement period adjustments from the completion of the valuation of
certain license agreements acquired in the Allergan acquisition as well as the acquisition of Soliton. Refer to Note 5 for additional information regarding these
acquisitions and related adjustments. In 2021, AbbVie also reclassified $1.0 billion of indefinite-lived research and development intangible assets to developed
product rights upon receiving certain regulatory approvals for Vuity, Qulipta, and HArmonyCa.
Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range between 1 to 16 years with an average of 12 years for developed
product rights and 11 years for license agreements. Amortization expense was $7.7 billion in 2021, $5.8 billion in 2020 and $1.6 billion in 2019 and was included
in cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of earnings. The anticipated annual amortization expense for definite-lived intangible assets recorded as of
December 31, 2021 is as follows:
(in billions) 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
Anticipated annual amortization expense $ 7.2 $ 7.5 $ 8.0 $ 8.4 $ 7.9
|
67 2021 Form 10-KIndefinite-Lived Intangible Assets
Indefinite-lived intangible assets represent acquired IPR&D associated with products that have not yet received regulatory approval. Indefinite-lived
intangible assets as of December 31, 2021 primarily relate to the acquisition of Allergan.
The company performs its annual impairment assessment of indefinite-lived intangible assets in the third quarter, or earlier if impairment indicators exist.
In 2019, following the announcement of the decision to terminate the rovalpituzumab tesirine (Rova-T) R&D program, the company recorded an impairment
charge of $1.0 billion which represented the remaining value of the IPR&D acquired as part of the 2016 Stemcentrx acquisition. The impairment charge was recorded
to R&D expense in the consolidated statements of earnings in 2019.
Note 8 Integration and Restructuring Plans
Allergan Integration Plan
Following the closing of the Allergan acquisition, AbbVie implemented an integration plan designed to reduce costs, integrate and optimize the combined
organization. To achieve these integration objectives, AbbVie expects to incur total cumulative charges of approximately $2 billion of charges through 2022. These
costs will consist of severance and employee benefit costs (cash severance, non-cash severance, including accelerated equity award compensation expense,
retention and other termination benefits) and other integration expenses.
The following table summarizes the charges associated with the Allergan acquisition integration plan:
Severance and employee benefits Other integration
year ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020
Cost of products sold $ 5 $ 109 $ 127 $ 21
Research and development — 199 102 177
Selling, general and administrative 64 388 289 237
Total charges $ 69 $ 696 $ 518 $ 435
The following table summarizes the cash activity in the recorded liability associated with the integration plan:
Severance and
year ended December 31 (in millions) employee benefits Other integration
Charges $ 594 $ 435
Payments and other adjustments (227) (415)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 367 $ 20
Charges 65 461
Payments and other adjustments (210) (448)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 222 $ 33
Other Restructuring
AbbVie continuously evaluates its operations to identify opportunities to optimize its manufacturing and R&D operations, commercial infrastructure and
administrative costs and to respond to changes in its business environment. As a result, AbbVie management periodically approves individual restructuring plans
to achieve these objectives. In 2021, 2020 and 2019, no such plans were individually significant. Restructuring charges recorded were $59 million in 2021,
$60 million in 2020 and $234 million in 2019 and were primarily related to employee severance and contractual obligations. These charges were recorded in cost
of products sold, R&D expense and SG&A expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings based on the classification of the affected employees or operations.
|
2021 Form 10-K 68The following table summarizes the cash activity in the restructuring reserve for 2021, 2020 and 2019:
(in millions)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2018 $ 99
Restructuring charges 219
Payments and other adjustments (178)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2019 140
Restructuring charges 58
Payments and other adjustments (108)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2020 90
Restructuring charges 54
Payments and other adjustments (111)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 33
Note 9 Leases
AbbVie's lease portfolio primarily consists of real estate properties, vehicles and equipment. The following table summarizes the amounts and location of
operating and finance leases on the consolidated balance sheets:
as of December 31 (in millions) Balance sheet caption 2021 2020
Assets
Operating Other assets $ 762 $ 895
Finance Property and equipment, net 33 27
Total lease assets $ 795 $ 922
Liabilities
Operating
Current Accounts payable and accrued liabilities $ 178 $ 175
Noncurrent Other long-term liabilities 713 832
Finance
Current Current portion of long-term debt and finance lease obligations 9 8
Noncurrent Long-term debt and finance lease obligations 25 21
Total lease liabilities $ 925 $ 1,036
The following table summarizes the lease costs recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Operating lease cost $ 226 $ 192 $ 124
Short-term lease cost 56 59 34
Variable lease cost 71 60 62
Total lease cost $ 353 $ 311 $ 220
Sublease income and finance lease costs were insignificant in 2021, 2020 and 2019.
|
69 2021 Form 10-KThe following table presents the weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for operating and finance leases:
years ended December 31 2021 2020 2019
Weighted-average remaining lease term (years)
Operating 7 8 5
Finance 3 3 3
Weighted-average discount rate
Operating 2.4 % 2.5 % 3.9 %
Finance 1.1 % 1.4 % 3.9 %
The following table presents supplementary cash flow information regarding the company's leases:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities
Operating cash flows from operating leases $ 236 $ 185 $ 125
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for new operating lease liabilities 66 692 26
Finance lease cash flows were insignificant in 2021, 2020 and 2019. Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for new operating lease liabilities as of
December 31, 2020 included $453 million of right-of-use assets acquired in the Allergan acquisition.
The following table summarizes the future maturities of AbbVie's operating and finance lease liabilities as of December 31, 2021:
Operating Finance
(in millions) leases leases Total (a)
2022 $ 179 $ 9 $ 188
2023 162 9 171
2024 126 7 133
2025 105 5 110
2026 91 9 100
Thereafter 317 — 317
Total lease payments 980 39 1,019
Less: Interest 89 5 94
Present value of lease liabilities $ 891 $ 34 $ 925
(a) Lease payments recognized as part of lease liabilities for optional renewal periods are insignificant.
|
2021 Form 10-K 70Note 10 Debt, Credit Facilities and Commitments and Contingencies
The following table summarizes long-term debt:
Effective Effective
interest rate interest rate
as of December 31 (dollars in millions) in 2021(a) 2021 in 2020(a) 2020
Senior notes issued in 2012
2.90% notes due 2022 2.97 % $ 3,100 2.97 % $ 3,100
4.40% notes due 2042 4.46 % 2,600 4.46 % 2,600
Senior notes issued in 2015
3.20% notes due 2022 3.28 % 1,000 3.28 % 1,000
3.60% notes due 2025 3.66 % 3,750 3.66 % 3,750
4.50% notes due 2035 4.58 % 2,500 4.58 % 2,500
4.70% notes due 2045 4.73 % 2,700 4.73 % 2,700
Senior notes issued in 2016
2.30% notes due 2021 2.40 % — 2.40 % 1,800
2.85% notes due 2023 2.91 % 1,000 2.91 % 1,000
3.20% notes due 2026 3.28 % 2,000 3.28 % 2,000
4.30% notes due 2036 4.37 % 1,000 4.37 % 1,000
4.45% notes due 2046 4.50 % 2,000 4.50 % 2,000
Senior Euro notes issued in 2016
1.375% notes due 2024 (€1,450 principal) 1.46 % 1,643 1.46 % 1,783
2.125% notes due 2028 (€750 principal) 2.18 % 850 2.18 % 922
Senior notes issued in 2018
3.375% notes due 2021 3.51 % — 3.51 % 1,250
3.75% notes due 2023 3.84 % 1,250 3.84 % 1,250
4.25% notes due 2028 4.38 % 1,750 4.38 % 1,750
4.875% notes due 2048 4.94 % 1,750 4.94 % 1,750
Senior Euro notes issued in 2019
0.75% notes due 2027 (€750 principal) 0.86 % 850 0.86 % 922
1.25% notes due 2031 (€650 principal) 1.30 % 737 1.30 % 799
Senior notes issued in 2019
Floating rate notes due May 2021 0.74 % — 1.33 % 750
Floating rate notes due November 2021 0.78 % — 1.42 % 750
Floating rate notes due 2022 0.99 % 750 1.62 % 750
2.15% notes due 2021 2.23 % — 2.23 % 1,750
2.30% notes due 2022 2.42 % 3,000 2.42 % 3,000
2.60% notes due 2024 2.69 % 3,750 2.69 % 3,750
2.95% notes due 2026 3.02 % 4,000 3.02 % 4,000
3.20% notes due 2029 3.25 % 5,500 3.25 % 5,500
4.05% notes due 2039 4.11 % 4,000 4.11 % 4,000
4.25% notes due 2049 4.29 % 5,750 4.29 % 5,750
Term loan facilities
Floating rate notes due 2023 1.23 % — 1.29 % 1,000
Floating rate notes due 2023 0.81 % 1,000 — % —
Floating rate notes due 2025 1.36 % 2,000 1.42 % 2,000
|
71 2021 Form 10-KEffective Effective
interest rate interest rate
as of December 31 (dollars in millions) in 2021(a) 2021 in 2020(a) 2020
Senior notes acquired in 2020
5.000% notes due 2021 1.53 % — 1.53 % 1,200
3.450% notes due 2022 1.97 % 2,878 1.97 % 2,878
3.250% notes due 2022 1.92 % 1,700 1.92 % 1,700
2.800% notes due 2023 2.13 % 350 2.13 % 350
3.850% notes due 2024 2.07 % 1,032 2.07 % 1,032
3.800% notes due 2025 2.09 % 3,021 2.09 % 3,021
4.550% notes due 2035 3.52 % 1,789 3.52 % 1,789
4.625% notes due 2042 4.00 % 457 4.00 % 457
4.850% notes due 2044 4.11 % 1,074 4.11 % 1,074
4.750% notes due 2045 4.20 % 881 4.20 % 881
Senior Euro notes acquired in 2020
0.500% notes due 2021 (€750 principal) 0.72 % — 0.72 % 922
1.500% notes due 2023 (€500 principal) 0.49 % 567 0.49 % 615
1.250% notes due 2024 (€700 principal) 0.65 % 793 0.65 % 861
2.625% notes due 2028 (€500 principal) 1.20 % 567 1.20 % 615
2.125% notes due 2029 (€550 principal) 1.19 % 623 1.19 % 677
Other 33 29
Fair value hedges 102 278
Unamortized bond discounts (130) (146)
Unamortized deferred financing costs (251) (287)
Unamortized bond premiums (b) 954 1,200
Total long-term debt and finance lease obligations 76,670 86,022
Current portion 12,481 8,468
Noncurrent portion $ 64,189 $ 77,554
(a) Excludes the effect of any related interest rate swaps.
(b) Represents unamortized purchase price adjustments of Allergan debt.
In April 2021, the company repaid $1.8 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.3% senior notes that were scheduled to mature in May 2021. In May 2021, the
company repaid €750 million aggregate principal amount of 0.5% senior Euro notes that were scheduled to mature in June 2021. These repayments were made by
exercising, under the terms of the notes, 30-day early redemptions at 100% of the principal amounts. The company also repaid $750 million aggregate principal
amount of floating rate senior notes at maturity in May 2021.
In September 2021, the company refinanced its $1.0 billion floating rate three-year term loan. As part of the refinancing, the company repaid the existing $1.0
billion term loan due May 2023 and borrowed $1.0 billion under a new term loan at a lower floating rate. All other significant terms of the loan, including the
maturity date, remained unchanged after the refinancing.
In September 2021, the company repaid $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior notes that were scheduled to mature in December 2021. This
repayment was made by exercising, under the terms of the notes, 90-day early redemption at 100% of the principal amount.
In November 2021, the company repaid $1.3 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.375% senior notes and $1.8 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.15%
senior notes at maturity. The company also repaid $750 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior notes at maturity in November 2021.
|
2021 Form 10-K 72In January 2022, the company repaid $2.9 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.450% senior notes that were scheduled to mature in March 2022. This
repayment was made by exercising, under the terms of the notes, 60-day early redemption at 100% of the principal amount.
In connection with the acquisition of Allergan, in May 2020, the company borrowed $3.0 billion under a $6.0 billion term loan credit agreement, of which $1.0
billion was outstanding under a floating rate three-year term loan tranche and $2.0 billion outstanding under a floating rate five-year term loan tranche as of
December 31, 2021. Subsequent to these borrowings, AbbVie terminated the unused commitments of the lenders under the term loan.
In May 2020, AbbVie completed its previously announced offers to exchange any and all outstanding notes of certain series issued by Allergan for new notes
to be issued by AbbVie and cash. Following the settlement of the exchange offers, AbbVie issued $14.0 billion and €3.1 billion of new notes in exchange for the
Allergan notes tendered in the exchange offers. The aggregate principal amount of Allergan notes that remained outstanding following the settlement of the exchange
offers was approximately $1.5 billion and €635 million. The exchange transaction was accounted for as a modification of the assumed debt instruments.
In May 2020, the company repaid $3.8 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.5% senior notes at maturity.
In September 2020, the company repaid $650 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375% senior notes at maturity.
In November 2020, the company repaid €700 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior Euro notes at maturity and $450 million aggregate
principal amount of 4.875% senior notes due February 2021 three months prior to maturity.
In September 2019, the company issued €1.4 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior Euro notes. These senior notes rank equally with all other
unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the company. AbbVie may redeem the senior notes prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the principal
amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium and may redeem the senior notes at par between one and three months prior to maturity. In
connection with the offering, debt issuance costs incurred totaled $9 million and debt discounts totaled $5 million and are being amortized over the respective
terms of the notes to interest expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. In October 2019, the company used the proceeds to redeem €1.4 billion
aggregate principal amount of 0.375% senior Euro notes that were due to mature in November 2019.
In November 2019, the company issued $30.0 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes. These senior notes rank equally with all other
unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the company. AbbVie may redeem the fixed-rate senior notes prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the
greater of the principal amount or the sum of present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the fixed-rate senior notes to be
redeemed plus a make-whole premium. With exception of the fixed-rate notes due 2021 and 2022, AbbVie may also redeem the fixed-rate senior notes at par between
one and six months prior to maturity. In connection with the offering, debt issuance costs incurred totaled $173 million and debt discounts totaled $52 million,
which are being amortized over the respective terms of the notes to interest expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. AbbVie used the net proceeds to
fund a portion of the aggregate cash consideration due to Allergan shareholders in connection with the acquisition described in Note 5 and to pay related fees and
expenses.
AbbVie has outstanding $4.8 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes which were issued in 2018. AbbVie may redeem the senior notes
prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium and AbbVie may redeem the senior
notes at par between one month and six months prior to maturity.
AbbVie has outstanding €2.2 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior Euro notes which were issued in 2016. AbbVie may redeem the senior
notes prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium and AbbVie may redeem the
senior notes at par between one and three months prior to maturity.
AbbVie has outstanding $6.0 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes which were issued in 2016 and $10.0 billion aggregate principal
amount of unsecured senior notes which were issued in 2015. AbbVie may redeem the senior notes, at any time, prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the
principal amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium and AbbVie may redeem the senior notes at par between one and six months prior to
maturity.
AbbVie has outstanding $5.7 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes which were issued in 2012. AbbVie may redeem all of the senior
notes of each series, at any time, or some of the senior notes of each series, from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the senior
notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium.
|
73 2021 Form 10-KAt December 31, 2021, the company was in compliance with its senior note covenants and term loan covenants.
Short-Term Borrowings
There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. No commercial paper borrowings were issued
during 2021. The weighted-average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings was 1.8% in 2020 and 2.5% in 2019.
In August 2019, AbbVie entered into an amended and restated $4.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility that matures in August 2024. This amended facility
enables the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates and contains various covenants, all of which the company was in compliance
with as of December 31, 2021. Commitment fees under AbbVie's revolving credit facilities were insignificant in 2021, 2020 and 2019. No amounts were outstanding
under the company's credit facilities as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.
In March 2019, AbbVie repaid a $3.0 billion 364-day term loan credit agreement that was drawn on in June 2018 and was scheduled to mature in June 2019.
Maturities of Long-Term Debt
The following table summarizes AbbVie's debt maturities as of December 31, 2021:
as of and for the years ending December 31 (in millions)
2022 $ 12,428
2023 4,167
2024 7,219
2025 8,771
2026 6,000
Thereafter 37,377
Total obligations and commitments 75,962
Fair value hedges, unamortized bond premiums and discounts, deferred financing costs and finance lease obligations 708
Total long-term debt and finance lease obligations $ 76,670
Contingencies and Guarantees
In connection with the separation, AbbVie has indemnified Abbott for all liabilities resulting from the operation of AbbVie's business other than income tax
liabilities with respect to periods prior to the distribution date and other liabilities as agreed to by AbbVie and Abbott. AbbVie has no material exposures to off-
balance sheet arrangements and no special-purpose entities. In the ordinary course of business, AbbVie has periodically entered into third-party agreements, such
as the assignment of product rights, which have resulted in AbbVie becoming secondarily liable for obligations for which AbbVie had previously been primarily
liable. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote.
Note 11 Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures
Risk Management Policy
The company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks related to its business operations. AbbVie's hedging policy attempts to
manage these risks to an acceptable level based on the company's judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. The company uses
derivative and nonderivative instruments to reduce its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. AbbVie also periodically enters into interest rate swaps in
which the company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon
notional amount. Derivative instruments are not used for trading purposes or to manage exposure to changes in interest rates for investment securities, and none of
the company's outstanding derivative instruments contain credit risk related contingent features; collateral is generally not required.
|
2021 Form 10-K 74Financial Instruments
Various AbbVie foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for
anticipated intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the local entity. These contracts, with notional amounts
totaling $1.1 billion at December 31, 2021 and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2020, are designated as cash flow hedges and are recorded at fair value. The durations
of these forward exchange contracts were generally less than 18 months. Accumulated gains and losses as of December 31, 2021 will be reclassified from AOCI and
included in cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally not exceeding six months from the date of settlement.
In the third quarter of 2019, the company entered into treasury rate lock agreements with notional amounts totaling $10.0 billion to hedge exposure to
variability in future cash flows resulting from changes in interest rates related to the issuance of long-term debt in connection with the acquisition of Allergan. The
treasury rate lock agreements were designated as cash flow hedges and recorded at fair value. The agreements were net settled upon issuance of the senior notes in
November 2019 resulting in a pre-tax gain of $383 million recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). This gain is reclassified to interest expense, net over the
term of the related debt.
The company is a party to interest rate swap contracts designed as cash flow hedges with notional amounts totaling $750 million at December 31, 2021 and
$2.3 billion at December 31, 2020. The effect of the hedge contracts is to change a floating-rate interest obligation to a fixed rate for that portion of the floating-rate
debt. Realized and unrealized gains or losses are included in AOCI and are reclassified to interest expense, net over the lives of the floating-rate debt.
The company also enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated trade payables and
receivables and intercompany loans. These contracts are not designated as hedges and are recorded at fair value. Resulting gains or losses are reflected in net
foreign exchange loss in the consolidated statements of earnings and are generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency exposure being managed. These
contracts had notional amounts totaling $8.2 billion at December 31, 2021 and $8.6 billion at December 31, 2020.
The company also uses foreign currency forward exchange contracts or foreign currency denominated debt to hedge its net investments in certain foreign
subsidiaries and affiliates. The company had an aggregate principal amount of senior Euro notes designated as net investment hedges of €5.9 billion at
December 31, 2021 and €6.6 billion at December 31, 2020. In addition, the company had foreign currency forward exchange contracts designated as net investment
hedges with notional amounts totaling €4.3 billion at December 31, 2021 and €971 million at December 31, 2020. The company uses the spot method of assessing
hedge effectiveness for derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges. Realized and unrealized gains and losses from these hedges are included in
AOCI and the initial fair value of hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness is recognized in interest expense, net over the life of the hedging
instrument.
The company is a party to interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges with notional amounts totaling $4.5 billion at December 31, 2021 and
$4.8 billion at December 31, 2020. The effect of the hedge contracts is to change a fixed-rate interest obligation to a floating rate for that portion of the debt. AbbVie
records the contracts at fair value and adjusts the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt by an offsetting amount.
No amounts are excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for cash flow hedges or fair value hedges.
|
75 2021 Form 10-KThe following table summarizes the amounts and location of AbbVie's derivative instruments on the consolidated balance sheets:
Fair value - Fair value -
Derivatives in asset position Derivatives in liability position
Balance sheet Balance sheet
as of December 31 (in millions) caption 2021 2020 caption 2021 2020
Foreign currency forward exchange
contracts
Prepaid expenses Accounts payable
Designated as cash flow hedges and other $ 51 $ 2 and accrued liabilities $ 2 $ 82
Other long-term
Designated as cash flow hedges Other assets — — liabilities — 6
Designated as net investment Prepaid expenses Accounts payable
hedges and other 149 — and accrued liabilities — 11
Designated as net investment Other long-term
hedges Other assets 15 — liabilities — —
Prepaid expenses Accounts payable
Not designated as hedges and other 26 49 and accrued liabilities 13 33
Interest rate swap contracts
Prepaid expenses Accounts payable
Designated as cash flow hedges and other — — and accrued liabilities 7 14
Other long-term
Designated as cash flow hedges Other assets — — liabilities — 20
Prepaid expenses Accounts payable
Designated as fair value hedges and other — 7 and accrued liabilities — —
Other long-term
Designated as fair value hedges Other assets 26 131 liabilities 15 —
Total derivatives $ 267 $ 189 $ 37 $ 166
While certain derivatives are subject to netting arrangements with the company's counterparties, the company does not offset derivative assets and liabilities
within the consolidated balance sheets.
The following table presents the pre-tax amounts of gains (losses) from derivative instruments recognized in other comprehensive income (loss):
years ended in December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Foreign currency forward exchange contracts
Designated as cash flow hedges $ 82 $ (71) $ (5)
Designated as net investment hedges 341 (95) 33
Interest rate swap contracts designated as cash flow hedges 2 (53) 4
Treasury rate lock agreements designated as cash flow hedges — — 383
Assuming market rates remain constant through contract maturities, the company expects to reclassify pre-tax gains of $65 million into cost of products sold
for foreign currency cash flow hedges, pre-tax losses of $7 million into interest expense, net for interest rate swap cash flow hedges and pre-tax gains of $24 million
into interest expense, net for treasury rate lock agreement cash flow hedges during the next 12 months.
Related to AbbVie’s non-derivative, foreign currency denominated debt designated as net investment hedges, the company recognized in other comprehensive
income (loss) pre-tax gains of $577 million in 2021, pre-tax losses of $907 million in 2020 and pre-tax gains of $90 million in 2019.
|
2021 Form 10-K 76The following table summarizes the pre-tax amounts and location of derivative instrument net gains (losses) recognized in the consolidated statements of
earnings, including the net gains (losses) reclassified out of AOCI into net earnings. See Note 13 for the amount of net gains (losses) reclassified out of AOCI.
years ended December 31 (in millions) Statement of earnings caption 2021 2020 2019
Foreign currency forward exchange contracts
Designated as cash flow hedges Cost of products sold $ (87) $ 23 $ 167
Designated as net investment hedges Interest expense, net 26 18 27
Not designated as hedges Net foreign exchange loss (100) 58 (70)
Treasury rate lock agreements designated as cash flow hedges Interest expense, net 24 24 3
Interest rate swap contracts
Designated as cash flow hedges Interest expense, net (24) (17) 1
Designated as fair value hedges Interest expense, net (127) 365 418
Debt designated as hedged item in fair value hedges Interest expense, net 127 (365) (418)
Fair Value Measures
The fair value hierarchy consists of the following three levels:
• Level 1—Valuations based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets that the company has the ability to access;
• Level 2—Valuations based on quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets
that are not active and model-based valuations in which all significant inputs are observable in the market; and
• Level 3—Valuations using significant inputs that are unobservable in the market and include the use of judgment by the company's management about
the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
|
77 2021 Form 10-KThe following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the consolidated balance
sheet as of December 31, 2021:
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in Significant other
active markets for observable Significant
identical assets inputs unobservable inputs
(in millions) Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets
Cash and equivalents $ 9,746 $ 4,451 $ 5,295 $ —
Money market funds and time deposits 45 — 45 —
Debt securities 46 — 46 —
Equity securities 121 100 21 —
Interest rate swap contracts 26 — 26 —
Foreign currency contracts 241 — 241 —
Total assets $ 10,225 $ 4,551 $ 5,674 $ —
Liabilities
Interest rate swap contracts $ 22 $ — $ 22 $ —
Foreign currency contracts 15 — 15 —
Contingent consideration 14,887 — — 14,887
Total liabilities $ 14,924 $ — $ 37 $ 14,887
The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the consolidated balance
sheet as of December 31, 2020:
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in Significant other
active markets for identical observable Significant
assets inputs unobservable inputs
(in millions) Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets
Cash and equivalents $ 8,449 $ 2,758 $ 5,691 $ —
Money market funds and time deposits 12 — 12 —
Debt securities 50 — 50 —
Equity securities 159 149 10 —
Interest rate swap contracts 138 — 138 —
Foreign currency contracts 51 — 51 —
Total assets $ 8,859 $ 2,907 $ 5,952 $ —
Liabilities
Interest rate swap contracts $ 34 $ — $ 34 $ —
Foreign currency contracts 132 — 132 —
Contingent consideration 12,997 — — 12,997
Total liabilities $ 13,163 $ — $ 166 $ 12,997
Equity securities primarily consist of investments for which the fair values were determined by using the published market prices per unit multiplied by the
number of units held, without consideration of transaction costs. The derivatives entered into by the company were valued using observable market inputs including
published interest rate curves and both forward and spot prices for foreign currencies.
The fair value measurements of the contingent consideration liabilities were determined based on significant unobservable inputs, including the discount
rate, estimated probabilities and timing of achieving specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones and the estimated amount of future sales of the
acquired products. The potential contingent consideration payments are estimated by applying a probability-weighted expected payment model for contingent
milestone payments and a Monte Carlo simulation model for contingent royalty payments, which are then discounted to present value. Changes to the fair value of
the contingent consideration liabilities can result from changes to one or a number of inputs, including discount rates, the probabilities of achieving the milestones,
the time required to achieve the milestones
|
2021 Form 10-K 78and estimated future sales. Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of certain of these inputs. Changes to the inputs described above
could have a material impact on the company's financial position and results of operations in any given period.
The fair value of the company's contingent consideration liabilities was calculated using the following significant unobservable inputs:
2021 2020
years ended December 31 (in millions) Range Weighted Average(a) Range Weighted Average(a)
Discount rate 0.2% - 2.6% 1.7% 0.1% - 2.2% 1.1 %
Probability of payment for unachieved milestones 89% - 100% 90% 56% - 92% 64 %
Probability of payment for royalties by indication(b) 56% - 100% 96% 56% - 100% 91 %
Projected year of payments 2022 - 2034 2027 2021 - 2034 2027
(a) Unobservable inputs were weighted by the relative fair value of the contingent consideration liabilities.
(b) Excluding approved indications, the estimated probability of payment ranged from 56% to 89% at December 31, 2021 and 56% to 89%
at December 31, 2020.
There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities into or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The following table presents the changes in fair value of
contingent consideration liabilities which are measured using Level 3 inputs:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Beginning balance $ 12,997 $ 7,340 $ 4,483
Additions(a) — 225 —
Change in fair value recognized in net earnings 2,679 5,753 3,091
Payments (789) (321) (234)
Ending balance $ 14,887 $ 12,997 $ 7,340
(a) Additions during the year ended December 31, 2020 represent contingent consideration liabilities assumed in the Allergan acquisition as well as contingent
consideration resulting from the Luminera acquisition (see Note 5).
The change in fair value recognized in net earnings is recorded in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. During the year-ended
December 31, 2021, the company recorded a $2.7 billion increase in the Skyrizi contingent consideration liability due to higher estimated sales driven by stronger
market share uptake, favorable clinical trial results and the passage of time, partially offset by higher discount rates. During the year-ended December 31, 2020, the
company recorded a $5.7 billion increase in the Skyrizi contingent consideration liability due to higher estimated future sales driven by stronger market share
uptake, lower discount rates, the passage of time and favorable clinical trial results. During the second quarter of 2019, the company recorded a $2.3 billion
increase in the Skyrizi contingent consideration liability due to higher probabilities of success, higher estimated future sales and lower discount rates. The higher
probabilities of success resulted from the April 2019 regulatory approvals of Skyrizi for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. During the third
quarter of 2019, the company recorded a $91 million decrease in the Stemcentrx contingent consideration liability due to the termination of the Rova-T R&D
program.
|
79 2021 Form 10-KCertain financial instruments are carried at historical cost or some basis other than fair value. The book values, approximate fair values and bases used to
measure the approximate fair values of certain financial instruments as of December 31, 2021 are shown in the table below:
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in
active markets for identical Significant other Significant
Approximate fair assets observable inputs unobservable inputs
(in millions) Book value values (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings $ 14 $ 14 $ — $ 14 $ —
Current portion of long-term debt and
finance lease obligations, excluding fair
value hedges 12,455 11,830 11,329 501 —
Long-term debt and finance lease
obligations, excluding fair value hedges 64,113 71,810 70,757 1,053 —
Total liabilities $ 76,582 $ 83,654 $ 82,086 $ 1,568 $ —
The book values, approximate fair values and bases used to measure the approximate fair values of certain financial instruments as of December 31, 2020 are
shown in the table below:
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in
active markets for identical Significant other Significant
Approximate fair assets observable inputs unobservable inputs
(in millions) Book value values (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings $ 34 $ 34 $ — $ 34 $ —
Current portion of long-term debt and
finance lease obligations, excluding fair
value hedges $ 8,461 $ 8,542 $ 8,249 $ 293 $ —
Long-term debt and finance lease
obligations, excluding fair value hedges 77,283 87,761 86,137 1,624 —
Total liabilities $ 85,778 $ 96,337 $ 94,386 $ 1,951 $ —
AbbVie also holds investments in equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values. The company records these investments at cost and
remeasures them to fair value based on certain observable price changes or impairment events as they occur. The carrying amount of these investments was
$149 million as of December 31, 2021 and $102 million as of December 31, 2020. No significant cumulative upward or downward adjustments have been recorded
for these investments as of December 31, 2021.
Concentrations of Risk
Of total net accounts receivable, three U.S. wholesalers accounted for 75% as of December 31, 2021 and 72% as of December 31, 2020, and substantially all of
AbbVie's pharmaceutical product net revenues in the United States were to these three wholesalers.
Humira (adalimumab) is AbbVie's single largest product and accounted for approximately 37% of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2021, 43% in 2020 and 58% in
2019.
|
2021 Form 10-K 80Note 12 Post-Employment Benefits
AbbVie sponsors various pension and other post-employment benefit plans, including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination indemnity plans,
which cover most employees worldwide. In addition, AbbVie provides medical benefits, primarily to eligible retirees in the United States and Puerto Rico, through
other post-retirement benefit plans. Net obligations for these plans have been reflected on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.
The following table summarizes benefit plan information for the global AbbVie-sponsored defined benefit and other post-employment plans:
Defined benefit plans Other post-employment plans
as of and for the years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020
Projected benefit obligations
Beginning of period $ 11,792 $ 8,646 $ 795 $ 1,050
Service cost 440 370 48 42
Interest cost 237 264 19 34
Employee contributions 2 2 — —
Amendments — — — (397)
Actuarial (gain) loss (8) 1,105 10 40
Benefits paid (281) (249) (22) (17)
Acquisition — 1,409 — 43
Other, primarily foreign currency translation
adjustments (176) 245 — —
End of period 12,006 11,792 850 795
Fair value of plan assets
Beginning of period 9,702 7,116 — —
Actual return on plan assets 1,000 979 — —
Company contributions 376 367 22 17
Employee contributions 2 2 — —
Benefits paid (281) (249) (22) (17)
Acquisition — 1,296 — —
Other, primarily foreign currency translation
adjustments (144) 191 — —
End of period 10,655 9,702 — —
Funded status, end of period $ (1,351) $ (2,090) $ (850) $ (795)
Amounts recognized on the consolidated balance
sheets
Other assets $ 991 $ 563 $ — $ —
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (13) (12) (26) (23)
Other long-term liabilities (2,329) (2,641) (824) (772)
Net obligation $ (1,351) $ (2,090) $ (850) $ (795)
Actuarial loss, net $ 3,504 $ 4,163 $ 461 $ 482
Prior service cost (credit) 5 8 (370) (408)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss $ 3,509 $ 4,171 $ 91 $ 74
The projected benefit obligations in the table above included $3.2 billion at December 31, 2021 and $3.5 billion at December 31, 2020, related to international
defined benefit plans.
For plans reflected in the table above, the accumulated benefit obligations were $10.5 billion at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.
|
81 2021 Form 10-KInformation For Pension Plans With An Accumulated Benefit Obligation In Excess Of Plan Assets
as of December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020
Accumulated benefit obligation $ 6,395 $ 7,527
Fair value of plan assets 5,412 6,066
Information For Pension Plans With A Projected Benefit Obligation In Excess Of Plan Assets
as of December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020
Projected benefit obligation $ 7,788 $ 8,719
Fair value of plan assets 5,447 6,066
The 2021 actuarial gain of $8 million for qualified pension plans and actuarial loss of $10 million for other post-employment plans were primarily driven by
an increase in the assumed discount rate offset by change in demographic assumptions from 2020. The 2020 actuarial losses of $1.1 billion for qualified pension
plans and $40 million for other post-employment plans were primarily driven by a decrease in the assumed discount rate from 2019.
AbbVie's U.S. pension plan was modified to close the plan to new entrants effective January 1, 2022. In addition, a change to AbbVie's U.S. retiree health benefit
plan was approved in 2020 and communicated to employees and retirees in October 2020. Beginning in 2022, Medicare-eligible retirees and Medicare-eligible
dependents will choose health care coverage from insurance providers through a private Medicare exchange. AbbVie will continue to provide financial support to
Medicare-eligible retirees. This change to the U.S. retiree health benefit plan decreased AbbVie's post-employment benefit obligation and increased AbbVie's
unrecognized prior service credit as of December 31, 2020 by $397 million.
In connection with the Allergan acquisition, AbbVie assumed certain post-employment benefit obligations which were recorded at fair value. Upon acquisition
in the second quarter of 2020, the excess of projected benefit obligations over the plan assets was recognized as a liability totaling $156 million.
|
2021 Form 10-K 82Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The following table summarizes the pre-tax losses (gains) included in other comprehensive income (loss):
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Defined benefit plans
Actuarial loss (gain) $ (345) $ 701 $ 1,231
Amortization of prior service cost (2) (2) —
Amortization of actuarial loss (288) (227) (109)
Foreign exchange loss (gain) and other (27) 56 (6)
Total loss (gain) $ (662) $ 528 $ 1,116
Other post-employment plans
Actuarial loss $ 10 $ 40 $ 451
Prior service credit — (397) —
Amortization of prior service credit 39 4 —
Amortization of actuarial loss (32) (26) (1)
Total loss (gain) $ 17 $ (379) $ 450
Net Periodic Benefit Cost
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Defined benefit plans
Service cost $ 440 $ 370 $ 269
Interest cost 237 264 259
Expected return on plan assets (663) (575) (474)
Amortization of prior service cost 2 2 —
Amortization of actuarial loss 288 227 109
Net periodic benefit cost $ 304 $ 288 $ 163
Other post-employment plans
Service cost $ 48 $ 42 $ 25
Interest cost 19 34 29
Amortization of prior service credit (39) (4) —
Amortization of actuarial loss 32 26 1
Net periodic benefit cost $ 60 $ 98 $ 55
The components of net periodic benefit cost other than service cost are included in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings.
Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Benefit Obligations at the Measurement Date
as of December 31 2021 2020
Defined benefit plans
Discount rate 2.8 % 2.4 %
Rate of compensation increases 5.2 % 4.6 %
Cash balance interest crediting rate 2.7 % 2.8 %
Other post-employment plans
Discount rate 3.1 % 2.8 %
The assumptions used in calculating the December 31, 2021 measurement date benefit obligations will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost
in 2022.
|
83 2021 Form 10-KWeighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Net Periodic Benefit Cost
years ended December 31 2021 2020 2019
Defined benefit plans
Discount rate for determining service cost 2.6 % 3.1 % 4.0 %
Discount rate for determining interest cost 2.2 % 3.0 % 4.0 %
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 7.1 % 7.1 % 7.6 %
Expected rate of change in compensation 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.6 %
Cash balance interest crediting rate 2.8 % 2.8 % 2.8 %
Other post-employment plans
Discount rate for determining service cost 3.0 % 3.7 % 4.7 %
Discount rate for determining interest cost 2.2 % 3.2 % 4.3 %
For the December 31, 2021 post-retirement health care obligations remeasurement, the company assumed a 5.9% pre-65 (2.1% post-65) annual rate of
increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits. The pre-65 rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 4.5% (1.8% post-65) in 2029 and remain at that
level thereafter. For purposes of measuring the 2021 post-retirement health care costs, the company assumed a 6.0% pre-65 (2.3% post-65) annual rate of increase
in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits. The pre-65 rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 4.5% (2.0% post-65) for 2029 and remain at that level
thereafter.
|
2021 Form 10-K 84Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in
active markets for Significant other Significant unobservable
identical assets observable inputs inputs
as of December 31 (in millions) 2021 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Equities
U.S. large cap(a) $ 1,428 $ 1,428 $ — $ —
U.S. mid cap(b) 198 198 — —
International(c) 458 458 — —
Fixed income securities
U.S. government securities(d) 228 95 133 —
Corporate debt instruments(d) 945 179 766 —
Non-U.S. government securities(d) 602 445 157 —
Other(d) 273 268 5 —
Absolute return funds(e) 100 5 95 —
Real assets 10 10 — —
Other(f) 261 216 45 —
Total $ 4,503 $ 3,302 $ 1,201 $ —
Total assets measured at NAV 6,152
Fair value of plan assets $ 10,655
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in
active markets for Significant other Significant unobservable
identical assets observable inputs inputs
as of December 31 (in millions) 2020 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Equities
U.S. large cap(a) $ 1,143 $ 1,143 $ — $ —
U.S. mid cap(b) 164 164 — —
International(c) 524 524 — —
Fixed income securities
U.S. government securities(d) 132 18 114 —
Corporate debt instruments(d) 854 178 676 —
Non-U.S. government securities(d) 544 397 147 —
Other(d) 297 294 3 —
Absolute return funds(e) 310 4 306 —
Real assets 10 10 — —
Other(f) 252 250 2 —
Total $ 4,230 $ 2,982 $ 1,248 $ —
Total assets measured at NAV 5,472
Fair value of plan assets $ 9,702
(a) A mix of index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various large cap indices.
(b) A mix of index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various mid cap indices.
(c) A mix of index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various non-U.S. equity indices in both developed and emerging markets.
(d) Securities held by actively managed accounts, index funds and mutual funds.
|
85 2021 Form 10-K(e) Primarily funds having global mandates with the flexibility to allocate capital broadly across a wide range of asset classes and strategies, including but not
limited to equities, fixed income, commodities, financial futures, currencies and other securities, with objectives to outperform agreed upon benchmarks of
specific return and volatility targets.
(f) Investments in cash and cash equivalents.
Equities and registered investment companies having quoted prices are valued at the published market prices. Fixed income securities that are valued using
significant other observable inputs are quoted at prices obtained from independent financial service industry-recognized vendors. Investments held in pooled
investment funds, common collective trusts or limited partnerships are valued at the net asset value (NAV) practical expedient to estimate fair value. The NAV is
provided by the fund administrator and is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund minus its liabilities.
The investment mix of equity securities, fixed income and other asset allocation strategies is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher return,
more volatile equity securities and lower return, less volatile fixed income securities. Investment allocations are established for each plan and are generally made
across a range of markets, industry sectors, capitalization sizes and in the case of fixed income securities, maturities and credit quality. The 2021 target investment
allocation for the AbbVie Pension Plan was 62.5% in equity securities, 22.5% in fixed income securities and 15% in asset allocation strategies and other holdings.
There are no known significant concentrations of risk in the plan assets of the AbbVie Pension Plan or of any other plans.
The expected return on plan assets assumption for each plan is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by
the underlying investment portfolio. In establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans
are invested, as well as current economic and capital market conditions.
Expected Benefit Payments
The following table summarizes total benefit payments expected to be paid to plan participants including payments funded from both plan and company
assets:
Defined Other
years ending December 31 (in millions) benefit plans post-employment plans
2022 $ 293 $ 27
2023 312 30
2024 334 31
2025 356 34
2026 379 36
2027 to 2031 2,291 224
Defined Contribution Plan
AbbVie maintains defined contribution savings plans for the benefit of its eligible employees. The expense recognized for these plans was $267 million in
2021, $191 million in 2020 and $102 million in 2019. AbbVie provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation arrangements, to
qualifying employees and accrues for the related cost over the service lives of the employees.
Note 13 Equity
Stock-Based Compensation
In May 2021, stockholders of the company approved the AbbVie Amended and Restated 2013 Incentive Stock Program (the Amended Plan), which amends and
restates the AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program (2013 ISP). AbbVie grants stock-based awards to eligible employees pursuant to the Amended Plan, which provides
for several different forms of benefits, including non-qualified stock options, RSUs and various performance-based awards. Under the Amended Plan, a total of 144
million shares of AbbVie common stock have been reserved for issuance as awards to AbbVie employees. The 2013 ISP also facilitated the assumption of certain
awards granted under Abbott’s incentive stock program, which were adjusted and converted into Abbott and AbbVie stock-based awards as a result of AbbVie's
separation from Abbott.
|
2021 Form 10-K 86AbbVie measures compensation expense for stock-based awards based on the grant date fair value of the awards and the estimated number of awards that are
expected to vest. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience at the time of grant and are revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from
those estimates. Compensation cost for stock-based awards is amortized over the service period, which could be shorter than the vesting period if an employee is
retirement eligible. Retirement eligible employees generally are those who are age 55 or older and have at least 10 years of service.
Stock-based compensation expense is principally related to awards issued pursuant to the 2013 ISP and the Amended Plan and is summarized as follows:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Cost of products sold $ 46 $ 47 $ 29
Research and development 226 247 171
Selling, general and administrative 420 459 230
Pre-tax compensation expense 692 753 430
Tax benefit 126 131 80
After-tax compensation expense $ 566 $ 622 $ 350
Realized excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation totaled $50 million in 2021, $34 million in 2020 and $15 million in 2019.
Stock Options
Stock options awarded to employees typically have a contractual term of 10 years and generally vest in one-third increments over a three-year period. The
exercise price is equal to at least 100% of the market value on the date of grant. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes model. The weighted-average
grant-date fair values of stock options granted were $16.28 in 2021, $12.14 in 2020 and $12.54 in 2019.
In connection with the Allergan acquisition, during the second quarter of 2020, AbbVie issued 11.2 million stock options to holders of Allergan options as a
result of the conversion of such options. These options were fair-valued using a lattice valuation model. Refer to Note 5 for additional information regarding the
Allergan acquisition.
The following table summarizes AbbVie stock option activity in 2021:
Weighted-average
Weighted- average remaining Aggregate intrinsic
(options in thousands, aggregate intrinsic value in millions) Options exercise price life (in years) value
Outstanding at December 31, 2020 15,691 $ 73.90 4.7 $ 559
Granted 1,147 105.94
Exercised (4,278) 57.77
Lapsed and forfeited (186) 105.28
Outstanding at December 31, 2021 12,374 $ 81.98 4.7 $ 661
Exercisable at December 31, 2021 9,424 $ 78.03 3.6 $ 541
The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $239 million in 2021, $186 million in 2020 and $22 million in 2019. The total fair value of options vested
during 2021 was $21 million. As of December 31, 2021, $10 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options is expected to be recognized as
expense over approximately the next two years.
RSUs and Performance Shares
RSUs awarded to employees other than senior executives and other key employees generally vest in ratable increments over a three or four-year period.
Recipients of these RSUs are entitled to receive dividend equivalents as dividends are declared and paid during the RSU vesting period.
The majority of the equity awards AbbVie grants to its senior executives and other key employees are performance-based. Equity awards granted to senior
executives and other key employees consist of a combination of performance-vested RSUs and performance shares as well as non-qualified stock options described
above. The performance-vested RSUs have the potential to vest in one-third increments during a three-year performance period. For awards granted in 2021 and
2020, performance is based on AbbVie's return on invested capital relative to a defined peer group of pharmaceutical, biotech and life science companies. For
awards granted in 2019, the tranches tied to 2021 performance are based on AbbVie’s return on
|
87 2021 Form 10-Kequity relative to a defined peer group of pharmaceutical, biotech and life sciences companies. The recipient may receive one share of AbbVie common stock for
each vested award. The performance shares have the potential to vest over a three-year performance period and may be earned based on AbbVie’s EPS achievement
and AbbVie’s total stockholder return (TSR) (a market condition) relative to a defined peer group of pharmaceutical, biotech and life sciences companies. Dividend
equivalents on performance-vested RSUs and performance shares accrue during the performance period and are payable at vesting only to the extent that shares are
earned.
The weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs and performance shares generally is determined based on the number of shares/units granted and the
quoted price of AbbVie’s common stock on the date of grant. The weighted-average grant-date fair values of performance shares with a TSR market condition are
determined using the Monte Carlo simulation model.
The following table summarizes AbbVie RSU and performance share activity for 2021:
Weighted-average grant
(share units in thousands) Share units date fair value
Outstanding at December 31, 2020 15,918 $ 87.03
Granted 7,556 105.79
Vested (6,735) 91.63
Forfeited (1,849) 83.35
Outstanding at December 31, 2021 14,890 $ 94.93
The fair market value of RSUs and performance shares (as applicable) vested was $718 million in 2021, $618 million in 2020 and $371 million in 2019.
In connection with the Allergan acquisition, during the second quarter of 2020, AbbVie issued 8.2 million RSUs to holders of Allergan equity awards based on
a conversion factor described in the transaction agreement. Refer to Note 5 for additional information regarding the Allergan acquisition.
As of December 31, 2021, $592 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to RSUs and performance shares is expected to be recognized as expense
over approximately the next two years.
Cash Dividends
Cash dividends declared per common share totaled $5.31 in 2021, $4.84 in 2020 and $4.39 in 2019. The following table summarizes quarterly cash dividends
declared during 2021, 2020 and 2019:
2021 2020 2019
Date Payment Dividend Date Payment Dividend Date Payment Dividend
Declared Date Per Share Declared Date Per Share Declared Date Per Share
10/29/21 02/15/22 $1.41 10/30/20 02/16/21 $1.30 11/01/19 02/14/20 $1.18
09/10/21 11/15/21 $1.30 09/11/20 11/16/20 $1.18 09/06/19 11/15/19 $1.07
06/17/21 08/16/21 $1.30 06/17/20 08/14/20 $1.18 06/20/19 08/15/19 $1.07
02/18/21 05/14/21 $1.30 02/20/20 05/15/20 $1.18 02/21/19 05/15/19 $1.07
Stock Repurchase Program
The company's stock repurchase authorization permits purchases of AbbVie shares from time to time in open-market or private transactions at management’s
discretion. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time. Shares repurchased under these programs are recorded at acquisition cost,
including related expenses and are available for general corporate purposes.
AbbVie repurchased 6 million shares for $670 million in 2021, 8 million shares for $757 million in 2020 and 4 million shares for $300 million in 2019.
AbbVie's remaining stock repurchase authorization was $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2021.
|
2021 Form 10-K 88Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
The following table summarizes the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, for 2021, 2020 and 2019:
Foreign Net Pension
(in millions) (brackets denote currency translation investment hedging and post-employment Marketable Cash flow
losses) adjustments activities benefits security activities hedging activities Total
Balance as of December 31,
2018 $ (830) $ (65) $ (1,722) $ (10) $ 147 $ (2,480)
Other comprehensive income
(loss) before reclassifications (98) 95 (1,330) 12 298 (1,023)
Net losses (gains) reclassified
from accumulated other
comprehensive loss — (21) 87 (2) (157) (93)
Net current-period other
comprehensive income (loss) (98) 74 (1,243) 10 141 (1,116)
Balance as of December 31,
2019 (928) 9 (2,965) — 288 (3,596)
Other comprehensive income
(loss) before reclassifications 1,511 (785) (300) — (108) 318
Net losses (gains) reclassified
from accumulated other
comprehensive loss — (14) 198 — (23) 161
Net current-period other
comprehensive income (loss) 1,511 (799) (102) — (131) 479
Balance as of December 31,
2020 583 (790) (3,067) — 157 (3,117)
Other comprehensive income
(loss) before reclassifications (1,153) 720 298 — 76 (59)
Net losses (gains) reclassified
from accumulated other
comprehensive loss — (21) 223 — 75 277
Net current-period other
comprehensive income (loss) (1,153) 699 521 — 151 218
Balance as of December 31,
2021 $ (570) $ (91) $ (2,546) $ — $ 308 $ (2,899)
Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2021 included foreign currency translation adjustments totaling losses of $1.2 billion and the offsetting impact of net
investment hedging activities totaling gains of $699 million, which were principally due to the impact of the weakening of the Euro on the translation of the
company’s Euro-denominated assets. Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2020 included foreign currency translation adjustments totaling gains of $1.5 billion
and the offsetting impact of net investment hedging activities totaling losses of $799 million, which were principally due to the impact of the strengthening of the
Euro on the translation of the company's Euro-denominated assets.
Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2019 included pension and post-employment benefit plan losses of $1.2 billion primarily due to an actuarial loss
driven by lower discount rates. See Note 12 for additional information.
|
89 2021 Form 10-KThe table below presents the impact on AbbVie's consolidated statements of earnings for significant amounts reclassified out of each component of
accumulated other comprehensive loss:
years ended December 31 (in millions) (brackets denote gains) 2021 2020 2019
Net investment hedging activities
Gains on derivative amount excluded from effectiveness testing(a) $ (26) $ (18) $ (27)
Tax expense 5 4 6
Total reclassifications, net of tax $ (21) $ (14) $ (21)
Pension and post-employment benefits
Amortization of actuarial losses and other(b) $ 283 $ 251 $ 110
Tax benefit (60) (53) (23)
Total reclassifications, net of tax $ 223 $ 198 $ 87
Cash flow hedging activities
Losses (gains) on foreign currency forward exchange contracts(c) $ 87 $ (23) $ (167)
Gains on treasury rate lock agreements(a) (24) (24) (3)
Losses (gains) on interest rate swap contracts(a) 24 17 (1)
Tax expense (benefit) (12) 7 14
Total reclassifications, net of tax $ 75 $ (23) $ (157)
(a) Amounts are included in interest expense, net (see Note 11).
(b) Amounts are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost (see Note 12).
(c) Amounts are included in cost of products sold (see Note 11).
Other
In addition to common stock, AbbVie's authorized capital includes 200 million shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01. As of December 31, 2021, no shares
of preferred stock were issued or outstanding.
|
2021 Form 10-K 90Note 14 Income Taxes
Earnings Before Income Tax Expense
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Domestic $ (1,644) $ (4,467) $ (2,784)
Foreign 14,633 7,865 11,210
Total earnings before income tax expense $ 12,989 $ 3,398 $ 8,426
Income Tax Expense
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Current
Domestic $ 1,987 $ 907 $ 102
Foreign 351 194 320
Total current taxes $ 2,338 $ 1,101 $ 422
Deferred
Domestic $ (839) $ (58) $ (137)
Foreign (59) (2,267) 259
Total deferred taxes $ (898) $ (2,325) $ 122
Total income tax expense (benefit) $ 1,440 $ (1,224) $ 544
Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation
years ended December 31 2021 2020 2019
Statutory tax rate 21.0 % 21.0 % 21.0 %
Effect of foreign operations (5.4) 2.4 (8.4)
U.S. tax credits (2.8) (10.6) (3.3)
Impacts related to U.S. tax reform — (1.1) (1.6)
Non-deductible expenses 0.3 7.2 1.0
Tax law changes and related restructuring (2.0) (48.5) 3.1
Tax audit settlements (0.4) (5.1) (4.7)
All other, net 0.4 (1.3) (0.6)
Effective tax rate 11.1 % (36.0 %) 6.5 %
The effective income tax rate fluctuates year to year due to the allocation of the company's taxable earnings among jurisdictions, as well as certain discrete
factors and events in each year, including changes in tax law, acquisitions and collaborations. The effective income tax rates in 2021, 2020 and 2019 differed from
the statutory tax rate principally due to the impact of foreign operations which reflects the impact of lower income tax rates in locations outside the United States,
tax incentives in Puerto Rico and other foreign tax jurisdictions, business development activities, changes in enacted tax rates and laws and related restructuring,
tax audit settlements and accretion on contingent consideration. The 2020 effective income tax rate included the recognition of a net tax benefit of $1.7 billion
related to changes in tax laws and related restructuring, including certain intra-group transfers of intellectual property and deferred tax remeasurement. The
effective tax rates for these periods also reflected the benefit from U.S. tax credits principally related to research and development credits, the orphan drug tax credit
and Puerto Rico excise tax credits. The Puerto Rico excise tax credits relate to legislation enacted by Puerto Rico that assesses an excise tax on certain products
manufactured in Puerto Rico. The tax is levied on gross inventory purchases from entities in Puerto Rico and is included in cost of products sold in the consolidated
statements of earnings. The majority of the tax is creditable for U.S. income tax purposes.
The effective income tax rate in 2020 and 2019 included impacts related to U.S. tax reform. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act) was signed into law in December
2017, resulting in significant changes to the U.S. corporate tax system, including a one-time transition tax on a mandatory deemed repatriation of earnings of
certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously untaxed. The Act also created a minimum tax on certain foreign sourced earnings. The company’s accounting policy
for the minimum tax on foreign sourced earnings is to report the tax effects on the basis that the minimum tax will be recognized in tax expense in the year it is
incurred as a period expense. The effective income tax rates for 2019 also included the effects of Stemcentrx impairment related expenses.
|
91 2021 Form 10-KDeferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
as of December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020
Deferred tax assets
Compensation and employee benefits $ 937 $ 1,109
Accruals and reserves 667 438
Chargebacks and rebates 837 555
Advance payments 809 324
Net operating losses and other credit carryforwards 10,095 2,765
Other 1,234 1,371
Total deferred tax assets 14,579 6,562
Valuation allowances (9,391) (1,203)
Total net deferred tax assets 5,188 5,359
Deferred tax liabilities
Excess of book basis over tax basis of intangible assets (4,711) (5,274)
Excess of book basis over tax basis in investments (308) (335)
Other (904) (982)
Total deferred tax liabilities (5,923) (6,591)
Net deferred tax liabilities $ (735) $ (1,232)
The decrease in net deferred tax assets is primarily related to the utilization of net operating losses and other carryforwards offset by an increase in advance
payments. The decrease in deferred tax liabilities is primarily related to amortization of intangible assets.
In connection with the Allergan acquisition, the company recorded adjustments within the measurement period in 2021 related to foreign net operating losses
and other credit carryforwards that are not expected to be realized. The adjustments reflected an increase of $8.2 billion to deferred tax assets and an offsetting
increase to valuation allowances, resulting in no net impact to deferred tax assets.
The company had valuation allowances of $9.4 billion as of December 31, 2021 and $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2020. These were principally related to
foreign and state net operating losses and other credit carryforwards that are not expected to be realized.
As of December 31, 2021, the company had U.S. federal and state credit carryforwards of $214 million as well as U.S. federal, state and foreign net operating
loss carryforwards of $34.4 billion, which will expire at various times through 2041. The remaining U.S. federal and foreign loss carryforwards of $3.2 billion have
no expiration.
The Act significantly changed the timing and manner in which earnings of foreign subsidiaries are subject to U.S. tax. Therefore, unremitted foreign earnings
subject to the Act’s transition tax are not considered indefinitely reinvested. Post-2017 earnings subject to the U.S. minimum tax on foreign sourced earnings or
eligible for the 100 percent foreign dividends received deduction are also not considered indefinitely reinvested earnings. However, the company generally
considers instances of outside basis differences in foreign subsidiaries that would incur additional U.S. tax upon reversal (e.g., capital gain distribution) to be
permanent in duration. The unrecognized tax liability is not practicable to determine.
|
2021 Form 10-K 92Unrecognized Tax Benefits
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Beginning balance $ 5,264 $ 2,661 $ 2,852
Increase due to acquisition — 2,674 —
Increase due to current year tax positions 208 91 113
Increase due to prior year tax positions 137 59 499
Decrease due to prior year tax positions (62) (7) (21)
Settlements (24) (141) (749)
Lapse of statutes of limitations (34) (73) (33)
Ending balance $ 5,489 $ 5,264 $ 2,661
If recognized, the net amount of potential tax benefits that would impact the company's effective tax rate is $5.2 billion in 2021 and $5.0 billion in 2020. Of
the unrecognized tax benefits recorded in the table above as of December 31, 2021, AbbVie would be indemnified for approximately $79 million. The "Increase due to
current year tax positions" and "Increase due to prior year tax positions" in the table above include amounts related to federal, state and international tax items.
"Increase due to acquisition" in the table above includes amounts related to federal, state and international tax items recorded in acquisition accounting related to
the Allergan acquisition.
AbbVie recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense in the consolidated statements of earnings. AbbVie recognized
gross income tax expense of $161 million in 2021, $142 million in 2020 and $51 million in 2019, for interest and penalties related to income tax matters. AbbVie
had an accrual for the payment of gross interest and penalties of $803 million at December 31, 2021, $642 million at December 31, 2020 and $191 million at
December 31, 2019.
The company is routinely audited by the tax authorities in significant jurisdictions and a number of audits are currently underway. It is reasonably possible
during the next 12 months that uncertain tax positions may be settled, which could result in a decrease in the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits. Due to the
potential for resolution of federal, state and foreign examinations and the expiration of various statutes of limitation, the company's gross unrecognized tax
benefits balance may change within the next 12 months up to $225 million. All significant federal, state, local and international matters have been concluded for
years through 2008. The company believes adequate provision has been made for all income tax uncertainties.
Note 15 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies
AbbVie is subject to contingencies, such as various claims, legal proceedings and investigations regarding product liability, intellectual property, commercial,
securities and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. The most significant matters are described below. Loss contingency provisions are
recorded for probable losses at management’s best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount within a
probable range is recorded. For litigation matters discussed below for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, the company is unable to estimate the
possible loss or range of loss, if any, beyond the amounts accrued. Initiation of new legal proceedings or a change in the status of existing proceedings may result in
a change in the estimated loss accrued by AbbVie. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all proceedings and exposures with certainty, management
believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse effect on AbbVie’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Subject to certain exceptions specified in the separation agreement by and between Abbott and AbbVie, AbbVie assumed the liability for, and control of, all
pending and threatened legal matters related to its business, including liabilities for any claims or legal proceedings related to products that had been part of its
business, but were discontinued prior to the distribution, as well as assumed or retained liabilities, and will indemnify Abbott for any liability arising out of or
resulting from such assumed legal matters.
Antitrust Litigation
Lawsuits are pending against AbbVie and others generally alleging that the 2005 patent litigation settlement involving Niaspan entered into between Kos
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company acquired by Abbott in 2006 and presently a subsidiary of AbbVie) and a generic company violates federal and state antitrust laws
and state unfair and deceptive trade practices and unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees.
The lawsuits
|
93 2021 Form 10-Kpending in federal court consist of four individual plaintiff lawsuits and two consolidated purported class actions: one brought by Niaspan direct purchasers and
one brought by Niaspan end-payors. The cases are pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for coordinated or
consolidated pre-trial proceedings under the MDL Rules as In re: Niaspan Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 2460. In August 2019, the court certified a class of direct
purchasers of Niaspan. In June 2020 and August 2021, the court denied the end-payors' motion to certify a class. In October 2016, the Orange County, California
District Attorney’s Office filed a lawsuit on behalf of the State of California regarding the Niaspan patent litigation settlement in Orange County Superior Court,
asserting a claim under the unfair competition provision of the California Business and Professions Code seeking injunctive relief, restitution, civil penalties and
attorneys’ fees.
In August 2019, direct purchasers of AndroGel filed a lawsuit, King Drug Co. of Florence, Inc., et al. v. AbbVie Inc., et al., against AbbVie and others in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, alleging that 2006 patent litigation settlements and related agreements by Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
(a company Abbott acquired in February 2010 and now known as AbbVie Products LLC) with three generic companies violated federal antitrust law, and also alleging
that 2011 patent litigation by Abbott with two generic companies regarding AndroGel was sham litigation and the settlements of those litigations violated federal
antitrust law. In May 2020, Perrigo Company and related entities filed a lawsuit against AbbVie and others in the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, alleging that Abbott's 2011 AndroGel patent lawsuit filed against Perrigo was sham litigation. In October 2020, the Perrigo lawsuit was transferred
to the United States District Court for New Jersey. In September 2021, the New Jersey court granted AbbVie's motion for judgment on the pleadings in the Perrigo
lawsuit, dismissing it with prejudice. Perrigo has appealed the dismissal.
Between March and May 2019, 12 putative class action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois by indirect
Humira purchasers, alleging that AbbVie’s settlements with biosimilar manufacturers and AbbVie’s Humira patent portfolio violated state and federal antitrust
laws. The court consolidated these lawsuits as In re: Humira (Adalimumab) Antitrust Litigation. In June 2020, the court dismissed the consolidated litigation with
prejudice. The plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal.
Lawsuits are pending against Forest Laboratories, LLC and others generally alleging that 2009 and 2010 patent litigation settlements involving Namenda
entered into between Forest and generic companies and other conduct by Forest involving Namenda, violated state antitrust, unfair and deceptive trade practices,
and unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages, injunctive relief and attorneys’ fees. The lawsuits, purported class actions filed by indirect
purchasers of Namenda, are consolidated as In re: Namenda Indirect Purchaser Antitrust Litigation in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York.
Lawsuits are pending against Allergan Inc. generally alleging that Allergan’s petitioning to the U.S. Patent Office and Food and Drug Administration and other
conduct by Allergan involving Restasis violated federal and state antitrust laws and state unfair and deceptive trade practices and unjust enrichment laws.
Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages, injunctive relief and attorneys’ fees. The lawsuits, certified as a class action filed on behalf of indirect purchasers of
Restasis, are consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York under the MDL Rules as In re: Restasis
(Cyclosporine Ophthalmic Emulsion) Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 2819. In May 2021, the parties reached an agreement to settle this matter that is subject to final
court approval.
Lawsuits are pending against Forest Laboratories, LLC and others generally alleging that 2012 and 2013 patent litigation settlements involving Bystolic with
six generic manufacturers violated federal and state antitrust laws and state unfair and deceptive trade practices and unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally
seek monetary damages, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees. The lawsuits, purported class actions filed on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of Bystolic, are
consolidated as In re: Bystolic Antitrust Litigation in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Government Proceedings
Lawsuits are pending against Allergan and several other manufacturers generally alleging that they improperly promoted and sold prescription opioid
products. Approximately 3,130 matters are pending against Allergan. The federal court cases are consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Ohio under the MDL rules as In re: National Prescription Opiate Litigation, MDL No. 2804. Approximately 251 of the claims are
pending in various state courts. The plaintiffs in these cases, which include states, counties, cities, other municipal entities, Native American tribes, union trust
funds and other third-party payors, private hospitals, and personal injury claimants, generally seek compensatory and punitive damages. In December 2021, a
California state court reached a judgment for Allergan and other defendants in the trial of an opioid lawsuit by Orange, Los Angeles, and Santa Clara Counties and
the City of Oakland. In December 2021, Allergan reached an agreement to settle a lawsuit brought by the State of New York and two New York counties, which also
provides all other New York counties and political subdivisions the opportunity to participate in the settlement.
|
2021 Form 10-K 94In July 2019, the New Mexico Attorney General filed a lawsuit, State of New Mexico ex rel. Balderas v. AbbVie Inc., et al., in New Mexico District Court for Santa Fe
County against AbbVie and other companies alleging their marketing of AndroGel violated New Mexico’s Unfair Practices Act. In October 2020, the state added a
claim under the New Mexico False Advertising Act.
Shareholder and Securities Litigation
In June 2016, a lawsuit, Elliott Associates, L.P., et al. v. AbbVie Inc., was filed by five investment funds against AbbVie in the Cook County, Illinois Circuit Court
alleging that AbbVie made misrepresentations and omissions in connection with its proposed transaction with Shire. Similar lawsuits were filed between July 2017
and October 2019 against AbbVie and in some instances its chief executive officer in the same court by additional investment funds. The court granted motions
dismissing the claims of three investment-fund plaintiffs, which they appealed. In March 2021, in the first of those appeals, the dismissal was affirmed. One of these
plaintiffs refiled its lawsuit in New York state court in June 2020 while the appeal of its dismissal in Illinois is pending. In November 2020, the New York Supreme
Court for the County of New York dismissed that lawsuit, which is being appealed. In September 2021, the Illinois court granted AbbVie's motion for summary
judgment against all remaining plaintiffs on all the remaining claims, dismissing them with prejudice. The plaintiffs have appealed the dismissals.
In October 2018, a federal securities lawsuit, Holwill v. AbbVie Inc., et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois)
against AbbVie, its chief executive officer and former chief financial officer, alleging that reasons stated for Humira sales growth in financial filings between 2013
and 2017 were misleading because they omitted alleged misconduct in connection with Humira patient and reimbursement support services and other services and
items of value that allegedly induced Humira prescriptions. In September 2021, the court granted plaintiffs' motion to certify a class.
Lawsuits are pending against Allergan and certain of its current and former officers alleging they made misrepresentations and omissions regarding
Allergan's textured breast implants. The lawsuits, which were filed by Allergan shareholders, have been consolidated in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York as In re: Allergan plc Securities Litigation. The plaintiffs generally seek compensatory damages and attorneys’ fees. In September 2019,
the court partially granted Allergan's motion to dismiss. In September 2021, the court granted plaintiffs' motion to certify a class.
Lawsuits are pending against Allergan and certain of its current and former officers alleging they made misrepresentations and omissions regarding
Allergan’s former Actavis generics unit and its alleged anticompetitive conduct with other generic drug companies. The lawsuits were filed by Allergan shareholders
and consist of three purported class actions and one individual action that have been consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey as In re:
Allergan Generic Drug Pricing Securities Litigation. In July 2021, the parties reached an agreement to settle the class action lawsuits, which received court approval in
November 2021.
Product Liability and General Litigation
In 2018, a qui tam lawsuit, U.S. ex rel. Silbersher v. Allergan Inc., et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against
several Allergan entities and others, alleging that their conduct before the U.S. Patent Office resulted in false claims for payment being made to federal and state
healthcare payors for Namenda XR and Namzaric. The plaintiff-relator seeks damages and attorneys' fees under the federal False Claims Act and state law
analogues. The federal government and state governments declined to intervene in the lawsuit.
Intellectual Property Litigation
AbbVie Inc. and AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd are seeking to enforce their patent rights rela(cid:93)ng to adalimumab (a drug AbbVie sells under the trademark Humira).
In April 2021 and May 2021, cases were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against Alvotech hf. AbbVie alleges defendant’s
proposed biosimilar adalimumab product infringes certain AbbVie patents and seeks declaratory and injunc(cid:93)ve relief. In August 2021, the court denied Defendant’s
mo(cid:93)on to dismiss on jurisdic(cid:93)onal grounds in the first case; a mo(cid:93)on in the second case remains pending. The court has set a trial on a subset of patents for
August 2022. The court order provides that Alvotech will stay off the market un(cid:93)l that decision. Li(cid:93)ga(cid:93)on on the remaining patents is stayed. In October 2021, the
May 2021 declaratory judgment ac(cid:93)on filed by Alvotech hf. and its U.S. subsidiary Alvotech USA, Inc. in the United States Eastern District of Virginia was transferred
to the Northern District of Illinois and subsequently dismissed.
Pharmacyclics LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of AbbVie, is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to ibrutinib tablets (a drug Pharmacyclics sells under
the trademark Imbruvica). Cases were filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in March 2019 against Alvogen Pine Brook LLC and Natco
Pharma Ltd.. In August 2021, the court issued a decision holding all asserted patents infringed and valid. The judgment precludes Defendants from obtaining
regulatory approval and launching until the last patent expires in 2036. Janssen Biotech, Inc. which is in a global collaboration with Pharmacyclics concerning the
development and marketing of Imbruvica, is the co-plaintiff in these suits.
|
95 2021 Form 10-KAllergan USA, Inc., Allergan Sales, LLC, and Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited, wholly owned subsidiaries of AbbVie, are seeking to enforce patent rights
relating to cariprazine (a drug sold under the trademark Vraylar). Litigation was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in December
2019 against Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited and Sun Pharma Global FZE; Aurobindo Pharma Limited and Aurobindo Pharma USA, Inc.; and Zydus
Pharmaceuticals (USA), Inc. and Cadila Healthcare Limited. Allergan alleges defendants' proposed generic cariprazine products infringe certain patents and seeks
declaratory and injunctive relief. Gedeon Richter Plc, Inc. which is in a global collaboration with Allergan concerning the development and marketing of Vraylar, is
the co-plaintiff in this suit.
|
2021 Form 10-K 96Note 16 Segment and Geographic Area Information
AbbVie operates as a single global business segment dedicated to the research and development, manufacturing, commercialization and sale of innovative
medicines and therapies. This operating structure enables the Chief Executive Officer, as chief operating decision maker (CODM), to allocate resources and assess
business performance on a global basis in order to achieve established long-term strategic goals. Consistent with this structure, a global research and development
and supply chain organization is responsible for the discovery, manufacturing and supply of products. Commercial efforts that coordinate the marketing, sales and
distribution of these products are organized by geographic region or therapeutic area. All of these activities are supported by a global corporate administrative
staff. The determination of a single business segment is consistent with the consolidated financial information regularly reviewed by the CODM for purposes of
assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods.
Substantially all of AbbVie's net revenues in the United States are to three wholesalers. Outside the United States, products are sold primarily to health care
providers or through distributors, depending on the market served. The following tables detail AbbVie's worldwide net revenues:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Immunology
Humira United States $ 17,330 $ 16,112 $ 14,864
International 3,364 3,720 4,305
Total $ 20,694 $ 19,832 $ 19,169
Skyrizi United States $ 2,486 $ 1,385 $ 311
International 453 205 44
Total $ 2,939 $ 1,590 $ 355
Rinvoq United States $ 1,271 $ 653 $ 47
International 380 78 —
Total $ 1,651 $ 731 $ 47
Hematologic Oncology
Imbruvica United States $ 4,321 $ 4,305 $ 3,830
Collaboration revenues 1,087 1,009 844
Total $ 5,408 $ 5,314 $ 4,674
Venclexta United States $ 934 $ 804 $ 521
International 886 533 271
Total $ 1,820 $ 1,337 $ 792
Aesthetics
Botox Cosmetic (a) United States $ 1,424 $ 687 $ —
International 808 425 —
Total $ 2,232 $ 1,112 $ —
Juvederm Collection (a) United States $ 658 $ 318 $ —
International 877 400 —
Total $ 1,535 $ 718 $ —
Other Aesthetics (a) United States $ 1,268 $ 666 $ —
International 198 94 —
Total $ 1,466 $ 760 $ —
Neuroscience
Botox Therapeutic (a) United States $ 2,012 $ 1,155 $ —
International 439 232 —
Total $ 2,451 $ 1,387 $ —
Vraylar (a) United States $ 1,728 $ 951 $ —
Duodopa United States $ 102 $ 103 $ 97
International 409 391 364
Total $ 511 $ 494 $ 461
Ubrelvy (a) United States $ 552 $ 125 $ —
Other Neuroscience (a) United States $ 667 $ 528 $ —
International 18 11 —
Total $ 685 $ 539 $ —
|
97 2021 Form 10-Kyears ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Eye Care
Lumigan/Ganfort (a) United States $ 273 $ 165 $ —
International 306 213 —
Total $ 579 $ 378 $ —
Alphagan/Combigan (a) United States $ 373 $ 223 $ —
International 156 103 —
Total $ 529 $ 326 $ —
Restasis (a) United States $ 1,234 $ 755 $ —
International 56 32 —
Total $ 1,290 $ 787 $ —
Other Eye Care (a) United States $ 523 $ 305 $ —
International 646 388 —
Total $ 1,169 $ 693 $ —
Women's Health
Lo Loestrin (a) United States $ 423 $ 346 $ —
International 14 10 —
Total $ 437 $ 356 $ —
Orilissa/Oriahnn United States $ 139 $ 121 $ 91
International 6 4 2
Total $ 145 $ 125 $ 93
Other Women's Health (a) United States $ 209 $ 181 $ —
International 5 11 —
Total $ 214 $ 192 $ —
Other Key Products
Mavyret United States $ 754 $ 785 $ 1,473
International 956 1,045 1,420
Total $ 1,710 $ 1,830 $ 2,893
Creon United States $ 1,191 $ 1,114 $ 1,041
Lupron United States $ 604 $ 600 $ 720
International 179 152 167
Total $ 783 $ 752 $ 887
Linzess/Constella (a) United States $ 1,006 $ 649 $ —
International 32 18 —
Total $ 1,038 $ 667 $ —
Synthroid United States $ 767 $ 771 $ 786
All other $ 2,673 $ 2,923 $ 2,068
Total net revenues $ 56,197 $ 45,804 $ 33,266
(a) Net revenues include Allergan product revenues after the acquisition closing date of May 8, 2020.
|
2021 Form 10-K 98Net revenues to external customers by geographic area, based on product shipment destination, were as follows:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020 2019
United States $ 43,510 $ 34,879 $ 23,907
Canada 1,397 1,159 813
Germany 1,223 1,049 909
Japan 1,090 1,198 1,211
France 936 797 695
China 857 471 195
Australia 533 527 395
Spain 519 453 472
Italy 506 379 372
United Kingdom 497 509 372
Brazil 368 406 359
All other countries 4,761 3,977 3,566
Total net revenues $ 56,197 $ 45,804 $ 33,266
Long-lived assets, primarily net property and equipment, by geographic area were as follows:
as of December 31 (in millions) 2021 2020
United States and Puerto Rico $ 3,369 $ 3,354
Europe 1,400 1,534
All other 341 360
Total long-lived assets $ 5,110 $ 5,248
Note 17 Fourth Quarter Financial Results (unaudited)
quarter ended December 31 (in millions except per share data) 2021
Net revenues $ 14,886
Gross margin 10,566
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie Inc. 4,044
Basic earnings per share attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 2.27
Diluted earnings per share attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 2.26
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.41
|
99 2021 Form 10-KReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of AbbVie Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, and the
related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of the Company at December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2021, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 18, 2022 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements
based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with
the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to
assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such
procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to
be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially
challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken
as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or
disclosures to which they relate.
|
2021 Form 10-K 100Sales rebate accruals for Medicaid, Medicare and managed care programs
Description of the Matter As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements under the caption “Revenue Recognition,” the Company
established provisions for sales rebates in the same period the related product is sold. At December 31, 2021, the
Company had $8,254 million in sales rebate accruals, a large portion of which were for rebates provided to pharmacy
benefit managers, state government Medicaid programs, insurance companies that administer Medicare drug plans and
private entities for Medicaid, Medicare and managed care programs. In order to establish these sales rebate accruals,
the Company estimated its rebates based upon the identification of the products subject to a rebate, the applicable price
and rebate terms and the estimated lag time between the sale and payment of the rebate.
Auditing the Medicaid, Medicare and managed care sales rebate accruals was complex and required significant auditor
judgment because the accruals consider multiple subjective and complex estimates and assumptions. These estimates
and assumptions included the estimated inventory in the distribution channel, which impacts the lag time between the
sale to the customer and payment of the rebate, and the final payer related to product sales, which impacts the
applicable price and rebate terms. In deriving these estimates and assumptions, the Company used both internal and
external sources of information to estimate product in the distribution channels, payer mix, prescription volumes and
historical experience. Management supplemented its historical data analysis with qualitative adjustments based upon
changes in rebate trends, rebate programs and contract terms, legislative changes, or other significant events which
indicate a change in the reserve is appropriate.
How We Addressed the We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the
Matter in Our Audit Company’s sales rebate accruals for Medicaid, Medicare and managed care programs. This included testing controls
over management’s review of the significant assumptions and other inputs used in the estimation of Medicaid, Medicare
and managed care rebates, among others, including the significant assumptions discussed above. The testing was
inclusive of management’s controls to evaluate the accuracy of its reserve judgments to actual rebates paid, rebate
validation and processing, and controls to ensure that the data used to evaluate and support the significant
assumptions was complete, accurate and, where applicable, verified to external data sources.
To test the sales rebate accruals for Medicaid, Medicare, and managed care programs, our audit procedures included,
among others, understanding and evaluating the significant assumptions and underlying data used in management’s
calculations. Our testing of significant assumptions included corroboration to external data sources. We evaluated the
reasonableness of assumptions considering industry and economic trends, product profiles, and other regulatory
factors. We assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates by comparing actual activity to previous
estimates and performed analytical procedures, based on internal and external data sources, to evaluate the
completeness of the reserves. For Medicaid, we involved a specialist with an understanding of statutory reimbursement
requirements to assess the consistency of the Company’s calculation methodologies with applicable government
regulations and policy.
|
101 2021 Form 10-KValuation of contingent consideration
Description of the Matter As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements under the caption “Business Combinations” and in Note
11 under the caption “Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures,” the Company recognized contingent
consideration liabilities at the estimated fair value on the acquisition date in connection with applying the acquisition
method of accounting for business combinations. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration
liabilities were recorded within the consolidated statement of earnings in the period of change. At December 31, 2021,
the Company had $14,887 million in contingent consideration liabilities, which represented a ‘Level 3’ fair value
measurement in the fair value hierarchy due to the significant unobservable inputs used in determining the fair value
and the use of management judgment about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the liabilities.
Auditing the valuation of contingent consideration liabilities was complex and required significant auditor judgment due
to the use of a Monte Carlo simulation model and the high degree of subjectivity in evaluating certain assumptions
required to estimate the fair value of contingent royalty payments. In particular, the fair value measurement was
sensitive to the significant assumptions underlying the estimated amount of future sales of the acquired products.
Management utilized its expertise within the industry, including commercial dynamics, trends and utilization, as well as
knowledge of clinical development and regulatory approval processes to determine certain of these assumptions.
How We Addressed the We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the
Matter in Our Audit Company’s contingent consideration liabilities process including, among others, management’s process to establish the
significant assumptions and measure the liability. This included testing controls over management’s review of the
significant assumptions and other inputs used in the determination of fair value. The testing was inclusive of key
management review controls to monitor and evaluate clinical development of the acquired products and estimated
future sales, and controls to ensure that the data used to evaluate and support the significant assumptions was
complete, accurate and, where applicable, verified to external data sources.
To test the estimated fair value of contingent consideration liabilities, our audit procedures included, among others,
inspecting the terms of the executed agreement, assessing the Monte Carlo simulation model used and testing the key
contractual inputs and significant assumptions discussed above. We evaluated the assumptions and judgments
considering observable industry and economic trends and standards, external data sources and regulatory factors.
Estimated amounts of future sales were evaluated for reasonableness in relation to internal and external analyses,
clinical development progress and timelines, probability of success benchmarks, and regulatory notices. Our procedures
included evaluating the data sources used by management in determining its assumptions and, where necessary,
included an evaluation of available information that either corroborated or contradicted management’s conclusions.
We involved a valuation specialist to assess the Company’s Monte Carlo simulation model and to perform corroborative
fair value calculations.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2013.
Chicago, Illinois
February 18, 2022
|
2021 Form 10-K 102ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Disclosure Controls and Procedures; Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures. The Chief Executive Officer, Richard A. Gonzalez, and the Chief Financial Officer, Robert A. Michael, evaluated
the effectiveness of AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and concluded that AbbVie's disclosure controls
and procedures were effective to ensure that information AbbVie is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's
rules and forms, and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by AbbVie in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is
accumulated and communicated to AbbVie's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting. There were no changes in AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, AbbVie's internal control over financial
reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2021.
Inherent limitations on effectiveness of controls. AbbVie's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer, do not expect that
AbbVie's disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well
designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. The design of a control system must
reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent
limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all
control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty
and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two
or more people, or by management override of the controls.
The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any
design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are
subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or
procedures.
Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting. Management of AbbVie is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. AbbVie's internal control over financial
reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. However, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have
inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
preparation and reporting.
Management assessed the effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021. In making this assessment, management
used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013
framework). Based on that assessment, management concluded that AbbVie maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021,
based on the COSO criteria.
The effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report below, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of AbbVie's internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021.
Report of independent registered public accounting firm. The report of AbbVie's independent registered public accounting firm related to its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting is included below.
|
103 2021 Form 10-KReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of AbbVie Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control—
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion,
AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based
on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance
sheets of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, and the related notes and our report dated February 18, 2022 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and
are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
February 18, 2022
|
2021 Form 10-K 104ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
None.
|
105 2021 Form 10-KPART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Incorporated herein by reference are "Information Concerning Director Nominees," "The Board of Directors and its Committees—Committees of the Board of
Directors," and "Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting" to be included in the 2022 AbbVie Inc.
Proxy Statement. The 2022 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 21, 2022. Also incorporated herein by reference is the text found in this Form
10-K under the caption, "Information about Our Executive Officers."
AbbVie's code of business conduct requires all its business activities to be conducted in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and ethical
principles and values. All directors, officers and employees of AbbVie are required to read, understand and abide by the requirements of the code of business
conduct applicable to them. AbbVie's code of business conduct is available in the corporate governance section of AbbVie's investor relations website at
www.abbvieinvestor.com.
Any waiver of the code of business conduct for directors or executive officers may be made only by AbbVie's audit committee. AbbVie will disclose any
amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of the code of conduct for the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or
controller, or persons performing similar functions, on its website within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver. In addition, AbbVie will
disclose any waiver from the code of business conduct for the other executive officers and for directors on the website.
AbbVie has a chief ethics and compliance officer who reports to the Vice Chairman, External Affairs and Chief Legal Officer and to the public policy committee.
The chief ethics and compliance officer is responsible for overseeing, administering and monitoring AbbVie's compliance program.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The material to be included in the 2022 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement under the headings "Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and
"Compensation Committee Report" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2022 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 21, 2022.
|
2021 Form 10-K 106ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
(a) Equity Compensation Plan Information.
The following table presents information as of December 31, 2021 about AbbVie's equity compensation plans under which AbbVie common stock has been
authorized for issuance:
(a)
Number of (c)
securities to be Number of securities remaining
issued upon (b) available for
exercise of Weighted- future issuance under equity
outstanding average exercise price of compensation plans (excluding
options, outstanding options, securities
warrants and warrants and reflected in
Plan Category rights (1) rights (2) column (a)) (3)
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 27,264,327 $ 81.98 74,075,427
Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders — — —
Total 27,264,327 $ 81.98 74,075,427
(1) Includes 138,085 shares issuable under AbbVie's Incentive Stock Program pursuant to awards granted by Abbott and adjusted into AbbVie awards in
connection with AbbVie's separation from Abbott.
(2) The weighted-average exercise price does not include outstanding restricted stock units, restricted stock awards and performance shares that have no
exercise price.
(3) Excludes shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options and pursuant to other rights granted under the Stemcentrx 2011 Equity Incentive Plan, which
was assumed by AbbVie upon the consummation of its acquisition of Stemcentrx, Inc. As of December 31, 2021, 44,912 options remained outstanding under
this plan. The options have a weighted-average exercise price of $17.63. No further awards will be granted under this plan.
(b) Information Concerning Security Ownership. Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the heading "Securities Ownership—Securities Ownership of
Executive Officers and Directors" in the 2022 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement. The 2022 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 21, 2022.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The material to be included in the 2022 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement under the headings "The Board of Directors and its Committees," "Corporate Governance
Materials," and "Procedures for Approval of Related Person Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2022 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on
or about March 21, 2022.
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
The material to be included in the 2022 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement under the headings "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" and "Policy on Audit Committee Pre-
Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2022 Definitive
Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 21, 2022.
|
107 2021 Form 10-KPART IV
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a) Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K.
(1) Financial Statements: See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," on page 48 hereof, for a list of financial statements.
(2) Financial Statement Schedules: All schedules omitted are inapplicable or the information required is shown in the consolidated financial statements
or notes thereto.
(3) Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K: The information called for by this paragraph is set forth in Item 15(b) below.
(b) Exhibits:
Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description
2.1 *Transaction Agreement, dated as of June 25, 2019, between AbbVie Inc., Allergan plc and Venice Subsidiary, LLC
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 25, 2019).
2.2 *Appendix III to the Rule 2.5 Announcement, dated as of June 25, 2019 (Conditions Appendix) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 2.2 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 25, 2019).
2.3 *Expenses Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of June 25, 2019, between AbbVie Inc. and Allergan plc (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 2.3 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 25, 2019).
2.4 *Amendment to the Transaction Agreement, dated as of May 5, 2020, between AbbVie Inc., Allergan plc and Venice Subsidiary,
LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
March 31, 2020).
3.1 *Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the company's
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).
3.2 *Amended and Restated By-Laws of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the company's Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on October 22, 2019).
4.1 Description of the company’s securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
4.2 *Indenture dated as of November 8, 2012 between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.1 of Amendment No. 5 to the company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012).
4.3 *Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated as of November 8, 2012 among AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association,
including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of Amendment No. 5 to the company's Registration
Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012).
4.4 *Supplemental Indenture No. 2 dated May 14, 2015, between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee,
including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May
14, 2015).
4.5 *Supplemental Indenture No. 3 dated May 12, 2016, between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee,
including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May
12, 2016).
4.6 *Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of November 17, 2016, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee,
Elavon Financial Services DAC, U.K. Branch, as paying agent and Elavon Financial Services DAC, as transfer agent and
registrar, including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
on November 17, 2016).
4.7 *Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated September 18, 2018, between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee,
including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
September 18, 2018).
|
2021 Form 10-K 108Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description
4.8 *Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated September 26, 2019, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee,
transfer agent and registrar, and Elavon Financial Services DAC, UK Branch, as paying agent, including forms of notes
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 26, 2019).
4.9 *Supplemental Indenture No. 7, dated November 21, 2019, by and between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as
trustee, including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
on November 26, 2019).
4.10 *Supplemental Indenture No. 8, dated May 14, 2020, by and between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as
trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 14, 2020).
4.11 *Supplemental Indenture No. 9, dated May 14, 2020, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank and National Association, as trustee,
transfer agent and registrar, and Elavon Financial Services DAC, U.K. Branch, as paying agent (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.15 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 14, 2020).
4.12 *Agency Agreement, dated as of November 17, 2016, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, Elavon
Financial Services DAC, U.K. Branch, as paying agent and Elavon Financial Services DAC, as transfer agent and registrar
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 17, 2016).
4.13 *Agency Agreement, dated September 26, 2019, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, transfer agent
and registrar, and Elavon Financial Services DAC, U.K. Branch, as paying agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the
company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 26, 2019).
4.14 *Registration Rights Agreement, dated November 21, 2019, among AbbVie Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, BofA Securities,
Inc. and Barclays Capital Inc. (acting for themselves and as representatives of the several initial purchasers) (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.13 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 26, 2019).
4.15 *Agency Agreement, dated May 14, 2020, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, transfer agent and
registrar, and Elavon Financial Services DAC, U.K. Branch, as paying agent and calculation agent (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.16 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 14, 2020).
4.16 *Registration Rights Agreement, dated May 14, 2020, among AbbVie Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, BofA Securities, Inc.,
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., Mizuho Securities USA LLC and Wells
Fargo Securities, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.23 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 14,
2020).
10.1 *Form of Agreement Regarding Change in Control by and between AbbVie Inc. and its named executive officers (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16,
2012).**
10.2 *AbbVie 2013 Amended and Restated Incentive Stock Program (incorporated by reference to Appendix C to the AbbVie Inc.
Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A dated March 22, 2021).**
10.3 AbbVie Performance Incentive Plan, as amended and restated .**
10.4 *AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the company's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016).**
10.5 AbbVie Supplemental Pension Plan, as amended and restated.**
10.6 AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan, as amended and restated. **
10.7 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).**
10.8 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016).**
10.9 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016).**
10.10 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2017).**
10.11 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2017).**
|
109 2021 Form 10-KExhibit
Number Exhibit Description
10.12 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director RSU Agreement (US) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2018).**
10.13 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2018).**
10.14 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Share Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019).**
10.15 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance-Vested Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019).**
10.16 *AbbVie Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the
company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2020).**
10.17 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director RSU Agreement (US) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019).**
10.18 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019).**
10.19 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Share Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2020).**
10.20 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance-Vested Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2020).**
10.21 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director RSU Agreement (US) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2020).**
10.22 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2020).**
10.23 *Pharmacyclics, Inc. 2014 Equity Incentive Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the company's Registration
Statement on Form S-8 filed on May 27, 2015).**
10.24 *Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of August 27, 2019, among AbbVie Inc., the lenders and other
parties party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 30, 2019).
10.25 *364-Day Bridge Credit Agreement, dated as of June 25, 2019, among AbbVie Inc., Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and the
lenders party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 25,
2019).
10.26 *Underwriting Agreement, dated September 17, 2019, among AbbVie Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, HSBC
Bank plc and Merrill Lynch International (acting for themselves and as representatives of the several underwriters named
therein) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 23, 2019).
10.27 *Purchase Agreement, dated November 12, 2019, among AbbVie Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, BofA Securities, Inc. and
Barclays Capital Inc. (acting for themselves and as representatives of the several initial purchasers named therein)
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 13, 2019).
10.28 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance-Vested Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2021). **
10.29 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Share Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2021).**
10.30 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director RSU Agreement (US) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2021).**
10.31 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2021).**
10.32 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Retention RSU Agreement - Ratable Vesting (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2021).**
21 Subsidiaries of AbbVie Inc.
23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).
|
2021 Form 10-K 110Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description
31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).
32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
101 The following financial statements and notes from the AbbVie Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2021 filed on February 18, 2022, formatted in Inline XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated
Statements of Earnings; (ii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income; (iii) Consolidated Balance Sheets;
(iv) Consolidated Statements of Equity; (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows; and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (the cover page from the AbbVie Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K formatted as Inline XBRL and
contained in Exhibit 101).
The AbbVie Inc. 2021 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under separate
cover on or about March 21, 2022.
_______________________________________________________________________________
* Incorporated herein by reference. Commission file number 001-35565.
** Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.
Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2, above, are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. AbbVie will furnish copies
of any of the above exhibits to a stockholder upon written request to the Secretary, AbbVie Inc., 1 North Waukegan Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064.
|
111 2021 Form 10-KITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY
None.
|
2021 Form 10-K 112SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, AbbVie Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
AbbVie Inc.
By: /s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ
Name: Richard A. Gonzalez
Title: Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer
Date: February 18, 2022
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of AbbVie Inc. on
February 18, 2022 in the capacities indicated below.
/s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ /s/ ROBERT A. MICHAEL
Richard A. Gonzalez Robert A. Michael
Chairman of the Board and Vice Chairman, Finance and Commercial Operations and
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Executive Officer) (Principal Financial Officer)
/s/ BRIAN L. DURKIN
Brian L. Durkin
Vice President, Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
/s/ ROBERT J. ALPERN, M.D. /s/ ROXANNE S. AUSTIN
Robert J. Alpern, M.D. Roxanne S. Austin
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ WILLIAM H.L. BURNSIDE /s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN
William H.L. Burnside Thomas C. Freyman
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ BRETT J. HART /s/ EDWARD M. LIDDY
Brett J. Hart Edward M. Liddy
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ MELODY B. MEYER /s/ EDWARD J. RAPP
Melody B. Meyer Edward J. Rapp
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ REBECCA B. ROBERTS /s/ GLENN F. TILTON
Rebecca B. Roberts Glenn F. Tilton
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ FREDERICK H. WADDELL
Frederick H. Waddell
Director of AbbVie Inc.
|
113 2021 Form 10-K