UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023
OR
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from to
Commission file number 001-35565
AbbVie Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 32-0375147
(State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. employer
incorporation or organization) identification number)
1 North Waukegan Road
North Chicago, Illinois 60064-6400
(847) 932-7900
(Address, including zip code, and telephone number of principal executive offices)
Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of Each Class Trading Symbol(s) Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share ABBV New York Stock Exchange
Chicago Stock Exchange
1.375% Senior Notes due 2024 ABBV24 New York Stock Exchange
1.250% Senior Notes due 2024 ABBV24B New York Stock Exchange
0.750% Senior Notes due 2027 ABBV27 New York Stock Exchange
2.125% Senior Notes due 2028 ABBV28 New York Stock Exchange
2.625% Senior Notes due 2028 ABBV28B New York Stock Exchange
2.125% Senior Notes due 2029 ABBV29 New York Stock Exchange
1.250% Senior Notes due 2031 ABBV31 New York Stock Exchange
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.
Yes ☐ No ☒
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).
Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer ☒ Accelerated Filer ☐
Non-Accelerated Filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or
revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal
control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or
issued its audit report. ☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by checkmark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the
filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation receivedby any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
Yes ☐ No ☒
The aggregate market value of the 1,748,902,939 shares of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of AbbVie Inc.'s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2023), was
$235,629,692,915. AbbVie has no non-voting common equity.
Number of common shares outstanding as of January 31, 2024: 1,766,473,359
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the 2024 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 18, 2024.ABBVIE INC.
FORM 10-K
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2023
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PART I
Item 1. BUSINESS 1
Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 14
Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 25
Item 1C CYBERSECURITY 25
Item 2. PROPERTIES 27
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 27
Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 27
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 28
PART II
Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY 30
SECURITIES
Item 6. [RESERVED] 32
Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 33
Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 49
Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 50
Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 99
Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 99
Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 101
Item 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 101
PART III
Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 102
Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 102
Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 103
Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 103
Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 103
PART IV
Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 104
Item 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 108
SIGNATURES 109PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Overview
AbbVie or "the company" refer to AbbVie Inc., or AbbVie Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires. AbbVie is a global, diversified
research-based biopharmaceutical company positioned for success with a comprehensive product portfolio that has leadership positions across immunology,
oncology, aesthetics, neuroscience and eye care. AbbVie uses its expertise, dedicated people and unique approach to innovation to develop and market advanced
therapies that address some of the world’s most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013,
AbbVie became an independent, publicly-traded company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100% of the outstanding common stock
of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders.
Segments
AbbVie operates as a single global business segment dedicated to the research and development, manufacturing, commercialization and sale of innovative
medicines and therapies. This operating structure enables the Chief Executive Officer, as chief operating decision maker (CODM), to allocate resources and assess
business performance on a global basis in order to achieve established long-term strategic goals. Consistent with this structure, a global research and
development and supply chain organization is responsible for the discovery, development, manufacturing and supply of products. Commercial efforts that
coordinate the marketing, sales and distribution of these products are organized by geographic region or therapeutic area. All of these activities are supported by
a global corporate administrative staff. The determination of a single business segment is consistent with the consolidated financial information regularly
reviewed by the CODM for purposes of assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods. See Note 16, "Segment and
Geographic Area Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales
information related to AbbVie's key products and geographies included under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations."
Products
AbbVie's portfolio of products includes a broad line of therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases.
Immunology products. AbbVie maintains an extensive immunology portfolio across rheumatology, dermatology and gastroenterology. AbbVie's immunology
products address unmet needs for patients with autoimmune diseases. These products are:
Humira. Humira (adalimumab) is a biologic therapy administered as a subcutaneous injection. It is approved to treat the following autoimmune
diseases in the United States, Canada and Mexico (collectively, North America) and in the European Union:
Condition Principal Markets
Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Psoriatic arthritis North America, European Union
Ankylosing spondylitis North America, European Union
Adult Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Plaque psoriasis (moderate to severe chronic) North America, European Union
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (moderate to severe polyarticular) North America, European Union
Ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Axial spondyloarthropathy European Union
Pediatric Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Hidradenitis suppurativa (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Pediatric enthesitis-related arthritis European Union
Non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis North America, European Union
Pediatric ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) U.S., Canada, European Union
Pediatric uveitis North America, European Union
|
1 2023 Form 10-KHumira is also approved in Japan for the treatment of intestinal Behçet's disease and pyoderma gangrenosum.
Humira is sold in numerous other markets worldwide, including Japan, China, Brazil and Australia, and accounted for approximately 27% of AbbVie's
total net revenues in 2023.
Skyrizi. Skyrizi (risankizumab) is an interleukin-23 (IL-23) inhibitor that selectively blocks IL-23 by binding to its p19 subunit. It is a biologic therapy
approved to treat the following autoimmune diseases in North America, the European Union and Japan:
Condition Principal Markets
Plaque psoriasis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union, Japan
Psoriatic arthritis U.S., European Union
Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) U.S., Canada, European Union
Skyrizi is also approved in Japan for the treatment of plaque psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, erythrodermic psoriasis in patients who have an inadequate
response to conventional therapies, and for induction and maintenance in moderately to severely active Crohn's disease.
Skyrizi is approved in multiple countries globally, including the United States, Canada and the European Union, for the treatment of moderate to severe
plaque psoriasis in adults who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy. In psoriatic disease (psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis) Skyrizi is
administered as a quarterly subcutaneous injection following two induction doses. When administered for Crohn’s disease, Skyrizi is given in three induction
doses via IV infusion, followed by subcutaneous injection via an on-body injector every eight weeks.
Rinvoq. Rinvoq (upadacitinib) is an oral, once-daily selective and reversible JAK inhibitor that is approved to treat the following inflammatory diseases
in North America, the European Union and Japan:
Condition Principal Markets
Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union, Japan
Psoriatic arthritis U.S., Canada, European Union, Japan
Ankylosing spondylitis U.S., European Union
Atopic dermatitis (moderate to severe) U.S., Canada, European Union, Japan
Axial spondyloarthropathy U.S., European Union
Ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) U.S., European Union
Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) U.S., European Union
In the United States, Rinvoq is indicated for both the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis, for active psoriatic arthritis, for
moderate to severe active ulcerative colitis, for active ankylosing spondylitis and for active non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis in adult patients who
have an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. It is also indicated for the treatment of Crohn's disease in adult patients who have an
inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers and for moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in adults and children 12 years of age and older
whose disease is not adequately controlled with other systemic drug products, including biologics, or when use of those therapies are inadvisable.
In the European Union, Rinvoq is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis in adults, for active psoriatic arthritis in adults
who have an inadequate response or intolerance to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic medicines (DMARDs), and for active axial spondyloarthritis in adults. It
is also indicated for the treatment of Crohn's disease in adult patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers and for
moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in adults and children 12 years of age and older, and for moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adults.
2023 Form 10-K | 2Oncology products. AbbVie’s oncology products target some of the most complex and difficult-to-treat cancers. These products are:
Imbruvica. Imbruvica (ibrutinib) is an oral, once-daily therapy that inhibits a protein called Bruton's tyrosine kinase. Imbruvica was one of the first
medicines to receive a United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval after being granted a Breakthrough Therapy Designation and is one of the
few therapies to receive four separate designations. Imbruvica currently is approved for the treatment of adult patients with blood cancers such as chronic
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), as well as certain forms of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Imbruvica is approved in adult and pediatric patients one year and older with
chronic graft versus host disease after failure of one or more lines of systemic therapy.
Venclexta/Venclyxto. Venclexta (venetoclax) is a B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) inhibitor used to treat blood cancers. Venclexta is approved by the FDA for
adults with CLL or small lymphocytic lymphoma. In addition, Venclexta is approved in combination with azacitidine, or decitabine, or low-dose cytarabine to
treat adults with newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia who are 75 years of age or older or have other medical conditions that prevent the use of standard
chemotherapy.
Epkinly. Epkinly (epcori(cid:79)mab) is a product used to treat adults with certain types of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and high-grade B-cell
lymphoma that has recurred or that does not respond to previous treatment a(cid:81)er receiving two or more treatments. Epkinly is administered as a subcutaneous
injection.
Elahere. Elahere (mirvetuximab soravtansine-gynx) is an antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) used to treat certain types of cancer. On November 14, 2022, the
FDA granted accelerated approval for the treatment of adult patients with FRα positive, platinum-resistant epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary
peritoneal cancer, who have received one to three prior systemic treatment regimens. Continued approval may be contingent upon verification and description
of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial.
Aesthetics products. AbbVie’s Aesthetics portfolio consists of facial injectables, plastics and regenerative medicine, body contouring and skincare products,
which hold market-leading positions in the U.S. and in key markets around the world. These products are:
Botox Cosmetic. Botox Cosmetic is an acetylcholine release inhibitor and a neuromuscular blocking agent indicated for treatment in three areas:
temporary improvement in the appearance of moderate to severe glabellar lines (frown lines between the eyebrows), moderate to severe crow's feet and
moderate to severe forehead lines in adults. Having received its initial FDA approval in 2002, Botox Cosmetic is now approved for use in all major markets
around the world.
The Juvederm Collection of Fillers. The Juvederm Collection of Fillers is a portfolio of hyaluronic acid-based dermal fillers with a variety of approved
indications in the U.S. and in other major markets around the world to augment or treat volume loss in the cheeks, chin, lips and lower face.
Other aesthetics. Other aesthetics products include, but are not limited to, Alloderm regenerative dermal tissue, CoolSculpting body contouring
technology, Natrelle breast implants, the SkinMedica skincare line, Latisse eyelash solution and DiamondGlow dermabrasion technology.
Neuroscience products. AbbVie’s neuroscience products address some of the most difficult-to-treat neurologic diseases. These products are:
Botox Therapeutic. Botox Therapeutic (onabotulinumtoxinA injection) is an acetylcholine release inhibitor and a neuromuscular blocking agent that is
injected into muscle tissue. In the United States, it is approved to treat numerous indications, including chronic migraine, overactive bladder in adults who
have an inadequate response to an anticholinergic medication, and urinary incontinence due to detrusor overactivity associated with a neurologic condition
in adults who have an inadequate response to an anticholinergic medication. In addition, Botox Therapeutic is approved to treat spasticity in patients two
years of age and older, cervical dystonia in adults, as well as other conditions. Botox is marketed in other countries around the world and licenses will vary.
Botox Therapeutic is marketed by GSK in Japan.
Vraylar. Vraylar (cariprazine) is a dopamine D3-preferring D3/D2 receptor partial agonist and a 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist. Vraylar is indicated for
acute and maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adults, acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder in adults, acute
treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults and as an adjunctive treatment in major depressive disorder.
Duopa and Duodopa (carbidopa and levodopa). AbbVie's levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease is
marketed as Duopa in the United States and as Duodopa outside of the United States.
|
3 2023 Form 10-KUbrelvy. Ubrelvy (ubrogepant) is a calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura
in adults. Ubrelvy is commercialized in the United States, Israel, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Canada.
Qulipta. Qulipta (atogepant) is a calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist indicated for the preventive treatment of episodic and chronic
migraine in adults. Qulipta is commercialized in the United States and Canada and is approved in the European Union under the brand name Aquipta.
Eye care products. AbbVie’s eye care products address unmet needs and new approaches to help preserve and protect patients’ vision. These products are:
Ozurdex. Ozurdex (dexamethasone intravitreal implant) is a corticosteroid implant that slowly releases medication over time. Injected directly into the
back of the eye, it dissolves naturally and does not need to be removed. Ozurdex is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with visual impairment due to
diabetic macular oedema (DME), adult patients with macular oedema following either Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion (BRVO) or Central Retinal Vein Occlusion
(CRVO) and patients with inflammation of the posterior segment of the eye presenting as non-infectious uveitis. Ozurdex® is commercially available in the
United States and numerous markets around the world.
Lumigan/Ganfort. Lumigan (bimatoprost ophthalmic solution) 0.01% is a once daily, topical prostaglandin analog indicated for the reduction of elevated
intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open angle glaucoma (OAG) or ocular hypertension (OHT). Ganfort is a once daily topical fixed combination of
bimatoprost 0.03% and timolol 0.5% for the reduction of IOP in adult patients with OAG or OHT. Lumigan is sold in the United States and numerous markets
around the world, while Ganfort is approved in the European Union and some markets in South America, the Middle East and Asia.
Alphagan/Combigan. Alphagan (brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution) is an alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the reduction of
elevated IOP in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Combigan (brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) is approved
for reducing elevated IOP in patients with glaucoma who require additional or adjunctive IOP-lowering therapy. Both Alphagan and Combigan are available
for sale in the United States and numerous markets around the world.
Restasis. Restasis is a calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated to increase tear production in patients whose tear production is presumed to
be suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca. Restasis is approved in the United States and a number of other markets
in South America, the Middle East and Asia.
Other eye care. Other eye care products include Refresh/Optive, Xen and Durysta.
Other key products. AbbVie’s other key products include, among other things, treatments for patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV), metabolic and hormone
products that target a number of conditions, including exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and hypothyroidism, as well as endocrinology products for the
palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative treatment of patients
with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. These products are:
Mavyret/Maviret. Mavyret (glecaprevir/pibrentasvir) is approved in the United States and European Union (Maviret) for the treatment of adult and
pediatric patients (12 years and older or weighing at least 45 kilograms) with chronic HCV genotype 1-6 infection without cirrhosis and with compensated
cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A). It is also indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients (12 years and older or weighing at least 45 kilograms) with HCV
genotype 1 infection, who previously have been treated with a regimen containing an HCV NS5A inhibitor or an NS3/4A protease inhibitor, but not both.
Creon. Creon (pancrelipase) is a pancreatic enzyme therapy for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, a condition that occurs in patients with cystic
fibrosis, chronic pancreatitis and several other conditions.
Lupron. Lupron (leuprolide acetate), which is also marketed as Lucrin and Lupron Depot, is a product for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate
cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids.
Lupron is approved for daily subcutaneous injection and one-month, three-month, four-month and six-month intramuscular injection.
Linzess/Constella. Linzess (linaclotide) is a once-daily guanylate cyclase-C agonist used in adults to treat irritable bowel syndrome with constipation
(IBS‑C) and chronic idiopathic constipation. The product is marketed as Linzess in the United States and as Constella outside of the United States.
Synthroid. Synthroid (levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP) is used in the treatment of hypothyroidism.
AbbVie has the rights to sell Creon and Synthroid only in the United States.
2023 Form 10-K | 4Marketing, Sales and Distribution Capabilities
AbbVie utilizes a combination of dedicated commercial resources, regional commercial resources and distributorships to market, sell and distribute its
products worldwide. AbbVie directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its brand of products by physicians,
external experts and other health care providers. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers),
hospitals and state and federal government agencies (for example, State Medicaid programs, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the United
States Department of Defense) are also important customers. AbbVie also markets directly to consumers themselves, although in the United States many of the
company's products must be sold pursuant to a prescription. Outside of the United States, AbbVie focuses its promotional and market access efforts on external
experts, payers, physicians and health systems. AbbVie also provides patient support programs closely related to its products.
AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies and
independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Certain products (including aesthetic products and devices) are also sold
directly to physicians and other licensed healthcare providers. Although AbbVie's business does not have significant seasonality, AbbVie's product revenues may
be affected by end customer and retail buying patterns, fluctuations in wholesaler inventory levels and other factors.
In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to
retailers, pharmacies, patients or other customers. In 2023, three wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and AmerisourceBergen
Corporation) accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's pharmaceutical product sales in the United States. No individual wholesaler accounted for greater than
39% of AbbVie's 2023 gross revenues in the United States. Outside the United States, AbbVie sells products primarily to wholesalers or through distributors, and
depending on the market works through largely centralized national payers systems to agree on reimbursement terms.
Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have a
material adverse effect on the company's business. No material portion of AbbVie's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at
the election of the government. Orders are generally filled on a current basis and order backlog is not material to AbbVie's business.
Competition
The markets for AbbVie's products are highly competitive. AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies that
discover, manufacture, market and sell proprietary pharmaceutical products, therapies and biologics. For example, AbbVie's immunology products compete with
anti-TNF products, JAK inhibitors and other competitive products intended to treat a number of disease states, and AbbVie's oncology products compete with BTK
inhibitors and other competitive products intended to treat certain cancers. In addition, in the past few years, a number of other companies have started to
develop, have successfully developed and/or are currently marketing products that are being positioned as competitors to Botox. The search for technological
innovations in pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices
and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price is also a competitive factor. In addition, the substitution of generic and biosimilar pharmaceutical
products for branded pharmaceutical products creates competitive pressures on AbbVie's products that do not have patent protection. New products or
treatments brought to market by AbbVie’s competitors could cause revenues for AbbVie’s products to decrease due to price reductions and sales volume
decreases.
Biosimilars. Competition for AbbVie’s biologic products is affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as “biosimilars.” Biologics have
added major therapeutic options for the treatment of many diseases, including some for which therapies were unavailable or inadequate. The cost of developing
and producing biologic therapies is typically dramatically higher than for small molecule medications, and many biologic medications are used for ongoing
treatment of chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease, or for the treatment of previously untreatable cancer. Significant
investments in biologics infrastructure and manufacturing are necessary to produce biologic products.
Humira is facing direct biosimilar competition globally, and AbbVie will continue to face competitive pressure from these biologics and from orally
administered products.
In the United States, the FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the FFDCA), the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) and the
regulations implementing these statutes. The enactment of federal health care reform legislation in March 2010 provided a pathway for approval of biosimilars
under the PHSA, but the approval process for, and science behind, biosimilars is complex. Approval by the FDA is dependent upon many factors, including a
showing that the biosimilar is "highly similar" to the original product and has no clinically meaningful differences from the original product in
|
5 2023 Form 10-Kterms of safety, purity and potency. The types of data that could ordinarily be required in an application to show similarity may include analytical data,
bioequivalence studies and studies to demonstrate chemical similarity, animal studies (including toxicity studies) and clinical studies.
Furthermore, the law provides that only a biosimilar product that is determined to be "interchangeable" will be considered by the FDA as substitutable for
the original biologic product without the intervention of the health care provider who prescribed the original biologic product. To prove that a biosimilar product
is interchangeable, the applicant must demonstrate that the product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the original biologic product in any
given patient, and if the product is administered more than once in a patient, that safety risks and potential for diminished efficacy of alternating or switching
between the use of the interchangeable biosimilar biologic product and the original biologic product is no greater than the risk of using the original biologic
product without switching. The law continues to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its full ultimate impact, implementation and meaning
remains subject to uncertainty.
Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity
Generally, upon approval, products may be entitled to certain kinds of exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and regulatory regimes. AbbVie’s
intellectual property is materially valuable to the company, and AbbVie seeks patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or countries for
each product in development. In the United States, the expiration date for patents is 20 years after the filing date. Given that patents relating to pharmaceutical
products are often obtained early in the development process and given the amount of time needed to complete clinical trials and other development activities
required for regulatory approval, the length of time between product launch and patent expiration is significantly less than 20 years. The Drug Price Competition
and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent holder to seek a patent extension, commonly called a
“patent term restoration,” for patents on products (or processes for making the product) regulated by the FFDCA. The length of the patent extension is roughly
based on 50 percent of the period of time from the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application (NDA) for a compound to the submission of the NDA for such
compound, plus 100 percent of the time period from NDA submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years and the patent term
remaining after regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years. Biological products licensed under the PHSA are similarly eligible for terms of patent restoration.
Pharmaceutical products may be entitled to other forms of legal or regulatory exclusivity upon approval. The scope, length and requirements for each of
these exclusivities vary both in the United States and in other jurisdictions. In the United States, if the FDA approves a conventional drug product that contains an
active ingredient not previously approved, the product is typically entitled to five years of non-patent regulatory exclusivity. Specific conditions of use approved
for individual products may also be entitled to three years of exclusivity if approval was based on the FDA’s reliance on new clinical studies essential to approval
submitted by the NDA applicant. If the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days
all existing exclusivities (patent and regulatory) related to the product. For products that are either used to treat conditions that afflict a relatively small
population or for which there is not a reasonable expectation that the research and development costs will be recovered, the FDA may designate the
pharmaceutical as an orphan drug and grant it seven years of exclusivity. Other types of regulatory exclusivity may also be available, such as Generating New
Antibiotic Incentives Now (GAIN) exclusivity, which can provide new antibiotic or new antifungal drugs an additional five years of exclusivity to be added to
certain exclusivities already provided for by law.
Applicable laws and regulations dictate the scope of any exclusivity to which a product or particular characteristics of a product is entitled upon approval
in any particular country. In certain instances, regulatory exclusivity may offer protection where patent protection is no longer available or for a period of time in
excess of patent protection. It is not possible to estimate for each product in development the total period and scope of exclusivity to which it may become
entitled until regulatory approval is obtained or sometimes even later. However, given the length of time required to complete clinical development of a
pharmaceutical product, the periods of exclusivity that might be achieved in any individual case would not generally be expected to exceed a minimum of three
years and a maximum of 14 years. These estimates do not consider other factors, such as the difficulty of recreating the manufacturing process for a particular
product or other proprietary knowledge that may delay the introduction of a generic or other follow-on product after the expiration of applicable patent and other
regulatory exclusivity periods.
Biologics may be entitled to exclusivity under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, which was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII to the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The law provides a pathway for approval of biosimilars following the expiration of 12 years of regulatory exclusivity
for the innovator biologic and a potential additional 180 day-extension term for conducting pediatric studies. Biologics are also eligible for orphan drug
exclusivity, as discussed above. The law also includes an extensive process for the innovator biologic and biosimilar manufacturer to litigate patent
2023 Form 10-K | 6infringement, validity and enforceability. The European Union has also created a pathway for approval of biosimilars and has published guidelines for approval
of certain biosimilar products. The more complex nature of biologics and biosimilar products has led to close regulatory scrutiny over follow-on biosimilar
products, which can reduce the effect of biosimilars on sales of the innovator biologic as compared to the sales erosion caused by generic versions of small
molecule pharmaceutical products.
AbbVie owns or has licensed rights to a substantial number of patents and patent applications. AbbVie licenses or owns a patent portfolio of thousands of
patent families, each of which includes United States patent applications and/or issued patents and may also contain the non-United States counterparts to these
patents and applications.
These patents and applications, including various patents that expire during the period 2024 to the mid 2040s, in aggregate are believed to be of material
importance in the operation of AbbVie’s business. However, AbbVie believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents, licenses, or
trademarks), are material in relation to the company’s business as a whole.
In addition, the following patents, licenses and trademarks are significant: those related to ibrutinib (which is sold under the trademark Imbruvica), those
related to risankizumab (which is sold under the trademark Skyrizi) and those related to upadacitinib (which is sold under the trademark Rinvoq). The United
States composition of matter patent covering ibrutinib is expected to expire in 2027, with pediatric regulatory exclusivity then extending until May 2028. However,
no generic entry for any ibrutinib product is expected prior to March 30, 2032. The United States composition of matter patent covering risankizumab is expected
to expire in 2033. And the United States composition of matter patent covering upadacitinib is expected to expire in 2033.
AbbVie may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect its technology. AbbVie seeks to protect its technology and product candidates, in part,
by confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors, contractors and collaborators. These agreements may be breached and AbbVie may not
have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, AbbVie’s trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the
extent that AbbVie’s employees, consultants, advisors, contractors and collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for the company,
disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions.
Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements
In addition to its independent efforts to develop and market products, AbbVie enters into arrangements such as acquisitions, option-to-acquire agreements,
licensing arrangements, option-to-license arrangements, strategic alliances, co-promotion arrangements, co-development and co-marketing agreements and joint
ventures. The acquisitions and option-to-acquire agreements typically include, among other terms and conditions, non-refundable purchase price payments or
option fees, option exercise payments, milestones or earn-outs and other customary terms and obligations. The licensing and other arrangements typically
include, among other terms and conditions, non-refundable upfront license fees, option fees and option exercise payments, milestone payments and royalty
and/or profit sharing obligations. See Note 5, "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements—Other Licensing & Acquisitions Activity," to the Consolidated
Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."
Third Party Agreements
AbbVie has agreements with third parties for process development, product distribution, analytical services and manufacturing of certain products. AbbVie
procures certain products and services from a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, a single supply source. In addition, AbbVie has agreements with
third parties for active pharmaceutical ingredient and product manufacturing, formulation and development services, fill, finish and packaging services,
transportation and distribution and logistics services for certain products. AbbVie does not believe that these manufacturing-related agreements are material
because AbbVie's business is not substantially dependent on any individual agreement. In most cases, AbbVie maintains alternate supply relationships that it can
utilize without undue disruption of its manufacturing processes if a third party fails to perform its contractual obligations. AbbVie seeks to maintain sufficient
inventory of product to minimize the impact of any supply disruption.
AbbVie is also party to certain collaborations and other arrangements, as discussed in Note 5, "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements—Other
Licensing & Acquisitions Activity," to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."
Sources and Availability of Raw Materials
AbbVie purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to its operations from numerous suppliers around the world. In
addition, certain medical devices and components necessary for the manufacture of
|
7 2023 Form 10-KAbbVie products are provided by unaffiliated third party suppliers. AbbVie has robust business continuity and supplier monitoring programs.
Research and Development Activities
AbbVie makes a significant investment in research and development and has numerous compounds (and complementary devices) in clinical development,
including potential treatments for complex, life-threatening diseases. AbbVie's ability to discover and develop new compounds is enhanced by the company's use
of integrated discovery and development project teams, which include chemists, biologists, physicians and pharmacologists who work on the same compounds
as a team. AbbVie also partners with third parties, such as biotechnology companies, other pharmaceutical companies and academic institutions to identify and
prioritize promising new treatments that complement and enhance AbbVie’s existing portfolio. AbbVie also supplements its research and development efforts with
acquisitions.
The research and development process generally begins with discovery research which focuses on the identification of a molecule that has a desired effect
against a given disease. If preclinical testing of an identified compound proves successful, the compound moves into clinical development which generally
includes the following phases:
• Phase 1— involves the first human tests in a small number of healthy volunteers or patients to assess safety, tolerability and doses for later phases.
• Phase 2— tests different doses of the drug in a disease state in order to assess efficacy.
• Phase 3— tests a drug that demonstrates favorable results in the earlier phases in a significantly larger patient population to further demonstrate
efficacy and safety in order to meet requirements to enable global approval.
Preclinical data and clinical trials from all of the development phases provide the data required to prepare and submit an NDA, a Biological License
Application (BLA) or other submission for regulatory approval to the FDA or similar government agencies outside the United States. The specific requirements
(e.g., scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions.
The research and development process from discovery through a new drug launch typically takes 8 to 12 years and can be even longer. The research and
development of new pharmaceutical products has a significant amount of inherent uncertainty. There is no guarantee when, or if, a molecule will receive the
regulatory approval required to launch a new drug or indication.
In addition to the development of new products, delivery devices and new formulations, research and development projects also may include Phase 4 trials,
sometimes called post-marketing studies. For such projects, clinical trials are designed and conducted to collect additional data regarding, among other
parameters, the benefits and risks of an approved drug.
Regulation—Discovery and Clinical Development
United States. Securing approval to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States requires substantial effort and financial resources and
takes several years to complete. The applicant must complete preclinical tests and submit protocols to the FDA before commencing clinical trials. Clinical trials
are intended to establish the safety and efficacy of the pharmaceutical product and typically are conducted in sequential phases, although the phases may
overlap or be combined. If the required clinical testing is successful, the results are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA or BLA requesting approval to
market the product for one or more indications. The FDA reviews an NDA or BLA to determine whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and
whether its manufacturing is compliant with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP).
Compliance with regulatory requirements is assured through periodic, announced or unannounced inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities,
and these inspections associated with clinical development may include the sponsor, investigator sites, laboratories, hospitals and manufacturing facilities of
AbbVie's subcontractors or other third-party manufacturers. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the
FDA, including rejection of an NDA or BLA.
Even if an NDA or a BLA receives approval, the applicant must comply with post-approval requirements. For example, holders of an approval must report
adverse reactions, provide updated safety and efficacy information and comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional materials and
activities. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval, and certain changes to the manufacturing
procedures and finished product must be submitted and approved by the FDA prior to implementation. The FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to
assess compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural and record keeping requirements. In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may
require post-marketing testing and surveillance to further
2023 Form 10-K | 8assess and monitor the product's safety or efficacy after commercialization, which may require additional clinical trials, patient registries, observational data or
additional work on chemistry, manufacturing and controls. Any post-approval regulatory obligations, and the cost of complying with such obligations, could
expand in the future. Further, the FDA continues to regulate product labeling, and prohibits the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses along
with other labeling restrictions.
Outside the United States. AbbVie is subject to similar regulatory requirements outside the United States for approval and marketing of pharmaceutical
products. AbbVie must obtain approval of a clinical trial application or product from applicable supervising regulatory authorities before it can commence
clinical trials or marketing of the product in target markets. The approval requirements and process for each country can vary, and the time required to obtain
approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval in the United States. For example, AbbVie may submit marketing authorizations in the
European Union under either a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure is mandatory for the approval of biotechnology products and
many pharmaceutical products and provides for a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. Under the centralized
procedure, a single marketing authorization application is submitted to the European Medicines Agency. After the agency evaluates the application, it makes a
recommendation to the European Commission, which then makes the final determination on whether to approve the application. The decentralized procedure
provides for mutual recognition of individual national approval decisions and is available for products that are not subject to the centralized procedure.
In Japan, applications for approval of a new product are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Japan-specific trials
and/or bridging studies to demonstrate that the non-Japanese clinical data applies to Japanese patients are usually required. After completing a comprehensive
review, the PMDA reports to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, which then approves or denies the application.
Similarly, applications for a new product in China are submitted to the Center for Drug Evaluation of the National Medical Products Administration for
technical review and approval of a product for marketing in China. Clinical data in Chinese subjects are usually required to support approval in China, requiring
the inclusion of China in global pivotal studies, or a separate China/Asian clinical trial.
The regulatory process in many emerging markets continues to evolve. Many emerging markets, including those in Asia, generally require regulatory
approval to have been obtained in a large developed market (such as the United States or Europe) before the country will begin or complete its regulatory review
process. Similar to the requirements in Japan and China, certain countries (notably South Korea, Taiwan, India and Russia) also generally require that clinical
studies that include data from patients in those countries be conducted in order to support local regulatory approval.
The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and product licensing also vary. In addition, post-approval regulatory obligations such as adverse
event reporting and cGMP compliance generally apply and may vary by country. For example, after a marketing authorization has been granted in the European
Union, periodic safety reports must be submitted and other pharmacovigilance measures may be required (such as Risk Management Plans).
Regulation—Commercialization, Distribution and Manufacturing
The manufacturing, marketing, sale, promotion and distribution of AbbVie's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Government
regulation by various national, regional, federal, state and local agencies, both in the United States and other countries, addresses (among other matters)
inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, labeling, packaging,
marketing and promotion, pricing and reimbursement, sampling, distribution, quality control, post-marketing surveillance, record keeping, storage and disposal
practices. AbbVie's operations are also affected by trade regulations in many countries that limit the import of raw materials and finished products and by laws
and regulations that seek to prevent corruption and bribery in the marketplace (including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom
Bribery Act, which provide guidance on corporate interactions with government officials) and require safeguards for the protection of personal data. In addition,
AbbVie is subject to laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including state and federal anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United
States. Prescription drug manufacturers such as AbbVie are also subject to taxes, as well as application, product, user and other fees.
Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects AbbVie's business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially
increase the time, difficulty and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. AbbVie expects
compliance with these regulations to continue to require significant technical expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can delay
the release of a new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the suspension or revocation of the authority
necessary for a product's production and sale and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties.
|
9 2023 Form 10-KIn addition to regulatory initiatives, AbbVie's business can be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy and outcomes of health care
products and their components that are regularly conducted by industry participants, government agencies and others. These studies can lead to updates to the
data regarding utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the
discontinuance of, or limitations on, marketing of such products domestically or worldwide, and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe
they have been injured as a result of their use.
Access to human health care products continues to be a subject of oversight, investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies and
private organizations in the United States and other countries. A major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the
private sector, notably by health care payers and providers, which have instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. AbbVie expects insurers and
providers to continue attempts to reduce the cost of health care products. Outside the United States, many countries control the price of health care products
directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage limitations, or compulsory licensing. Political and budgetary pressures in the United
States and in other countries may also heighten the scope and severity of pricing pressures on AbbVie's products for the foreseeable future.
United States. Specifically, U.S. federal laws require pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid
programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under state Medicaid plans, and the efforts by states to seek additional rebates may affect AbbVie's business.
Similarly, the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, as a prerequisite to participation in Medicaid and other federal health care programs, requires that
manufacturers extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the United States Department of Veterans Affairs,
Department of Defense and Public Health Service entities and institutions. In addition, recent legislative changes would require similarly discounted prices to be
offered to TRICARE program beneficiaries. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 also established the 340B drug discount program, which requires pharmaceutical
manufacturers to provide products at reduced prices to various designated health care entities and facilities.
In the United States, most states also have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different
manufacturer's generic version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG)
payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services
delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a fixed reimbursement based on the
diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures
for many health care products. Medicare reimburses Part B drugs based on average sales price plus a certain percentage to account for physician administration
costs, which have been reduced in the hospital outpatient setting. Medicare enters into contracts with private plans to negotiate prices for most patient-
administered medicine delivered under Part D.
Under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the Affordable Care Act), AbbVie pays a
fee related to its pharmaceuticals sales to government programs. In addition, AbbVie provides a discount of 70% for branded prescription drugs sold to patients
who fall into the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole."
The Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs and biologics
covered under Medicare and Medicaid to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data to the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level in the United States, and an
increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring disclosure of interactions with health care
professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties.
The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the IRA) requires: (i) the government to set prices for select high expenditure Medicare Part D drugs (prices effective
beginning in 2026) and Part B drugs (prices effective beginning in 2028) that are more than nine years (for small-molecule drugs) or 13 years (for biological
products) from their FDA approval, (ii) manufacturers to pay a rebate for Medicare Part B and Part D drugs when prices for those drugs increase faster than
inflation beginning in 2022 for Part D and 2023 for Part B, and (iii) a Medicare Part D redesign replacing the current coverage gap provisions and establishing a
$2,000 cap for out-of-pocket costs for Medicare beneficiaries beginning in 2025, with manufacturers being responsible for 10% of costs up to the $2,000 cap and
20% after that cap is reached. In August 2023, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, through the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (the CMS),
selected Imbruvica as one of the first 10 medicines subject to government-set prices beginning in 2026. The price-setting process will conclude by August 1, 2024,
and on September 1, 2024, the CMS will publish prices that will be applicable to the 10 drugs in the Medicare program beginning January 1, 2026. It is possible
that more of our products, including products that generate substantial revenues,
2023 Form 10-K | 10could be selected in future years, which could, among other things, accelerate revenue erosion prior to expiration of intellectual property protections. The effect of
reducing prices and reimbursement would significantly impact revenues for certain of our products.
European Union. The European Union has adopted directives and other legislation governing labeling, advertising, distribution, supply,
pharmacovigilance and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Such legislation provides mandatory standards throughout the European Union and permits
member states to supplement these standards with additional regulations. European governments also regulate pharmaceutical product prices through their
control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of such products to consumers. As a result, patients are unlikely to use a pharmaceutical
product that is not reimbursed by the government. In many European countries, the government either regulates the pricing of a new product at launch or
subsequent launch through direct price controls or reference pricing. In recent years, many countries have also imposed new or additional cost containment
measures on pharmaceutical products. Differences between national pricing regimes create price differentials within the European Union that can lead to
significant parallel trade in pharmaceutical products.
Most governments also promote generic substitution by mandating or permitting a pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a
pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed and by permitting or mandating that health care professionals prescribe generic versions in certain
circumstances. Many governments are also following a similar path for biosimilar therapies. In addition, governments use reimbursement lists to limit the
pharmaceutical products that are eligible for reimbursement by national health care systems.
Japan. In Japan, the National Health Insurance system maintains a Drug Price List specifying which pharmaceutical products are eligible for
reimbursement, and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare sets the prices of the products on this list. The government generally introduces price cut rounds
every other year and also mandates price decreases for specific products. New products judged innovative or useful, that are indicated for pediatric use, or that
target orphan or small population diseases, however, may be eligible for a pricing premium. The government has also promoted the use of generics, where
available.
Emerging Markets. Many emerging markets take steps to reduce pharmaceutical product prices, in some cases through direct price controls and in others
through the promotion of generic/biosimilar alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals.
Since AbbVie markets its products worldwide, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines must also meet other local regulatory
requirements. Certain additional risks are inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in
currency exchange rates, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization and other governmental action.
Regulation – Medical Devices
Medical devices are subject to regulation by the FDA, state agencies and foreign government health authorities. FDA regulations, as well as various U.S.
federal and state laws, govern the development, clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, record keeping and marketing of medical device products agencies in the
United States. AbbVie’s medical device product candidates, including AbbVie’s breast implants, must undergo rigorous clinical testing and an extensive
government regulatory clearance or approval process prior to sale in the United States and other countries. The lengthy process of clinical development and
submissions for clearance or approval, and the continuing need for compliance with applicable laws and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial
resources. Regulatory clearance or approval, when and if obtained, may be limited in scope, and may significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product
may be marketed. Cleared or approved products and their manufacturers are subject to ongoing review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with
products may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale and/or use or require their withdrawal from the market.
United States. AbbVie’s medical device products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States. Unless an exemption applies, each
medical device AbbVie markets in the United States must have a 510(k) clearance or a Premarket Approval Application (PMA) in accordance with the FFDCA and its
implementing regulations. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes, depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and
the extent of controls that are needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. Devices deemed to pose a lower risk are placed in either Class I or Class II, and devices
deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or a device deemed to be not substantially equivalent
to a previously cleared 510(k) device, are placed in Class III. In general, a Class III device cannot be marketed in the United States unless the FDA approves the
device after submission of a PMA, and any changes to the device subsequent to initial FDA approval must also be reviewed and approved by the FDA. The majority
of AbbVie’s medical device products, including AbbVie’s breast implants, are regulated as Class III medical devices. A Class III device may have significant
additional obligations imposed in its conditions of approval, and the time in which it takes
|
11 2023 Form 10-Kto obtain approval can be long. Compliance with regulatory requirements is assured through periodic, unannounced facility inspections by the FDA and other
regulatory authorities, and these inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of AbbVie’s subcontractors or other third-party manufacturers. Failure to
comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: warning letters or
untitled letters; fines, injunctions and civil penalties; recall or seizure of AbbVie’ products; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of
production; refusing AbbVie’ request for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products; withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals that are already
granted; and criminal prosecution.
A clinical trial is almost always required to support a PMA application and is sometimes required for a 510(k) premarket notification. Clinical trials
generally require submission of an application for an investigational device exemption (IDE), which must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and
laboratory testing results, showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. A study sponsor must obtain
approval for its IDE from the FDA, and it must also obtain approval of its study from the Institutional Review Board overseeing the trial. The results of clinical
testing may not be sufficient to obtain approval of the investigational device.
Once a device is approved, the manufacture and distribution of the device remains subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including Quality System
Regulation requirements, which involve design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process.
Medical device manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments and list their manufactured devices with the FDA and are
subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with regulatory requirements. Manufacturers must also report
to the FDA if their devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that could likely cause or contribute to a death
or serious injury, or if the manufacturer conducts a field correction or product recall or removal to reduce a risk to health posed by a device or to remedy a
violation of the FFDCA that may present a health risk. Further, the FDA continues to regulate device labeling, and prohibits the promotion of products for
unapproved or “off-label” uses along with other labeling restrictions.
European Union. Medical device products that are marketed in the European Union must comply with the requirements of the Medical Device Regulation (the
MDR), which came into effect in May 2021. The MDR provides for regulatory oversight with respect to the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling and adverse
event reporting for medical devices to ensure that medical devices marketed in the European Union are safe and effective for their intended uses. Medical devices
that comply with the MDR are entitled to bear a Conformité Européenne marking evidencing such compliance and may be marketed in the European Union. Failure
to comply with these domestic and international regulatory requirements could affect AbbVie’s ability to market and sell AbbVie’s products in these countries.
Environmental Matters
AbbVie believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection. Regulations
under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing
operations. AbbVie's capital expenditures for pollution control in 2023 were approximately $16 million and operating expenditures were approximately $43
million. In 2024, capital expenditures for pollution control are estimated to be approximately $22 million and operating expenditures are estimated to be
approximately $45 million.
Abbott was identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States,
including Puerto Rico, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Some of these
locations were transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and distribution, and AbbVie has become a party to these investigations and remediations.
Abbott was also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which have been transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and distribution,
in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those
investigations and remediation activities, AbbVie believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and
regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, cash flows, or results of
operations.
Employees
AbbVie employed approximately 50,000 employees in over 70 countries as of January 31, 2024. Outside the United States, some of AbbVie's employees are
represented by unions or works councils. AbbVie believes that it has good relations with its employees.
2023 Form 10-K | 12Human Capital Management
Attracting, retaining and providing meaningful growth and development opportunities to AbbVie's employees is critical to the company's success in making
a remarkable impact on people’s lives around the world. AbbVie leverages numerous resources to identify and enhance strategic and leadership capability, foster
employee engagement and create a culture where talent is productive and engaged. AbbVie invests in its employees through competitive compensation, benefits
and employee support programs and offers best-in-class development and leadership opportunities. AbbVie has developed a deep talent base through ongoing
investment in functional and leadership training and by sourcing world-class external talent, ensuring a sustainable talent pipeline. AbbVie continuously
cultivates and enhances its working culture and embraces equality, diversity and inclusion as fundamental to the company's mission.
Attracting and Developing Talent. Attracting and developing high-performing talent is essential to AbbVie’s continued success. AbbVie implements detailed
talent attraction strategies, with an emphasis on STEM skill sets, a diverse talent base and other critical skillsets, including drug discovery, clinical development,
market access and business development. AbbVie also invests in competitive compensation and benefits programs. In addition to offering a comprehensive suite
of benefits ranging from medical and dental coverage to retirement, disability and life insurance programs, AbbVie also provides health promotion programs,
mental health awareness campaigns and employee assistance programs in several countries, financial wellness support, on-site health screenings and
immunizations in several countries and on-site fitness and rehabilitation centers. AbbVie has on-site health care clinics at certain locations, offering convenient
and affordable access to quality healthcare, flu shots and vaccines. In addition, the AbbVie Employee Assistance Fund (a part of the AbbVie Foundation) supports
two programs for global employees: the AbbVie Possibilities Scholarship for children of employees, which is an annual merit-based scholarship for use at
accredited colleges, universities or vocational-technical schools; and the Employee Relief Program, which is financial assistance to support short term needs of
employees when faced with large-scale disasters (e.g. a hurricane), individual disasters (e.g. a home fire) or financial hardship (e.g. the death of a spouse).
Finally, AbbVie empowers managers and their teams with tools, tips and guidelines on effectively managing workloads, managing teams from a distance and
supporting flexible work practices, including "Where We Work", AbbVie's hybrid work model, offering eligible employees predictable flexibility.
New AbbVie employees are given a tailored onboarding experience for faster integration and to support performance. One of AbbVie's mentorship programs
allows employees to self-nominate as mentors or mentees and facilitates meaningful relationships supporting employees’ career and development goals.
AbbVie also provides structured, broad-based development opportunities, focusing on high-performance skills and leadership training. AbbVie's talent
philosophy holds leaders accountable for building a high-performing organization, and the company provides development opportunities for all levels of
leadership. AbbVie's Learn, Develop, Perform program offers year-long, self-directed leadership education, supplemented with tools and resources, and leverages
leaders as role models and teachers. In addition, a foundational success factor to AbbVie's leadership pipeline is the company's Professional Development
Programs, which attract graduates, postgraduates and post-doctoral talent to participate in formal development programs lasting up to three years, with the
objective of strengthening functional and leadership capabilities.
Culture. AbbVie’s shared principles of transforming lives, acting with integrity, driving innovation, embracing diversity and inclusion and serving the
community form the core of the company's culture. AbbVie articulates the behaviors associated with these values in the Ways We Work, a core set of working
behaviors that emphasize how the company achieves results is equally as important as achieving them. The Ways We Work are designed to ensure that every
AbbVie employee is aware of the company's cultural expectations. AbbVie integrates the Ways We Work into all talent processes, forming the basis for assessing
performance, prioritizing development and ultimately rewarding employees. AbbVie believes its culture creates strong engagement, which is measured regularly
through a confidential, third-party all-employee survey, and this engagement supports AbbVie’s mission of making a remarkable impact on people’s lives.
Equity, Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EED&I). A cornerstone of AbbVie’s human capital management approach is to prioritize fostering an inclusive and
diverse workforce. AbbVie's Equity, Equality, Diversity & Inclusion roadmap defines key global focus areas, objectives and associated initiatives, and includes
implementation plans organized by business function and geography. AbbVie’s senior leaders have adopted formal goals aligned with executing this strategy.
Through December 2023, women represented 52 percent of management positions globally and in the United States, 37 percent of AbbVie's workforce was
comprised of members of historically underrepresented populations, consistent with 2022. Further, AbbVie is committed to pay equity and conducts pay equity
analyses annually. A critical component of AbbVie's strategy is to instill an inclusive mindset in all AbbVie leaders and employees, so the company continues to
realize the full value of its workforce from recruitment through retirement. AbbVie's Employee Resource Groups also help the company nurture an inclusive culture
by building community and creating connections. Additional information about AbbVie's Equity, Equality, Diversity and
|
13 2023 Form 10-KInclusion efforts can be found on the company's website at: https://www.abbvie.com/who-we-are/equity-equality-inclusion-diversity.html.
Internet Information
Copies of AbbVie's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through AbbVie's investor relations website
(investors.abbvie.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after AbbVie electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC).
AbbVie's corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of AbbVie's audit committee,
compensation committee, nominations and governance committee and public policy committee are all available on AbbVie's investor relations website
(investors.abbvie.com).
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating AbbVie and AbbVie's common stock. Any of the following
risks could materially and adversely affect AbbVie's results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The risk factors generally have been separated into two
groups: risks related to AbbVie's business and risks related to AbbVie's common stock. Based on the information currently known to it, AbbVie believes that the following
information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting it in each of these categories of risks. However, the risks and uncertainties AbbVie faces are not limited to
those set forth in the risk factors described below and may not be in order of importance or probability of occurrence. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently
known to AbbVie or that AbbVie currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect its business. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable
indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.
If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business, results of
operations, financial condition or cash flows. In such case, the trading price of AbbVie's common stock could decline.
Risks Related to AbbVie's Business
The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses, including the loss of exclusivity for Humira and increased competition from biosimilars, may adversely
affect AbbVie's revenues and operating earnings.
AbbVie relies on patent, trademark and other intellectual property protection in the discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of its products. In
particular, patent protection is, in the aggregate, important in AbbVie's marketing of pharmaceutical products in the United States and most major markets
outside of the United States. Patents covering AbbVie products normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the profitability of many of AbbVie's
products.
As patents for certain of its products expire, AbbVie could face competition from lower priced generic or biosimilar products. The expiration or loss of
patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by substitutes that may significantly reduce sales for that product in a short amount of time. If
AbbVie's competitive position is compromised because of generics, biosimilars or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business and
results of operations. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs or
biosimilars. Any such proposals that are enacted into law could increase the impact of generic competition.
Large pharmaceutical companies and generics manufacturers of pharmaceutical products continue to expand into the biotechnology field and form
partnerships to pursue biosimilars. Companies have developed and are developing biosimilars that compete with AbbVie’s biologic products, including Humira.
As competitors obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing AbbVie’s biologic products, AbbVie’s products may become subject to competition from
such biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure and consequences. Expiration of or successful challenges to AbbVie’s applicable patent rights could
also trigger competition from other products, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. As a result, AbbVie could face increased litigation and
administrative proceedings with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to its biologic products.
For example, Humira accounted for approximately 27% of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2023. Humira is facing competition from biosimilar products in the
United States following the loss of exclusivity in 2023, which AbbVie anticipates will continue to cause a significant decline in Humira's revenue and could
adversely affect AbbVie’s revenues and operating earnings.
2023 Form 10-K | 14AbbVie's principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in Item 1, "Business—Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity"
and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations," and litigation regarding these
patents is described in Item 3, "Legal Proceedings."
AbbVie's major products could lose patent protection earlier than expected, which could adversely affect AbbVie's revenues and operating earnings.
A significant portion of AbbVie's revenue and operating earnings are derived from several major products. Third parties or government authorities may
challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent AbbVie's patents and patent applications. For example, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products file, and
may continue to file, Abbreviated New Drug Applications with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of AbbVie's products prior to the expiration of relevant
patents owned or licensed by AbbVie by asserting that the patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. In addition, petitioners have filed, and may
continue to file, challenges to the validity of AbbVie's patents under the 2011 Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, which created inter partes review and post grant
review procedures for challenging patent validity in administrative proceedings at the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
Although most of the challenges to AbbVie's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property
rights. For example, court decisions and potential legislation relating to patents, such as legislation regarding biosimilars, and other regulatory initiatives may
result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. In addition, certain governments outside the United States have indicated that compulsory licenses to
patents may be sought to further their domestic policies or on the basis of national emergencies, such as HIV/AIDS. If triggered, compulsory licenses may diminish
or eliminate sales and profits from those jurisdictions and negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations.
AbbVie normally responds to challenges by vigorously defending its patents, including by filing patent infringement lawsuits. Patent litigation,
administrative proceedings and other challenges to AbbVie's patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive AbbVie of market exclusivity for a patented
product. To the extent AbbVie's intellectual property is successfully challenged, circumvented or weakened, or to the extent such intellectual property does not
allow AbbVie to compete effectively, AbbVie's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce AbbVie's intellectual property rights or require
compulsory licensing of AbbVie's intellectual property, AbbVie's revenues and operating earnings will be reduced.
A third party's intellectual property may prevent AbbVie from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's profitability and financial
condition.
Third parties may claim that an AbbVie product infringes upon their intellectual property. In addition, in its pursuit of valid business opportunities, AbbVie
may be required to challenge intellectual property rights held by others that it believes were improperly granted. Resolving an intellectual property infringement
or other claim can be costly and time consuming and may require AbbVie to enter into license agreements. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it would be able to
obtain license agreements on commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject AbbVie to
significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale, or use of the affected AbbVie product or products. Any of these events could have a
material adverse effect on AbbVie's profitability and financial condition.
AbbVie's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing and marketing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause
its revenues and profitability to decline.
To remain competitive, AbbVie must continue to launch new products and new indications and/or brand extensions for existing products. Such launches
must generate revenue sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace revenues of profitable products that are lost to or
displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenue and profitability. Accordingly, AbbVie
commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development and must make ongoing substantial expenditures without any assurance that
its efforts will be commercially successful. A high rate of failure in the biopharmaceutical industry is inherent in the research and development of new products,
and failure can occur at any point in the research and development process, including after significant funds have been invested. Products that appear promising
in development may fail to reach the market for numerous reasons, including failure to demonstrate effectiveness, safety concerns, superior safety or efficacy of
competing therapies, failure to achieve positive clinical or pre-clinical outcomes beyond the current standards of care, inability to obtain necessary regulatory
approvals or delays in the approval of new products and new indications, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture or the failure to obtain
or maintain intellectual property rights, or infringement of the intellectual property rights of others.
|
15 2023 Form 10-KDecisions about research studies made early in the development process of a pharmaceutical product candidate can affect the marketing strategy once
such candidate receives approval. More detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they also consume time and
resources and may delay submitting the pharmaceutical product candidate for regulatory approval. AbbVie cannot guarantee that a proper balance of speed and
testing will be made with respect to each pharmaceutical product candidate or that decisions in this area would not adversely affect AbbVie's results of
operations.
Even if AbbVie successfully develops and markets new products or enhancements to its existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by
changing clinical preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors' innovations. AbbVie's innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace
because of existing clinical practices or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. AbbVie cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under
development will be launched, whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be
commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause AbbVie's products to become obsolete,
causing AbbVie's revenues and operating results to suffer.
AbbVie is subject to cost-containment efforts and pricing pressures that could cause a reduction in revenues and operating earnings, and changes in the terms
of rebate and chargeback programs, which are common in the pharmaceuticals industry, could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's operations.
Cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in Item 1, "Business—Regulation—Commercialization,
Distribution and Manufacturing." To the extent these cost containment efforts are not offset by greater demand, increased patient access to health care, or other
factors, AbbVie's revenues and operating earnings will be reduced. In the United States, the European Union and other countries, AbbVie's business has
experienced downward pressure on product pricing, and this pressure could increase in the future.
AbbVie is subject to increasing public and legislative pressure with respect to pharmaceutical pricing. In the United States, practices of managed care
groups, and institutional and governmental purchasers, as well as federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, contribute to pricing
pressures. In particular, the IRA will have the effect of reducing prices and reimbursements for certain of our products, which could significantly impact AbbVie’s
results of operations. Under the IRA, the U.S Department of Health and Human Services can effectively set prices for certain single-source drugs and biologics
reimbursed under Medicare Part B and Part D. Generally, these government prices can apply as soon as nine years (for small-molecule drugs) or 13 years (for
biological products) from their FDA approval and will be capped at a statutory ceiling price that is likely to represent a significant discount from average prices
to wholesalers and direct purchasers. In August 2023, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, through the CMS, selected Imbruvica as one of the first
10 medicines subject to government-set prices beginning in 2026. The price-setting process will conclude by August 1, 2024, and on September 1, 2024, the CMS
will publish prices that will be applicable to the 10 drugs in the Medicare program beginning January 1, 2026. It is possible that more of our products, including
products that generate substantial revenues, could be selected in future years, which could, among other things, accelerate revenue erosion prior to expiration of
intellectual property protections. In addition, beginning in January 2025, under the IRA, the 70% coverage gap discount program will be replaced by a 10%
manufacturer discount for all Medicare Part D beneficiaries that have met their deductible and incurred out of pocket drug costs below a $2,000 threshold and a
20% discount for beneficiaries that have incurred out of pocket drug costs above the $2,000 threshold under the new Part D benefit redesign. Manufacturers that
fail to comply with the IRA may be subject to various penalties, including civil monetary penalties, which could be significant. The IRA has and will continue to
meaningfully impact AbbVie’s business strategies and those of others in the pharmaceutical industry. The full impact of the IRA on AbbVie’s business and the
pharmaceutical industry, including the implications to us of our or a competitor's product being selected for price setting, remains uncertain.
AbbVie continues to evaluate the impact that the IRA may have on the company. The potential for continuing changes to the health care system in the United
States and the increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid and private sector beneficiaries may result in additional
pricing pressures. Additionally, changes to U.S. tax laws now require (i) a 15% alternative minimum tax generally applied to U.S. corporations on adjusted
financial statement income beginning in 2023 and (ii) a non-deductible 1% excise tax provision on net stock repurchases.
In major markets worldwide, governments play a significant role in funding health care services and determining the pricing and reimbursement of
pharmaceutical products. Consequently, in those markets, AbbVie is subject to government decision-making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. In
particular, many European countries have ongoing government-mandated price reductions for many pharmaceutical products, and AbbVie anticipates continuing
pricing pressures in Europe. Differences between countries' pricing regulations could lead to third-party cross-border trading in AbbVie's products that results in
a reduction in revenues and operating earnings.
Rebates related to government programs, such as fee-for-service Medicaid or Medicaid managed care programs, arise from laws and regulations. AbbVie
cannot predict with certainty if additional government initiatives to contain health care
2023 Form 10-K | 16costs or other factors could lead to new or modified regulatory requirements that include higher or incremental rebates or discounts. Other rebate and discount
programs arise from contractual agreements with private payers. Various factors, including market factors and the ability of private payers to control patient
access to products, may provide payers the leverage to negotiate higher or additional rebates or discounts that could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's
operations.
A portion of AbbVie's near-term pharmaceutical pipeline relies on collaborations with third parties, which may adversely affect the development and sale of its
products.
AbbVie depends on alliances and joint ventures with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for a portion of the products in its near-term
pharmaceutical pipeline. Failures by these parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, or other obligations to AbbVie, or any disruption in the relationships
between AbbVie and these third parties, could have an adverse effect on AbbVie's pharmaceutical pipeline and business. In addition, AbbVie's collaborative
relationships for research and development extend for many years and may give rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of AbbVie
and its collaboration partners, including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations. This could result in the loss of intellectual
property rights or protection, delay the development and sale of potential pharmaceutical products, affect the effective sale and delivery of AbbVie's
commercialized products and lead to lengthy and expensive litigation, administrative proceedings or arbitration.
Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on AbbVie's business and results of operations.
The successful discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of biologics is a long, expensive and uncertain process. There are unique risks and
uncertainties with biologics. For example, access to and supply of necessary biological materials, such as cell lines, may be limited and current governmental
regulations restrict access to and regulate the transport and use of such materials. In addition, the development, manufacturing and sale of biologics is subject to
regulations that are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. As a result, manufacturing biologics,
especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies. Such manufacturing also requires facilities specifically
designed and validated for this purpose and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures. Biologics are also frequently costly to manufacture
because production inputs are derived from living animal or plant material, and some biologics cannot be made synthetically. Failure to successfully discover,
develop, manufacture and sell biologics—including Humira, Skyrizi and Botox —could have a negative impact on AbbVie's business and results of operations.
New products and technological advances by AbbVie's competitors may negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations.
AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that research, develop, manufacture, market and sell proprietary
pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, Humira competes with anti-TNF products and other competitive products intended to treat a number of
disease states and Mavyret/Maviret competes with other available hepatitis C treatment options. In addition, in the past few years, a number of other companies
have started to develop, have successfully developed and/or are currently marketing products that are being positioned as competitors to Botox. All of these
competitors may introduce new products or develop technological advances that compete with AbbVie’s products in therapeutic areas such as immunology,
oncology, aesthetics, neuroscience and eye care. In addition, as AbbVie products lose exclusivity, competition surrounding such products will increase and
generic and biosimilar products will increasingly penetrate the markets. AbbVie cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction by
competitors of new products or technological advances. Such competing products may be safer, more effective, more effectively marketed or sold, have lower
prices or better insurance coverage or reimbursement levels, or have superior performance features than AbbVie’s products, and this may negatively impact
AbbVie’s business and results of operations.
The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if AbbVie or one of its suppliers encounters problems
manufacturing AbbVie's products, AbbVie's business could suffer.
The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise
during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw
materials, delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for
AbbVie's products, changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in the types of
products produced, physical limitations that could inhibit continuous supply, man-made or natural disasters and environmental factors. If problems arise during
the production of a batch of product, such batch of product may have to be
|
17 2023 Form 10-Kdiscarded and AbbVie may experience product shortages or incur added expenses. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage
to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If
problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred.
AbbVie uses raw materials and components in its pharmaceutical and biologic manufacturing processes, including those sourced from single suppliers, and an
interruption in the supply of those raw materials and components could adversely affect AbbVie's business and results of operations.
AbbVie uses raw materials and components in its pharmaceutical and biologic manufacturing processes that may be sourced from single suppliers. The
failure of AbbVie's suppliers, and particularly its single-source suppliers, to fulfill their contractual obligations in a timely manner or as a result of regulatory
noncompliance or physical disruption at a manufacturing site may impair AbbVie's ability to deliver its products to customers on a timely and competitive basis,
which could adversely affect AbbVie's business and results of operations. Increases in demand on any of AbbVie's suppliers could result in delays and
disruptions in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of its products and/or product shortages, leading to lost revenue. Finding an alternative supplier could
take a significant amount of time and involve significant expense due to the nature of the products and the need to obtain regulatory approvals. AbbVie cannot
guarantee that it will be able to reach agreement with alternative providers or that regulatory authorities would approve AbbVie's use of such alternatives.
Business interruption insurance may not provide adequate compensation in the case of a failure by a supplier.
Certain aspects of AbbVie’s operations are highly dependent upon third party service providers.
AbbVie relies on suppliers, vendors and other third party service providers to research, develop, manufacture, commercialize, promote and sell its products.
Reliance on third party manufacturers reduces AbbVie’s oversight and control of the manufacturing process. Some of these third party providers are subject to
legal and regulatory requirements, privacy and security risks and market risks of their own. The failure of a critical third party service provider to meet its
obligations could have a material adverse impact on AbbVie’s operations and results. If any third party service providers have violated or are alleged to have
violated any laws or regulations during the performance of their obligations to AbbVie, it is possible that AbbVie could suffer financial and reputational harm or
other negative outcomes, including possible legal consequences.
Significant safety or efficacy issues could arise for AbbVie's products, which could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenues and financial condition.
Pharmaceutical products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. Following regulatory
approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies may also be conducted, which
may be sponsored by AbbVie but could also be sponsored by competitors, insurance companies, government institutions, scientists, investigators or other
interested parties. If new safety or efficacy issues are reported or if new scientific information becomes available (including results of post-marketing Phase 4
trials), or if governments change standards regarding safety, efficacy or labeling, AbbVie may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For
example, AbbVie may voluntarily provide or be required to provide updated information on a product's label or narrow its approved indication, either of which
could reduce the product's market acceptance. If safety or efficacy issues with an AbbVie product arise, sales of the product could be halted by AbbVie or by
regulatory authorities and regulatory action could be taken by such regulatory authorities. Safety or efficacy issues affecting suppliers' or competitors' products
also may reduce the market acceptance of similar AbbVie products.
New data about AbbVie's products, or products similar to its products, could negatively impact demand for AbbVie's products due to actual or perceived
safety issues or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. Furthermore, new data and information, including
information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various
diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of AbbVie's products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. Such
guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of AbbVie's products.
AbbVie is subject to product liability claims and other lawsuits that may adversely affect its business, results of operations and reputation.
In the ordinary course of business, AbbVie is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that AbbVie's current or historical products or the
products of other companies that it promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for or injury to patients. For example, lawsuits are pending
against Allergan, AbbVie’s subsidiary, and certain of its former officers alleging they made misrepresentations and omissions regarding Allergan’s textured breast
implants. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on
AbbVie's business, results of operations and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers.
2023 Form 10-K | 18Consequences may also include additional costs, a decrease in market share for the product in question, lower revenue and exposure to other claims. AbbVie
evaluates its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as
such, AbbVie's product liability losses are self-insured.
AbbVie is also the subject of other claims, legal proceedings and investigations in the ordinary course of business, which relate to intellectual property,
commercial, securities and other matters. Adverse outcomes in such claims, legal proceedings and investigations may also adversely affect AbbVie’s business,
results of operations and reputation. See Note 15, "Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8,
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." AbbVie cannot predict with certainty the outcome of these proceedings.
AbbVie is subject to governmental regulations, and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes.
AbbVie's products are subject to rigorous regulation by numerous international, supranational, federal and state authorities, as described in Item 1,
"Business—Regulation—Discovery and Clinical Development,” “Business—Regulation—Commercialization, Distribution and Manufacturing,” and “Business—
Regulation—Medical Devices.” The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a pharmaceutical product can be costly and time consuming, and
approvals may not be granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or
failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in revenues and
substantial additional costs.
The U.S. healthcare industry, in particular, is highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial regulatory changes. It is expected that the U.S.
healthcare industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the healthcare system
are considered by the executive branch, Congress and state legislatures. AbbVie cannot predict with certainty when additional changes in the healthcare industry
in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, will occur, or what the impact of such changes may be.
In addition, AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will remain compliant with applicable regulatory requirements once approval has been obtained for a product.
These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising and post-marketing reporting,
including adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. AbbVie must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure
compliance with these complex regulations.
Possible regulatory actions could result in substantial modifications to AbbVie's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of AbbVie's
products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of AbbVie's or its suppliers' facilities while AbbVie or its supplier remedies the alleged
violation; the inability to obtain future approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt
AbbVie's business and have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.
Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on AbbVie, require it to change its business practices, and restrict
its operations.
The health care industry is subject to federal, state and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit program reimbursements,
rebates, price reporting and regulation and health care fraud and abuse. In the United States, these laws include anti-kickback and false claims laws, the
Medicaid Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care Act, the U.S. Physician Payments Sunshine Act, the TRICARE program, the government pricing rules applicable to
the Medicaid, Medicare Part B, 340B Drug Pricing Program and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of such
laws and regulations may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from
participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. Such violations may also
lead to product recalls and seizures, interruption of production leading to product shortages, import bans or denials of import certifications, delays or denials in
the approvals of new products or supplemental approvals of current products pending resolution of the issues, and reputational harm, any of which would
adversely affect AbbVie's business. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to change and evolving interpretations, which could require
AbbVie to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws and
regulations, or allegations of such violations, could impose new obligations on AbbVie, require it to change its business practices and restrict its operations.
|
19 2023 Form 10-KPublic health outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics, such as the coronavirus (COVID-19), have had, and could in the future have, an adverse impact on AbbVie’s
operations and financial condition.
Public health outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics have had, and could in the future have, an adverse impact on AbbVie’s operations and financial condition.
The pandemic caused by the novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) caused many countries, including the United States, to declare national emergencies and
implement preventive measures such as travel bans and shelter in place or total lock-down orders. The continuation or re-implementation of these bans and
orders remains uncertain. The COVID-19 pandemic caused AbbVie to modify certain of its business practices, and AbbVie may take further actions as may be
required by government authorities or as AbbVie determines are in the best interests of AbbVie’s employees, patients, customers and business partners.
The international nature of AbbVie's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline.
AbbVie's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including in emerging markets. Net revenues outside of the United
States made up approximately 23% of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2023. The risks associated with AbbVie's operations outside the United States include:
• fluctuations in currency exchange rates;
• changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions;
• multiple legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict AbbVie's ability to manufacture, market and sell its
products;
• differing local product preferences and product requirements;
• trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;
• international trade disruptions or disputes;
• difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing operations;
• differing labor regulations;
• potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;
• political and economic instability;
• sovereign debt issues;
• price and currency exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization and other governmental
action and regulation;
• inflation, recession and fluctuations in interest rates;
• restrictions on transfers of funds;
• potential deterioration in the economic position and credit quality of certain non-U.S. countries; and
• potential penalties or other adverse consequences for violations of anti-corruption, anti-bribery and other similar laws and regulations, including
the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act.
If AbbVie does not effectively and profitably commercialize its products, AbbVie's revenues and financial condition could be adversely affected.
AbbVie must effectively and profitably commercialize its principal products by creating and meeting continued market demand; achieving market
acceptance and generating product sales; ensuring that the active pharmaceutical ingredient(s) for a product and the finished product are manufactured in
sufficient quantities and in compliance with requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies and with acceptable quality and pricing to meet
commercial demand; and ensuring that the entire supply chain efficiently and consistently delivers AbbVie's products to its customers. The commercialization of
AbbVie products may not be successful due to, among other things, unexpected challenges from competitors, new safety issues or concerns being reported that
may impact or narrow approved indications, the relative price of AbbVie's product as compared to alternative treatment options and changes to a product's label
that further restrict its marketing. If the commercialization of AbbVie's principal products is unsuccessful, AbbVie's revenues and financial condition could be
adversely affected.
2023 Form 10-K | 20AbbVie may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of assets, which could cause it to incur significant
expenses and could negatively affect profitability.
AbbVie from time to time pursues acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, joint ventures and strategic alliances, and/or disposes of some of its
assets, as part of its business strategy. AbbVie may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the
expected benefits. If AbbVie is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require
significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. AbbVie may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing
business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. AbbVie could also experience negative effects on its reported results
of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets.
These effects could cause a deterioration of AbbVie's credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.
Additionally, changes in AbbVie's structure, operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from major transactions such as acquisitions, divestitures,
mergers, alliances, joint ventures, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, may result in greater than expected costs, may take longer than expected to
complete or encounter other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approval where appropriate.
AbbVie is dependent on wholesale distributors for distribution of its products in the United States and, accordingly, its business and results of operations could
be adversely affected if they encounter financial or other difficulties.
In 2023, three wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) accounted for substantially all of
AbbVie's pharmaceutical product sales in the United States. If one of its significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, such
distributor may decrease the amount of business that it does with AbbVie, and AbbVie may be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes it on a
timely basis or at all, which could adversely affect AbbVie's business and results of operations.
AbbVie has debt obligations that could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations.
The amount of debt that AbbVie has incurred and intends to incur could have important consequences to AbbVie and its investors. These consequences
include, among other things, requiring a portion of AbbVie's cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt and reducing the cash flow
available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow AbbVie's business. To the extent AbbVie incurs additional indebtedness or
interest rates increase, these risks could increase further. In addition, AbbVie's cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding
debt as it becomes due, and AbbVie may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance its debt.
AbbVie may need additional financing in the future to meet its capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on
favorable terms, if at all.
AbbVie may need additional financing in the future to meet its capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions. For example, it may need to increase its
investment in research and development activities. The capital and credit markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption, which may lead to
uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors, and AbbVie may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to it,
if at all. If AbbVie loses its investment grade credit rating or adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, AbbVie may be unable to fund its expansion,
successfully develop or enhance products, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect AbbVie's business. If AbbVie raises
additional funds by issuing debt or entering into credit facilities, it may be subject to limitations on its operations due to restrictive covenants. Failure to comply
with these covenants could adversely affect AbbVie's business.
AbbVie depends on information technology and a failure of, or significant disruption to, those systems could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's
business.
AbbVie relies on sophisticated software applications and complex information technology systems (including cloud services) to operate its business, which
are inherently vulnerable to malicious intrusion, random attack, loss of data privacy, disruption, degradation or breakdown. Certain of these applications and
systems are managed, hosted, provided or used by third parties. Data privacy or security breaches of our internal systems or those of our information technology
vendors may in the future result in the failure of critical business operations. Such breaches may cause sensitive data, including intellectual property, trade
secrets or personal information belonging to AbbVie, its patients, customers or business partners, to be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. To date,
neither AbbVie’s business nor operations have been materially impacted by such incidents, however, the healthcare industry remains a target of cyber-attacks.
Cybersecurity attacks and incidents are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity and, due to the nature of some of these attacks, there
|
21 2023 Form 10-Kis a risk that they may remain undetected for a period of time. AbbVie’s investments in the protection of its data and information technology and its efforts to
monitor its systems on an ongoing basis may be insufficient to prevent compromises in AbbVie's information technology systems that could have a material
adverse effect on AbbVie's business. Such adverse consequences could include loss of revenue or the loss of critical or sensitive information from AbbVie’s or
third-party providers’ databases or information technology systems and could also result in legal, financial, reputational or business harm to AbbVie and
potentially substantial remediation costs. In addition, AbbVie’s cyber insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses
that may result from an interruption or breach of AbbVie systems or those of our third-party vendors.
AbbVie’s balances of intangible assets, including developed product rights and goodwill acquired, are subject to impairment testing and may result in
impairment charges, which may adversely affect AbbVie’s results of operations and financial condition.
A significant amount of AbbVie’s total assets is related to acquired intangibles and goodwill. As of December 31, 2023, the carrying value of AbbVie’s
developed product rights and other intangible assets was $55.6 billion and the carrying value of AbbVie’s goodwill was $32.3 billion.
AbbVie’s developed product rights are stated at cost, less accumulated amortization. AbbVie determines original fair value and amortization periods for
developed product rights based on its assessment of various factors impacting estimated useful lives and cash flows of the acquired products. Significant
adverse changes to any of these factors require AbbVie to perform an impairment test on the affected asset and, if evidence of impairment exists, require AbbVie to
take an impairment charge with respect to the asset. For assets that are not impaired, AbbVie may adjust the remaining useful lives. Such a charge could adversely
affect AbbVie’s results of operations and financial condition.
AbbVie’s other significant intangible assets include in-process research and development (IPR&D) intangible projects, acquired in recent business
combinations, which are indefinite-lived intangible assets. For IPR&D assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets
ultimately will yield successful products. AbbVie's ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things,
regulatory approvals and market conditions. As such, IPR&D assets may become impaired and/or be written off at some point in the future if the associated
research and development effort is abandoned or is curtailed.
Goodwill and AbbVie’s IPR&D intangible assets are tested for impairment annually, or when events occur, or circumstances change that could potentially
reduce the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset. Impairment testing compares the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset to its carrying
amount. A goodwill or IPR&D impairment, if any, would be recorded in operating income and could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie’s results of
operations and financial condition.
Failure to attract, develop and retain highly qualified personnel could affect AbbVie’s ability to successfully develop and commercialize products.
AbbVie’s success is largely dependent on its continued ability to attract, develop and retain diverse, highly qualified scientific, technical and management
personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical research and development, governmental regulation and commercialization. Competition for qualified
personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense and increasing. AbbVie cannot be sure that it will be able to attract and retain quality personnel or that the
costs of doing so will not materially increase.
The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit or unregistered versions of AbbVie products could have a material adverse impact on its
reputation, business and results of operations.
Third parties may illegally obtain, distribute, and sell counterfeit or illegally diverted from their intended market versions of AbbVie products. These
versions of product would not meet AbbVie's rigorous manufacturing, testing, distribution and quality standards. A patient who receives a counterfeit, stolen, or
diverted drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. The prevalence of counterfeit/diverted medicines is an industry-wide issue due to a
variety of factors, including the adoption of e-commerce, which increased during the COVID-19 pandemic, greatly enhancing consumers' ability to obtain
prescriptions and other medical treatments via the internet in lieu of traditional brick and mortar pharmacies. This can expose patients to greater risks as the
internet is a preferred vehicle for dangerous counterfeit/diverted product offers and scams because of the anonymity it affords. AbbVie's reputation and business
could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit
2023 Form 10-K | 22or diverted drugs sold under its brand name which may also result in reduced revenues that could negatively affect our results of operation.
Other factors can have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's profitability and financial condition.
Many other factors can affect AbbVie's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including:
• changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, product marketing
application standards, data privacy laws, particularly in the European Union and the United States and environmental laws;
• differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for pension and post-employment
benefits, stock-based compensation, intangibles and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation and contingent consideration, the
absence of a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the minimum, compared to the actual amount;
• changes in the rate of inflation (including the cost of raw materials, commodities and supplies), interest rates, market value of AbbVie's equity
investments and the performance of investments held by it or its employee benefit trusts;
• changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to AbbVie or its employee benefit trusts;
• environmental liabilities in connection with AbbVie’s manufacturing processes and distribution logistics, including the handling of hazardous
materials;
• changes in the ability of third parties that provide information technology, accounting, human resources, payroll and other outsourced services to
AbbVie to meet their contractual obligations to AbbVie;
• the failure, or perceived failure, of achieving environmental, social and governance objectives;
• information loss or damage to AbbVie's reputation, brand, image or goodwill due to increased use of social media platforms;
• business interruptions stemming from natural disasters, such as climate change, earthquakes, hurricanes, flooding, fires, or efforts taken by third
parties to prevent or mitigate such disasters; and
• changes in business, economic and political conditions, including: war, political instability, terrorist attacks, the threat of future terrorist activity
and related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor disputes, strikes, slow-
downs, or other forms of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups.
Risks Related to AbbVie's Common Stock
AbbVie cannot guarantee the timing, amount, or payment of dividends on its common stock or the repurchase of its common stock.
Although AbbVie expects to pay regular cash dividends, the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to stockholders will fall within the
discretion of AbbVie's board of directors. The board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as AbbVie's financial
condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that the board
deems relevant. For more information, see Item 5, "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities." AbbVie's ability to pay dividends and repurchase shares under its share repurchase program will depend on its ongoing ability to generate cash from
operations and access capital markets. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will continue to pay a dividend in the future.
An AbbVie stockholder's percentage of ownership in AbbVie may be diluted in the future.
In the future, a stockholder's percentage ownership in AbbVie may be diluted because of equity issuances for capital market transactions, equity awards
that AbbVie will be granting to AbbVie's directors, officers and employees, acquisitions or other purposes. AbbVie anticipates its compensation committee will
grant additional stock options or other stock-based awards to its employees. Such awards will have a dilutive effect on AbbVie's earnings per share, which could
adversely affect the market price of AbbVie's common stock. From time to time, AbbVie will issue additional options or other stock-based awards to its employees
under AbbVie's employee benefits plans.
|
23 2023 Form 10-KIn addition, AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes AbbVie to issue, without the approval of AbbVie's stockholders, one or
more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including
preferences over AbbVie's common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as AbbVie's board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or
more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of AbbVie's common stock. For example, AbbVie could grant the holders
of preferred stock the right to elect some number of AbbVie's directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified
transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences AbbVie could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual
value of the common stock.
Certain provisions in AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or
delay an acquisition of AbbVie, which could decrease the trading price of AbbVie's common stock.
AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are
intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by encouraging prospective acquirors to negotiate with AbbVie's board of directors
rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:
• the inability of AbbVie's stockholders to call a special meeting;
• the division of AbbVie's board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term;
• a provision that stockholders may only remove directors for cause;
• the ability of AbbVie's directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on AbbVie's board of directors; and
• the requirement that the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least 80% of AbbVie's voting stock is required to amend certain provisions in
AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and AbbVie's amended and restated by-laws relating to the number, term and election of
AbbVie's directors, the filling of board vacancies, the calling of special meetings of stockholders and director and officer indemnification provisions.
In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a
person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that
corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its
affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock.
AbbVie believes these provisions protect its stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate
with AbbVie's board of directors and by providing AbbVie's board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not
intended to make the company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and
could delay or prevent an acquisition that AbbVie's board of directors determines is not in the best interests of AbbVie and AbbVie's stockholders. These
provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.
2023 Form 10-K | 24CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements regarding business strategies, market potential, future financial performance
and other matters. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project" and similar expressions and uses of future or conditional verbs, generally identify
"forward looking statements," which speak only as of the date the statements were made. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject
to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. In
particular, information included under Item 1, "Business," Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" contain forward looking statements. Where, in any forward looking statement, an expectation or belief as to future results or events is
expressed or implied, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of AbbVie management and expressed in good faith and believed
to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. Factors that could cause
actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated include, but are not limited to, the matters described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Item 7,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." AbbVie does not undertake, and specifically declines, any obligation
to update the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, unless AbbVie is
required by applicable securities law to do so.
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY
We rely on complex information technology systems and various software applications to operate our business. We have developed a comprehensive
cybersecurity program designed to protect our systems and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our data.
We have implemented processes that are intended to assess, identify, manage and reduce cybersecurity risks. We maintain a global incident response plan
and disaster recovery management plan, each designed to protect against, identify, evaluate, respond to and recover from an incident. These plans anticipate an
array of potential scenarios and provide for the assembly of a cybersecurity incident response team in the event of a cyber incident. The incident response team is
a cross-functional group that may be composed of both company personnel and external service providers, and which is tailored to a particular incident so that
individuals with appropriate experience and expertise are available. We regularly conduct exercises to help ensure the plans’ effectiveness and our overall
preparedness.
We also have invested in tools and technologies to protect our and our patients', customers' and business partners' data and information technology, and
we regularly monitor our information technology systems and infrastructure to identify and assess cybersecurity risks. We have designed a Threat Intelligence
function that actively looks for risks that target the pharmaceutical industry generally or AbbVie specifically. We rely in part on third parties (including
assessors, consultants, advisors and others) in connection with our processes for assessing, identifying, managing and reducing cyber risks.
In addition, we have implemented a cybersecurity awareness program designed to educate and train our entire employee network on how to identify and
report cybersecurity threats. Training programs are conducted on a periodic basis and are focused on giving employees tools to manage and defend against the
most relevant and prevalent cybersecurity risks to AbbVie. We also provide specialized training for employees in specialized information technology roles. We
conduct regular drills, such as tabletop exercises, to help with our overall preparedness.
We take measures to regularly update and improve our cybersecurity program, including conducting independent program assessments, penetration testing
and scanning of our systems for vulnerabilities. We follow the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework and undergo a
third-party assessment every two years to measure the maturity of our cybersecurity program against the NIST Cybersecurity Framework. In addition, we
periodically engage third-party advisors to assess the effectiveness and capabilities of our cybersecurity program, strengthen our cybersecurity policies and
practices and identify potential vulnerabilities of our systems.
With respect to third-party service providers, our information security program includes conducting due diligence of relevant service providers’
information security programs prior to onboarding. We also contractually require third-party service providers with access to our information technology
systems, sensitive business data or personally identifiable
|
25 2023 Form 10-Kinformation to implement and maintain appropriate security controls and contractually restrict their ability to use our data, including personally identifiable
information, for purposes other than to provide services to us, except as required by law. To oversee the risks associated with these service providers, we work
with them to help ensure that their cybersecurity protocols are appropriate to the risk presented by their access to or use of our systems and/or data, including
notification and coordination concerning incidents occurring on third-party systems that may affect us. These relevant service providers are contractually
required to notify us promptly of information security incidents that may affect our systems or data, including personally identifiable information. While we
conduct due diligence on the security and business controls of our third-party service providers and take steps to monitor their compliance with our security
requirements, we may not have the ability in all cases to effectively monitor or oversee the implementation of these control measures.
As of December 31, 2023, cybersecurity risks have not materially affected our business, strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. Although we
have invested in the protection of our data and information technology and monitor our systems on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that such efforts
will in the future prevent material compromises to our information technology systems that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We maintain
cybersecurity insurance coverage to mitigate our financial exposure to certain incidents. For additional information about our cybersecurity risks, see Item 1A,
"Risk Factors - AbbVie depends on information technology and a failure of, or significant disruption to, those systems could have a material adverse effect on
AbbVie's business."
Our board of directors has risk oversight responsibility for AbbVie and administers this responsibility both directly and with assistance from its
committees. Each of the committees periodically reports to the board of directors on its risk oversight activities. Cybersecurity is a critical component of our
enterprise risk management program, which is designed to be business aligned, risk-focused and multi-faceted to protect our and our patients', customers' and
business partners' data. Our board of directors is actively involved in reviewing our information security and technology risks and opportunities (including
cybersecurity) and discusses these topics on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee, comprised solely of independent directors, oversees our enterprise risk management program and assists the board of directors in
fulfilling its oversight responsibility with respect to our information security and technology risks (including cybersecurity), which are fully integrated into our
enterprise risk management program. The Audit Committee reviews and discusses our information security and technology risks (such as cybersecurity), including
our information security and risk management programs.
Our cybersecurity program is led by our Chief Information Security Officer, who is responsible for assessing and managing our information security and
technology risks (including cybersecurity). He has more than 25 years of experience in information security and information technology risk management, holding
chief information security officer positions with Fortune 500 companies in the retail, healthcare and life sciences industries. He has also served on the Health-
ISAC board of directors and is a Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP).
Our Chief Information Security Officer meets regularly with our information technology teams as well as other members of management to review and
discuss our cybersecurity and other information technology risks and opportunities. Our global incident response plan sets forth a detailed security incident
management and reporting protocol, with escalation timelines and responsibilities.
The Audit Committee receives regular updates from the Chief Information Security Officer and other members of management on our cybersecurity program,
including on information security and technology risks, program assessments, and risk management practices. Our Chief Information Security Officer also
provides similar topical updates to the full board of directors at least annually.
2023 Form 10-K | 26ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
AbbVie's corporate offices are located at 1 North Waukegan Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064-6400. As of December 31, 2023, AbbVie owns or leases
approximately 620 facilities worldwide, containing an aggregate of approximately 19.5 million square feet of floor space dedicated to production, distribution
and administration. AbbVie's significant manufacturing facilities are in the following locations:
United States Outside the United States
Abbott Park, Illinois* Campoverde di Aprilia, Italy
Barceloneta, Puerto Rico Clonshaugh, Ireland
Branchburg, New Jersey* La Aurora, Costa Rica
Campbell, California Ludwigshafen, Germany
Cincinnati, Ohio Pringy, France
Dublin, California* Singapore*
Irvine, California Sligo, Ireland
North Chicago, Illinois Westport, Ireland*
Waco, Texas
Worcester, Massachusetts*
Wyandotte, Michigan*
_______________________________________________________________________________
* Leased property.
AbbVie believes its facilities are suitable and provide adequate production capacity for its current and projected operations. There are no material
encumbrances on AbbVie's owned properties.
AbbVie distributes products through a network of central and regional distribution centers, with its central distribution centers located in the U.S. and
Europe. AbbVie also has research and development facilities in the United States located at: Abbott Park, Illinois; Branchburg, New Jersey; Cambridge,
Massachusetts; Irvine, California; Madison, New Jersey; North Chicago, Illinois; Pleasanton, California; South San Francisco, California; and Worcester,
Massachusetts. Outside the United States, AbbVie's principal research and development facilities are located in Ludwigshafen, Germany.
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Information pertaining to legal proceedings is provided in Note 15, "Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
|
27 2023 Form 10-KINFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
Name Age Position
Richard A. Gonzalez 70 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Robert A. Michael 53 President and Chief Operating Officer
Scott T. Reents 56 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Nicholas J. Donoghoe, M.D. 43 Executive Vice President, Chief Business and Strategy Officer
Timothy J. Richmond 57 Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer
Azita Saleki-Gerhardt, Ph.D. 60 Executive Vice President, Chief Operations Officer
Perry C. Siatis 49 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
Jeffrey R. Stewart 55 Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer
Kevin K. Buckbee 58 Senior Vice President, Controller
Thomas J. Hudson, M.D. 62 Senior Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer, Global Research
Roopal Thakkar, M.D. 52 Senior Vice President, Chief Medical Officer, Global Therapeutics
_______________________________________________________________________________
Mr. Gonzalez is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AbbVie, a position he has held since 2013. He served as Abbott’s Executive Vice President of the
pharmaceutical products group from July 2010 to December 2012, and was responsible for Abbott’s worldwide pharmaceutical business, including commercial
operations, research and development, and manufacturing. He also served as President, Abbott Ventures Inc., Abbott’s medical technology investment arm, from
2009 to 2011. Mr. Gonzalez joined Abbott in 1977 and held various management positions before briefly retiring in 2007, including: Abbott’s President and Chief
Operating Officer; President, Chief Operating Officer of Abbott’s Medical Products Group; Senior Vice President and President of Abbott’s former Hospital
Products Division; Vice President and President of Abbott’s Health Systems Division; and Divisional Vice President and General Manager for Abbott’s Diagnostics
Operations in the United States and Canada. On February 14, 2024, the Board of Directors of AbbVie unanimously selected Mr. Michael to succeed Mr. Gonzalez
as the Company's Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Gonzalez will retire from the role of Chief Executive Officer and become Executive Chairman of the Board of
Directors, effective July 1, 2024.
Mr. Michael is AbbVie’s President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Michael previously served as Vice Chairman and President from June 2022 to July 2023,
as Vice Chairman, Finance and Commercial Operations and Chief Financial Officer from June 2021 to June 2022, as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer from 2019 to 2021, as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer from 2018 to 2019 and as Vice President, Controller from 2017 to 2018. He served as
AbbVie’s Vice President, Treasurer from 2015 to 2016, as Vice President, Controller, Commercial Operations from 2013 to 2015 and as Vice President, Financial
Planning and Analysis from 2012 to 2013. At Abbott, Mr. Michael served as Division Controller, Nutrition Supply Chain from 2010 to 2012. Mr. Michael joined
Abbott in 1993 and was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in March 2017. On February 14, 2024, the Board of Directors of AbbVie unanimously
selected Mr. Michael to succeed Mr. Gonzalez as the Company's Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Gonzalez will retire from the role of Chief Executive Officer and
become Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, effective July 1, 2024. The Board also appointed Mr. Michael as a member of the Board of Directors as a
Class II director, effective July 1, 2024.
Mr. Reents is AbbVie’s Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer from June
2022 to November 2022, as Vice President, Tax and Treasury from 2019 to June 2022, and as Vice President, Tax from 2013 to 2019. Mr. Reents joined Abbott in
2008 and was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in June 2022.
Dr. Donoghoe is AbbVie’s Executive Vice President, Chief Business and Strategy Officer. He has previously served as AbbVie’s Senior Vice President, Chief
Operating Officer, R&D from 2022 to 2023, as Senior Vice President, Portfolio Innovation from 2021 to 2022, as Senior Vice President, Global Strategy and
Operations, Allergan Aesthetics, from 2020 to 2021, and as Senior Vice President, Enterprise Innovation from 2019 to 2020. Prior to joining AbbVie in 2019, he
served as a Partner at McKinsey & Company where he was a leader of the firm's Pharma and Biotechnology practice for over a decade.
Mr. Richmond is AbbVie’s Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer. He served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources from 2013 to 2018.
Mr. Richmond served as Abbott’s Divisional Vice President of Compensation & Benefits from 2008 to 2012, as Group Vice President of Talent and Rewards from
2007 to 2008 and as Divisional Vice President of Talent Acquisition from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Richmond joined Abbott in 2006 and was first appointed as an AbbVie
corporate officer in December 2012.
2023 Form 10-K | 28Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt is AbbVie’s Executive Vice President, Chief Operations Officer. She served as Executive Vice President, Operations from 2018 to July
2023, and as Senior Vice President, Operations from 2013 to 2018. Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt served as Abbott’s Vice President, Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing and
Supply from 2011 to 2012, and as Divisional Vice President, Quality Assurance, Global Pharmaceutical Operations from 2008 to 2011. Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt joined
Abbott in 1993 and was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in December 2012. She serves on the board of Entegris Inc.
Mr. Siatis is AbbVie’s Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Mr. Siatis previously served as Senior Vice President, Deputy General
Counsel from September 2021 until October 2022. From 2013 until 2021, Mr. Siatis also served in various roles including as Senior Vice President, Legal and Chief
Ethics and Compliance Officer; Senior Vice President of Legal Transactions and R&D/Alliance Management and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer; and Vice
President, Biologic Strategic Development and Legal Regulatory. Mr. Siatis joined Abbott in 2005 and was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in
October 2022.
Mr. Stewart is AbbVie’s Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer. He previously served as Senior Vice President, U.S. Commercial Operations from
2018 to 2020 and as AbbVie’s President, Commercial Operations from 2013 to 2018. Prior to AbbVie’s separation from Abbott, he served as Vice President, Abbott
Proprietary Pharmaceutical Division, United States. Mr. Stewart joined Abbott in 1992 and was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in December 2018.
Mr. Buckbee is AbbVie’s Senior Vice President, Controller. Mr. Buckbee previously served as AbbVie’s Vice President, Controller, Global Commercial
Operations from January 2016 until March 2023, and as Vice President, Controller, US Commercial Operations from AbbVie’s separation from Abbott in 2013
until December 2015. Mr. Buckbee joined Abbott in 1991 and held several positions in the finance organization.
Dr. Hudson is AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer, Global Research. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Research &
Development and Chief Scientific Officer from 2019 to 2023, and as Vice President, Head of Oncology Discovery and Early Development from 2016 to 2019. Prior
to joining AbbVie, Dr. Hudson served at the Ontario Institute for Cancer Research as President and Scientific Director. He also previously served as Founder and
Director of the McGill University and Genome Quebec Innovation Centre and Assistant Director of the Whitehead/MIT Center for Genome Research. Dr. Hudson
was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in July 2019.
Dr. Thakkar serves as AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Chief Medical Officer, Global Therapeutics. He previously served as Senior Vice President of
Development and Regulatory Affairs and Chief Medical Officer at AbbVie from late 2022 until early December 2023, as Vice President, Global Regulatory Affairs
and R&D Quality Assurance from 2019 to 2022, and as Vice President, Global Regulatory Affairs from 2015 to 2019. Dr. Thakkar joined Abbott in 2003 and was
first appointed as a corporate officer in December 2023.
The executive officers of AbbVie are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers are elected by the board or appointed by the Chairman of
the Board. All officers are either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual stockholder meeting or appointed by the Chairman of
the Board after that board meeting. Each officer holds office until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officer's death,
resignation, or removal. There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers listed above.
|
29 2023 Form 10-KPART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES
Principal Market
The principal market for AbbVie's common stock is the New York Stock Exchange (Symbol: ABBV). AbbVie's common stock is also listed on the Chicago Stock
Exchange and traded on various regional and electronic exchanges.
Stockholders
There were 42,369 stockholders of record of AbbVie common stock as of January 31, 2024.
Performance Graph
The following graph compares the cumulative total returns of AbbVie, the S&P 500 Index and the NYSE Arca Pharmaceuticals Index for the period from
December 31, 2018 through December 31, 2023. This graph assumes $100 was invested in AbbVie common stock and each index on December 31, 2018 and also
assumes the reinvestment of dividends. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.
This performance graph is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" with the SEC or subject to Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it
be deemed incorporated by reference in any of AbbVie's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
2023 Form 10-K | 30Dividends
On October 26, 2023, AbbVie's board of directors declared an increase in the quarterly cash dividend from $1.48 per share to $1.55 per share, payable on
February 15, 2024, to stockholders of record as of January 16, 2024. The timing, declaration, amount of and payment of any dividends by AbbVie in the future is
within the discretion of its board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including AbbVie's financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of its
operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice,
ability to access capital markets and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors. Moreover, if AbbVie determines to pay any dividend in the future,
there can be no assurance that it will continue to pay such dividends or the amount of such dividends.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Total
Number of
Shares (or Units)
Total Purchased as Part Maximum Number (or
Number Average of Publicly Approximate Dollar Value) of
of Shares Price Announced Shares (or Units) that May
(or Units) Paid per Share Plans or Yet Be Purchased Under the
Period Purchased (or Unit) Programs Plans or Programs
October 1, 2023 - October 31, 2023 952 (1) $ 147.82 (1) — $ 4,808,991,028
November 1, 2023 - November 30, 2023 1,175 (1) $ 141.94 (1) — $ 4,808,991,028
December 1, 2023 - December 31, 2023 26,320 (1) $ 153.02 (1) — $ 4,808,991,028
Total 28,447 (1) $ 152.39 (1) — $ 4,808,991,028
1. In addition to AbbVie shares repurchased on the open market under a publicly announced program, if any, these shares also included the shares purchased
on the open market for the benefit of participants in the AbbVie Employee Stock Purchase Plan – 952 in October; 1,175 in November; and 26,320 in
December.
These shares do not include the shares surrendered to AbbVie to satisfy minimum tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting or exercise of
stock-based awards.
|
31 2023 Form 10-KITEM 6. [RESERVED]
2023 Form 10-K | 32ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company). This commentary should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes appearing in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." This
section of Form 10-K generally discusses 2023 and 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022. Discussions of 2021 items and year-to-
year comparisons between 2022 and 2021 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022.
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW
Company Overview
AbbVie is a global, diversified research-based biopharmaceutical company positioned for success with a comprehensive product portfolio that has
leadership positions across immunology, oncology, aesthetics, neuroscience and eye care. AbbVie uses its expertise, dedicated people and unique approach to
innovation to develop and market advanced therapies that address some of the world’s most complex and serious diseases.
AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies and
independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Certain products (including aesthetic products and devices) are also sold
directly to physicians and other licensed healthcare providers. In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent
wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to retailers, pharmacies, patients or other customers. Outside the United States, AbbVie sells products primarily
to wholesalers or through distributors, and depending on the market works through largely centralized national payers systems to agree on reimbursement terms.
Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie operates as a single global business segment and has approximately 50,000
employees.
2024 Strategic Objectives
AbbVie's mission is to discover and develop innovative medicines and products that solve serious health issues today and address the medical challenges
of tomorrow while achieving top-tier financial performance through outstanding execution. AbbVie intends to execute its strategy and advance its mission in a
number of ways, including: (i) maximizing the benefits of a diversified revenue base with multiple long-term growth drivers; (ii) leveraging AbbVie's commercial
strength and international infrastructure across therapeutic areas and ensuring strong commercial execution of new product launches; (iii) continuing to invest
in and expand its pipeline in support of opportunities in immunology, oncology, aesthetics, neuroscience and eye care as well as continued investment in key on-
market products; (iv) generating substantial operating cash flows to support investment in innovative research and development, and return cash to shareholders
via a strong and growing dividend while also continuing to repay debt. In addition, AbbVie anticipates several regulatory submissions and data readouts from key
clinical trials in the next 12 months.
AbbVie expects to achieve its strategic objectives through:
• Skyrizi and Rinvoq revenue growth driven by increasing market share and Skyrizi indication expansion.
• Successful integration of the ImmunoGen, Inc. and proposed Cerevel Therapeutics acquisitions.
• Advancing our oncology portfolio driven by Venclexta, strong commercial execution of Epkinly, Elahere and other new product launches and
effectively managing regulatory, market and competitive challenges impacting Imbruvica.
• Aesthetics revenue growth driven by global expansion, increasing market penetration of Botox and Juvederm Collection and strong commercial
execution of new product launches.
• Neuroscience revenue growth driven by Vraylar, Botox Therapeutic, Ubrelvy and Qulipta as well as strong commercial execution of new product
launches.
• Maximizing AbbVie's existing eye care portfolio.
• Continuing to effectively manage the impact of Humira biosimilar erosion.
|
33 2023 Form 10-K• The favorable impact of pipeline products and indications recently approved or currently under regulatory review where approval is expected in
2024. These products are described in greater detail in the section labeled "Research and Development" included as part of this Item 7.
2023 Financial Results
AbbVie's strategy has focused on delivering strong financial results, maximizing the benefits of a diversified revenue base, advancing and investing in its
pipeline and returning value to shareholders while ensuring a strong, sustainable growth business over the long term. The company's financial performance in
2023 included delivering worldwide net revenues of $54.3 billion, operating earnings of $12.8 billion, diluted earnings per share of $2.72 and cash flows from
operations of $22.8 billion. Worldwide net revenues decreased by 6% on a reported and constant currency basis due to Humira biosimilar competition which was
partially offset by growth across the non-Humira product portfolio.
Diluted earnings per share in 2023 was $2.72 and included the following after-tax costs: (i) $6.7 billion related to the amortization of intangible assets; (ii)
$5.0 billion for the change in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities; (iii) $3.5 billion related to intangible asset impairment; and (iv) $122 million of
acquisition and integration expenses. These costs were partially offset by an after-tax gain of $381 million related to a favorable settlement of a litigation matter.
Additionally, financial results reflected continued funding to support all stages of AbbVie’s pipeline assets and continued investment in AbbVie’s on-market
brands.
Regulation
The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 has and will continue to have a significant impact on how drugs are covered and paid for under the Medicare program,
including through the creation of financial penalties for drugs whose price increases outpace inflation, the redesign of Medicare Part D benefits to shift a greater
portion of the costs to manufacturers, and through government price-setting for certain Medicare Part B and Part D drugs. In 2023, Imbruvica was selected as one
of the first 10 medicines subject to government-set prices beginning in 2026. The price-setting process will conclude in 2024 and the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services will publish prices that will be applicable to the 10 selected drugs beginning in 2026. It is possible that more of our products, including
products that generate substantial revenues, could be selected in future years, which could, among other things, accelerate revenue erosion prior to expiration of
intellectual property protections. The effect of reducing prices and reimbursement for certain of our products would significantly impact our results of
operations. See Part I, Item 1 “Business – Regulation – Commercialization, Distribution and Manufacturing,” Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” and Note 7 to the
consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Research and Development
Research and innovation are the cornerstones of AbbVie's business as a global biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie's long-term success depends to a great
extent on its ability to continue to discover and develop innovative products and acquire or collaborate on compounds currently in development by other
biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies.
AbbVie's pipeline currently includes approximately 90 compounds, devices or indications in development individually or under collaboration or license
agreements and is focused on such important specialties as immunology, oncology, aesthetics, neuroscience and eye care. Of these programs, approximately 50
are in mid- and late-stage development.
The following sections summarize transitions of significant programs from mid-stage development to late-stage development as well as developments in
significant late-stage and registration programs. AbbVie expects multiple mid-stage programs to transition into late-stage programs in the next 12 months.
Significant Programs and Developments
Immunology
Rinvoq
• In March 2023, the European Commission (EC) issued their final decision on the European Medicines Agency’s (EMA) review of the benefit-risk of
medicines in the JAK inhibitor class for the treatment of inflammatory diseases, including Rinvoq. Confirming the Committee for Medicinal Products
for Human Use (CHMP) opinion, the previously approved Rinvoq indication statements were not changed and the dosage and special warnings for all
JAK inhibitors were updated to include additional information about the risks associated with JAK inhibitors.
2023 Form 10-K | 34• In April 2023, AbbVie announced that the EC approved Rinvoq for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease who have
had an inadequate response, lost response or were intolerant to either conventional therapy or a biologic agent.
• In May 2023, AbbVie announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Rinvoq for the treatment of adults with moderately to
severely active Crohn’s disease who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers.
• In July 2023, AbbVie initiated its Phase 3 Step-Up HS study to evaluate efficacy and safety of Rinvoq in adults and adolescents with moderate to
severe hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) who have failed anti-TNF therapy and/or one approved non-anti-TNF inhibitor therapy for HS.
• In August 2023, AbbVie initiated its Phase 3 Select-SLE study to evaluate Rinvoq in moderate to severe systemic Lupus Erythematosus.
• In January 2024, AbbVie initiated a Phase 3 study to evaluate Rinvoq in adults and adolescents with non-segmental vitiligo who are eligible for
systemic therapy.
Skyrizi
• In March 2023, AbbVie announced positive top-line results from its Phase 3 induction study, INSPIRE, for Skyrizi in patients with moderately to
severely active ulcerative colitis met the primary and all secondary endpoints.
• In June 2023, AbbVie announced positive top-line results from its Phase 3 maintenance study, COMMAND, for Skyrizi in patients with moderately to
severely active ulcerative colitis met the primary and key secondary endpoints.
• In July 2023, AbbVie announced results from the head-to-head Phase 4 IMMpulse study that evaluated the efficacy and safety of Skyrizi compared to
Otezla among adult patients with moderate plaque psoriasis (PsO) eligible for systemic therapy. In the study, significantly more patients achieved
co-primary endpoints with Skyrizi versus Otezla. Skyrizi was well-tolerated with no new safety signals identified.
• In August 2023, AbbVie submitted regulatory applications to FDA and EMA for Skyrizi for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active
ulcerative colitis.
• In September 2023, AbbVie announced results from the head-to-head Phase 3 SEQUENCE study that evaluated the efficacy and safety of Skyrizi
compared to Stelara among adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease. In the study, Skyrizi met both primary endpoints at
week 24 and achieved superiority of endoscopic remission at week 48 versus Stelara. In addition, all secondary endpoints achieved statistical
significance for superiority versus Stelara. Skyrizi was well-tolerated with no new safety signals identified.
Lutikizumab
• In January 2024, AbbVie announced Phase 2 results showing adults with moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) who had previously failed
anti-TNF therapy who received lutikizumab achieved higher response rates than placebo in the primary endpoint of achieving HS Clinical Response at
week 16. Based on these data, AbbVie will advance its clinical program of lutikizumab in HS to Phase 3.
Oncology
Epkinly
• In March 2023, AbbVie initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial to evaluate epcoritamab in combination with R-CHOP compared to R-CHOP in patients with
newly diagnosed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL).
• In May 2023, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved Epkinly (epcoritamab) as the first bispecific antibody to treat adult patients with relapsed or
refractory (R/R) DLBCL.
• In September 2023, AbbVie announced that the EC approved Tepkinly (epcoritamab) for adults with R/R DLBCL after two or more lines of systemic
therapy.
• In November 2023, AbbVie announced that the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation to Epkinly for the treatment of adult patients with R/R
follicular lymphoma after two or more therapies. Additionally, the EMA has validated a Type II application for Tepkinly for the same indication.
|
35 2023 Form 10-K• In December 2023, AbbVie and Genmab submitted a supplemental biological license application to the FDA for epcoritamab for the treatment of
patients with R/R follicular lymphoma.
Imbruvica
• In May 2023, AbbVie voluntarily withdrew, in the U.S., accelerated Imbruvica approvals for patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who have
received at least one prior therapy and with marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) who require systemic therapy and have received at least one prior anti-
CD20-based therapy. This voluntary action is due to requirements related to the accelerated approval status granted by the FDA for MCL and MZL.
Other approved indications for Imbruvica in the U.S. are not affected.
Navitoclax
• In July 2023, AbbVie announced top-line results from the Phase 3 TRANSFORM-1 clinical trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of navitoclax, a BCL-
XL/BCL-2 inhibitor, in combination with ruxolitinib in adult patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis (MF). The combination of navitoclax
and ruxolitinib met the study’s primary endpoint, demonstrating statistically significant improvement in the number of patients who achieved Spleen
Volume Reduction of at least 35 percent at week 24 compared to treatment with ruxolitinib and a placebo. The study did not meet the first ranked
secondary endpoint of improvement in patients’ Total Symptom Score from baseline to week 24. The company plans to engage with regulatory
agencies regarding potential next steps.
Teliso-V
• In November 2023, AbbVie announced positive top-line results from the Phase 2 LUMINOSITY trial evaluating telisotuzumab-vedotin (Teliso-V) in
patients with c-Met protein overexpression, epidermal growth factor receptor wild type, advanced/metastatic nonsquamous non-small cell lung
cancer. The results demonstrated a compelling overall response rate per independent central review of 35 percent and 23 percent across c-Met High
and c-Met Intermediate patients, with no new safety risks detected. AbbVie will discuss with global health authorities the potential to support an
accelerated approval.
Venclexta
• In September 2023, AbbVie announced top-line results from the Phase 3 CANOVA study evaluating the safety and efficacy of Venclexta plus
dexamethasone (VenDex) for patients with t(11;14)-positive relapsed or refractory (R/R) multiple myeloma who have received two or more prior
treatments. The data did not demonstrate that the treatment combination significantly improved progression-free survival (PFS), the primary
endpoint of the trial. Patients receiving VenDex showed improvement in median PFS with the combination of study comparator pomalidomide and
dexamethasone (PomDex); however, the results did not reach statistical significance. The company is discussing the data with health authorities to
further understand the potential of Venclexta as a biomarker-driven therapy in multiple myeloma.
Aesthetics
Juvederm Collection
• In May 2023, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved Skinvive by Juvederm to improve skin smoothness of the cheeks in adults over the age of 21.
Botox Cosmetic
• In September 2023, AbbVie announced positive top-line results from the second of three Phase 3 clinical studies evaluating Botox Cosmetic for the
treatment of moderate to severe platysma prominence associated with platysma muscle activity. All primary and secondary endpoints were met in
the second Phase 3 study and results were consistent with findings from the first Phase 3 study.
• In December 2023, AbbVie submitted regulatory application to the FDA for Botox Cosmetic for the treatment of moderate to severe platysma
prominence associated with platysma muscle activity.
2023 Form 10-K | 36BoNT/E
• In October 2023, AbbVie announced positive top-line results from two pivotal Phase 3 clinical studies evaluating trenibotulinumtoxinE (BoNT/E) for
the treatment of moderate to severe glabellar lines. All primary and secondary endpoints were met for both Phase 3 studies and results support
BoNT/E as a novel botulinum neurotoxin serotype E characterized by a rapid onset of action as early as 8 hours after administration and short
duration of effect within 2-3 weeks.
Neuroscience
Qulipta
• In April 2023, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved Qulipta for the preventive treatment of chronic migraine in adults.
• In August 2023, AbbVie announced that the EC approved Aquipta (Qulipta) for the preventive treatment of migraine in adults who have four or more
migraine days per month.
ABBV-951
• In March 2023, AbbVie announced that the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter (CRL) for the New Drug Application (NDA) for ABBV-951
(foscarbidopa/foslevodopa) for the treatment of motor fluctuations in adults with advanced Parkinson’s disease. In its letter, the FDA requested
additional information about the device (pump) as part of the NDA review. The CRL did not request that AbbVie conduct additional efficacy and safety
trials related to the drug.
• In December 2023, AbbVie submitted the Complete Response Resubmission for NDA for ABBV-951.
• In January 2024, AbbVie announced the launch of Produodopa (ABBV-951) in the European Union for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease
with severe motor fluctuations and hyperkinesia (excessive movement) or dyskinesia (involuntary movement), and when available combinations of
Parkinson's medicinal products have not given satisfactory results.
|
37 2023 Form 10-KRESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Net Revenues
The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency net revenues at the prior year's foreign exchange rates. This
measure provides information on the change in net revenues assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and current
periods. AbbVie believes that the non-GAAP measure of change in net revenues at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the GAAP measure of
change in net revenues at actual currency rates, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate analysis of the
company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.
Percent change
At actual currency rates At constant currency rates
years ended
(dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2023 2022
United States $ 41,883 $ 45,713 $ 43,510 (8.4) % 5.1 % (8.4) % 5.1 %
International 12,435 12,341 12,687 0.8 % (2.7) % 3.4 % 5.5 %
Net revenues $ 54,318 $ 58,054 $ 56,197 (6.4) % 3.3 % (5.9) % 5.1 %
2023 Form 10-K | 38The following table details AbbVie's worldwide net revenues:
Percent change
At actual currency rates At constant currency rates
years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2023 2022
Immunology
Humira United States $ 12,160 $ 18,619 $ 17,330 (34.7)% 7.4 % (34.7)% 7.4 %
International 2,244 2,618 3,364 (14.3)% (22.2)% (11.8)% (14.9)%
Total $ 14,404 $ 21,237 $ 20,694 (32.2)% 2.6 % (31.9)% 3.8 %
Skyrizi United States $ 6,753 $ 4,484 $ 2,486 50.6 % 80.4 % 50.6 % 80.4 %
International 1,010 681 453 48.3 % 50.4 % 50.3 % 67.1 %
Total $ 7,763 $ 5,165 $ 2,939 50.3 % 75.7 % 50.6 % 78.3 %
Rinvoq United States $ 2,824 $ 1,794 $ 1,271 57.4 % 41.2 % 57.4 % 41.2 %
International 1,145 728 380 57.3 % 91.4 % 60.7 % >100.0 %
Total $ 3,969 $ 2,522 $ 1,651 57.4 % 52.8 % 58.4 % 58.1 %
Oncology
Imbruvica United States $ 2,665 $ 3,426 $ 4,321 (22.2)% (20.7)% (22.2)% (20.7)%
Collaboration revenues 931 1,142 1,087 (18.5)% 5.1 % (18.5)% 5.1 %
Total $ 3,596 $ 4,568 $ 5,408 (21.3)% (15.5)% (21.3)% (15.5)%
Venclexta United States $ 1,087 $ 1,009 $ 934 7.8 % 8.0 % 7.8 % 8.0 %
International 1,201 1,000 886 20.1 % 12.9 % 22.3 % 24.6 %
Total $ 2,288 $ 2,009 $ 1,820 13.9 % 10.4 % 15.0 % 16.1 %
Epkinly Collaboration Revenues $ 28 $ — $ — n/m n/m n/m n/m
International 3 — — n/m n/m n/m n/m
Total $ 31 $ — $ — n/m n/m n/m n/m
Aesthetics
Botox Cosmetic United States $ 1,670 $ 1,654 $ 1,424 1.0 % 16.2 % 1.0 % 16.2 %
International 1,012 961 808 5.3 % 18.9 % 9.7 % 28.8 %
Total $ 2,682 $ 2,615 $ 2,232 2.6 % 17.2 % 4.2 % 20.8 %
Juvederm Collection United States $ 519 $ 548 $ 658 (5.4)% (16.7)% (5.4)% (16.7)%
International 859 880 877 (2.4)% 0.3 % 1.9 % 8.9 %
Total $ 1,378 $ 1,428 $ 1,535 (3.6)% (7.0)% (0.9)% (2.1)%
Other Aesthetics United States $ 1,060 $ 1,122 $ 1,268 (5.6)% (11.5)% (5.6)% (11.5)%
International 174 168 198 3.3 % (14.9)% 8.1 % (8.3)%
Total $ 1,234 $ 1,290 $ 1,466 (4.4)% (12.0)% (3.8)% (11.1)%
Neuroscience
Botox Therapeutic United States $ 2,476 $ 2,255 $ 2,012 9.8 % 12.1 % 9.8 % 12.1 %
International 515 464 439 11.1 % 5.6 % 15.5 % 15.3 %
Total $ 2,991 $ 2,719 $ 2,451 10.0 % 10.9 % 10.8 % 12.6 %
Vraylar United States $ 2,755 $ 2,037 $ 1,728 35.2 % 17.9 % 35.2 % 17.9 %
International 4 1 — >100.0 % n/m >100.0 % n/m
Total $ 2,759 $ 2,038 $ 1,728 35.4 % 17.9 % 35.4 % 17.9 %
Duodopa United States $ 97 $ 95 $ 102 3.0 % (6.7)% 3.0 % (6.7)%
International 371 363 409 2.1 % (11.3)% 1.8 % (0.8)%
Total $ 468 $ 458 $ 511 2.3 % (10.4)% 2.1 % (2.0)%
Ubrelvy United States $ 803 $ 680 $ 552 18.2 % 23.2 % 18.2 % 23.2 %
International 12 — — >100.0 % n/m >100.0 % n/m
Total $ 815 $ 680 $ 552 19.9 % 23.2 % 19.9 % 23.2 %
Qulipta United States $ 405 $ 158 $ — >100.0 % >100.0 % >100.0 % >100.0 %
International 3 — — >100.0 % n/m >100.0 % n/m
Total $ 408 $ 158 $ — >100.0 % >100.0 % >100.0 % >100.0 %
|
39 2023 Form 10-KPercent change
At actual currency rates At constant currency rates
years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2023 2022
Other Neuroscience United States $ 254 $ 456 $ 667 (44.4)% (30.5)% (44.4)% (30.5)%
International 22 19 18 20.2 % 4.8 % 24.4 % 9.0 %
Total $ 276 $ 475 $ 685 (41.9)% (29.6)% (41.7)% (29.5)%
Eye Care
Ozurdex United States $ 143 $ 139 $ 130 2.7 % 6.9 % 2.7 % 6.9 %
International 329 289 288 14.0 % 0.3 % 15.9 % 12.9 %
Total $ 472 $ 428 $ 418 10.3 % 2.4 % 11.6 % 11.0 %
Lumigan/Ganfort United States $ 173 $ 242 $ 273 (28.4)% (11.0)% (28.4)% (11.0)%
International 259 272 306 (4.8)% (11.3)% (3.6)% (3.0)%
Total $ 432 $ 514 $ 579 (15.9)% (11.2)% (15.3)% (6.8)%
Alphagan/Combigan United States $ 121 $ 202 $ 373 (40.1)% (45.8)% (40.1)% (45.8)%
International 151 144 156 4.9 % (7.9)% 10.4 % 2.5 %
Total $ 272 $ 346 $ 529 (21.4)% (34.6)% (19.1)% (31.5)%
Restasis United States $ 382 $ 621 $ 1,234 (38.5)% (49.6)% (38.5)% (49.6)%
International 54 45 56 19.3 % (20.2)% 25.3 % (13.8)%
Total $ 436 $ 666 $ 1,290 (34.6)% (48.3)% (34.2)% (48.0)%
Other Eye Care United States $ 433 $ 399 $ 393 9.0 % 0.8 % 9.0 % 0.8 %
International 370 348 358 6.1 % (2.4)% 8.7 % 5.4 %
Total $ 803 $ 747 $ 751 7.6 % (0.7)% 8.8 % 3.0 %
Other Key Products
Mavyret United States $ 659 $ 755 $ 754 (12.7)% 0.2 % (12.7)% 0.2 %
International 771 786 956 (1.9)% (17.8)% 1.0 % (8.5)%
Total $ 1,430 $ 1,541 $ 1,710 (7.2)% (9.9)% (5.7)% (4.7)%
Creon United States $ 1,268 $ 1,278 $ 1,191 (0.8)% 7.3 % (0.8)% 7.3 %
Linzess/Constella United States $ 1,073 $ 1,003 $ 1,006 7.1 % (0.4)% 7.1 % (0.4)%
International 35 32 32 8.8 % 0.3 % 9.7 % 7.6 %
Total $ 1,108 $ 1,035 $ 1,038 7.1 % (0.3)% 7.1 % (0.1)%
All other $ 3,035 $ 4,137 $ 5,019 (26.7)% (17.6)% (25.7)% (16.3)%
Total net revenues $ 54,318 $ 58,054 $ 56,197 (6.4)% 3.3 % (5.9)% 5.1 %
n/m – Not meaningful
The following discussion and analysis of AbbVie's net revenues by product is presented on a constant currency basis.
Global Humira sales decreased 32% in 2023. In the United States, Humira sales decreased 35% in 2023 primarily driven by direct biosimilar competition
following loss of exclusivity on January 31, 2023. Internationally, Humira revenues decreased 12% in 2023 primarily driven by the continued impact of direct
biosimilar competition. AbbVie continues to pursue strategies to maintain broad formulary access of Humira and manage the impact of biosimilar erosion.
Net revenues for Skyrizi increased 51% in 2023 primarily driven by continued strong market share uptake as well as market growth across all indications,
partially offset by unfavorable pricing.
Net revenues for Rinvoq increased 58% in 2023 primarily driven by continued strong market share uptake as well as market growth across all indications,
partially offset by unfavorable pricing.
Net revenues for Imbruvica represent product revenues in the United States and collaboration revenues outside of the United States related to AbbVie's 50%
share of Imbruvica profit. AbbVie's global Imbruvica revenues decreased 21% in 2023 primarily driven by decreased demand and lower market share in the
United States as well as decreased collaboration revenues.
Net revenues for Venclexta increased 15% in 2023. In the United States, Venclexta net revenues increased 8% driven by continued market growth across all
indications, market share uptake as well as favorable pricing. Internationally, Venclexta net revenues increased 22% primarily driven by continued market share
uptake and market growth across all indications.
Net revenues for Botox Cosmetic increased 4% in 2023. In the United States, Botox Cosmetic net revenues increased 1% driven by increased consumer
demand due to economic recovery in the toxin market. Internationally, Botox Cosmetic net revenues increased 10% primarily driven by recovery from COVID-19 in
China and increased consumer demand across other key international markets.
2023 Form 10-K | 40Net revenues for Juvederm Collection decreased 1% in 2023. In the United States, Juvederm Collection net revenues decreased 5% primarily driven by
decreased consumer demand due to economic pressures, partially offset by new product launches. Internationally, Juvederm Collection revenue increased 2%
driven by increased consumer demand across key international markets and price.
Net revenues for Botox Therapeutic increased 11% in 2023 driven by market growth and market share uptake, partially offset by unfavorable pricing.
Net revenues for Vraylar increased 35% in 2023 primarily driven by continued market share uptake as well as market growth. Net revenues were also
favorably impacted by the regulatory approval of Vraylar as an adjunctive therapy for the treatment of major depressive disorder in adults.
Net revenues for Ubrelvy increased 20% in 2023 primarily driven by continued market share uptake as well as market growth.
Net revenues for Qulipta increased greater than 100% in 2023 primarily driven by continued strong market share uptake as well as market growth. Net
revenues were also favorably impacted by the regulatory approval of Qulipta for the preventive treatment of chronic migraine in adults.
Gross Margin
Percent change
years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022
Gross margin $ 33,903 $ 40,640 $ 38,751 (17)% 5 %
as a percent of net revenues 62 % 70 % 69 %
Gross margin as a percentage of net revenues in 2023 decreased compared to 2022. Gross margin percentage for 2023 was unfavorably impacted by
intangible asset impairment charges of $3.6 billion primarily related to Imbruvica, CoolSculpting and Liletta, higher amortization of intangibles and changes in
product mix, partially offset by the favorable tax law changes in Puerto Rico.
Selling, General and Administrative
Percent change
years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022
Selling, general and administrative $ 12,872 $ 15,260 $ 12,349 (16)% 24 %
as a percent of net revenues 24 % 26 % 22 %
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased in 2023 compared to the prior year primarily due to income
of $485 million driven by a favorable settlement of a litigation matter in 2023 compared to litigation reserve charges of $2.5 billion in 2022, partially offset by
the unfavorable impact of increased brand investments and lower net revenues primarily driven by the Humira loss of exclusivity in the United States.
Research and Development
Percent change
years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022
Research and development $ 7,675 $ 6,510 $ 6,922 18 % (6)%
as a percent of net revenues 14 % 11 % 12 %
Research and development (R&D) expenses as a percentage of net revenues increased in 2023 compared to 2022. R&D expense percentage for 2023 was
unfavorably impacted by increased funding to support all stages of the company's pipeline assets and lower net revenues primarily driven by the Humira loss of
exclusivity in the United States. R&D expense percentage in 2023 was also unfavorably impacted by an intangible asset impairment charge of $630 million.
|
41 2023 Form 10-KAcquired IPR&D and Milestones
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Upfront charges $ 582 $ 445 $ 962
Development milestones 196 252 162
Acquired IPR&D and milestones $ 778 $ 697 $ 1,124
Acquired IPR&D and milestones expense in 2022 included a charge related to the upfront payment of $130 million to acquire Syndesi Therapeutics SA. See
Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Other Operating Expense (Income), Net
Other operating expense (income), net included a gain of $169 million in 2023 and a charge of $229 million in 2022 related to a development liability
associated with an asset divested as part of Allergan acquisition. Other operating expense (income), net in 2022 also included $172 million of income related to
the sale of worldwide commercial rights of a mature brand Pylera. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Other Non-Operating Expenses
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Interest expense $ 2,224 $ 2,230 $ 2,423
Interest income (540) (186) (39)
Interest expense, net $ 1,684 $ 2,044 $ 2,384
Net foreign exchange loss $ 146 $ 148 $ 51
Other expense, net 4,677 2,448 2,500
Interest expense in 2023 decreased compared to 2022 primarily driven by lower average debt balances as a result of deleveraging, partially offset by the
impact of higher interest rates.
Interest income in 2023 increased compared to 2022 primarily due to the impact of higher interest rates.
Other expense, net included charges related to changes in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities of $5.1 billion in 2023 and $2.8 billion in 2022.
The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities is impacted by the passage of time and multiple other inputs, including the probability of success of
achieving regulatory/commercial milestones, discount rates, the estimated amount of future sales of the acquired products and other market-based factors. In
2023, the change in fair value reflected higher estimated Skyrizi sales driven by stronger market share uptake, the passage of time and lower discount rates. In
2022, the change in fair value reflected higher estimated Skyrizi sales driven by stronger market share uptake and the passage of time, partially offset by higher
discount rates.
Income Tax Expense
The effective income tax rate was 22% in 2023, 12% in 2022 and 11% in 2021. The effective income tax rates differed from the statutory tax rate principally
due to the impact of foreign operations with lower income tax rates in locations outside the United States, the U.S. global minimum tax, changes in fair value of
contingent consideration, tax credits and incentives in the United States, Puerto Rico and other foreign tax jurisdictions, and business development activities. The
effective income tax rate in 2023 was higher than prior periods due to increased changes in fair value of contingent consideration, intangible asset impairments
and the impacts of the transition from the Puerto Rico excise tax to an income tax.
In 2022, Puerto Rico enacted Act 52-2002 (the “Puerto Rico Act”) allowing for a transition from a Puerto Rico excise tax levied on gross inventory purchases
to an income-based tax beginning in 2023. The company completed the transition requirements of the Puerto Rico Act in 2022, resulting in the remeasurement of
certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on income tax rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future. The net tax benefit recognized in 2022
from the remeasurement of deferred taxes related to the Puerto Rico Act was $323 million.
Our net earnings and cash flows could be affected by future tax policy and law changes in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including changes in tax
law related to the projects undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD"). These projects include a global minimum tax
rate of 15%, referred to as "Pillar Two", and the creation of a new global system to tax income based on the location to which products are sold, referred to as
"Pillar One." Numerous countries have agreed to a statement in support of the OECD model rules and European Union member states have agreed to
2023 Form 10-K | 42implement Pillar Two. This implementation includes aspects of legislation that are effective starting in 2024. More widespread implementation of Pillar Two is
expected to continue, and incremental aspects of the legislation may start in 2025. Significant details around the provision are still emerging. These changes
increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact income tax expense in future years. We will continue to monitor pending legislation and implementation by
individual countries and evaluate the potential impact on our business in future periods.
FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Cash flows provided by (used in)
Operating activities $ 22,839 $ 24,943 $ 22,777
Investing activities (2,009) (623) (2,344)
Financing activities (17,222) (24,803) (19,039)
Operating cash flows in 2023 decreased from 2022 primarily due to decreased results of operations driven by lower net revenues and higher income tax
payments, partially offset by the timing of working capital. Operating cash flows also reflected AbbVie’s contributions to its defined benefit plans of $366 million
in 2023 and $357 million in 2022.
Investing cash flows in 2023 included payments made for other acquisitions and investments of $1.2 billion, capital expenditures of $777 million, and net
purchases of investments securities totaling $22 million. Investing cash flows in 2022 included payments made for capital expenditures of $695 million, other
acquisitions and investments of $539 million, $255 million cash consideration paid to acquire DJS Antibodies Ltd offset by cash acquired and net revenues and
maturities of investments securities totaling $92 million.
Financing cash flows in 2023 included repayment of $1.0 billion floating rate three-year term loan, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the
company's 2.85% senior notes and $350 million aggregate principal amount of the company's 2.80% senior notes. During the quarter ended December 31, 2023
the company also repaid €500 million aggregate principal amount of 1.50% senior euro notes and $1.3 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.75% senior notes
at maturity.
Financing cash flows in 2022 included repayment of $3.1 billion aggregate principal amount of the company's 2.9% senior notes, $3.0 billion aggregate
principal amount of the company's 2.3% senior notes, $2.9 billion aggregate principal amount of the company's 3.45% senior notes, $1.7 billion aggregate
principal amount of the company's 3.25% senior notes, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the company’s 3.2% senior notes and $750 million aggregate
principal amount of the company's floating rate senior notes. Additionally financing cash flows included repayment of a $2.0 billion floating term loan due May
2025 and issuance of a new $2.0 billion floating rate term loan as part of the term loan refinancing in February 2022.
Financing cash flows also included cash dividend payments of $10.5 billion in 2023 and $10.0 billion in 2022. The increase in cash dividend payments was
primarily driven by an increase of the dividend rate.
The company's stock repurchase authorization permits purchases of AbbVie shares from time to time in open-market or private transactions at
management’s discretion. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time. AbbVie repurchased 10 million shares for $1.6 billion in 2023 and
8 million shares for $1.1 billion in 2022. AbbVie's remaining stock repurchase authorization was $4.8 billion as of December 31, 2023. On February 16, 2023,
AbbVie's board of directors authorized a $5.0 billion increase to the existing stock repurchase authorization.
No commercial paper borrowings were issued during 2023 or 2022 and there were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2023
or December 31, 2022. Subsequent to 2023, AbbVie issued commercial paper borrowings of which $1.7 billion were outstanding as of the date of filing this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. AbbVie may issue additional commercial paper or retire commercial paper to meet liquidity requirements as needed.
Credit Risk
AbbVie monitors economic conditions, the creditworthiness of customers and government regulations and funding, both domestically and abroad. AbbVie
regularly communicates with its customers regarding the status of receivable balances, including their payment plans and obtains positive confirmation of the
validity of the receivables. AbbVie establishes an allowance for credit losses equal to the estimate of future losses over the contractual life of outstanding
accounts receivable. AbbVie may also utilize factoring arrangements to mitigate credit risk, although the receivables included in such arrangements have
historically not been a significant amount of total outstanding receivables.
|
43 2023 Form 10-KCredit Facility, Access to Capital and Credit Ratings
Credit Facility
In March 2023, AbbVie entered into an amended and restated five-year revolving credit facility. The amendment increased the unsecured revolving credit
facility commitments from $4.0 billion to $5.0 billion and extended the maturity date of the facility from August 2023 to March 2028. This credit facility enables
the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates and contains various covenants. At December 31, 2023, the company was in
compliance with all covenants, and commitment fees under the credit facility were insignificant. No amounts were outstanding under the company's credit facility
as of December 31, 2023, December 31, 2022, or December 31, 2021.
In connection with the acquisition of ImmunoGen and proposed acquisition of Cerevel Therapeutics, AbbVie entered into a $9.0 billion 364-day bridge credit
agreement and a 364-day term loan credit agreement with an aggregate principal amount of $5.0 billion. No amounts were drawn under the bridge credit
agreement or term loan credit agreement as of December 31, 2023.
Subsequent to 2023, on February 12, 2024, AbbVie borrowed $5.0 billion under the term loan credit agreement. See Note 5 and Note 10 to the consolidated
financial statements for additional information.
Access to Capital
The company intends to fund short-term and long-term financial obligations as they mature through cash on hand, future cash flows from operations or has
the ability to issue additional debt. The company's ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt or enter into financing arrangements on acceptable
terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company's products or in the solvency of its customers or suppliers,
deterioration in the company's key financial ratios or credit ratings, or other material unfavorable changes in business conditions. At the current time, the
company believes it has sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to
support the company's growth objectives.
Credit Ratings
In 2023, Moody’s Investors Service upgraded AbbVie’s senior unsecured long-term credit rating to A3 with a stable outlook from Baa1 with a positive
outlook and affirmed AbbVie’s Prime-2 short-term credit rating. In addition, Standard and Poor's Global ratings upgraded AbbVie's long-term issuer credit rating
to A- with a stable outlook from BBB+ with a positive outlook. Unfavorable changes to the ratings may have an adverse impact on future financing arrangements;
however, they would not affect the company’s ability to draw on its credit facility and would not result in an acceleration of scheduled maturities of any of the
company’s outstanding debt.
Future Cash Requirements
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes AbbVie's estimated material contractual obligations as of December 31, 2023:
(in millions) Total Current Long-term
Long-term debt, including current portion $ 59,245 $ 7,170 $ 52,075
Interest on long-term debt(a) 26,273 2,313 23,960
Contingent consideration liabilities(b) 19,890 1,952 17,938
(a) Includes estimated future interest payments on long-term debt. Interest payments on debt are calculated for future periods using forecasted interest rates
in effect at the end of 2023. Projected interest payments include the related effects of interest rate swap agreements. Certain of these projected interest
payments may differ in the future based on changes in floating interest rates or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to
obligations and agreements outstanding at December 31, 2023. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding
the company's debt instruments and Note 11 for additional information on the interest rate swap agreements outstanding at December 31, 2023.
(b) Includes contingent consideration liabilities which are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. Potential contingent consideration
payments that exceed the fair value recorded on the consolidated balance sheet are not included in the table of contractual obligations. See Note 11 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these liabilities.
2023 Form 10-K | 44AbbVie enters into certain unconditional purchase obligations and other commitments in the normal course of business. There have been no changes to
these commitments that would have a material impact on the company’s ability to meet either short-term or long-term future cash requirements.
Income Taxes
Future income tax cash requirements include a one-time transition tax liability on a mandatory deemed repatriation of previously untaxed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries resulting from U.S. tax reform enacted in 2017. The one-time transition tax liability was $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2023 and is payable
in three future annual installments.
Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits totaled $6.7 billion as of December 31, 2023. It is not possible to reliably estimate the timing of the future cash
outflows related to these liabilities. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these unrecognized tax benefits.
Quarterly Cash Dividend
On October 26, 2023, AbbVie announced that its board of directors declared an increase in the quarterly cash dividend from $1.48 per share to $1.55 per
share beginning with the dividend payable on February 15, 2024, to stockholders of record as of January 16, 2024. This reflects an increase of approximately 4.7%
over the previous quarterly rate. The timing, declaration, amount of and payment of any dividends by AbbVie in the future is within the discretion of its board of
directors and will depend upon many factors, including AbbVie's financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of its operating subsidiaries, covenants
associated with certain of AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, ability to access capital markets and
other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors.
Acquisitions
In the fourth quarter of 2023, AbbVie entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Cerevel Therapeutics for a total value of approximately $8.7 billion. The
transaction is expected to close in 2024 subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
Subsequent to 2023, on February 12, 2024, AbbVie completed its previously announced acquisition of ImmunoGen for a total value of approximately $10.1
billion.
In connection with these acquisitions, AbbVie entered into several debt and financing arrangements. See Note 5 and Note 10 to the consolidated financial
statements for additional information.
Collaborations, Licensing and Other Arrangements
AbbVie enters into collaborative, licensing and other arrangements with third parties that may require future milestone payments to third parties contingent
upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory, or commercial milestones. Individually, these arrangements are insignificant in any one annual
reporting period. However, if milestones for multiple products covered by these arrangements happen to be reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate
charge to expense could be material to the results of operations in that period. From a business perspective, the payments are viewed as positive because they
signify that the product is successfully moving through development and is now generating or is more likely to generate future cash flows from product sales. It is
not possible to predict with reasonable certainty whether these milestones will be achieved or the timing for achievement. See Note 5 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information on these collaboration arrangements.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States requires the use of estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. A summary of the company's
significant accounting policies is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of these policies are considered critical as these most
significantly impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often as a
result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may vary from these estimates.
Revenue Recognition
AbbVie recognizes revenue when control of promised goods or services is transferred to the company’s customers, in an amount that reflects the
consideration AbbVie expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Sales, value add and other taxes collected concurrent with revenue-
producing activities are excluded from revenue. AbbVie
|
45 2023 Form 10-Kgenerates revenue primarily from product sales. For the majority of sales, the company transfers control, invoices the customer and recognizes revenue upon
shipment to the customer.
Rebates
AbbVie provides rebates to pharmacy benefit managers, state government Medicaid programs, insurance companies that administer Medicare drug plans,
wholesalers, group purchasing organizations and other government agencies and private entities.
Rebate and chargeback accruals are accounted for as variable consideration and are recorded as a reduction to revenue in the period the related product is
sold. Provisions for rebates and chargebacks totaled $56.8 billion in 2023, $41.4 billion in 2022 and $33.9 billion in 2021. Rebate amounts are typically based
upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices, which may vary by product and by payer. For each type of rebate, the factors used in the
calculations of the accrual for that rebate include the identification of the products subject to the rebate, the applicable price terms and the estimated lag time
between sale and payment of the rebate, which can be significant.
In order to establish its rebate and chargeback accruals, the company uses both internal and external data to estimate the level of inventory in the
distribution channel and the rebate claims processing lag time for each type of rebate. To estimate the rebate percentage or net price, the company tracks sales by
product and by customer or payer. The company evaluates inventory data reported by wholesalers, available prescription volume information, product pricing,
historical experience and other factors in order to determine the adequacy of its reserves. AbbVie regularly monitors its reserves and records adjustments when
rebate trends, rebate programs and contract terms, legislative changes, or other significant events indicate that a change in the reserve is appropriate.
Historically, adjustments to rebate accruals have not been material to net earnings.
The following table is an analysis of the three largest accruals for rebates and chargebacks, which comprise approximately 94% of the total consolidated
rebate and chargebacks recorded as reductions to revenues in 2023. Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross revenues are not significant in the
determination of operating earnings.
Medicaid
and Managed
Medicare Care Wholesaler
(in millions) Rebates Rebates Chargebacks
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 2,945 $ 2,907 $ 741
Provisions 9,622 11,306 11,286
Payments (8,751) (11,116) (11,125)
Balance as of December 31, 2021 3,816 3,097 902
Provisions 11,713 14,119 13,070
Payments (10,331) (12,974) (12,829)
Balance as of December 31, 2022 5,198 4,242 1,143
Provisions 15,153 23,978 14,191
Payments (15,054) (21,200) (14,162)
Balance as of December 31, 2023 $ 5,297 $ 7,020 $ 1,172
Other Allowances
Other allowances include cash discounts, product returns, sales incentives and other adjustments, which are accounted for as variable consideration and
are recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period the related product is sold. Reserves for cash discounts and sales incentives are readily determinable
because the company's experience of payment history is fairly consistent. Product returns can be reliably estimated based on the company's historical return
experience. Cash discounts totaled $2.0 billion in 2023, $1.8 billion in 2022 and $1.6 billion in 2021. Allowances other than cash discounts are not significant.
Pension and Other Post-Employment Benefits
AbbVie engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under the pension and other post-employment benefit plans
that are direct obligations of AbbVie. The valuation of the funded status and the net periodic benefit cost for these plans are calculated using actuarial
assumptions. The significant assumptions, which are reviewed annually, include the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the
health care cost trend rates and are disclosed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2023 Form 10-K | 46The discount rate is selected based on current market rates on high-quality, fixed-income investments at December 31 each year. AbbVie employs a yield-
curve approach for countries where a robust bond market exists. The yield curve is developed using high-quality bonds. The yield-curve approach reflects the
plans' specific cash flows (i.e. duration) in calculating the benefit obligations by applying the corresponding individual spot rates along the yield curve. AbbVie
reflects the plans' specific cash flows and applies them to the corresponding individual spot rates along the yield curve in calculating the service cost and
interest cost portions of expense. For other countries, AbbVie reviews various indices such as corporate bond and government bond benchmarks to estimate the
discount rate.
AbbVie's assumed discount rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans as of
December 31, 2023. A 50 basis point change in the assumed discount rate would have had the following effects on AbbVie's calculation of net periodic benefit
costs in 2024 and projected benefit obligations as of December 31, 2023:
50 basis point
(in millions) (brackets denote a reduction) Increase Decrease
Defined benefit plans
Net periodic benefit cost $ (49) $ 70
Projected benefit obligation (674) 756
Other post-employment plans
Net periodic benefit cost $ (6) $ 7
Projected benefit obligation (53) 59
The expected long-term rate of return is based on the asset allocation, historical performance and the current view of expected future returns. AbbVie
considers these inputs with a long-term focus to avoid short-term market influences. The current long-term rate of return on plan assets for each plan is
supported by the historical performance of the trust's actual and target asset allocation. AbbVie's assumed expected long-term rate of return has a significant
effect on the amounts reported for defined benefit pension plans as of December 31, 2023 and will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in 2024.
A one percentage point change in assumed expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would increase or decrease the net period benefit cost of these plans
in 2024 by $106 million.
The health care cost trend rate is selected by reviewing historical trends and current views on projected future health care cost increases. The current health
care cost trend rate is supported by the historical trend experience of each plan. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts
reported for health care plans as of December 31, 2023 and will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in 2024.
Income Taxes
AbbVie accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Provisions for federal, state and foreign income taxes are calculated on reported
pre-tax earnings based on current tax laws. Deferred taxes are provided using enacted tax rates on the future tax consequences of temporary differences, which
are the differences between the financial statement carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and the tax benefits of carryforwards.
A valuation allowance is established or maintained when, based on currently available information, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred
tax asset will not be realized.
Litigation
The company is subject to contingencies, such as various claims, legal proceedings and investigations regarding product liability, intellectual property,
commercial, securities and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information. Loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a
minimum loss contingency amount within a probable range is recorded. Accordingly, AbbVie is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss and
therefore, the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in
additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed to a
lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected.
Valuation of Goodwill and Intangible Assets
AbbVie has acquired and may continue to acquire significant intangible assets in connection with business combinations that AbbVie records at fair value.
Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur between companies in
|
47 2023 Form 10-Kthe pharmaceuticals industry and valuations are usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis incorporating the stage of completion. The discounted cash
flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, cost of capital, terminal values and market participants. Each of
these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. In-process research and development (IPR&D) acquired in a business combination is
capitalized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval is obtained, at which time it is accounted for as a definite-lived asset and amortized
over its estimated useful life, or discontinuation, at which point the intangible asset will be written off. IPR&D acquired in transactions that are not business
combinations is expensed immediately, unless deemed to have an alternative future use. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are
capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life.
AbbVie reviews the recoverability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset
may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually or when an event occurs that could result in an
impairment. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Annually, the company tests its goodwill for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair
value is less than its carrying amount. Some of the factors considered in the assessment include general macro-economic conditions, conditions specific to the
industry and market, cost factors, the overall financial performance and whether there have been sustained declines in the company's share price. If the company
concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is performed. AbbVie
tests indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value is
less than its carrying amount. If the company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment
test is performed.
For its quantitative impairment tests, the company uses an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future
volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings and other assumptions
and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company's business plans and a market participant's views. The use of alternative
estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease projected cash flows and the estimated fair value of the related intangible assets. Future changes to these
estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on the company's results of operations. Actual results may differ from the company's estimates.
Contingent Consideration
The fair value measurements of contingent consideration liabilities are determined as of the acquisition date based on significant unobservable inputs,
including the discount rate, estimated probabilities and timing of achieving specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones and the estimated
amount of future sales of the acquired products. Contingent consideration liabilities are revalued to fair value at each subsequent reporting date until the related
contingency is resolved. The potential contingent consideration payments are estimated by applying a probability-weighted expected payment model for
contingent milestone payments and a Monte Carlo simulation model for contingent royalty payments, which are then discounted to present value. Changes to the
fair value of the contingent consideration liabilities can result from changes to one or a number of inputs, including discount rates, the probabilities of achieving
the milestones, the time required to achieve the milestones and estimated future sales. Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of
certain of these inputs, which are disclosed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes to the inputs described above could have a material
impact on the company's financial position and results of operations in any given period.
2023 Form 10-K | 48ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The company is exposed to risk that its earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates and interest
rates. Certain derivative instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the company's underlying economic exposures. See Note 11 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the company's financial instruments and hedging strategies.
Foreign Currency Risk
AbbVie's primary net foreign currency exposures are the Euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, Chinese yuan and British pound. The following table reflects
the total foreign currency forward exchange contracts outstanding at December 31, 2023 and 2022:
2023 2022
Weighted Fair and Weighted Fair and
average exchange carrying value average exchange carrying value
as of December 31 (in millions) Contract amount rate receivable/(payable) Contract amount rate receivable/(payable)
Receive primarily U.S. dollars
in exchange for the following
currencies:
Euro $ 10,707 1.107 $ (99) $ 8,507 1.071 $ 9
Canadian dollar 1,244 1.329 (8) 1,302 1.312 40
Japanese yen 726 139.636 2 567 133.271 (3)
British pound 505 1.271 (1) 772 1.234 (8)
Chinese yuan 479 7.104 — 596 7.024 (5)
All other currencies 2,263 n/a (31) 1,954 n/a (2)
Total $ 15,924 $ (137) $ 13,698 $ 31
The company estimates that a 10% appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar, with all other variables
held constant, would decrease the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts by $1.6 billion at December 31, 2023. If realized, this appreciation would
negatively affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. However, gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged
transactions and reduce the earnings and stockholders' equity volatility relating to foreign exchange. A 10% appreciation is believed to be a reasonably possible
near-term change in foreign currencies.
As of December 31, 2023, the company has €5.4 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior Euro notes outstanding, which are exposed to
foreign currency risk. The company designated these foreign currency denominated notes as hedges of its net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and
affiliates. As a result, any foreign currency translation gains or losses related to the Euro notes will be included in accumulated other comprehensive loss. See
Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the senior Euro notes and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information regarding the net investment hedging program.
Interest Rate Risk
The company estimates that an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points would adversely impact the fair value of AbbVie's interest rate swap contracts
by approximately $216 million at December 31, 2023. If realized, the fair value reduction would affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. The
company estimates that an increase of 100 basis points in long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of long-term debt by $3.9 billion at December 31,
2023. A 100 basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in interest rates.
|
49 2023 Form 10-KITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Page
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statements of Earnings 51
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 52
Consolidated Balance Sheets 53
Consolidated Statements of Equity 54
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 55
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1 Background 56
Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 56
Note 3 Supplemental Financial Information 61
Note 4 Earnings Per Share 62
Note 5 Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements 62
Note 6 Collaborations 65
Note 7 Goodwill and Intangible Assets 66
Note 8 Integration and Restructuring Plans 67
Note 9 Leases 69
Note 10 Debit, Credit Facilities and Commitments and Contingencies 71
Note 11 Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures 73
Note 12 Post-Employment Benefits 79
Note 13 Equity 83
Note 14 Income Taxes 88
Note 15 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies 90
Note 16 Segment and Geographic Area Information 92
Note 17 Fourth Quarter Financial Results (unaudited) 95
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42) 96
2023 Form 10-K | 50AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
years ended December 31 (in millions, except per share data) 2023 2022 2021
Net revenues $ 54,318 $ 58,054 $ 56,197
Cost of products sold 20,415 17,414 17,446
Selling, general and administrative 12,872 15,260 12,349
Research and development 7,675 6,510 6,922
Acquired IPR&D and milestones 778 697 1,124
Other operating expense (income), net (179) 56 432
Total operating costs and expenses 41,561 39,937 38,273
Operating earnings 12,757 18,117 17,924
Interest expense, net 1,684 2,044 2,384
Net foreign exchange loss 146 148 51
Other expense, net 4,677 2,448 2,500
Earnings before income tax expense 6,250 13,477 12,989
Income tax expense 1,377 1,632 1,440
Net earnings 4,873 11,845 11,549
Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest 10 9 7
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 4,863 $ 11,836 $ 11,542
Per share data
Basic earnings per share attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 2.73 $ 6.65 $ 6.48
Diluted earnings per share attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 2.72 $ 6.63 $ 6.45
Weighted-average basic shares outstanding 1,768 1,771 1,770
Weighted-average diluted shares outstanding 1,773 1,778 1,777
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
|
51 2023 Form 10-KAbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Net earnings $ 4,873 $ 11,845 $ 11,549
Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax expense (benefit) of $15 in 2023, $(10) in 2022
and $(35) in 2021 407 (943) (1,153)
Net investment hedging activities, net of tax expense (benefit) of $(109) in 2023, $152 in 2022 and
$193 in 2021 (399) 555 699
Pension and post-employment benefits, net of tax expense (benefit) of $(6) in 2023, $272 in 2022
and $124 in 2021 (30) 1,088 521
Cash flow hedging activities, net of tax expense (benefit) of $(19) in 2023, $5 in 2022 and $20 in
2021 (84) — 151
Other comprehensive income (loss) $ (106) $ 700 $ 218
Comprehensive income 4,767 12,545 11,767
Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interest 10 9 7
Comprehensive income attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 4,757 $ 12,536 $ 11,760
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
2023 Form 10-K | 52AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Balance Sheets
as of December 31 (in millions, except share data) 2023 2022
Assets
Current assets
Cash and equivalents $ 12,814 $ 9,201
Short-term investments 2 28
Accounts receivable, net 11,155 11,254
Inventories 4,099 3,579
Prepaid expenses and other 4,932 4,401
Total current assets 33,002 28,463
Investments 304 241
Property and equipment, net 4,989 4,935
Intangible assets, net 55,610 67,439
Goodwill 32,293 32,156
Other assets 8,513 5,571
Total assets $ 134,711 $ 138,805
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings $ — $ 1
Current portion of long-term debt and finance lease obligations 7,191 4,135
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 30,650 25,402
Total current liabilities 37,841 29,538
Long-term debt and finance lease obligations 52,194 59,135
Deferred income taxes 1,952 2,190
Other long-term liabilities 32,327 30,655
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders' equity
Common stock, $0.01 par value, 4,000,000,000 shares authorized, 1,823,046,087 shares issued as of December 31,
2023 and 1,813,770,294 as of December 31, 2022 18 18
Common stock held in treasury, at cost, 57,105,354 shares as of December 31, 2023 and 44,589,000 as of
December 31, 2022 (6,533) (4,594)
Additional paid-in capital 20,180 19,245
Retained earnings (accumulated deficit) (1,000) 4,784
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (2,305) (2,199)
Total stockholders' equity 10,360 17,254
Noncontrolling interest 37 33
Total equity 10,397 17,287
Total liabilities and equity $ 134,711 $ 138,805
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
|
53 2023 Form 10-KAbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Equity
Additional Retained earnings
Common shares Common Treasury paid-in (accumulated Accumulated other Noncontrolling
years ended December 31 (in millions) outstanding stock stock capital deficit) comprehensive loss interest Total
Balance at December 31, 2020 1,765 $ 18 $ (2,264) $ 17,384 $ 1,055 $ (3,117) $ 21 $ 13,097
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie
Inc. — — — — 11,542 — — 11,542
Other comprehensive income, net of
tax — — — — — 218 — 218
Dividends declared — — — — (9,470) — — (9,470)
Purchases of treasury stock (8) — (934) — — — — (934)
Stock-based compensation plans and
other 11 — 55 921 — — — 976
Change in noncontrolling interest — — — — — — 7 7
Balance at December 31, 2021 1,768 18 (3,143) 18,305 3,127 (2,899) 28 15,436
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie
Inc. — — — — 11,836 — — 11,836
Other comprehensive income, net of
tax — — — — — 700 — 700
Dividends declared — — — — (10,179) — — (10,179)
Purchases of treasury stock (10) — (1,487) — — — — (1,487)
Stock-based compensation plans and
other 11 — 36 940 — — — 976
Change in noncontrolling interest — — — — — — 5 5
Balance at December 31, 2022 1,769 18 (4,594) 19,245 4,784 (2,199) 33 17,287
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie
Inc. — — — — 4,863 — — 4,863
Other comprehensive loss, net of tax — — — — — (106) — (106)
Dividends declared — — — — (10,647) — — (10,647)
Purchases of treasury stock (12) — (1,978) — — — — (1,978)
Stock-based compensation plans and
other 9 — 39 935 — — — 974
Change in noncontrolling interest — — — — — — 4 4
Balance at December 31, 2023 1,766 $ 18 $ (6,533) $ 20,180 $ (1,000) $ (2,305) $ 37 $ 10,397
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
2023 Form 10-K | 54AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
years ended December 31 (in millions) (brackets denote cash outflows) 2023 2022 2021
Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings $ 4,873 $ 11,845 $ 11,549
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash from operating activities:
Depreciation 752 778 803
Amortization of intangible assets 7,946 7,689 7,718
Deferred income taxes (2,889) (1,931) (898)
Change in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities 5,128 2,761 2,679
Payments of contingent consideration liabilities (870) (164) (91)
Stock-based compensation 747 671 692
Acquired IPR&D and milestones 778 697 1,124
Other charges related to collaborations — — 500
Gain on divestitures — (172) (68)
Non-cash litigation reserve adjustments, net of cash payments (443) 2,243 163
Impairment of intangible assets 4,229 770 50
Other, net (225) (150) (213)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:
Accounts receivable 66 (1,455) (1,321)
Inventories (417) (686) (142)
Prepaid expenses and other assets (188) (264) (197)
Accounts payable and other liabilities 3,840 1,769 1,719
Income tax assets and liabilities, net (488) 542 (1,290)
Cash flows from operating activities 22,839 24,943 22,777
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired — (255) (525)
Other acquisitions and investments (1,223) (539) (1,377)
Acquisitions of property and equipment (777) (695) (787)
Purchases of investment securities (77) (1,438) (119)
Sales and maturities of investment securities 55 1,530 98
Other, net 13 774 366
Cash flows from investing activities (2,009) (623) (2,344)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt — 2,000 1,000
Repayments of long-term debt and finance lease obligations (4,149) (14,433) (9,414)
Debt issuance costs (38) — —
Dividends paid (10,539) (10,043) (9,261)
Purchases of treasury stock (1,972) (1,487) (934)
Proceeds from the exercise of stock options 180 262 244
Payments of contingent consideration liabilities (752) (1,132) (698)
Other, net 48 30 24
Cash flows from financing activities (17,222) (24,803) (19,039)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and equivalents 5 (62) (97)
Net change in cash and equivalents 3,613 (545) 1,297
Cash and equivalents, beginning of year 9,201 9,746 8,449
Cash and equivalents, end of year $ 12,814 $ 9,201 $ 9,746
Other supplemental information
Interest paid, net of portion capitalized $ 2,469 $ 2,546 $ 2,712
Income taxes paid 4,702 2,988 3,648
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
|
55 2023 Form 10-KAbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1 Background
Background
The principal business of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company) is the discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of a broad line of therapies that
address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors,
government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies and independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses.
Certain products (including aesthetic products and devices) are also sold directly to physicians and other licensed healthcare providers. In the United States,
AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to retailers, pharmacies, patients
or other customers. Outside the United States, AbbVie sells products primarily to wholesalers or through distributors, and depending on the market works through
largely centralized national payers systems to agree on reimbursement terms.
AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent, publicly-traded company as a result of the
distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100% of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders.
Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Use of Estimates
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and necessarily include
amounts based on estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for rebates,
pension and other post-employment benefits, income taxes, litigation, valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, contingent consideration liabilities, financial
instruments and inventory and accounts receivable exposures.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of AbbVie and all of its subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is maintained. Controlling
interest is determined by majority ownership interest and the absence of substantive third-party participating rights or, in the case of variable interest entities,
where AbbVie is determined to be the primary beneficiary. Investments in companies over which AbbVie has a significant influence but not a controlling interest
are accounted for using the equity method with AbbVie's share of earnings or losses reported in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings.
Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. Certain reclassifications have been made to conform the prior period consolidated financial statements
to the current period presentation.
Revenue Recognition
AbbVie recognizes revenue when control of promised goods or services is transferred to the company’s customers, in an amount that reflects the
consideration AbbVie expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Sales, value add and other taxes collected concurrent with revenue-
producing activities are excluded from revenue. AbbVie generates revenue primarily from product sales. For the majority of sales, the company transfers control,
invoices the customer and recognizes revenue upon shipment to the customer. The company recognizes shipping and handling costs as an expense in cost of
products sold when the company transfers control to the customer. Payment terms vary depending on the type and location of the customer, are based on
customary commercial terms and are generally less than one year. AbbVie does not adjust revenue for the effects of a significant financing component for
contracts where AbbVie expects the period between the transfer of the good or service and collection to be one year or less.
Cash discounts, rebates and chargebacks, sales incentives, product returns and certain other adjustments are accounted for as variable consideration.
Provisions for variable consideration are based on current pricing, executed contracts, government pricing legislation and historical data and are provided for in
the period the related revenues are recorded. Rebate amounts are typically based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices, which may
vary by product and by payer. For each type of rebate, factors used in the calculation of the accrual include the identification of the
2023 Form 10-K | 56products subject to the rebate, the applicable price terms and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of the rebate, which can be significant.
In addition to revenue from contracts with customers, the company also recognizes certain collaboration revenues. See Note 6 for additional information
related to the collaborations with Janssen Biotech, Inc. and Genentech, Inc. Additionally, see Note 16 for disaggregation of revenue by product and geography.
Research and Development Expenses
Internal R&D costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted work is performed.
Acquired IPR&D and Milestones Expenses
In an asset acquisition, payments incurred prior to regulatory approval to acquire rights to in-process R&D projects are expensed as acquired IPR&D and
milestones expense in the consolidated statements of earnings unless the project has an alternative future use. These costs include upfront and development
milestone payments related to R&D collaborations, licensing arrangements, or other asset acquisitions that provide rights to develop, manufacture and/or sell
pharmaceutical products. Where contingent development milestone payments are due to third parties, prior to regulatory approval, the payment obligations are
expensed when the milestone results are achieved. Regulatory and commercial milestone payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are
capitalized as intangible assets and amortized to cost of products sold over the remaining useful life of the related product.
Business Combinations
AbbVie utilizes the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. This method requires, among other things, that results of operations of
acquired companies are included in AbbVie's results of operations beginning on the acquisition date and that assets acquired and liabilities assumed are
recognized at fair value as of the acquisition date. Any excess of the fair value of consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired is
recognized as goodwill. Contingent consideration liabilities are recognized at the estimated fair value on the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair
value of contingent consideration liabilities are recognized in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. The fair value of assets acquired and
liabilities assumed in certain cases may be subject to revision based on the final determination of fair value during a period of time not to exceed 12 months from
the acquisition date. Legal costs, due diligence costs, business valuation costs and all other business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred.
In a business combination, the fair value of IPR&D projects acquired is capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets until the
underlying project receives regulatory approval, at which point the intangible asset will be accounted for as a definite-lived intangible asset, or discontinuation,
at which point the intangible asset will be written off. R&D costs incurred by the company after the acquisition are expensed to R&D as incurred.
Collaborations and Other Arrangements
The company enters into collaborative agreements with third parties to develop and commercialize drug candidates. Collaborative activities may include
joint research and development and commercialization of new products. AbbVie generally receives certain licensing rights under these arrangements. These
collaborations often require upfront payments and may include additional milestone, research and development cost sharing, royalty or profit share payments,
contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development and commercialization. Upfront payments associated
with collaborative arrangements and subsequent payments made to the partner for the achievement of development milestones prior to regulatory approval are
expensed to acquired IPR&D and milestones expense in the consolidated statements of earnings. Regulatory and commercial milestone payments made to the
partner subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized to cost of products sold over the estimated useful life of the related
asset. Royalties are expensed to cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of earnings when incurred.
Advertising
Costs associated with advertising are expensed as incurred and are included in selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense in the consolidated
statements of earnings. Advertising expenses were $2.2 billion in 2023, $2.0 billion in 2022 and $2.1 billion in 2021.
|
57 2023 Form 10-KPension and Other Post-Employment Benefits
AbbVie records annual expenses relating to its defined benefit pension and other post-employment benefit plans based on calculations which utilize
various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, rates of return on assets, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates.
AbbVie reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends. Actuarial gains and
losses are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI), net of tax and are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the
employees under the corridor method. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual annual return are generally amortized to
net periodic benefit cost over a five-year period.
Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Provisions for federal, state and foreign income taxes are calculated on reported pre-
tax earnings based on current tax laws. Deferred taxes are provided using enacted tax rates on the future tax consequences of temporary differences, which are
the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and the tax benefits of carryforwards. A
valuation allowance is established or maintained when, based on currently available information, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax
asset will not be realized.
Cash and Equivalents
Cash and equivalents include money market funds and time deposits with original maturities of three months or less.
Investments
Investments consist primarily of equity securities, held-to-maturity debt securities, marketable debt securities and time deposits. Investments in equity
securities that have readily determinable fair values are recorded at fair value. Investments in equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values
are recorded at cost and are remeasured to fair value based on certain observable price changes or impairment events as they occur. Held-to-maturity debt
securities are recorded at cost. Gains or losses on investments are included in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. Investments in
marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in
AOCI on the consolidated balance sheets until realized, at which time the gains or losses are recognized in earnings.
AbbVie periodically assesses its marketable debt securities for impairment and credit losses. When a decline in the fair value of marketable debt security is
due to credit related factors, an allowance for credit losses is recorded with a corresponding charge to other expense, net in the consolidated statements of
earnings. When AbbVie determines that a non-credit related impairment has occurred, the amortized cost basis of the investment, net of allowance for credit
losses, is written down with a charge to other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings and an available-for-sale investment's unrealized loss is
reclassified from AOCI to other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are computed using the
first-in, first-out method adjusted for any impairments and credit losses that were recorded in net earnings.
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable are stated at amortized cost less allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses reflects the best estimate of future losses
over the contractual life of outstanding accounts receivable and is determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled
accounts, other currently available information including customer financial condition and both current and forecasted economic conditions.
2023 Form 10-K | 58Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs. Inventories consisted of the
following:
as of December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022
Finished goods $ 1,356 $ 1,162
Work-in-process 1,643 1,417
Raw materials 1,100 1,000
Inventories $ 4,099 $ 3,579
Property and Equipment
as of December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022
Land $ 286 $ 286
Buildings 2,827 2,737
Equipment 7,449 7,107
Construction in progress 1,073 856
Property and equipment, gross 11,635 10,986
Less accumulated depreciation (6,646) (6,051)
Property and equipment, net $ 4,989 $ 4,935
Depreciation for property and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful life for
buildings ranges from 10 to 50 years. Buildings include leasehold improvements which are amortized over the lesser of the remainder of the lease term or the
useful life of the leasehold improvement. The estimated useful life for equipment ranges from 2 to 25 years. Equipment includes certain computer software and
software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining software for internal use and is amortized over 3 to 10 years. Depreciation
expense was $752 million in 2023, $778 million in 2022 and $803 million in 2021.
Leases
Short-term leases with a term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet. For leases commencing or modified in 2019 or later, AbbVie does
not separate lease components from non-lease components.
The company records lease liabilities based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. AbbVie generally uses an incremental borrowing
rate to discount its lease liabilities, as the rate implicit in the lease is typically not readily determinable. Certain lease agreements include renewal options that
are under the company's control. AbbVie includes optional renewal periods in the lease term only when it is reasonably certain that AbbVie will exercise its
option.
Variable lease payments include payments to lessors for taxes, maintenance, insurance and other operating costs as well as payments that are adjusted
based on an index or rate. The company's lease agreements do not contain any significant residual value guarantees or restrictive covenants.
Litigation and Contingencies
Loss contingency provisions are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated
based on existing information. When a best estimate cannot be made, the minimum loss contingency amount in a probable range is recorded. Legal fees are
expensed as incurred. AbbVie accrues for product liability claims on an undiscounted basis. The liabilities are evaluated quarterly and adjusted if necessary as
additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries for product liability claims, if any, are recorded as assets on an undiscounted
basis when it is probable that a recovery will be realized.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recorded at fair value using a discounted cash flow model. The discounted cash flow model
requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital and terminal values of market participants. Definite-lived
intangibles are amortized over their estimated useful lives using the estimated pattern of economic benefit. AbbVie reviews the recoverability of definite-lived
intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. AbbVie first compares the
projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset to its carrying value. If the undiscounted cash
|
59 2023 Form 10-Kflows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value. Where cash flows cannot be identified for an
individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest level for which cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities.
Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized but are subject to an impairment review annually and more frequently when indicators of
impairment exist. An impairment of goodwill could occur if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeded the fair value of that reporting unit. An impairment of
indefinite-lived intangible assets would occur if the fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value.
The company tests its goodwill for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value is less
than its carrying amount. If the company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a
quantitative impairment test is performed. AbbVie tests indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine
whether it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than its carrying amount. If the company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value is less
than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is performed. For its quantitative impairment tests, the company uses an estimated future cash flow
approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, the selection of an
appropriate discount rate, asset groupings and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company's
business plans and a market participant's views. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease projected cash flows and the
estimated fair value of the related intangible assets. Future changes to these estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on the company's results of
operations. Actual results may differ from the company's estimates.
Foreign Currency Translation
Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S.
dollars using period-end exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recognized in
other comprehensive income (loss) in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. The net assets of subsidiaries in highly inflationary economies are
remeasured as if the functional currency were the reporting currency. The remeasurement is recognized in net foreign exchange loss in the consolidated
statements of earnings.
Derivatives
All derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets and are classified as current or
long-term based on the scheduled maturity of the instrument.
For derivatives formally designated as hedges, the company assesses at inception and quarterly thereafter whether the hedging derivatives are highly
effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. The changes in fair value of a derivative designated as a fair value hedge and of
the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings immediately. The effective portions of changes in the fair value of a derivative
designated as a cash flow hedge are reported in AOCI and are subsequently recognized in earnings consistent with the underlying hedged item. If it is determined
that a derivative is no longer highly effective as a hedge, the company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively. If a hedged forecasted transaction becomes
probable of not occurring, any gains or losses are reclassified from AOCI to earnings. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are adjusted to fair value
through current earnings.
The company also uses derivative instruments or foreign currency denominated debt to hedge its net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and
affiliates. Realized and unrealized gains and losses from these hedges are included in AOCI.
Derivative cash flows, with the exception of net investment hedges, are principally classified in the operating section of the consolidated statements of cash
flows, consistent with the underlying hedged item. Cash flows related to net investment hedges are classified in the investing section of the consolidated
statements of cash flows.
2023 Form 10-K | 60Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
ASU No. 2023-09
In December 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740). The
standard requires disaggregation of the effective rate reconciliation into standard categories, enhances disclosure of income taxes paid, and modifies other
income tax-related disclosures. The standard will be effective for AbbVie starting in annual periods in 2025, with early adoption permitted. AbbVie is currently
assessing the impact of adopting this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
ASU No. 2023-07
In November 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-07 Segment Reporting - Improving Reportable Segment Disclosures (Topic 280). The standard requires
disclosures to include significant segment expenses that are regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker (CODM), a description of other segment
items by reportable segment, and any additional measures of a segment's profit or loss used by the CODM when deciding how to allocate resources. The ASU also
requires all annual disclosures currently required by Topic 280 to be included in interim periods. The standard is effective for AbbVie starting in annual periods
in 2024 and interim periods in 2025, with early adoption permitted and requires retrospective application to all prior periods presented in the financial
statements. AbbVie is currently assessing the impact of adopting this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
Note 3 Supplemental Financial Information
Interest Expense, Net
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Interest expense $ 2,224 $ 2,230 $ 2,423
Interest income (540) (186) (39)
Interest expense, net $ 1,684 $ 2,044 $ 2,384
Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities
as of December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022
Sales rebates $ 13,627 $ 10,717
Dividends payable 2,783 2,680
Accounts payable 3,688 2,934
Current portion of contingent consideration liabilities 1,952 1,469
Salaries, wages and commissions 1,802 1,371
Royalty and license arrangements 360 412
Other 6,438 5,819
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities $ 30,650 $ 25,402
Other Long-Term Liabilities
as of December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022
Contingent consideration liabilities $ 17,938 $ 14,915
Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits 6,681 6,502
Income taxes payable 2,182 2,985
Pension and other post-employment benefits 1,538 1,638
Other 3,988 4,615
Other long-term liabilities $ 32,327 $ 30,655
|
61 2023 Form 10-KNote 4 Earnings Per Share
AbbVie grants certain restricted stock units (RSUs) that are considered to be participating securities. Due to the presence of participating securities, AbbVie
calculates earnings per share (EPS) using the more dilutive of the treasury stock or the two-class method. For all periods presented, the two-class method was
more dilutive.
The following table summarizes the impact of the two-class method:
Years ended December 31,
(in millions, except per share data) 2023 2022 2021
Basic EPS
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 4,863 $ 11,836 $ 11,542
Earnings allocated to participating securities 43 54 74
Earnings available to common shareholders $ 4,820 $ 11,782 $ 11,468
Weighted average basic shares of common stock outstanding 1,768 1,771 1,770
Basic earnings per share attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 2.73 $ 6.65 $ 6.48
Diluted EPS
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 4,863 $ 11,836 $ 11,542
Earnings allocated to participating securities 43 54 74
Earnings available to common shareholders $ 4,820 $ 11,782 $ 11,468
Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding 1,768 1,771 1,770
Effect of dilutive securities 5 7 7
Weighted average diluted shares of common stock outstanding 1,773 1,778 1,777
Diluted earnings per share attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 2.72 $ 6.63 $ 6.45
Certain shares issuable under stock-based compensation plans were excluded from the computation of EPS because the effect would have been antidilutive.
The number of common shares excluded was insignificant for all periods presented.
Note 5 Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements
Proposed Acquisition of Cerevel Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
On December 6, 2023, AbbVie announced that it entered into a definitive agreement under which AbbVie will acquire Cerevel Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
(Cerevel Therapeutics). Under the terms of the agreement, AbbVie will acquire all outstanding shares of Cerevel Therapeutics for $45.00 per share in cash for a
total value of approximately $8.7 billion. The transaction is expected to close in 2024 subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
Cerevel Therapeutics is a clinical-stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery and development of differentiated therapies for Neuroscience
diseases. Cerevel Therapeutics neuroscience pipeline includes multiple clinical-stage and preclinical candidates with the potential to treat several diseases
including schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease and mood disorders.
2023 Form 10-K | 62Acquisition of ImmunoGen, Inc.
Subsequent to 2023, on February 12, 2024, AbbVie completed its previously announced acquisition of ImmunoGen, Inc. (ImmunoGen). Under the terms of the
agreement, AbbVie acquired all outstanding shares of ImmunoGen for $31.26 per share in cash for a total value of approximately $10.1 billion.
Due to the proximity of the closing date of the acquisition to the date of filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the initial accounting for the acquisition is
not complete. Significant, relevant information needed to complete the initial accounting, including the identification and measurement of the fair value of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed, is pending. As a result, it is not practicable to disclose the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to assets acquired and
liabilities assumed or provide other related disclosures. The accounting impact of this acquisition and the operating results of ImmunoGen will be included in the
consolidated financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2024.
ImmunoGen is a commercial-stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of antibody-drug conjugates (ADC)
for cancer patients. ImmunoGen's oncology portfolio includes its flagship cancer therapy Elahere, a first-in-class ADC approved for platinum-resistant ovarian
cancer, and a pipeline of promising next-generation ADC's targeting hematologic malignancies and solid tumors.
In connection with these acquisitions, AbbVie entered into several debt and financing arrangements. See Note 10 for additional information.
Acquisition of DJS Antibodies Ltd
In October 2022, AbbVie entered into an agreement to acquire DJS Antibodies Ltd (DJS) including its lead program DJS-002 and proprietary HEPTAD platform.
DJS-002 is an LPAR1 antagonist antibody currently in preclinical studies for the treatment of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis and other fibrotic diseases. HEPTAD
platform is a potential novel approach to antibody discovery with specific capabilities targeting transmembrane protein targets. The aggregate purchase price of
$287 million was comprised of a $255 million upfront cash payment and $32 million for the acquisition date fair value of contingent consideration liabilities,
for which AbbVie may owe up to $95 million in future payments upon achievement of certain development milestones. The transaction was accounted for as a
business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. As of the acquisition date, AbbVie acquired $233 million of intangible assets for in-process
research and development, $22 million of intangible assets for developed product rights and $60 million of deferred tax liabilities. Other assets and liabilities
assumed were insignificant. The acquisition resulted in the recognition of $92 million of goodwill which is not deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition of Soliton, Inc.
In December 2021, AbbVie completed its previously announced acquisition of Soliton, Inc. (Soliton). Soliton's RESONIC (Rapid Acoustic Pulse device) has U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 510(k) clearance for the long-term improvement in the appearance of cellulite up to one year. The transaction was accounted
for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. Total consideration transferred allocated to the purchase price consisted of cash
consideration of $535 million paid to holders of Soliton common stock, equity-based awards and warrants. As of the transaction date, AbbVie acquired $407
million of intangible assets for developed product rights and assumed deferred tax liabilities totaling $63 million. Other assets and liabilities were insignificant.
The acquisition resulted in the recognition of $177 million of goodwill which is not deductible for tax purposes.
Other Licensing & Acquisitions Activity
Cash outflows related to other acquisitions and investments totaled $1.2 billion in 2023, $539 million in 2022 and $1.4 billion in 2021. AbbVie recorded
acquired IPR&D and milestones expense of $778 million in 2023, $697 million in 2022 and $1.1 billion in 2021. Significant arrangements impacting 2023, 2022
and 2021, some of which require contingent milestone payments, are summarized below.
Syndesi Therapeutics SA
In February 2022, AbbVie acquired Syndesi Therapeutics SA and its portfolio of novel modulators of the synaptic vesicle protein 2A, including its lead
molecule ABBV-552, previously named SDI-118, and accounted for the transaction as an asset acquisition. ABBV-552 is a small molecule, which is being
evaluated to target nerve terminals to enhance synaptic efficiency. Under the terms of the agreement, AbbVie made an upfront payment of $130 million which was
recorded to acquired IPR&D and milestones expense in the consolidated statement of earnings in the first quarter of 2022. The agreement also includes
|
63 2023 Form 10-Kadditional future payments of up to $870 million upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones.
Juvise Pharmaceuticals
In June 2022, AbbVie and Laboratories Juvise Pharmaceuticals (Juvise) entered into an asset purchase agreement where Juvise acquired worldwide
commercial rights of a mature brand Pylera, which is used for the treatment of peptic ulcers with an infection by the bacterium Helicobacter pylori. The
transaction was accounted for as the sale of an asset. Upon completion of the transaction, AbbVie received net cash proceeds of $215 million and recognized a
pre-tax gain of $172 million which was recorded in other operating income in the consolidated statement of earnings in the second quarter of 2022.
Calico Life Sciences LLC
In July 2021, AbbVie and Calico Life Sciences LLC (Calico) entered into an extension of their collaboration to discover, develop and bring to market new
therapies for patients with age-related diseases, including neurodegeneration and cancer. This is the second collaboration extension and builds on the
partnership established in 2014 and extended in 2018. Under the terms of the agreement, AbbVie and Calico will each contribute an additional $500 million, and
the term is extended for an additional three years. AbbVie’s contribution is payable in two equal installments beginning in 2023. Calico will be responsible for
research and early development until 2025 and will advance collaboration projects into Phase 2a through 2030. Following completion of the Phase 2a studies,
AbbVie will have the option to exclusively license the collaboration compounds. Upon exercise, AbbVie would be responsible for late-stage development and
commercial activities. Collaboration costs and profits will be shared equally by both parties post option exercise. During the third quarter of 2021, AbbVie
recorded $500 million as other operating expense in the consolidated statement of earnings related to its commitments under the agreement.
TeneoOne and TNB-383B
In September 2021, AbbVie acquired TeneoOne, an affiliate of Teneobio, Inc., and TNB-383B, a BCMA-targeting immunotherapeutic for the potential treatment
of relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (R/R MM). In February 2019, AbbVie and TeneoOne entered a strategic transaction to develop and commercialize TNB-
383B, a bispecific antibody that simultaneously targets BCMA and CD3 and is designed to direct the body's own immune system to target and kill BCMA-
expressing tumor cells. AbbVie exercised its exclusive right to acquire TeneoOne and TNB-383B based on an interim analysis of an ongoing Phase 1 study and
accounted for the transaction as an asset acquisition. Under the terms of the agreement, AbbVie made an exercise payment of $400 million which was recorded to
acquired IPR&D and milestones expense in the consolidated statement of earnings in the third quarter of 2021. The agreement also included additional payments
of up to $250 million upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones.
REGENXBIO Inc.
In September 2021, AbbVie and REGENXBIO Inc. (REGENXBIO) entered into a collaboration to develop and commercialize RGX-314, an investigational gene
therapy for wet age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy and other chronic retinal diseases. The collaboration provides AbbVie with an exclusive
global license to develop and commercialize RGX-314. REGENXBIO will be responsible for completion of ongoing trials, AbbVie and REGENXBIO will collaborate
and share costs of additional trials and AbbVie will lead the clinical development and commercialization of RGX-314 globally. REGENXBIO and AbbVie will share
equally in pre-tax profits from net revenues of RGX-314 in the U.S. and AbbVie will pay REGENXBIO tiered royalties on net revenues outside the U.S. Upon closing in
the fourth quarter of 2021, AbbVie made an upfront payment of $370 million to exclusively license RGX-314 which was recorded to acquired IPR&D and
milestones expense in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2021. The agreement also included additional payments of up to
$1.4 billion upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones.
Other Arrangements
In addition to the significant arrangements described above, AbbVie entered into several other arrangements resulting in charges related to upfront
payments of $582 million in 2023, $315 million in 2022 and $192 million in 2021. In connection with the other individually insignificant early-stage
arrangements entered into in 2023, AbbVie could make additional payments of up to $10.9 billion upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and
commercial milestones. Acquired IPR&D and milestones expense also included development milestones of $196 million in 2023, $252 million in 2022 and $162
million in 2021.
2023 Form 10-K | 64Note 6 Collaborations
The company has ongoing transactions with other entities through collaboration agreements. The following represent the significant collaboration
agreements impacting 2023, 2022 and 2021.
Collaboration with Janssen Biotech, Inc.
In December 2011, Pharmacyclics, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AbbVie, entered into a worldwide collaboration and license agreement with Janssen
Biotech, Inc. and its affiliates (Janssen), one of the Janssen Pharmaceutical companies of Johnson & Johnson, for the joint development and commercialization of
Imbruvica, a novel, orally active, selective covalent inhibitor of Bruton's tyrosine kinase and certain compounds structurally related to Imbruvica, for oncology
and other indications, excluding all immune and inflammatory mediated diseases or conditions and all psychiatric or psychological diseases or conditions, in
the United States and outside the United States.
The collaboration provides Janssen with an exclusive license to commercialize Imbruvica outside of the United States and co-exclusively with AbbVie in the
United States. Both parties are responsible for the development, manufacturing and marketing of any products generated as a result of the collaboration. The
collaboration has no set duration or specific expiration date and provides for potential future development, regulatory and approval milestone payments of up to
$200 million to AbbVie. The collaboration also includes a cost sharing arrangement for associated collaboration activities. Except in certain cases, Janssen is
responsible for approximately 60% of collaboration development costs and AbbVie is responsible for the remaining 40% of collaboration development costs.
In the United States, both parties have co-exclusive rights to commercialize the products; however, AbbVie is the principal in the end-customer product
sales. AbbVie and Janssen share pre-tax profits and losses equally from the commercialization of products. Sales of Imbruvica are included in AbbVie's net
revenues. Janssen's share of profits is included in AbbVie's cost of products sold. Other costs incurred under the collaboration are reported in their respective
expense line items, net of Janssen's share.
Outside the United States, Janssen is responsible for and has exclusive rights to commercialize Imbruvica. AbbVie and Janssen share pre-tax profits and
losses equally from the commercialization of products. AbbVie's share of profits is included in AbbVie's net revenues. Other costs incurred under the
collaboration are reported in their respective expense line items, net of Janssen's share.
The following table shows the profit and cost sharing relationship between Janssen and AbbVie:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
United States - Janssen's share of profits (included in cost of products sold) $ 1,245 $ 1,607 $ 2,018
International - AbbVie's share of profits (included in net revenues) 931 1,142 1,087
Global - AbbVie's share of other costs (included in respective line items) 228 268 304
AbbVie’s receivable from Janssen, included in accounts receivable, net, was $236 million at December 31, 2023 and $295 million at December 31, 2022.
AbbVie’s payable to Janssen, included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, was $307 million at December 31, 2023 and $379 million at December 31,
2022.
Collaboration with Genentech, Inc.
AbbVie and Genentech, Inc. (Genentech), a member of the Roche Group, are parties to a collaboration and license agreement executed in 2007 to jointly
research, develop and commercialize human therapeutic products containing BCL-2 inhibitors and certain other compound inhibitors which includes Venclexta, a
BCL-2 inhibitor used to treat certain hematological malignancies. AbbVie shares equally with Genentech all pre-tax profits and losses from the development and
commercialization of Venclexta in the United States. AbbVie pays royalties on Venclexta net revenues outside the United States.
AbbVie manufactures and distributes Venclexta globally and is the principal in the end-customer product sales. Sales of Venclexta are included in AbbVie's
net revenues. Genentech's share of United States profits is included in AbbVie's cost of products sold. AbbVie records sales and marketing costs associated with
the United States collaboration as part of SG&A expenses and global development costs as part of R&D expenses, net of Genentech’s share. Royalties paid for
Venclexta revenues outside the United States are also included in AbbVie’s cost of products sold.
|
65 2023 Form 10-KThe following table shows the profit and cost sharing relationship between Genentech and AbbVie:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Genentech's share of profits, including royalties (included in cost of products sold) $ 869 $ 778 $ 703
AbbVie's share of sales and marketing costs from U.S. collaboration (included in
SG&A) 41 37 40
AbbVie's share of development costs (included in R&D) 109 121 140
Note 7 Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill
The following table summarizes the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill:
(in millions)
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 32,379
Additions(a) 92
Foreign currency translation adjustments and other (315)
Balance as of December 31, 2022 32,156
Foreign currency translation adjustments and other 137
Balance as of December 31, 2023 $ 32,293
(a) Goodwill additions related to the acquisition of DJS in the fourth quarter of 2022 (see Note 5).
The company performs its annual goodwill impairment assessment in the third quarter, or earlier if impairment indicators exist. As of December 31, 2023
and 2022, there were no accumulated goodwill impairment losses.
Intangible Assets, Net
The following table summarizes intangible assets:
2023 2022
Gross Net Gross Net
as of December 31 (in carrying Accumulated carrying carrying Accumulated carrying
millions) amount amortization amount amount amortization amount
Definite-lived
intangible assets
Developed
product rights $ 75,142 $ (22,455) $ 52,687 $ 87,698 $ (25,003) $ 62,695
License
agreements 8,191 (5,571) 2,620 8,474 (4,642) 3,832
Total definite-
lived intangible assets 83,333 (28,026) 55,307 96,172 (29,645) 66,527
Indefinite-lived
intangible assets 303 — 303 912 — 912
Total intangible
assets, net $ 83,636 $ (28,026) $ 55,610 $ 97,084 $ (29,645) $ 67,439
Definite-Lived Intangible Assets
In the fourth quarter of 2023, the company made a decision to reduce current sales and marketing investment related to both CoolSculpting, a body
contouring technology for aesthetic nonsurgical fat reduction, and Liletta, an on-market women’s health product. Each of these strategic decisions contributed to
significant decreases in the estimated future cash flows for the respective products and represented triggering events that required an evaluation of the
underlying definite-lived intangible assets for impairment. The company used a discounted cash flow analysis for both products. For CoolSculpting, the fair value
of $290 million was lower than the carrying value of $1.3 billion resulting in a partial impairment of both the gross and net carrying amount. For Liletta, the fair
value of $241 million was lower than the carrying value of $561 million resulting in a partial impairment of both the gross and net carrying amount. Based on the
revised cash flows, the company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $1.4 billion to costs of products sold in the consolidated statement of earnings for the
fourth quarter of 2023.
2023 Form 10-K | 66In August 2023, as part of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, the company’s oncology product Imbruvica sold in the United States (U.S.) was included on
the list of products selected for negotiation by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. The selection resulted in a significant decrease in the estimated
future cash flows for the product and represented a triggering event which required the company to evaluate the underlying definite-lived intangible asset for
impairment. The company utilized a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of $1.9 billion, which was lower than the carrying value of
$4.0 billion and resulted in a partial impairment of both the gross and net carrying amount as of August 29, 2023. Based on the revised cash flows, the company
recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $2.1 billion to cost of products sold in the consolidated statement of earnings for the third quarter of 2023.
In September 2022, the company made a strategic decision to reduce ongoing sales and marketing investment related to Vuity, an on-market product to treat
presbyopia. This strategic decision contributed to a significant decrease in the estimated future cash flows for the product and represented a triggering event
which required the company to evaluate the underlying definite lived-intangible asset for impairment. The company utilized a discounted cash flow analysis to
estimate the fair value of the intangible asset resulting in a full impairment of both the gross and net carrying amount. Based on the revised cash flows, the
company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $770 million to cost of products sold in the consolidated statement of earnings for the third quarter of 2022.
Fair value measurements for the above evaluations were based on Level 3 inputs including estimated net revenues, cost of products sold, R&D costs, selling
and marketing costs and discount rate.
Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range between 1 to 16 years with an average of 12 years for developed
product rights and 11 years for license agreements. Amortization expense was $7.9 billion in 2023, $7.7 billion in 2022 and $7.7 billion in 2021 and was
included in cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of earnings. The anticipated annual amortization expense for definite-lived intangible assets
recorded as of December 31, 2023 is as follows:
(in billions) 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028
Anticipated annual amortization expense $ 7.4 $ 7.0 $ 6.3 $ 5.6 $ 5.7
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets
Indefinite-lived intangible assets represent acquired IPR&D associated with products that have not yet received regulatory approval.
The company performs its annual impairment assessment of indefinite-lived intangible assets in the third quarter, or earlier if impairment indicators exist.
During the first quarter of 2023, the company made a decision to revise the research and development plan for AGN-151607, a novel investigational
neurotoxin for the prevention of postoperative atrial fibrillation in cardiac surgery patients. This decision contributed to a delay in the estimated timing of
regulatory approval as well as a significant decrease in estimated future cash flows of the product and represented a triggering event which required the company
to evaluate the underlying indefinite-lived intangible asset for impairment. The company utilized a discounted cash flow analysis to estimate the fair value which
was below the carrying value of the intangible asset. Based on the revised cash flows, the company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $630 million to
research and development expense in the consolidated statement of earnings for the first quarter of 2023.
Note 8 Integration and Restructuring Plans
Allergan Integration Plan
Following the closing of the Allergan acquisition, AbbVie implemented an integration plan designed to reduce costs, integrate and optimize the combined
organization and incurred total cumulative charges of $2.5 billion through 2023. These costs consisted of severance and employee benefit costs (cash severance,
non-cash severance, including accelerated equity award compensation expense, retention and other termination benefits) and other integration expenses.
|
67 2023 Form 10-KThe following table summarizes the charges associated with the Allergan acquisition integration plan:
year ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Cost of products sold $ 89 $ 117 $ 132
Research and development 7 23 102
Selling, general and administrative 192 399 353
Total charges $ 288 $ 539 $ 587
The following table summarizes the cash activity in the recorded liability associated with the integration plan:
year ended December 31 (in millions)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 387
Charges 526
Payments and other adjustments (658)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2021 255
Charges 377
Payments and other adjustments (525)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2022 107
Charges 274
Payments and other adjustments (338)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2023 $ 43
Other Restructuring
AbbVie continuously evaluates its operations to identify opportunities to optimize its manufacturing and R&D operations, commercial infrastructure and
administrative costs and to respond to changes in its business environment. As a result, AbbVie management periodically approves individual restructuring plans
to achieve these objectives. In 2023, 2022 and 2021, no such plans were individually significant. Restructuring charges recorded were $132 million in 2023,
$241 million in 2022 and $59 million in 2021 and were primarily related to employee severance and contractual obligations. These charges were recorded in cost
of products sold, R&D expense and SG&A expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings based on the classification of the affected employees or operations.
The following table summarizes the cash activity in the restructuring reserve for 2023, 2022 and 2021:
(in millions)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 90
Charges 54
Payments and other adjustments (111)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2021 33
Charges 193
Payments and other adjustments (50)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2022 176
Charges 107
Payments and other adjustments (87)
Accrued balance as of December 31, 2023 $ 196
2023 Form 10-K | 68Note 9 Leases
AbbVie's lease portfolio primarily consists of real estate properties, vehicles and equipment. The following table summarizes the amounts and location of
operating and finance leases on the consolidated balance sheets:
as of December 31 (in millions) Balance sheet caption 2023 2022
Assets
Operating Other assets $ 744 $ 737
Finance Property and equipment, net 35 25
Total lease assets $ 779 $ 762
Liabilities
Operating
Current Accounts payable and accrued liabilities $ 166 $ 166
Noncurrent Other long-term liabilities 735 754
Finance
Current Current portion of long-term debt and finance lease obligations 15 17
Noncurrent Long-term debt and finance lease obligations 27 17
Total lease liabilities $ 943 $ 954
The following table summarizes the lease costs recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Operating lease cost $ 189 $ 201 $ 226
Short-term lease cost 28 67 56
Variable lease cost 88 71 71
Total lease cost $ 305 $ 339 $ 353
In December 2022, the company entered into an agreement to sublease a portion of its Madison, New Jersey office space through the end of the original
lease maturity in 2030. As a result of this agreement, the company recognized an impairment loss on its right-of-use asset of $69 million and wrote-off the related
leasehold improvements of $37 million. These losses were recorded to SG&A expense in the consolidated statements of earnings for the year ended December 31,
2022. The company used a discounted cash flows method to value the right-of-use asset to determine the impairment amount.
Sublease income and finance lease costs were insignificant in 2023, 2022 and 2021.
|
69 2023 Form 10-KThe following table presents the weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for operating and finance leases:
years ended December 31 2023 2022 2021
Weighted-average remaining lease term (years)
Operating 7 8 7
Finance 3 2 3
Weighted-average discount rate
Operating 3.0 % 2.6 % 2.4 %
Finance 3.6 % 1.5 % 1.1 %
The following table presents supplementary cash flow information regarding the company's leases:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities
Operating cash flows from operating leases $ 214 $ 212 $ 236
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for new operating lease liabilities 173 235 66
Finance lease cash flows were insignificant in 2023, 2022 and 2021.
The following table summarizes the future maturities of AbbVie's operating and finance lease liabilities as of December 31, 2023:
Operating Finance
(in millions) leases leases Total(a)
2024 $ 194 $ 15 $ 209
2025 169 14 183
2026 145 12 157
2027 115 2 117
2028 93 — 93
Thereafter 292 — 292
Total lease payments 1,008 43 1,051
Less: Interest 107 1 108
Present value of lease liabilities $ 901 $ 42 $ 943
(a) Lease payments recognized as part of lease liabilities for optional renewal periods are insignificant.
2023 Form 10-K | 70Note 10 Debt, Credit Facilities and Commitments and Contingencies
The following table summarizes long-term debt:
2023 Effective 2022 Effective
as of December 31 (dollars in millions) interest rate (a) 2023 interest rate (a) 2022
1.50-3.75% aggregate notes due 2023 0.49-3.84% $ — 0.49-3.84% $ 3,132
Floating rate term loans due 2023 5.07 % — 2.45 % 1,000
2.60% senior notes due 2024 2.69 % 3,750 2.69 % 3,750
1.375% senior euro notes due 2024 (€1,450 principal) 1.46 % 1,610 1.46 % 1,543
3.85% senior notes due 2024 2.07 % 1,032 2.07 % 1,032
1.25% senior euro notes due 2024 (€700 principal) 0.65 % 777 0.65 % 745
3.60% senior notes due 2025 3.66 % 3,750 3.66 % 3,750
3.80% senior notes due 2025 2.09 % 3,021 2.09 % 3,021
Floating rate term loans due 2025 5.95 % 2,000 2.82 % 2,000
2.95% senior notes due 2026 3.02 % 4,000 3.02 % 4,000
3.20% senior notes due 2026 3.28 % 2,000 3.28 % 2,000
0.75% senior euro notes due 2027 (€750 principal) 0.86 % 833 0.86 % 798
4.25% senior notes due 2028 4.38 % 1,750 4.38 % 1,750
2.125% senior euro notes due 2028 (€750 principal) 2.18 % 833 2.18 % 798
2.625% senior euro notes due 2028 (€500 principal) 1.20 % 555 1.20 % 532
3.20% senior notes due 2029 3.25 % 5,500 3.25 % 5,500
2.125% senior euro notes due 2029 (€550 principal) 1.19 % 611 1.19 % 585
1.25% senior euro notes due 2031 (€650 principal) 1.30 % 722 1.30 % 691
4.55% senior notes due 2035 3.52 % 1,789 3.52 % 1,789
4.50% senior notes due 2035 4.58 % 2,500 4.58 % 2,500
4.30% senior notes due 2036 4.37 % 1,000 4.37 % 1,000
4.05% senior notes due 2039 4.11 % 4,000 4.11 % 4,000
4.40% senior notes due 2042 4.46 % 2,600 4.46 % 2,600
4.625% senior notes due 2042 4.00 % 457 4.00 % 457
4.85% senior notes due 2044 4.11 % 1,074 4.11 % 1,074
4.70% senior notes due 2045 4.73 % 2,700 4.73 % 2,700
4.75% senior notes due 2045 4.20 % 881 4.20 % 881
4.45% senior notes due 2046 4.50 % 2,000 4.50 % 2,000
4.875% senior notes due 2048 4.94 % 1,750 4.94 % 1,750
4.25% senior notes due 2049 4.29 % 5,750 4.29 % 5,750
Fair value hedges (266) (346)
Unamortized bond discounts (106) (116)
Unamortized deferred financing costs (198) (222)
Unamortized bond premiums(b) 668 793
Other 42 33
Total long-term debt and finance lease obligations 59,385 63,270
Current portion 7,191 4,135
Noncurrent portion $ 52,194 $ 59,135
(a) Excludes the effect of any related interest rate swaps.
(b) Represents unamortized purchase price adjustments of Allergan debt.
|
71 2023 Form 10-KSenior notes and floating rate term loans are redeemable prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the principal amount plus a make-whole premium
and AbbVie may redeem these debt securities at par generally between one and six months prior to maturity. At December 31, 2023, the company was in
compliance with its senior note covenants and term loan covenants.
Maturities of Long-Term Debt
as of and for the years ending December 31 (in millions)
2024 $ 7,170
2025 8,771
2026 6,000
2027 833
2028 3,138
Thereafter 33,333
Total obligations and commitments 59,245
Fair value hedges, unamortized bond premiums/discounts, deferred financing costs and finance lease obligations 140
Total long-term debt and finance lease obligations $ 59,385
Repayment and Issuance of Long-Term Debt
In 2023, the company repaid a $1.0 billion floating rate three-year term loan, $350 million aggregate principal amount of 2.80% senior notes and $1.0
billion aggregate principal amount of 2.85% senior notes at maturity. During the quarter ended December 31, 2023, the company also repaid €500 million
aggregate principal amount of 1.50% senior euro notes and $1.3 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.75% senior notes at maturity.
In 2022, the company repaid $2.9 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.450% senior notes, $1.7 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.25% senior notes
and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.2% senior notes. These repayments were made by exercising, under the terms of the notes ranging between 60
and 90-day early redemptions at 100% of the principal amount. During the quarter ended December 31, 2022, the company also paid $3.1 billion aggregate
principal amount of 2.9% senior notes, $3.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.3% senior notes and $750 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate
senior notes at maturity. Additionally in 2022, the company refinanced its $2.0 billion floating rate five-year term loan. As part of the refinancing, the company
repaid the existing $2.0 billion term loan due May 2025 and borrowed $2.0 billion under a new term loan at a lower floating rate. All other significant terms of
the loan, including the maturity date, remained unchanged after the refinancing.
Financing Related to ImmunoGen and Cerevel Therapeutics Acquisitions
In connection with the acquisition of ImmunoGen and proposed acquisition of Cerevel Therapeutics, on December 6, 2023, AbbVie entered into a $9.0 billion
364-day bridge credit agreement and on December 21, 2023, AbbVie entered into a 364-day term loan credit agreement with an aggregate principal amount of $5.0
billion. No amounts were drawn under the bridge credit agreement or term loan credit agreement as of December 31, 2023.
Subsequent to 2023, on February 12, 2024, AbbVie borrowed $5.0 billion under the term loan credit agreement. See Note 5 for additional information.
Short-Term Borrowings
No commercial paper borrowings were issued during 2023 or 2022 and there were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2023
and December 31, 2022. Subsequent to 2023, AbbVie issued commercial paper borrowings of which $1.7 billion were outstanding as of the date of filing this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.
In March 2023, AbbVie entered into an amended and restated five-year revolving credit facility. The amendment increased the unsecured revolving credit
facility commitments from $4.0 billion to $5.0 billion and extended the maturity date of the facility from August 2023 to March 2028. This amended facility
enables the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates and contains various covenants. At December 31, 2023, the company was
in compliance with all covenants, and commitment fees under the credit facility were insignificant. No amounts were outstanding under the company's credit
facilities as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022.
2023 Form 10-K | 72Contingencies and Guarantees
In connection with the separation, AbbVie has indemnified Abbott for all liabilities resulting from the operation of AbbVie's business other than income tax
liabilities with respect to periods prior to the distribution date and other liabilities as agreed to by AbbVie and Abbott. AbbVie has no material exposures to off-
balance sheet arrangements and no special-purpose entities. In the ordinary course of business, AbbVie has periodically entered into third-party agreements,
such as the assignment of product rights, which have resulted in AbbVie becoming secondarily liable for obligations for which AbbVie had previously been
primarily liable. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote.
Note 11 Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures
Risk Management Policy
The company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks related to its business operations. AbbVie's hedging policy attempts to
manage these risks to an acceptable level based on the company's judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. The company uses
derivative and nonderivative instruments to reduce its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. AbbVie also periodically enters into interest rate swaps in
which the company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-
upon notional amount. Derivative instruments are not used for trading purposes or to manage exposure to changes in interest rates for investment securities, and
none of the company's outstanding derivative instruments contain credit risk related contingent features; collateral is generally not required.
Financial Instruments
Various AbbVie foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for
anticipated intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the local entity. These contracts, with notional amounts
totaling $1.8 billion at December 31, 2023 and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2022, are designated as cash flow hedges and are recorded at fair value. The
durations of these forward exchange contracts were generally less than 18 months. Accumulated gains and losses as of December 31, 2023 are reclassified from
AOCI and included in cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally not exceeding six months from the date of settlement.
In 2019, the company entered into treasury rate lock agreements with notional amounts totaling $10.0 billion to hedge exposure to variability in future cash
flows resulting from changes in interest rates related to the issuance of long-term debt in connection with the acquisition of Allergan. The treasury rate lock
agreements were designated as cash flow hedges and recorded at fair value. The agreements were net settled upon issuance of the senior notes in 2019 and the
resulting net gain was included in AOCI . This gain is reclassified to interest expense, net over the term of the related debt.
The company was a party to interest rate swap contracts designated as cash flow hedges that matured in November 2022. The effect of the hedge contracts
was to change a floating-rate interest obligation to a fixed rate for that portion of the floating-rate debt. Realized and unrealized gains or losses were included in
AOCI and reclassified to interest expense, net over the lives of the floating-rate debt.
In June 2023, the company entered into a cross-currency swap contract that matured in November 2023 with a notional amount totaling €433 million to
hedge the company’s exposure to changes in future cash flows of foreign currency denominated debt related to changes in foreign exchange rates. The cross-
currency swap contract was designated as a cash flow hedge and effectively converted the interest and principal payments of the related foreign currency
denominated debt to U.S. dollars. The unrealized gains and losses on the contract were included in AOCI and reclassified to net foreign exchange loss over the
term of the related debt.
The company also enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated trade payables and
receivables and intercompany loans. These contracts are not designated as hedges and are recorded at fair value. Resulting gains or losses are reflected in net
foreign exchange gains or loss in the consolidated statements of earnings and are generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency exposure being
managed. These contracts had notional amounts totaling $7.9 billion at December 31, 2023 and $6.5 billion at December 31, 2022.
The company also uses foreign currency forward exchange contracts or foreign currency denominated debt to hedge its net investments in certain foreign
subsidiaries and affiliates. The company had an aggregate principal amount of senior Euro notes designated as net investment hedges of €5.4 billion at
December 31, 2023 and €5.9 billion December 31, 2022. In addition, the company had foreign currency forward exchange contracts designated as net investment
hedges with notional amounts totaling €4.9 billion, SEK1.4 billion, CAD750 million and CHF50 million at December 31, 2023 and €4.3 billion,
|
73 2023 Form 10-KSEK2.0 billion, CAD750 million and CHF90 million at December 31, 2022. The company uses the spot method of assessing hedge effectiveness for derivative
instruments designated as net investment hedges. Realized and unrealized gains and losses from these hedges are included in AOCI and the initial fair value of
hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness is recognized in interest expense, net over the life of the hedging instrument.
The company is a party to interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges with notional amounts totaling $5.0 billion at December 31, 2023
and $4.5 billion at December 31, 2022. The effect of the hedge contracts is to change a fixed-rate interest obligation to a floating rate for that portion of the debt.
AbbVie records the contracts at fair value and adjusts the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt by an offsetting amount.
No amounts are excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for cash flow hedges or fair value hedges.
The following table summarizes the amounts and location of AbbVie's derivative instruments on the consolidated balance sheets:
Fair value - Fair value -
Derivatives in asset position Derivatives in liability position
Balance sheet Balance sheet
as of December 31 (in millions) caption 2023 2022 caption 2023 2022
Foreign currency forward exchange
contracts
Prepaid expenses Accounts payable
Designated as cash flow hedges and other $ 12 $ 49 and accrued liabilities $ 32 $ 8
Other long-term
Designated as cash flow hedges Other assets — 1 liabilities — —
Designated as net investment Prepaid expenses Accounts payable
hedges and other 13 6 and accrued liabilities 66 36
Designated as net investment Other long-term
hedges Other assets — 74 liabilities 69 47
Prepaid expenses Accounts payable
Not designated as hedges and other 41 33 and accrued liabilities 36 41
Interest rate swap contracts
Prepaid expenses Accounts payable
Designated as fair value hedges and other — — and accrued liabilities — 17
Other long-term
Designated as fair value hedges Other assets — — liabilities 293 375
Total derivatives $ 66 $ 163 $ 496 $ 524
While certain derivatives are subject to netting arrangements with the company's counterparties, the company does not offset derivative assets and
liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets.
The following table presents the pre-tax amounts of gains (losses) from derivative instruments recognized in other comprehensive income (loss):
years ended in December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Foreign currency forward exchange contracts
Designated as cash flow hedges $ (2) $ 103 $ 82
Designated as net investment hedges (144) 395 341
Cross-currency swap contracts designated as cash flow hedges (6) — —
Interest rate swap contracts designated as cash flow hedges — 6 2
Assuming market rates remain constant through contract maturities, the company expects to reclassify pre-tax gains of $7 million into cost of products sold
for foreign currency cash flow hedges and pre-tax gains of $23 million into interest expense, net for treasury rate lock agreement cash flow hedges during the next
12 months.
Related to AbbVie’s non-derivative, foreign currency denominated debt designated as net investment hedges, the company recognized in other
comprehensive income (loss) pre-tax losses of $252 million in 2023, pre-tax gains of $406 million in 2022 and pre-tax gains of $577 million in 2021.
2023 Form 10-K | 74The following table summarizes the pre-tax amounts and location of derivative instrument net gains (losses) recognized in the consolidated statements of
earnings, including the net gains (losses) reclassified out of AOCI into net earnings. See Note 13 for the amount of net gains (losses) reclassified out of AOCI.
years ended December 31 (in millions) Statement of earnings caption 2023 2022 2021
Foreign currency forward exchange contracts
Designated as cash flow hedges Cost of products sold $ 77 $ 82 $ (87)
Designated as net investment hedges Interest expense, net 112 94 26
Not designated as hedges Net foreign exchange loss 33 (156) (100)
Treasury rate lock agreements designated as cash flow
hedges Interest expense, net 24 23 24
Cross-currency swap contracts designated as cash flow
hedges Net foreign exchange loss (6) — —
Interest rate swap contracts
Designated as cash flow hedges Interest expense, net — (1) (24)
Designated as fair value hedges Interest expense, net 98 (402) (127)
Debt designated as hedged item in fair value hedges Interest expense, net (98) 402 127
Fair Value Measures
The fair value hierarchy consists of the following three levels:
• Level 1—Valuations based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets that the company has the ability to access;
• Level 2—Valuations based on quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets
that are not active and model-based valuations in which all significant inputs are observable in the market; and
• Level 3—Valuations using significant inputs that are unobservable in the market and include the use of judgment by the company's management
about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
|
75 2023 Form 10-KThe following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the consolidated
balance sheet as of December 31, 2023:
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in Significant other
active markets for observable Significant
identical assets inputs unobservable inputs
(in millions) Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets
Cash and equivalents $ 12,814 $ 6,223 $ 6,591 $ —
Money market funds and time deposits 10 — 10 —
Debt securities 26 — 26 —
Equity securities 111 86 25 —
Foreign currency contracts 66 — 66 —
Total assets $ 13,027 $ 6,309 $ 6,718 $ —
Liabilities
Interest rate swap contracts $ 293 $ — $ 293 $ —
Foreign currency contracts 203 — 203 —
Contingent consideration 19,890 — — 19,890
Total liabilities $ 20,386 $ — $ 496 $ 19,890
The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the consolidated
balance sheet as of December 31, 2022:
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in Significant other
active markets for identical observable Significant
assets inputs unobservable inputs
(in millions) Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets
Cash and equivalents $ 9,201 $ 4,201 $ 5,000 $ —
Money market funds and time deposits 21 — 21 —
Debt securities 28 — 28 —
Equity securities 91 59 32 —
Foreign currency contracts 163 — 163 —
Total assets $ 9,504 $ 4,260 $ 5,244 $ —
Liabilities
Interest rate swap contracts $ 392 $ — $ 392 $ —
Foreign currency contracts 132 — 132 —
Contingent consideration 16,384 — — 16,384
Total liabilities $ 16,908 $ — $ 524 $ 16,384
Money market funds and time deposits are valued using relevant observable market inputs including quoted prices for similar assets and interest rate
curves. Equity securities primarily consist of investments for which the fair values were determined by using the published market prices per unit multiplied by
the number of units held, without consideration of transaction costs. The derivatives entered into by the company were valued using observable market inputs
including published interest rate curves and both forward and spot prices for foreign currencies.
The fair value measurements of the contingent consideration liabilities were determined based on significant unobservable inputs, including the discount
rate, estimated probabilities and timing of achieving specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones and the estimated amount of future sales of
the acquired products. The potential contingent consideration payments are estimated by applying a probability-weighted expected payment model for contingent
milestone payments and a Monte Carlo simulation model for contingent royalty payments, which are then discounted to present value. Changes to the fair value
of the contingent consideration liabilities can result from changes to one or a number of inputs, including discount rates, the probabilities of achieving the
milestones, the time required to achieve the milestones and estimated future sales. Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of
certain of these inputs.
2023 Form 10-K | 76Changes to the inputs described above could have a material impact on the company's financial position and results of operations in any given period.
The fair value of the company's contingent consideration liabilities was calculated using the following significant unobservable inputs:
2023 2022
years ended December 31 (in millions) Range Weighted Average(a) Range Weighted Average(a)
Discount rate 4.3% - 5.9% 4.5% 4.7% - 5.1% 4.8 %
Probability of payment for unachieved milestones(b) N/A - N/A N/A 100% - 100% 100 %
Probability of payment for royalties by indication(C) 89% - 100% 99% 56% - 100% 99 %
Projected year of payments 2024 - 2034 2027 2023 - 2034 2028
(a) Unobservable inputs were weighted by the relative fair value of the contingent consideration liabilities.
(b) All significant milestones were achieved and paid as of December 31, 2023.
(c) Excluding approved indications, the estimated probability of payment was 89% at December 31, 2023 and was 56% at December 31, 2022.
There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities into or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The following table presents the changes in fair value of
contingent consideration liabilities which are measured using Level 3 inputs:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Beginning balance $ 16,384 $ 14,887 $ 12,997
Additions(a) — 32 —
Change in fair value recognized in net earnings 5,128 2,761 2,679
Payments (1,622) (1,296) (789)
Ending balance $ 19,890 $ 16,384 $ 14,887
(a) Additions during the year ended December 31, 2022, represent contingent consideration liabilities assumed in the DJS acquisition.
The change in fair value recognized in net earnings is recorded in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings and included charges of
$5.1 billion in 2023, $2.8 billion in 2022 and $2.7 billion in 2021. In 2023, the change in fair value reflected higher estimated Skyrizi sales driven by stronger
market share uptake, the passage of time and lower discount rates. In 2022, the change in fair value reflected higher estimated Skyrizi sales driven by stronger
market share uptake and the passage of time, partially offset by higher discount rates. In 2021, the change in fair value reflected higher estimated Skyrizi sales
driven by stronger market share uptake, favorable clinical trial results and the passage of time, partially offset by higher discount rates.
Contingent consideration payments of amounts up to the initial acquisition date fair value are classified as cash outflows from financing activities and
payments of amounts in excess of the initial acquisition date fair value are classified as cash outflows from operating activities in the consolidated statements of
cash flows.
|
77 2023 Form 10-KCertain financial instruments are carried at historical cost or some basis other than fair value. The book values, approximate fair values and bases used to
measure the approximate fair values of certain financial instruments as of December 31, 2023 are shown in the table below:
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in
active markets for identical Significant other Significant
Approximate fair assets observable inputs unobservable inputs
(in millions) Book value values (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Liabilities
Current portion of long-term debt and
finance lease obligations, excluding fair
value hedges $ 7,191 $ 7,069 $ 6,862 $ 207 $ —
Long-term debt and finance lease
obligations, excluding fair value hedges 52,460 49,541 48,983 558 —
Total liabilities $ 59,651 $ 56,610 $ 55,845 $ 765 $ —
The book values, approximate fair values and bases used to measure the approximate fair values of certain financial instruments as of December 31, 2022
are shown in the table below:
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in
active markets for identical Significant other Significant
Approximate fair assets observable inputs unobservable inputs
(in millions) Book value values (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings $ 1 $ 1 $ — $ 1 $ —
Current portion of long-term debt and
finance lease obligations, excluding fair
value hedges 4,152 4,121 3,930 191 —
Long-term debt and finance lease
obligations, excluding fair value hedges 59,463 54,073 53,365 708 —
Total liabilities $ 63,616 $ 58,195 $ 57,295 $ 900 $ —
AbbVie also holds investments in equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values. The company records these investments at cost and
remeasures them to fair value based on certain observable price changes or impairment events as they occur. The carrying amount of these investments was
$159 million as of December 31, 2023 and $129 million as of December 31, 2022. No significant cumulative upward or downward adjustments have been
recorded for these investments as of December 31, 2023.
Concentrations of Risk
Of total net accounts receivable, three U.S. wholesalers accounted for 81% as of December 31, 2023 and 82% as of December 31, 2022, and substantially all
of AbbVie's pharmaceutical product net revenues in the United States were to these three wholesalers.
Humira (adalimumab) is AbbVie's single largest product and accounted for approximately 27% of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2023, 37% in 2022 and 37%
in 2021.
2023 Form 10-K | 78Note 12 Post-Employment Benefits
AbbVie sponsors various pension and other post-employment benefit plans, including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination indemnity
plans, which cover most employees worldwide. In addition, AbbVie provides medical benefits, primarily to eligible retirees in the United States and Puerto Rico,
through other post-retirement benefit plans. Net obligations for these plans have been reflected on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2023 and
2022.
The following table summarizes benefit plan information for the global AbbVie-sponsored defined benefit and other post-employment plans:
Defined benefit plans Other post-employment plans
as of and for the years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2023 2022
Projected benefit obligations
Beginning of period $ 8,588 $ 12,006 $ 667 $ 850
Service cost 270 454 37 51
Interest cost 432 297 37 23
Employee contributions — 1 — —
Amendments — — — (2)
Actuarial (gain) loss 491 (3,668) 89 (229)
Benefits paid (316) (294) (35) (25)
Other, primarily foreign currency translation
adjustments 79 (208) 1 (1)
End of period 9,544 8,588 796 667
Fair value of plan assets
Beginning of period 8,472 10,655 — —
Actual return on plan assets 1,230 (2,031) — —
Company contributions 366 357 35 25
Employee contributions — 1 — —
Benefits paid (316) (294) (35) (25)
Other, primarily foreign currency translation
adjustments 87 (216) — —
End of period 9,839 8,472 — —
Funded status, end of period $ 295 $ (116) $ (796) $ (667)
Amounts recognized on the consolidated balance
sheets
Other assets $ 1,086 $ 896 $ — $ —
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (17) (14) (32) (27)
Other long-term liabilities (774) (998) (764) (640)
Net obligation $ 295 $ (116) $ (796) $ (667)
Actuarial loss, net $ 2,290 $ 2,365 $ 282 $ 205
Prior service cost (credit) 1 3 (297) (333)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (income) $ 2,291 $ 2,368 $ (15) $ (128)
Related to international defined benefit plans the projected benefit obligations in the table above included $2.4 billion at December 31, 2023 and
$2.1 billion at December 31, 2022.
For plans reflected in the table above, the accumulated benefit obligations were $8.6 billion at December 31, 2023 and $7.7 billion at December 31, 2022.
The 2023 actuarial loss of $491 million for qualified pension plans and actuarial loss of $89 million for other post-employment plans were primarily
driven by a decrease in the discount rate and changes to experience impact and medical trends assumptions. The 2022 actuarial gain of $3.7 billion for qualified
pension plans and actuarial gain of $229 million for other post-employment plans were primarily driven by an increase in the discount rate.
|
79 2023 Form 10-KInformation For Pension Plans With An Accumulated Benefit Obligation In Excess Of Plan Assets
as of December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022
Accumulated benefit obligation $ 1,410 $ 1,211
Fair value of plan assets 890 746
Information For Pension Plans With A Projected Benefit Obligation In Excess Of Plan Assets
as of December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022
Projected benefit obligation $ 6,343 $ 5,592
Fair value of plan assets 5,552 4,580
AbbVie's U.S. pension plan was modified to close the plan to new entrants effective January 1, 2022. In addition, a change to AbbVie's U.S. retiree health
benefit plan was approved in 2020 and communicated to employees and retirees in October 2020. Beginning in 2022, Medicare-eligible retirees and Medicare-
eligible dependents choose health care coverage from insurance providers through a private Medicare exchange. AbbVie will continue to provide financial
support to Medicare-eligible retirees.
Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The following table summarizes the pre-tax losses (gains) included in other comprehensive income (loss):
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Defined benefit plans
Actuarial gain $ (16) $ (925) $ (345)
Amortization of prior service cost (1) (2) (2)
Amortization of actuarial loss (16) (231) (288)
Foreign exchange loss (gain) and other (44) 17 (27)
Total gain $ (77) $ (1,141) $ (662)
Other post-employment plans
Actuarial loss (gain) $ 89 $ (229) $ 10
Prior service credit — (2) —
Amortization of prior service credit 36 38 39
Amortization of actuarial loss (12) (26) (32)
Total loss (gain) $ 113 $ (219) $ 17
Net Periodic Benefit Cost
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Defined benefit plans
Service cost $ 270 $ 454 $ 440
Interest cost 432 297 237
Expected return on plan assets (723) (712) (663)
Amortization of prior service cost 1 2 2
Amortization of actuarial loss 16 231 288
Net periodic benefit cost (credit) $ (4) $ 272 $ 304
Other post-employment plans
Service cost $ 37 $ 51 $ 48
Interest cost 37 23 19
Amortization of prior service credit (36) (38) (39)
Amortization of actuarial loss 12 26 32
Net periodic benefit cost $ 50 $ 62 $ 60
The components of net periodic benefit cost other than service cost are included in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings.
2023 Form 10-K | 80Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Benefit Obligations at the Measurement Date
as of December 31 2023 2022
Defined benefit plans
Discount rate 4.8 % 5.0 %
Rate of compensation increases 4.8 % 5.5 %
Cash balance interest crediting rate 4.4 % 2.7 %
Other post-employment plans
Discount rate 5.1 % 5.3 %
The assumptions used in calculating the December 31, 2023 measurement date benefit obligations will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit
cost in 2024.
Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Net Periodic Benefit Cost
years ended December 31 2023 2022 2021
Defined benefit plans
Discount rate for determining service cost 5.0 % 3.0 % 2.6 %
Discount rate for determining interest cost 4.9 % 2.6 % 2.2 %
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 7.3 % 7.1 % 7.1 %
Expected rate of change in compensation 4.8 % 5.2 % 4.6 %
Cash balance interest crediting rate 2.7 % 2.7 % 2.8 %
Other post-employment plans
Discount rate for determining service cost 5.3 % 3.3 % 3.0 %
Discount rate for determining interest cost 5.1 % 2.7 % 2.2 %
For the December 31, 2023 post-retirement health care obligations remeasurement, the company assumed a 7.4% pre-65 (2.1% post-65) annual rate of
increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits. The pre-65 rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 4.5% (1.8% post-65) in 2032 and remain at
that level thereafter. For purposes of measuring the 2023 post-retirement health care costs, the company assumed a 6.2% pre-65 (2.0% post-65) annual rate of
increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits. The pre-65 rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 4.5% (1.8% post-65) for 2030 and remain at
that level thereafter.
|
81 2023 Form 10-KDefined Benefit Pension Plan Assets
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in
active markets for Significant other Significant unobservable
identical assets observable inputs inputs
as of December 31 (in millions) 2023 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Equities
U.S. large cap(a) $ 1,018 $ 1,018 $ — $ —
U.S. mid cap(b) 173 173 — —
International(c) 488 488 — —
Fixed income securities
U.S. government securities(d) 246 62 184 —
Corporate debt instruments(d) 714 155 559 —
Non-U.S. government securities(d) 461 301 160 —
Other(d) 126 124 2 —
Absolute return funds(e) 155 66 89 —
Other(f) 414 413 1 —
Total $ 3,795 $ 2,800 $ 995 $ —
Total assets measured at NAV 6,044
Fair value of plan assets $ 9,839
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in
active markets for Significant other Significant unobservable
identical assets observable inputs inputs
as of December 31 (in millions) 2022 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Equities
U.S. large cap(a) $ 949 $ 949 $ — $ —
U.S. mid cap(b) 157 157 — —
International(c) 327 327 — —
Fixed income securities
U.S. government securities(d) 237 69 168 —
Corporate debt instruments(d) 680 144 536 —
Non-U.S. government securities(d) 548 402 146 —
Other(d) 84 81 3 —
Absolute return funds(e) 91 4 87 —
Real assets 9 9 — —
Other(f) 278 277 1 —
Total $ 3,360 $ 2,419 $ 941 $ —
Total assets measured at NAV 5,112
Fair value of plan assets $ 8,472
(a) A mix of index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various large cap indices.
(b) A mix of index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various mid cap indices.
(c) A mix of index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various non-U.S. equity indices in both developed and emerging
markets.
(d) Securities held by actively managed accounts, index funds and mutual funds.
(e) Primarily funds having global mandates with the flexibility to allocate capital broadly across a wide range of asset classes and strategies, including but not
limited to equities, fixed income, commodities, financial futures, currencies and other securities, with objectives to outperform agreed upon benchmarks of
specific return and volatility targets.
(f) Investments in cash and cash equivalents.
2023 Form 10-K | 82Equities and registered investment companies having quoted prices are valued at the published market prices. Fixed income securities that are valued using
significant other observable inputs are quoted at prices obtained from independent financial service industry-recognized vendors. Investments held in pooled
investment funds, common collective trusts or limited partnerships are valued at the net asset value (NAV) practical expedient to estimate fair value. The NAV is
provided by the fund administrator and is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund minus its liabilities.
The investment mix of equity securities, fixed income and other asset allocation strategies is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher
return, more volatile equity securities and lower return, less volatile fixed income securities. Investment allocations are established for each plan and are
generally made across a range of markets, industry sectors, capitalization sizes and in the case of fixed income securities, maturities and credit quality. The 2023
target investment allocation for the AbbVie Pension Plan was 62.5% in equity securities, 22.5% in fixed income securities and 15% in asset allocation strategies
and other holdings. There are no known significant concentrations of risk in the plan assets of the AbbVie Pension Plan or of any other plans.
The expected return on plan assets assumption for each plan is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by
the underlying investment portfolio. In establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the
plans are invested, as well as current economic and capital market conditions.
Expected Benefit Payments
The following table summarizes total benefit payments expected to be paid to plan participants including payments funded from both plan and company
assets:
Defined Other
years ending December 31 (in millions) benefit plans post-employment plans
2024 $ 339 $ 33
2025 364 37
2026 387 41
2027 413 44
2028 434 47
2029 to 2033 2,580 292
Defined Contribution Plan
AbbVie maintains defined contribution savings plans for the benefit of its eligible employees. The expense recognized for these plans was $398 million in
2023, $474 million in 2022 and $267 million in 2021. AbbVie provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation arrangements, to
qualifying employees and accrues for the related cost over the service lives of the employees.
Note 13 Equity
Stock-Based Compensation
In May 2021, stockholders of the company approved the AbbVie Amended and Restated 2013 Incentive Stock Program (the Amended Plan), which amends
and restates the AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program (2013 ISP). AbbVie grants stock-based awards to eligible employees pursuant to the Amended Plan, which
provides for several different forms of benefits, including non-qualified stock options, RSUs and various performance-based awards. Under the Amended Plan, a
total of 144 million shares of AbbVie common stock have been reserved for issuance as awards to AbbVie employees.
AbbVie measures compensation expense for stock-based awards based on the grant date fair value of the awards and the estimated number of awards that
are expected to vest. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience at the time of grant and are revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ
from those estimates. Compensation cost for stock-based awards is amortized over the service period, which could be shorter than the vesting period if an
employee is retirement eligible. Retirement eligible employees generally are those who are age 55 or older and have at least 10 years of service.
|
83 2023 Form 10-KStock-based compensation expense is principally related to awards issued pursuant to the 2013 ISP and the Amended Plan and is summarized as follows:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Cost of products sold $ 46 $ 38 $ 46
Research and development 278 232 226
Selling, general and administrative 423 401 420
Pre-tax compensation expense 747 671 692
Tax benefit 136 122 126
After-tax compensation expense $ 611 $ 549 $ 566
Realized excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation totaled $90 million in 2023, $116 million in 2022 and $50 million in 2021.
Stock Options
Stock options awarded to employees typically have a contractual term of 10 years and generally vest in one-third increments over a 3-year period. The
exercise price is equal to at least 100% of the market value on the date of grant. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes model. The weighted-average
grant-date fair values of stock options granted were $29.89 in 2023, $22.83 in 2022 and $16.28 in 2021.
The following table summarizes AbbVie stock option activity in 2023:
Weighted-average
Weighted- average remaining Aggregate intrinsic
(options in thousands, aggregate intrinsic value in millions) Options exercise price life (in years) value
Outstanding at December 31, 2022 9,320 $ 91.84 4.8 $ 650
Granted 642 149.30
Exercised (2,410) 73.21
Lapsed and forfeited (71) 90.43
Outstanding at December 31, 2023 7,481 $ 102.80 5.0 $ 390
Exercisable at December 31, 2023 5,954 $ 93.85 4.2 $ 364
The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $189 million in 2023, $295 million in 2022 and $239 million in 2021. The total fair value of options
vested during 2023 was $21 million. As of December 31, 2023, $6 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options is expected to be recognized
as expense over approximately the next two years.
RSUs and Performance Shares
RSUs awarded to employees other than senior executives and other key employees generally vest in ratable increments over a three or four-year period.
Recipients of these RSUs are entitled to receive dividend equivalents as dividends are declared and paid during the RSU vesting period.
The majority of the equity awards AbbVie grants to its senior executives and other key employees are performance-based. Equity awards granted to senior
executives and other key employees consist of a combination of performance-vested RSUs and performance shares as well as non-qualified stock options
described above. The performance-vested RSUs have the potential to vest in one-third increments during a three-year performance period and may be earned
based on AbbVie’s return on invested capital (ROIC) performance relative to a defined peer group of pharmaceutical, biotech and life science companies. The
recipient may receive one share of AbbVie common stock for each vested award. The performance shares have the potential to vest over a three-year performance
period and may be earned based on AbbVie’s EPS achievement and AbbVie’s total stockholder return (TSR) (a market condition) relative to a defined peer group of
pharmaceutical, biotech and life sciences companies. Dividend equivalents on performance-vested RSUs and performance shares accrue during the performance
period and are payable at vesting only to the extent that shares are earned.
The weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs and performance shares generally is determined based on the number of shares/units granted and the
quoted price of AbbVie’s common stock on the date of grant. The weighted-average grant-date fair values of performance shares with a TSR market condition are
determined using the Monte Carlo simulation model.
2023 Form 10-K | 84The following table summarizes AbbVie RSU and performance share activity for 2023:
Weighted-average grant
(share units in thousands) Share units date fair value
Outstanding at December 31, 2022 13,031 $ 116.84
Granted 5,872 141.63
Vested (6,790) 107.96
Forfeited (1,374) 113.65
Outstanding at December 31, 2023 10,739 $ 136.42
The fair market value of RSUs and performance shares (as applicable) vested was $1.0 billion in 2023, $1.0 billion in 2022 and $718 million in 2021.
As of December 31, 2023, $571 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to RSUs and performance shares is expected to be recognized as expense
over approximately the next two years.
Cash Dividends
Cash dividends declared per common share totaled $5.99 in 2023, $5.71 in 2022 and $5.31 in 2021. The following table summarizes quarterly cash
dividends declared during 2023, 2022 and 2021:
2023 2022 2021
Date Payment Dividend Date Payment Dividend Date Payment Dividend
Declared Date Per Share Declared Date Per Share Declared Date Per Share
10/26/23 02/15/24 $1.55 10/28/22 02/15/23 $1.48 10/29/21 02/15/22 $1.41
09/08/23 11/15/23 $1.48 09/09/22 11/15/22 $1.41 09/10/21 11/15/21 $1.30
06/22/23 08/15/23 $1.48 06/23/22 08/15/22 $1.41 06/17/21 08/16/21 $1.30
02/16/23 05/15/23 $1.48 02/17/22 05/16/22 $1.41 02/18/21 05/14/21 $1.30
Stock Repurchase Program
The company's stock repurchase authorization permits purchases of AbbVie shares from time to time in open-market or private transactions at
management’s discretion. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time. Shares repurchased under this program are recorded at acquisition
cost, including related expenses and are available for general corporate purposes.
On February 16, 2023, AbbVie's board of directors authorized a $5.0 billion increase to the existing stock repurchase authorization. AbbVie repurchased 10
million shares for $1.6 billion in 2023, 8 million shares for $1.1 billion in 2022 and 6 million shares for $670 million in 2021. AbbVie's remaining stock
repurchase authorization was $4.8 billion as of December 31, 2023.
|
85 2023 Form 10-KAccumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
The following table summarizes the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, for 2023, 2022 and 2021:
Pension
Foreign currency Net investment and post-employment Cash flow
(in millions) (brackets denote losses) translation adjustments hedging activities benefits hedging activities Total
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 583 $ (790) $ (3,067) $ 157 $ (3,117)
Other comprehensive income (loss) before
reclassifications (1,153) 720 298 76 (59)
Net losses (gains) reclassified from
accumulated other comprehensive loss — (21) 223 75 277
Net current-period other comprehensive
income (loss) (1,153) 699 521 151 218
Balance as of December 31, 2021 (570) (91) (2,546) 308 (2,899)
Other comprehensive income (loss) before
reclassifications (943) 629 915 91 692
Net losses (gains) reclassified from
accumulated other comprehensive loss — (74) 173 (91) 8
Net current-period other comprehensive
income (loss) (943) 555 1,088 — 700
Balance as of December 31, 2022 (1,513) 464 (1,458) 308 (2,199)
Other comprehensive income (loss) before
reclassifications 407 (311) (23) (10) 63
Net gains reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive loss — (88) (7) (74) (169)
Net current-period other comprehensive
income (loss) 407 (399) (30) (84) (106)
Balance as of December 31, 2023 $ (1,106) $ 65 $ (1,488) $ 224 $ (2,305)
Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2023 included foreign currency translation adjustments totaling gains of $407 million principally due to the impact
of the strengthening of the Euro on the translation of the company’s Euro-denominated assets and the offsetting impact of net investment hedging activities
totaling losses of $399 million. Other comprehensive income for 2022 included pension and post-employment benefit plan gains of $1.1 billion primarily due to
actuarial gains driven by higher discount rates partially offset by losses on plan assets. Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2022 also included foreign
currency translation adjustments totaling losses of $943 million principally due to the impact of the weakening of the Euro on the translation of the company's
Euro-denominated assets and the offsetting impact of net investment hedging activities totaling gains of $555 million. Other comprehensive income (loss) for
2021 included foreign currency translation adjustments totaling losses of $1.2 billion principally due to the impact of the weakening of the Euro on the
translation of the company's Euro-denominated assets and the offsetting impact of net investment hedging activities totaling gains of $699 million.
2023 Form 10-K | 86The table below presents the impact on AbbVie's consolidated statements of earnings for significant amounts reclassified out of each component of
accumulated other comprehensive loss:
years ended December 31 (in millions) (brackets denote gains) 2023 2022 2021
Net investment hedging activities
Gains on derivative amount excluded from effectiveness testing(a) $ (112) $ (94) $ (26)
Tax expense 24 20 5
Total reclassifications, net of tax $ (88) $ (74) $ (21)
Pension and post-employment benefits
Amortization of actuarial losses (gains) and other(b) $ (7) $ 221 $ 283
Tax expense (benefit) — (48) (60)
Total reclassifications, net of tax $ (7) $ 173 $ 223
Cash flow hedging activities
Losses (gains) on foreign currency forward exchange contracts(c) $ (77) $ (82) $ 87
Gains on treasury rate lock agreements(a) (24) (23) (24)
Losses on interest rate swap contracts(a) — 1 24
Losses on cross-currency swap contracts(d) 6 — —
Tax expense (benefit) 21 13 (12)
Total reclassifications, net of tax $ (74) $ (91) $ 75
(a) Amounts are included in interest expense, net (see Note 11).
(b) Amounts are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost (see Note 12).
(c) Amounts are included in cost of products sold (see Note 11).
(d) Amounts are included in net foreign exchange loss (see Note 11).
Other
In addition to common stock, AbbVie's authorized capital includes 200 million shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01. As of December 31, 2023, no
shares of preferred stock were issued or outstanding.
|
87 2023 Form 10-KNote 14 Income Taxes
Earnings Before Income Tax Expense
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Domestic $ (3,475) $ (4,608) $ (1,644)
Foreign 9,725 18,085 14,633
Total earnings before income tax expense $ 6,250 $ 13,477 $ 12,989
Income Tax Expense
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Current
Domestic $ 3,272 $ 2,647 $ 1,987
Foreign 994 916 351
Total current taxes $ 4,266 $ 3,563 $ 2,338
Deferred
Domestic $ (2,324) $ (1,512) $ (839)
Foreign (565) (419) (59)
Total deferred taxes $ (2,889) $ (1,931) $ (898)
Total income tax expense $ 1,377 $ 1,632 $ 1,440
Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation
years ended December 31 2023 2022 2021
Statutory tax rate 21.0 % 21.0 % 21.0 %
Effect of foreign operations 8.0 (4.4) (5.4)
U.S. tax credits (3.1) (2.8) (2.8)
Non-deductible expenses 1.5 0.6 0.3
Tax law changes (3.8) (2.4) (2.0)
Tax audits and settlements (1.1) 0.9 (0.4)
All other, net (0.5) (0.8) 0.4
Effective tax rate 22.0 % 12.1 % 11.1 %
The effective income tax rate fluctuates year to year due to the allocation of the company's taxable earnings among jurisdictions, as well as certain discrete
factors and events in each year, including changes in tax law and business development activities. The effective income tax rates in 2023, 2022 and 2021 differed
from the statutory tax rate principally due to the impact of foreign operations with lower income tax rates in locations outside the United States, the U.S. global
minimum tax, changes in fair value of contingent consideration, tax credits and incentives in the United States, Puerto Rico and other foreign tax jurisdictions,
and business development activities. The effective income tax rate in 2023 was higher than prior periods due to increased changes in fair value of contingent
consideration, intangible asset impairments and the impacts of the transition from the Puerto Rico excise tax to an income tax.
In 2022, Puerto Rico enacted Act 52-2022 (the Puerto Rico Act) allowing for a transition from a Puerto Rico excise tax levied on gross inventory purchases to
an income-based tax beginning in 2023. The company completed the transition requirements of the Puerto Rico Act in 2022, resulting in the remeasurement of
certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on income tax rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future. The net tax benefit recognized in 2022
from the remeasurement of deferred taxes related to the Puerto Rico Act was $323 million.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act) was signed into law in December 2017, resulting in significant changes to the U.S. corporate tax system, including a one-
time transition tax on a mandatory deemed repatriation of earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously untaxed. The Act also created a U.S.
global minimum tax on certain foreign sourced earnings. The company’s accounting policy for the minimum tax on foreign sourced earnings is to report the tax
effects on the basis that the minimum tax will be recognized in tax expense in the year it is incurred as a period expense.
2023 Form 10-K | 88Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
as of December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022
Deferred tax assets
Compensation and employee benefits $ 519 $ 497
Accruals and reserves 1,113 1,023
Chargebacks and rebates 1,431 991
Advance payments 298 547
Net operating losses and other carryforwards 14,316 10,391
Other 2,259 1,710
Total deferred tax assets 19,936 15,159
Valuation allowances (13,478) (9,627)
Total net deferred tax assets 6,458 5,532
Deferred tax liabilities
Excess of book basis over tax basis of intangible assets (1,535) (3,590)
Excess of book basis over tax basis in investments (374) (340)
Other (746) (772)
Total deferred tax liabilities (2,655) (4,702)
Net deferred tax assets $ 3,803 $ 830
The increase in net deferred tax assets is primarily related to capitalization of R&D expense and increases in accruals and reserves, offset by a decrease in
advance payments. The decrease in deferred tax liabilities is primarily related to amortization and impairments of intangible assets.
In 2023, Bermuda enacted the Corporate Income Tax Act (“Bermuda Tax Act”), which implements a 15% corporate income tax effective beginning in 2025. The
enactment of the Bermuda Tax Act resulted in the remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on income tax rates at which they are
expected to reverse in the future. The remeasurement related primarily to net operating losses and reflected an increase of $3.6 billion to deferred tax assets and
an offsetting increase to valuation allowances, resulting in no net impact to deferred tax assets as such losses are not expected to be realized in the foreseeable
future.
The company had valuation allowances of $13.5 billion as of December 31, 2023 and $9.6 billion as of December 31, 2022. These were principally related
to foreign and state net operating losses and other credit carryforwards that are not expected to be realized.
As of December 31, 2023, the company had U.S. federal, state and foreign credit carryforwards of $372 million as well as U.S. federal, state and foreign net
operating loss carryforwards of $33.6 billion, which will expire at various times through 2043. The company also had foreign loss carryforwards of $31.3 billion
that have no expiration.
Unremitted foreign earnings subject to the Act’s transition tax are not considered indefinitely reinvested. Post-2017 earnings subject to the U.S. minimum
tax on foreign sourced earnings or eligible for the 100 percent foreign dividends received deduction are also not considered indefinitely reinvested earnings.
However, the company generally considers instances of outside basis differences in foreign subsidiaries that would incur additional U.S. tax upon reversal (e.g.,
capital gain distributions) to be permanent in duration. The unrecognized tax liability is not practicable to determine.
|
89 2023 Form 10-KUnrecognized Tax Benefits
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Beginning balance $ 5,670 $ 5,489 $ 5,264
Increase due to current year tax positions 129 88 208
Increase due to prior year tax positions 109 243 137
Decrease due to prior year tax positions (21) (33) (62)
Settlements (86) (7) (24)
Lapse of statutes of limitations (39) (110) (34)
Ending balance $ 5,762 $ 5,670 $ 5,489
If recognized, the net amount of potential tax benefits that would impact the company's effective tax rate is $5.6 billion in 2023 and $5.5 billion in 2022. The
"Increase due to current year tax positions" and "Increase due to prior year tax positions" in the table above include amounts related to federal, state and
international tax items.
AbbVie recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense in the consolidated statements of earnings. AbbVie recognized
gross income tax expense of $430 million in 2023, $339 million in 2022 and $161 million in 2021, for interest and penalties related to income tax matters.
AbbVie had an accrual for the payment of gross interest and penalties of $1.6 billion at December 31, 2023, $1.1 billion at December 31, 2022 and $803 million at
December 31, 2021.
The company is routinely audited by the tax authorities in significant jurisdictions and a number of audits are currently underway. It is reasonably possible
during the next 12 months that uncertain tax positions may be settled, which could result in a decrease in the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits. Due to
the potential for resolution of federal, state and foreign examinations and the expiration of various statutes of limitation, the company's gross unrecognized tax
benefits balance may change within the next 12 months up to $476 million. All significant federal, state, local and international matters have been concluded for
years through 2009. The company believes adequate provision has been made for all income tax uncertainties.
Note 15 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies
AbbVie is subject to contingencies, such as various claims, legal proceedings and investigations regarding product liability, intellectual property,
commercial, securities and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. The most significant matters are described below. Loss contingency
provisions are recorded for probable losses at management’s best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency
amount within a probable range is recorded. For litigation matters discussed below for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, the company is unable to
estimate the possible loss or range of loss, if any, beyond the amounts accrued. Initiation of new legal proceedings or a change in the status of existing
proceedings may result in a change in the estimated loss accrued by AbbVie. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all proceedings and exposures with
certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse effect on AbbVie’s consolidated financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.
Subject to certain exceptions specified in the separation agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) and AbbVie, AbbVie assumed the liability
for, and control of, all pending and threatened legal matters related to its business, including liabilities for any claims or legal proceedings related to products
that had been part of its business, but were discontinued prior to the distribution, as well as assumed or retained liabilities, and will indemnify Abbott for any
liability arising out of or resulting from such assumed legal matters.
Antitrust Litigation
Lawsuits are pending against AbbVie and others generally alleging that the 2005 patent litigation settlement involving Niaspan entered into between Kos
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company acquired by Abbott in 2006 and presently a subsidiary of AbbVie) and a generic company violated federal and state antitrust
laws and state unfair and deceptive trade practices and unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and
attorneys' fees. The lawsuits pending in federal court consist of six individual plaintiff lawsuits and a certified class action by Niaspan direct purchasers. The
cases are pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for coordinated or consolidated pre-trial proceedings under the MDL
Rules as In re: Niaspan Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 2460. In October 2016, the Orange County, California District Attorney’s Office filed a lawsuit on behalf of the
State of California regarding the Niaspan patent
2023 Form 10-K | 90litigation settlement in Orange County Superior Court, asserting a claim under the unfair competition provision of the California Business and Professions Code
seeking injunctive relief, restitution, civil penalties and attorneys’ fees.
In August 2019, direct purchasers of AndroGel filed a lawsuit, King Drug Co. of Florence, Inc., et al. v. AbbVie Inc., et al., against AbbVie and others in the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, alleging that 2006 patent litigation settlements and related agreements by Solvay
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company Abbott acquired in February 2010 and now known as AbbVie Products LLC) with three generic companies violated federal
antitrust law, and also alleging that 2011 patent litigation by Abbott with two generic companies regarding AndroGel was sham litigation and the settlements of
those litigations violated federal antitrust law. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys’ fees. In November 2022, the
State of Oregon filed a lawsuit in the Multnomah County, Oregon Circuit Court making similar allegations regarding the 2011 patent litigation with one of the
generic companies.
Lawsuits were filed against Forest Laboratories, LLC and others generally alleging that 2012 and 2013 patent litigation settlements involving Bystolic with
six generic manufacturers violated federal and state antitrust laws and state unfair and deceptive trade practices and unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally
seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys’ fees. The lawsuits, purported class actions filed on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of
Bystolic, were consolidated as In re: Bystolic Antitrust Litigation in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. In February 2023, the
court granted Forest Laboratories’ motion to dismiss the cases, dismissing them with prejudice. Plaintiffs are appealing the court’s motion to dismiss ruling.
Government Proceedings
Lawsuits are pending against Allergan and several other manufacturers generally alleging that they improperly promoted and sold prescription opioid
products. Approximately 590 lawsuits are pending against Allergan in federal and state courts. Most of the federal court lawsuits are consolidated for pre-trial
purposes in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio under the MDL rules as In re: National Prescription Opiate Litigation, MDL No. 2804.
Approximately 140 of the lawsuits are pending in various state courts. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits, which include states, counties, cities, other municipal
entities, Native American tribes, union trust funds and other third-party payors, private hospitals and personal injury claimants, generally seek compensatory
and punitive damages. Of these approximately 590 lawsuits, approximately 175 of them are brought by states, counties, cities, and other municipal entities,
approximately 140 of which are in the process of being dismissed pursuant to the previously announced settlement for which AbbVie recorded a charge of
$2.1 billion to selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated statement of earnings in the second quarter of 2022.
In March 2023, AbbVie Inc. filed a petition in the United States Tax Court, AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue. The petition
disputes the Internal Revenue Service determination concerning a $572 million income tax benefit recorded in 2014 related to a payment made to a third party for
the termination of a proposed business combination.
Shareholder and Securities Litigation
In October 2018, a federal securities lawsuit, Holwill v. AbbVie Inc., et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
against AbbVie, its chief executive officer and former chief financial officer, alleging that reasons stated for Humira sales growth in financial filings between 2013
and 2018 were misleading because they omitted alleged misconduct in connection with Humira patient and reimbursement support services and other services
and items of value that allegedly induced Humira prescriptions. In September 2021, the court granted plaintiffs' motion to certify a class.
Lawsuits were filed against Allergan and certain of its former officers alleging they made misrepresentations and omissions regarding Allergan's textured
breast implants. The lawsuits, which were filed by Allergan shareholders, have been consolidated in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
New York as In re: Allergan plc Securities Litigation. The plaintiffs generally seek compensatory damages and attorneys’ fees. In September 2019, the court
partially granted Allergan's motion to dismiss. In September 2021, the court granted plaintiffs' motion to certify a class. In December 2022, the court granted
Allergan's motion for summary judgment on the remaining claims, dismissing them with prejudice. Plaintiffs are appealing the court's motion to dismiss and
summary judgment rulings.
In May and July 2022, two shareholder derivative lawsuits, Treppel Family Trust v. Gonzalez et al., and Katcher v. Gonzalez, et al., were filed in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, alleging that certain AbbVie directors and officers breached fiduciary and other legal duties in making or
allowing alleged misstatements regarding the potential effect that safety information about another company’s product would have on the Food and Drug
Administration’s approval and labeling for AbbVie’s Rinvoq.
|
91 2023 Form 10-KProduct Liability and General Litigation
In April 2023, a putative class action lawsuit, Camargo v. AbbVie Inc., was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois on
behalf of Humira patients who paid for Humira based on its list price or who, after losing insurance coverage, discontinued Humira because they could not pay
based on its list price, alleging that Humira’s list price is excessive in violation of multiple states’ unfair and deceptive trade practices statutes. The plaintiff
generally seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees.
In 2018, a qui tam lawsuit, U.S. ex rel. Silbersher v. Allergan Inc., et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California
against several Allergan entities and others, alleging that their conduct before the U.S. Patent Office resulted in false claims for payment being made to federal
and state healthcare payors for Namenda XR and Namzaric. The plaintiff-relator sought damages and attorneys' fees under the federal False Claims Act and state
law analogues. The federal government and state governments declined to intervene in the lawsuit. In March 2023, the court granted Allergan’s motion to dismiss,
dismissing plaintiff-relator’s federal law claims with prejudice and state law claims without prejudice. The plaintiff-relator is appealing the court’s motion to
dismiss ruling.
Intellectual Property Litigation
AbbVie Inc. is seeking to enforce patent rights relating to venetoclax (a drug sold under the trademark Venclexta). Litigation was filed in the United States
District Court for the District of Delaware in July 2020 against Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Ltd. and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc.; and Alembic Pharmaceuticals Ltd.,
Alembic Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Alembic Global Holdings SA. AbbVie alleges defendants’ proposed generic venetoclax products infringe certain patents and
seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. Genentech, Inc., which is in a global collaboration with AbbVie concerning the development and marketing of Venclexta, is
the co-plaintiff in this suit.
AbbVie Inc. is seeking to enforce patent rights relating to upadacitinib (a drug sold under the trademark Rinvoq). Litigation was filed in the United States
District Court for the District of Delaware in November 2023 against Hetero USA, Inc., Hetero Labs Limited, Hetero Labs Limited Unit-V, Aurobindo Pharma USA, Inc.,
Aurobindo Pharma Ltd., Sandoz, Inc. Sandoz Private Limited, Sandoz GMBH, Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Accord Healthcare, Inc., and Sun Pharmaceutical
Industries, Ltd. AbbVie alleges defendants’ proposed generic upadacitinib products infringe certain patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief.
Note 16 Segment and Geographic Area Information
AbbVie operates as a single global business segment dedicated to the research and development, manufacturing, commercialization and sale of innovative
medicines and therapies. This operating structure enables the Chief Executive Officer, as chief operating decision maker (CODM), to allocate resources and assess
business performance on a global basis in order to achieve established long-term strategic goals. Consistent with this structure, a global research and
development and supply chain organization is responsible for the discovery, manufacturing and supply of products. Commercial efforts that coordinate the
marketing, sales and distribution of these products are organized by geographic region or therapeutic area. All of these activities are supported by a global
corporate administrative staff. The determination of a single business segment is consistent with the consolidated financial information regularly reviewed by the
CODM for purposes of assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods.
2023 Form 10-K | 92Substantially all of AbbVie's pharmaceutical product net revenues in the United States are to three wholesalers. Outside the United States, products are sold
primarily to health care providers or through distributors, depending on the market served. The following tables detail AbbVie's worldwide net revenues:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Immunology
Humira United States $ 12,160 $ 18,619 $ 17,330
International 2,244 2,618 3,364
Total $ 14,404 $ 21,237 $ 20,694
Skyrizi United States $ 6,753 $ 4,484 $ 2,486
International 1,010 681 453
Total $ 7,763 $ 5,165 $ 2,939
Rinvoq United States $ 2,824 $ 1,794 $ 1,271
International 1,145 728 380
Total $ 3,969 $ 2,522 $ 1,651
Oncology
Imbruvica United States $ 2,665 $ 3,426 $ 4,321
Collaboration revenues 931 1,142 1,087
Total $ 3,596 $ 4,568 $ 5,408
Venclexta United States $ 1,087 $ 1,009 $ 934
International 1,201 1,000 886
Total $ 2,288 $ 2,009 $ 1,820
Epkinly Collaboration Revenues $ 28 $ — $ —
International 3 — —
Total $ 31 $ — $ —
Aesthetics
Botox Cosmetic United States $ 1,670 $ 1,654 $ 1,424
International 1,012 961 808
Total $ 2,682 $ 2,615 $ 2,232
Juvederm Collection United States $ 519 $ 548 $ 658
International 859 880 877
Total $ 1,378 $ 1,428 $ 1,535
Other Aesthetics United States $ 1,060 $ 1,122 $ 1,268
International 174 168 198
Total $ 1,234 $ 1,290 $ 1,466
Neuroscience
Botox Therapeutic United States $ 2,476 $ 2,255 $ 2,012
International 515 464 439
Total $ 2,991 $ 2,719 $ 2,451
Vraylar United States $ 2,755 $ 2,037 $ 1,728
International 4 1 —
Total $ 2,759 $ 2,038 $ 1,728
Duodopa United States $ 97 $ 95 $ 102
International 371 363 409
Total $ 468 $ 458 $ 511
Ubrelvy United States $ 803 $ 680 $ 552
International 12 — —
Total $ 815 $ 680 $ 552
Qulipta United States $ 405 $ 158 $ —
International 3 — —
Total $ 408 $ 158 $ —
|
93 2023 Form 10-Kyears ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Other Neuroscience United States $ 254 $ 456 $ 667
International 22 19 18
Total $ 276 $ 475 $ 685
Eye Care
Ozurdex United States $ 143 $ 139 $ 130
International 329 289 288
Total $ 472 $ 428 $ 418
Lumigan/Ganfort United States $ 173 $ 242 $ 273
International 259 272 306
Total $ 432 $ 514 $ 579
Alphagan/Combigan United States $ 121 $ 202 $ 373
International 151 144 156
Total $ 272 $ 346 $ 529
Restasis United States $ 382 $ 621 $ 1,234
International 54 45 56
Total $ 436 $ 666 $ 1,290
Other Eye Care United States $ 433 $ 399 $ 393
International 370 348 358
Total $ 803 $ 747 $ 751
Other Key Products
Mavyret United States $ 659 $ 755 $ 754
International 771 786 956
Total $ 1,430 $ 1,541 $ 1,710
Creon United States $ 1,268 $ 1,278 $ 1,191
Linzess/Constella United States $ 1,073 $ 1,003 $ 1,006
International 35 32 32
Total $ 1,108 $ 1,035 $ 1,038
All other $ 3,035 $ 4,137 $ 5,019
Total net revenues $ 54,318 $ 58,054 $ 56,197
2023 Form 10-K | 94Net revenues to external customers by geographic area, based on product shipment destination, were as follows:
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022 2021
United States $ 41,883 $ 45,713 $ 43,510
Germany 1,266 1,340 1,223
Canada 1,076 1,159 1,397
Japan 1,008 956 1,090
China 950 912 857
France 780 787 936
Spain 501 506 519
Italy 484 444 506
Australia 472 508 533
Brazil 439 430 368
United Kingdom 417 462 497
All other countries 5,042 4,837 4,761
Total net revenues $ 54,318 $ 58,054 $ 56,197
Long-lived assets, primarily net property and equipment, by geographic area were as follows:
as of December 31 (in millions) 2023 2022
United States and Puerto Rico $ 3,139 $ 3,243
Europe 1,433 1,369
All other 417 323
Total long-lived assets $ 4,989 $ 4,935
Note 17 Fourth Quarter Financial Results (unaudited)
quarter ended December 31 (in millions except per share data) 2023
Net revenues $ 14,301
Gross margin 8,597
Net earnings attributable to AbbVie Inc. 822
Basic earnings per share attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 0.46
Diluted earnings per share attributable to AbbVie Inc. $ 0.46
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.55
|
95 2023 Form 10-KReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of AbbVie Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, the related
consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2023, and the
related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2023 and 2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2023, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 20, 2024 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial
statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in
accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to
assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such
procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required
to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our
especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated
financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit
matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
2023 Form 10-K | 96Sales rebate accruals for Medicaid, Medicare and managed care programs
Description of the Matter As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements under the caption “Revenue Recognition,” the Company
established provisions for sales rebates in the same period the related product is sold. At December 31, 2023, the
Company had $13,627 million in sales rebate accruals, a large portion of which were for rebates provided to pharmacy
benefit managers, state government Medicaid programs, insurance companies that administer Medicare drug plans
and private entities for Medicaid, Medicare and managed care programs. In order to establish these sales rebate
accruals, the Company estimated its rebates based upon the identification of the products subject to a rebate, the
applicable price and rebate terms and the estimated lag time between the sale and payment of the rebate.
Auditing the Medicaid, Medicare and managed care sales rebate accruals was complex and required significant
auditor judgment because the accruals consider multiple subjective and complex estimates and assumptions. These
estimates and assumptions included the estimated inventory in the distribution channel, which impacts the lag time
between the sale to the customer and payment of the rebate and the final payer related to product sales, which impacts
the applicable price and rebate terms. In deriving these estimates and assumptions, the Company used both internal
and external sources of information to estimate product in the distribution channels, payer mix, prescription volumes
and historical experience. Management supplemented its historical data analysis with qualitative adjustments based
upon changes in rebate trends, rebate programs and contract terms, legislative changes, or other significant events
which indicate a change in the reserve is appropriate.
How We Addressed the We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the
Matter in Our Audit Company’s sales rebate accruals for Medicaid, Medicare and managed care programs. This included testing controls
over management’s review of the significant assumptions and other inputs used in the estimation of Medicaid,
Medicare and managed care rebates, among others, including the significant assumptions discussed above. The testing
was inclusive of management’s controls to evaluate the accuracy of its reserve judgments to actual rebates paid,
rebate validation and processing, and controls to ensure that the data used to evaluate and support the significant
assumptions was complete, accurate and, where applicable, verified to external data sources.
To test the sales rebate accruals for Medicaid, Medicare and managed care programs, our audit procedures included,
among others, understanding and evaluating the significant assumptions and underlying data used in management’s
calculations. Our testing of significant assumptions included corroboration to external data sources. We evaluated the
reasonableness of assumptions considering industry and economic trends, product profiles, and other regulatory
factors. We assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates by comparing actual activity to previous
estimates and performed analytical procedures, based on internal and external data sources, to evaluate the
completeness of the reserves. For Medicaid, we involved a specialist with an understanding of statutory reimbursement
requirements to assess the consistency of the Company’s calculation methodologies with applicable government
regulations and policy.
|
97 2023 Form 10-KValuation of contingent consideration
Description of the Matter As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements under the caption “Business Combinations” and in
Note 11 under the caption “Fair Value Measures,” the Company recognized contingent consideration liabilities at the
estimated fair value on the acquisition date in connection with applying the acquisition method of accounting for
business combinations. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration liabilities were recorded
within the consolidated statement of earnings in the period of change. At December 31, 2023, the Company had $19,890
million in contingent consideration liabilities, which represented a ‘Level 3’ fair value measurement in the fair value
hierarchy due to the significant unobservable inputs used in determining the fair value and the use of management
judgment about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the liabilities.
Auditing the valuation of contingent consideration liabilities was complex and required significant auditor judgment
due to the use of a Monte Carlo simulation model and the high degree of subjectivity in evaluating certain assumptions
required to estimate the fair value of contingent royalty payments. In particular, the fair value measurement was
sensitive to the significant assumptions underlying the estimated amount of future sales of the acquired products.
Management utilized its expertise within the industry, including commercial dynamics, trends and utilization, as well
as knowledge of clinical development and regulatory approval processes to determine certain of these assumptions.
How We Addressed the We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the
Matter in Our Audit Company’s contingent consideration liabilities process including, among others, management’s process to establish
the significant assumptions and measure the liability. This included testing controls over management’s review of the
significant assumptions and other inputs used in the determination of fair value. The testing was inclusive of key
management review controls to monitor and evaluate clinical development of the acquired products and estimated
future sales, and controls to ensure that the data used to evaluate and support the significant assumptions was
complete, accurate and, where applicable, verified to external data sources.
To test the estimated fair value of contingent consideration liabilities, our audit procedures included, among others,
inspecting the terms of the executed agreement, assessing the Monte Carlo simulation model used and testing the key
contractual inputs and significant assumptions discussed above. We evaluated the assumptions and judgments
considering observable industry and economic trends and standards, external data sources and regulatory factors.
Estimated amounts of future sales were evaluated for reasonableness in relation to internal and external analyses,
clinical development progress and timelines, probability of success benchmarks, and regulatory notices. Our
procedures included evaluating the data sources used by management in determining its assumptions and, where
necessary, included an evaluation of available information that either corroborated or contradicted management’s
conclusions. We involved a valuation specialist to assess the Company’s Monte Carlo simulation model and to
perform corroborative fair value calculations.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2013.
Chicago, Illinois
February 20, 2024
2023 Form 10-K | 98ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Disclosure Controls and Procedures; Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures. The Chief Executive Officer, Richard A. Gonzalez, and the Chief Financial Officer, Scott T. Reents, evaluated
the effectiveness of AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and concluded that AbbVie's disclosure
controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information AbbVie is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the Securities and
Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the
Commission's rules and forms, and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by AbbVie in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to AbbVie's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting. There were no changes in AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, AbbVie's internal control over financial
reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2023.
Inherent limitations on effectiveness of controls. AbbVie's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer, do not expect that
AbbVie's disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well
designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. The design of a control system must
reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent
limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all
control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty
and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two
or more people, or by management override of the controls.
The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any
design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are
subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or
procedures.
Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting. Management of AbbVie is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. AbbVie's internal control over
financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. However, all internal control systems, no matter how well
designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial
statement preparation and reporting.
Management assessed the effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023. In making this assessment,
management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated
Framework (2013 framework). Based on that assessment, management concluded that AbbVie maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2023, based on the COSO criteria.
The effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report below, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of AbbVie's internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023.
Report of independent registered public accounting firm. The report of AbbVie's independent registered public accounting firm related to its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting is included below.
|
99 2023 Form 10-KReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of AbbVie Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control
—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion,
AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023,
based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance
sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2023, and the related notes and our report dated February 20, 2024 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered
with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
February 20, 2024
2023 Form 10-K | 100ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
During the three months ended December 31, 2023, no director or officer of the company adopted, modified or terminated a “Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement” or
“non-Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement,” as each term is defined in Item 408(a) of Regulation S-K, except as provided below.
Name & Title Action Taken Date Adopted Type of Trading Aggregate Number of Duration of Trading
Arrangement (1) Shares to be Sold Arrangement(3)
Pursuant to Trading
Arrangement (2)
Perry C. Siatis
Executive Vice President,
General Counsel and Rule 10b5-1 Trading Up to 31,549 Shares to
Secretary Adoption 11/01/2023 Arrangement be Sold 08/30/2024
Timothy J. Richmond
Executive Vice President,
Chief Human Resources Rule 10b5-1 Trading Up to 122,957 Shares to
Officer Adoption 11/13/2023 Arrangement be Sold 12/31/2024
1. Except as indicated by footnote, each trading arrangement marked as a "Rule 10b5-1 Trading Arrangement" is intended to satisfy the affirmative defense of
Rule 10b5-1(c), as amended.
2. The number of shares to be sold under each trading arrangement represents the maximum actual number of shares issuable under the applicable
performance stock awards. The actual number of shares to be sold under each trading arrangement will depend on the achievement of applicable
performance conditions under the performance stock awards and the number of shares withheld to satisfy tax obligations upon the vesting of the awards.
3. Except as indicated by footnote, each trading arrangement permitted or permits transactions through and including the earlier to occur of (a) the completion
of all sales or (b) the date listed in the table. Each trading arrangement marked as a “Rule 10b5-1 Trading Arrangement” only permitted or only permits
transactions upon expiration of the applicable mandatory cooling-off period under the Rule.
ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS
Not Applicable.
|
101 2023 Form 10-KPART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Incorporated herein by reference are "Information Concerning Director Nominees," "The Board of Directors and its Committees—Committees of the Board of
Directors," "Communicating with the Board of Directors," and "Deadlines for Notice of Stockholder Actions to be Considered at the 2024 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders" to be included in the 2024 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement. The 2024 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 18, 2024. Also
incorporated herein by reference is the text found in this Form 10-K under the caption, "Information about Our Executive Officers."
AbbVie's code of business conduct requires all its business activities to be conducted in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and ethical
principles and values. All directors, officers and employees of AbbVie are expected to understand and abide by the requirements of the code of business conduct
applicable to them. AbbVie's code of business conduct is available in the corporate governance section of AbbVie's investor relations website at
www.abbvieinvestor.com.
Any waiver of the code of business conduct for directors or executive officers may be made only by AbbVie's audit committee. AbbVie will disclose any
amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of the code of conduct for the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or
controller, or persons performing similar functions, on its website within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver. In addition, AbbVie
will disclose any waiver from the code of business conduct for the other executive officers and for directors on the website.
AbbVie has a chief ethics and compliance officer who reports to the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and to the public policy
committee. The chief ethics and compliance officer is responsible for overseeing, administering and monitoring AbbVie's compliance program.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The material to be included in the 2024 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement under the headings "Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and
"Compensation Committee Report" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2024 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 18, 2024.
2023 Form 10-K | 102ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
(a) Equity Compensation Plan Information.
The following table presents information as of December 31, 2023 about AbbVie's equity compensation plans under which AbbVie common stock has been
authorized for issuance:
(a)
Number of (c)
securities to be Number of securities remaining
issued upon (b) available for
exercise of Weighted- future issuance under equity
outstanding average exercise price of compensation plans (excluding
options, outstanding options, securities
warrants and warrants and reflected in
Plan Category rights (1) rights (2) column (a)) (3)
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 18,219,985 $ 102.80 62,004,889
Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders — — —
Total 18,219,985 $ 102.80 62,004,889
(1) Includes 12,197 shares issuable under AbbVie's Incentive Stock Program pursuant to awards granted by Abbott and adjusted into AbbVie awards in
connection with AbbVie's separation from Abbott.
(2) The weighted-average exercise price does not include outstanding restricted stock units, restricted stock awards and performance shares that have no
exercise price.
(3) Excludes shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options and pursuant to other rights granted under the Stemcentrx 2011 Equity Incentive Plan, which
was assumed by AbbVie upon the consummation of its acquisition of Stemcentrx, Inc. As of December 31, 2023, 41,212 options remained outstanding
under this plan. The options have a weighted-average exercise price of $18.02. No further awards will be granted under this plan.
(b) Information Concerning Security Ownership. Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the heading "Securities Ownership—Securities Ownership
of Executive Officers and Directors" in the 2024 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement. The 2024 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 18, 2024.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The material to be included in the 2024 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement under the headings "The Board of Directors and its Committees," "Corporate Governance
Materials," and "Procedures for Approval of Related Person Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2024 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed
on or about March 18, 2024.
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
The material to be included in the 2024 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement under the headings "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" and "Policy on Audit Committee Pre-
Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2024
Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 18, 2024.
|
103 2023 Form 10-KPART IV
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a) Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K.
(1) Financial Statements: See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for a list of financial statements.
(2) Financial Statement Schedules: All schedules omitted are inapplicable or the information required is shown in the consolidated financial statements
or notes thereto.
(3) Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K: The information called for by this paragraph is set forth in Item 15(b) below.
(b) Exhibits:
Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description
2.1 *Transaction Agreement, dated as of June 25, 2019, between AbbVie Inc., Allergan plc and Venice Subsidiary, LLC
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 25, 2019).
2.2 *Appendix III to the Rule 2.5 Announcement, dated as of June 25, 2019 (Conditions Appendix) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 2.2 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 25, 2019).
2.3 *Expenses Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of June 25, 2019, between AbbVie Inc. and Allergan plc (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 2.3 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 25, 2019).
2.4 *Amendment to the Transaction Agreement, dated as of May 5, 2020, between AbbVie Inc., Allergan plc and Venice
Subsidiary, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly
period ended March 31, 2020).
3.1 *Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the
company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).
3.2 *Second Amended and Restated By-Laws of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the company's Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on October 14, 2022).
4.1 Description of the company’s securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
4.2 *Indenture dated as of November 8, 2012 between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Amendment No. 5 to the company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16,
2012).
4.3 *Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated as of November 8, 2012 among AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association,
including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of Amendment No. 5 to the company's Registration
Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012).
4.4 *Supplemental Indenture No. 2 dated May 14, 2015, between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee,
including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May
14, 2015).
4.5 *Supplemental Indenture No. 3 dated May 12, 2016, between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee,
including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May
12, 2016).
4.6 *Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of November 17, 2016, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, as
trustee, Elavon Financial Services DAC, U.K. Branch, as paying agent and Elavon Financial Services DAC, as transfer agent
and registrar, including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-
K filed on November 17, 2016).
4.7 *Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated September 18, 2018, between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as
trustee, including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
on September 18, 2018).
2023 Form 10-K | 104Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description
4.8 *Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated September 26, 2019, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee,
transfer agent and registrar, and Elavon Financial Services DAC, UK Branch, as paying agent, including forms of notes
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 26, 2019).
4.9 *Supplemental Indenture No. 7, dated November 21, 2019, by and between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association,
as trustee, including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on November 26, 2019).
4.10 *Supplemental Indenture No. 8, dated May 14, 2020, by and between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as
trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 14, 2020).
4.11 *Supplemental Indenture No. 9, dated May 14, 2020, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank and National Association, as trustee,
transfer agent and registrar, and Elavon Financial Services DAC, U.K. Branch, as paying agent (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.15 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 14, 2020).
4.12 *Agency Agreement, dated as of November 17, 2016, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, Elavon
Financial Services DAC, U.K. Branch, as paying agent and Elavon Financial Services DAC, as transfer agent and registrar
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 17, 2016).
4.13 *Agency Agreement, dated September 26, 2019, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, transfer agent
and registrar, and Elavon Financial Services DAC, U.K. Branch, as paying agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of
the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 26, 2019).
4.14 *Registration Rights Agreement, dated November 21, 2019, among AbbVie Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, BofA Securities,
Inc. and Barclays Capital Inc. (acting for themselves and as representatives of the several initial purchasers) (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.13 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 26, 2019).
4.15 *Agency Agreement, dated May 14, 2020, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, transfer agent and
registrar, and Elavon Financial Services DAC, U.K. Branch, as paying agent and calculation agent (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.16 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 14, 2020).
4.16 *Registration Rights Agreement, dated May 14, 2020, among AbbVie Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, BofA Securities, Inc.,
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., Mizuho Securities USA LLC and Wells
Fargo Securities, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.23 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May
14, 2020).
10.1 *Form of Agreement Regarding Change in Control by and between AbbVie Inc. and its named executive officers (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16,
2012).**
10.2 *AbbVie 2013 Amended and Restated Incentive Stock Program (incorporated by reference to Appendix C to the AbbVie Inc.
Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A dated March 22, 2021).**
10.3 *AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the company's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016).**
10.4 *AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan Plus (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the company's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2022).**
10.5 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016).**
10.6 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016).**
10.7 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2017).**
10.8 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2017).**
10.9 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director RSU Agreement (US) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2018).**
|
105 2023 Form 10-KExhibit
Number Exhibit Description
10.10 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2018).**
10.11 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director RSU Agreement (US) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019).**
10.12 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2019).**
10.13 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director RSU Agreement (US) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2020).**
10.14 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2020).**
10.15 *Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of August 27, 2019, among AbbVie Inc., the lenders and other
parties party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 30, 2019).
10.16 *364-Day Bridge Credit Agreement, dated as of June 25, 2019, among AbbVie Inc., Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and
the lenders party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
June 25, 2019).
10.17 *Underwriting Agreement, dated September 17, 2019, among AbbVie Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, HSBC
Bank plc and Merrill Lynch International (acting for themselves and as representatives of the several underwriters named
therein) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 23, 2019).
10.18 *Purchase Agreement, dated November 12, 2019, among AbbVie Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, BofA Securities, Inc. and
Barclays Capital Inc. (acting for themselves and as representatives of the several initial purchasers named therein)
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 13, 2019).
10.19 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance-Vested Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2021). **
10.20 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Share Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2021).**
10.21 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director RSU Agreement (US) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2021).**
10.22 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2021).**
10.23 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Retention RSU Agreement - Ratable Vesting (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2021).**
10.24 *AbbVie Performance Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the company's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021).**
10.25 *Amendment to the AbbVie Performance Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
of the company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2023).**
10.26 *AbbVie Supplemental Pension Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the company's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021).**
10.27 *AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the company's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021).**
10.28 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance-Vested Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2022).**
10.29 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Share Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2022).**
10.30 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director RSU Agreement (US) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2022).**
10.31 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2022).**
2023 Form 10-K | 106Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description
10.32 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Retention RSU Agreement – Ratable Vesting (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2022).**
10.33 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Retention RSU Agreement – Cliff Vesting with Dividend Equivalent Accrual (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.6 of the company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2022).**
10.34 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance-Vested Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2023).**
10.35 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Share Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2023).**
10.36 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director RSU Agreement (US) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2023).**
10.37 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2023).**
10.38 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Retention RSU Agreement – Ratable Vesting (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2023).**
10.39 *Form of AbbVie Non-Employee Directors’ Fee Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of
the company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2023).**
10.40 *Form of Agreement Regarding Change in Control by and between AbbVie Inc. and its named executive officers (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 14, 2022).**
21 Subsidiaries of AbbVie Inc.
23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).
31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).
32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
97 AbbVie Inc. Amended and Restated Clawback Policy.**
101 The following financial statements and notes from the AbbVie Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2023 filed on February 20, 2024, formatted in Inline XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated
Statements of Earnings; (ii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income; (iii) Consolidated Balance Sheets;
(iv) Consolidated Statements of Equity; (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows; and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (the cover page from the AbbVie Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K formatted as Inline XBRL
and contained in Exhibit 101).
The AbbVie Inc. 2023 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under separate
cover on or about March 18, 2024.
_______________________________________________________________________________
* Incorporated herein by reference. Commission file number 001-35565.
** Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.
Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2, above, are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. AbbVie will furnish
copies of any of the above exhibits to a stockholder upon written request to the Secretary, AbbVie Inc., 1 North Waukegan Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064.
|
107 2023 Form 10-KITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY
None.
2023 Form 10-K | 108SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, AbbVie Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
AbbVie Inc.
By: /s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ
Name: Richard A. Gonzalez
Title: Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer
Date: February 20, 2024
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of AbbVie Inc. on
February 20, 2024 in the capacities indicated below.
/s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ /s/ SCOTT T. REENTS
Richard A. Gonzalez
Chairman of the Board and Scott T. Reents
Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Executive Officer) (Principal Financial Officer)
/s/ KEVIN K. BUCKBEE
Kevin K. Buckbee
Senior Vice President, Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
/s/ ROBERT J. ALPERN, M.D. /s/ ROXANNE S. AUSTIN
Robert J. Alpern, M.D. Roxanne S. Austin
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ WILLIAM H.L. BURNSIDE /s/ JENNIFER L. DAVIS
William H.L. Burnside Jennifer L. Davis
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN /s/ BRETT J. HART
Thomas C. Freyman Brett J. Hart
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ MELODY B. MEYER /s/ SUSAN E. QUAGGIN, M.D.
Melody B. Meyer Susan E. Quaggin, M.D.
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ EDWARD J. RAPP /s/ REBECCA B. ROBERTS
Edward J. Rapp Rebecca B. Roberts
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ GLENN F. TILTON /s/ FREDERICK H. WADDELL
Glenn F. Tilton Frederick H. Waddell
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
|
109 2023 Form 10-K