10-K 1 a2217723z10-k.htm 10-K
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
ý ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
OR
o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013
Commission file number 001-35565
AbbVie Inc.
Delaware 32-0375147
(State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. employer
incorporation or organization) identification number)
1 North Waukegan Road
North Chicago, Illinois 60064-6400
(Address of principal executive (847) 932-7900
offices) (telephone number)
Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of Each Class Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock, par value $0.01 per New York Stock Exchange
share Chicago Stock Exchange
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes ý No o
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.
Yes o No ý
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.
Yes ý No o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit
and post such files).
Yes ý No o
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. ý
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer ý Accelerated Filer o Non-accelerated Filer o Smaller Reporting Company o
(Do not check if a
smaller reporting company)
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
Yes o No ý
The aggregate market value of the 1,569,592,282 shares of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of AbbVie Inc.'s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2013), was$64,886,944,938. AbbVie has no non-voting common equity.
Number of common shares outstanding as of January 31, 2014: 1,588,518,764
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the 2014 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 24, 2014.PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Separation from Abbott Laboratories
On January 1, 2013, AbbVie(1) became an independent company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100 percent of the
outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. Each Abbott shareholder of record as of the close of business on December 12, 2012 (the Record
Date) received one share of AbbVie common stock for each Abbott common share held as of the Record Date.
AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012 to hold Abbott's former research-based pharmaceuticals business. AbbVie's common stock began
trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "ABBV" on the New York Stock Exchange on January 2, 2013.
Overview
AbbVie is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie develops and markets advanced therapies that address some of the world's most
complex and serious diseases. AbbVie's products are focused on treating conditions such as chronic autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis,
and Crohn's disease; low testosterone; HIV; endometriosis; thyroid disease; Parkinson's disease; and complications associated with chronic kidney disease and
cystic fibrosis, among other health conditions. AbbVie's pipeline of promising new medicines includes more than 20 compounds or indications in Phase II or Phase III
development across such important medical specialties as immunology, virology, oncology, renal disease, neurological diseases and women's health.
Segments
AbbVie operates in one business segment—pharmaceutical products. Incorporated herein by reference is Note 14 entitled "Segment and Geographic Area
Information" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information
related to HUMIRA included under "Results of Operations."
Products
AbbVie's portfolio of products includes a broad line of therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases.
(1) As used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "AbbVie" refers to AbbVie Inc., a Delaware corporation, or AbbVie Inc. and its
consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.
1HUMIRA. HUMIRA is a biologic therapy administered as a subcutaneous injection. It is approved to treat the following autoimmune diseases in the United
States, Canada, and Mexico (collectively, North America), and in the European Union:
Condition Principal Markets
Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Psoriatic arthritis North America, European Union
Ankylosing spondylitis North America, European Union
Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Plaque psoriasis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis North America, European Union
Ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) United States, European Union
Axial spondyloarthritis European Union
Pediatric Crohn's disease (severe) European Union
HUMIRA is also approved in over 60 other markets, including Japan, Brazil, and Australia. HUMIRA was introduced to the market in January 2003. HUMIRA
accounted for approximately 57 percent of AbbVie's total sales in 2013. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab
(which is sold under the trademark HUMIRA) is expected to expire in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority
of European Union countries in April 2018.
AbbVie continues to dedicate substantial research and development efforts to expanding indications for HUMIRA, including in the fields of rheumatology
(pediatric enthesitis related arthritis), gastroenterology (pediatric Crohn's disease and pediatric ulcerative colitis), dermatology (pediatric psoriasis and hidradenitis
suppurativa), and ophthalmology (uveitis). Phase III trials are ongoing in preparation for regulatory applications for uveitis and hidradenitis suppurativa in the United
States and the European Union. AbbVie continues to work on HUMIRA formulation and delivery enhancements to improve convenience and the overall patient
experience.
Metabolics/Hormones products. Metabolic and hormone products target a number of conditions, including hypothyroidism, testosterone deficiency, and
exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. These products include:
Synthroid. Synthroid is used in the treatment of hypothyroidism.
AndroGel. AndroGel is a testosterone replacement therapy for males diagnosed with low testosterone that is available in two strengths: 1 percent and
1.62 percent.
Creon. Creon is a pancreatic enzyme therapy for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, a condition that occurs in patients with cystic fibrosis, chronic
pancreatitis, and several other conditions.
AbbVie has the rights to sell Synthroid, AndroGel, and Creon only in the United States.
Virology products. AbbVie's virology products include two products for the treatment of HIV infection, Kaletra and Norvir.
Kaletra. Kaletra (also marketed as Aluvia in emerging markets) is a prescription anti-HIV-1 medicine that contains two protease inhibitors: lopinavir and
ritonavir. Kaletra is used with other anti-HIV-1 medications to increase the chance of treatment response in people with HIV-1.
Norvir. Norvir (ritonavir) is a protease inhibitor that is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection.
2Endocrinology products. Lupron (also marketed as Lucrin and Lupron Depot) is a product for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment
of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. Lupron is approved for daily
subcutaneous injection and one-month, three-month, four-month and six-month intramuscular injection.
Dyslipidemia products. AbbVie's dyslipidemia products address the range of metabolic conditions characterized by high cholesterol and/or high triglycerides.
TriCor and TRILIPIX are fibric acid derivatives that are indicated as adjuncts to diet to reduce total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglyceride levels, and to
increase HDL cholesterol levels. Niaspan is an extended release form of niacin that is indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and
triglyceride levels, and to increase HDL cholesterol levels. These products are primarily marketed to primary care physicians. Generic competitors to these products
entered the market in 2012 and 2013.
Other products. AbbVie's other products include the following:
Synagis. Synagis is a product marketed by AbbVie outside of the United States that protects at-risk infants from severe respiratory disease, or
respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).
Anesthesia products. Sevoflurane (sold under the trademarks Ultane and Sevorane) is an anesthesia product that AbbVie sells worldwide for human
use.
Duodopa and Duopa. Duodopa is a levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG) marketed outside of the United States to treat advanced Parkinson's
disease. The LCIG therapy has completed Phase III development for the United States under the name Duopa, and AbbVie is pursuing regulatory approval in
the United States.
Zemplar. Zemplar is a product sold worldwide for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with Stage 3, 4, and 5
chronic kidney disease (CKD).
Research and Development Activities
AbbVie has numerous compounds in clinical development, including potential treatments for complex diseases. Over the past five years, AbbVie has more than
doubled the number of compounds in its pipeline through a mix of internal development and external collaboration efforts. AbbVie's ability to discover and develop
new compounds is enhanced by the company's use of integrated discovery and development project teams, which include chemists, biologists, physicians, and
pharmacologists who work on the same compounds as a team.
The research and development process generally begins with discovery research which focuses on the identification of a molecule that has a desired effect
against a given disease. If preclinical testing of an identified compound proves successful, the compound moves into clinical development which generally includes
the following phases:
• Phase I—involves the first human tests in a small number of healthy volunteers or patients to assess safety, tolerability and potential dosing.
• Phase II—tests the drug's efficacy against the disease in a relatively small group of patients.
• Phase III—tests a drug that demonstrates favorable results in the earlier phases in a significantly larger patient population to further demonstrate
efficacy and safety based on regulatory criteria.
The clinical trials from all of the development phases provide the data required to prepare and submit a New Drug Application (NDA), a Biological License
Application (BLA) or other submission for regulatory approval to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or similar government
3agencies outside the U.S. The specific requirements (e.g., scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic
regions.
The research and development process from discovery through a new drug launch typically takes 8 to 12 years and can be even longer. The research and
development of new pharmaceutical products has a significant amount of inherent uncertainty. There is no guarantee when, or if, a molecule will receive the
regulatory approval required to launch a new drug or indication.
In addition to the development of new products and new formulations, research and development projects also may include Phase IV trials, sometimes called
post-marketing studies. For such projects, clinical trials are designed and conducted to collect additional data regarding, among other parameters, the benefits and
risks of an approved drug.
AbbVie spent approximately $2.9 billion in 2013, $2.8 billion in 2012, and $2.6 billion in 2011 on research to discover and develop new products, indications and
processes and to improve existing products and processes. These expenses consisted primarily of salaries and related expenses for personnel, license fees,
consulting payments, contract research, manufacturing, the costs of laboratory equipment and facilities, and collaboration fees and expenses.
Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity
Generally, upon approval, products in development may be entitled to exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and regulatory regimes. AbbVie seeks
patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or countries for each product in development. In the United States, the expiration date for patents
filed on or after June 8, 1995 is 20 years after the filing date. Given that patents relating to pharmaceutical products are often obtained early in the development
process, and given the amount of time needed to complete clinical trials and other development activities required for regulatory approval, the length of time between
product launch and patent expiration is significantly less than 20 years. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as
the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent holder to seek a patent extension, commonly called a "patent term restoration," for patents on products (or processes for
making the product) regulated by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The length of the patent extension is roughly based on 50 percent of the period of time
from the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application for a compound to the submission of the NDA for such compound, plus 100 percent of the time period
from NDA submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years and the patent term remaining after regulatory approval cannot
exceed 14 years.
Pharmaceutical products may be entitled to other forms of legal or regulatory exclusivity upon approval. The scope, length, and requirements for each of these
exclusivities varies both in the United States and in other jurisdictions. In the United States, if the FDA approves a product that does not contain a previously
approved active ingredient, the product is typically entitled to five years of market exclusivity. Other products may be entitled to three years of market exclusivity if
approval was based on the FDA's reliance on new clinical studies submitted by the NDA applicant. If the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the
FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days the longest existing exclusivity (patent or regulatory) related to the product. For products that are
either used to treat conditions that afflict a relatively small population or for which there is not a reasonable expectation that the research and development costs will
be recovered, the FDA may designate the pharmaceutical as an orphan drug and grant it seven years of market exclusivity.
Applicable laws and regulations dictate the market exclusivity to which the product is entitled upon its approval in any particular country. In certain instances,
regulatory exclusivity may protect a product where patent protection is no longer available or for a period of time in excess of patent protection. It is not possible to
estimate for each product in development the total period of exclusivity to which it may become entitled until regulatory approval is obtained. However, given the
length of time required
4to complete clinical development of a pharmaceutical product, the minimum and maximum periods of exclusivity that might be achieved in any individual case would
not be expected to exceed three and 14 years, respectively. These estimates do not consider other factors, such as the difficulty of recreating the manufacturing
process for a particular product or other proprietary knowledge that may delay the introduction of a generic or other follow-on product after the expiration of
applicable patent and other regulatory exclusivity periods.
Biologics such as HUMIRA are entitled to exclusivity under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, which was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title
VII to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The law provides a pathway for approval of biosimilars following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for
the innovator biologic and a potential additional 180 day-extension term for conducting pediatric studies. The law also includes an extensive process for the
innovator biologic and biosimilar manufacturer to litigate patent infringement, validity, and enforceability prior to the approval of the biosimilar. The European Union
has also created a pathway for approval of biosimilars and has published guidelines for approval of certain biosimilar products. The more complex nature of biologics
and biosimilar products has led to greater regulatory scrutiny and more rigorous requirements for approval of follow-on biosimilar products than for small molecule
generic pharmaceutical products, and it has also reduced the effect of biosimilars on sales of the innovator biologic as compared to the sales erosion caused by
generic versions of small molecule pharmaceutical products.
AbbVie owns or has licensed rights to a substantial number of patents and patent applications. AbbVie licenses or owns a patent portfolio of thousands of
patent families, each of which includes United States patent applications and/or issued patents, and may also contain the non-United States counterparts to these
patents and applications.
These patents and applications, including various patents that expire during the period 2014 to 2031, in aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the
operation of AbbVie's business. However, AbbVie believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for
those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark HUMIRA), are material in relation to the company's business as a whole. The United States
composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab is expected to expire in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected
to expire in the majority of European Union countries in April 2018.
In addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are significant: those related to lopinavir/ritonavir (which is sold under the trademarks Kaletra and
Aluvia), and those related to testosterone (which is sold under the trademark AndroGel). The United States composition of matter patent covering lopinavir is
expected to expire in 2016. A principal United States non-composition of matter patent covering lopinavir/ritonavir is expected to expire in 2016. The principal United
States non-composition of matter patent covering AndroGel 1 percent is expected to expire in 2021, including pediatric exclusivity. The principal United States non-
composition of matter patents covering AndroGel 1.62 percent are expected to expire in 2020 and 2026. Agreements that may affect exclusivity are discussed in Item 7,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations."
AbbVie may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect its technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. AbbVie seeks to protect its
technology and product candidates, in part, by confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, and collaborators. These
agreements may be breached and AbbVie may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, AbbVie's trade secrets may otherwise become known or be
independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that AbbVie's employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, and collaborators use intellectual property
owned by others in their work for the company, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions.
5Sales, Marketing, and Distribution Capabilities
In 2013, AbbVie's products were sold in over 170 countries. AbbVie utilizes a combination of dedicated commercial resources, regional commercial resources and
distributorships to market, sell, and distribute its products worldwide.
In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to pharmacies
and patients. In 2013, three wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc., and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) accounted for substantially
all of AbbVie's sales in the United States. No individual wholesaler accounts for greater than 40 percent of AbbVie's 2013 gross sales in the United States. These
wholesalers purchase product from AbbVie under standard terms and conditions of sale.
AbbVie directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its brand of products by physicians, key opinion leaders,
and other health care providers. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers), hospitals, and state and
federal government agencies (for example, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important
customers. AbbVie also markets directly to consumers themselves, although in the United States all of the company's products must be sold pursuant to a
prescription. Outside of the United States, AbbVie focuses its marketing efforts on key opinion leaders, payors, physicians, and country regulatory bodies. AbbVie
also provides patient support programs closely related to its products.
AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and
independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or
through distributors, depending on the market served. Approximately 55-60 percent of sales outside the United States are made through wholesalers or distributors.
No wholesaler or distributor outside the United States accounts for more than 3 percent of AbbVie's sales. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with
other companies. AbbVie has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have a material adverse effect on the company's business.
No material portion of AbbVie's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.
Third Party Agreements
AbbVie has agreements with third parties for process development, analytical services, and manufacturing of certain products. AbbVie procures certain products
and services from a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, a single supply source. For example, the filling and packaging of HUMIRA syringes to be sold
outside of the United States and Puerto Rico is performed by a single supplier at its two different facilities. AbbVie does not currently believe that this agreement is
material because AbbVie's business is not substantially dependent upon it. AbbVie maintains significant inventory of HUMIRA syringes to reduce the risk of any
supply disruption and its own syringe-filling and packaging facility in the United States is now approved to supply syringes to primary markets outside of the United
States and Puerto Rico. It was previously approved to provide product only to the United States and Puerto Rico. In addition, AbbVie has agreements with third
parties for active pharmaceutical ingredient and product manufacturing, formulation and development services, fill, finish, and packaging services, and distribution
and logistics services for certain products. AbbVie does not believe that these manufacturing related agreements are material because AbbVie's business is not
substantially dependent on any individual agreement. In most cases, AbbVie maintains alternate supply relationships that it can utilize without undue disruption of
its manufacturing processes if a third party fails to perform its contractual obligations. AbbVie also maintains sufficient inventory of product to minimize the impact of
any supply disruption.
6AbbVie also has collaboration agreements, as discussed in Note 5, "Acquisitions, Collaborations and Other Arrangements," of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, and has certain agreements with Abbott.
Sources and Availability of Raw Materials
AbbVie purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to its operations from numerous suppliers around the world,
including in the United States. In addition, certain medical devices and components necessary for the manufacture of our products are provided by unaffiliated third
party suppliers. AbbVie has not experienced any recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.
Orders
Orders are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to AbbVie's business.
Environmental Matters
AbbVie believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection. Regulations under
federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. AbbVie's
capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2013 were approximately $2 million and $20 million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for
pollution control in 2014 are estimated to be approximately $2 million and $21 million, respectively.
Abbott was identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including
Puerto Rico, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Some of these locations were
transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and distribution, and AbbVie has become a party to these investigations and remediations. Abbott was also
engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which have been transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and distribution, in cooperation with
the Environmental Protection Agency or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and
remediation activities, AbbVie believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning
environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.
Competition
The markets for AbbVie's products are highly competitive. AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies that
discover, manufacture, market, and sell proprietary pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, HUMIRA competes with a number of anti-TNF and other
products that are approved for a number of disease states and AbbVie's virology products compete with protease inhibitors and other anti-HIV treatments. The
search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes
in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price is also a competitive factor. In addition, the substitution of generic pharmaceutical
products for branded pharmaceutical products creates competitive pressures on AbbVie's products that do not have patent protection.
Biosimilars. Competition for AbbVie's biologic products is affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as "biosimilars." Biologics have added
major therapeutic options for the
7treatment of many diseases, including some for which therapies were unavailable or inadequate. The advent of biologics has also raised complex regulatory issues
and significant pharmacoeconomic concerns because the cost of developing and producing biologic therapies is typically dramatically higher than for conventional
(small molecule) medications, and because many expensive biologic medications are used for ongoing treatment of chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis or
inflammatory bowel disease, or for the treatment of previously untreatable cancer. Significant investments in biologics infrastructure and manufacturing are necessary
to produce biologic products, as are significant investments in marketing, distribution, and sales organization activities, which may limit the number of biosimilar
competitors.
In the United States, the FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, and implementing regulations.
While the enactment of federal health care reform legislation in March 2010 was meant to provide a pathway for approval of biosimilars under the Public Health
Service Act, recent regulatory guidance suggests that the approval process for biosimilars will be far more extensive than the approval process for generic or other
follow-on versions of small molecule products, in order to ensure that the safety and efficacy of biosimilars is highly similar to that of an original biologic, such as
HUMIRA. Ultimate approval by the FDA is dependent upon many factors, including a showing that the biosimilar is "highly similar" to the original product and has
no clinically meaningful differences from the original product in terms of safety, purity, and potency. The types of data that could ordinarily be required in an
application to show similarity would include analytical data and studies to demonstrate chemical similarity, animal studies (including toxicity studies), and clinical
studies. Applicable regulations also require that the biosimilar must be for the same indication as the original biologic and involve the same mechanism of action, and
that the manufacturing facility meets the standards necessary to assure that the biosimilar is safe, pure, and potent.
Furthermore, the new law provides that only a biosimilar product that is deemed to be "interchangeable" may be substituted for the original biologic product
without the intervention of the health care provider who prescribed the original biologic product. To prove that a biosimilar product is interchangeable, the applicant
must demonstrate that the product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the original biologic product in any given patient, and if the product is
administered more than once in a patient, that safety risks and potential for diminished efficacy of alternating or switching between the use of the interchangeable
biosimilar biologic product and the original biologic product is no greater than the risk of using the original biologic product without switching. The new law is only
beginning to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation, and meaning will likely be subject to substantial
uncertainty for years to come.
In the European Union, while a pathway for the approval of biosimilars has existed since 2005, the products that have come to market to date have had a mixed
impact on the market share of incumbent products, with significant variation by product.
Other Competitive Products. Although a number of competitive biologic branded products have been approved since HUMIRA was first introduced in 2003,
most have gained only a modest share of the worldwide market. In addition, the first JAK inhibitor, part of a new class of orally administered products, was recently
approved for use in rheumatoid arthritis in the U.S. AbbVie will continue to face competitive pressure from these biologics and orally administered products.
Regulation—Discovery and Clinical Development
United States. Securing approval to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States requires substantial effort and financial resources and takes
several years to complete. The applicant must complete preclinical tests, and obtain FDA approval before commencing clinical trials. Clinical trials are intended to
establish the safety and efficacy of the pharmaceutical product and typically are
8conducted in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap or be combined. If the required clinical testing is successful, the results are submitted to the
FDA in the form of an NDA or BLA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. The FDA reviews an NDA or BLA to determine whether a
product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is compliant with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP).
Even if an NDA or a BLA receives approval, the applicant must comply with post-approval requirements. For example, holders of an approval must report
adverse reactions, provide updated safety and efficacy information, and comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling. Also, quality
control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval. The FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess
compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural, substantive, and record keeping requirements. In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may
require post-marketing testing and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product's safety or efficacy after commercialization. Any post-approval regulatory
obligations, and the cost of complying with such obligations, could expand in the future.
Outside the United States. AbbVie is subject to similar regulations outside the United States. AbbVie must obtain approval of a clinical trial application or
product from the applicable regulatory authorities before it can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product. The approval requirements and process vary, and
the time required to obtain approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. For example, AbbVie may submit marketing authorizations in the
European Union under either a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure is mandatory for the approval of biotechnology products and many
pharmaceutical products and provides for a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. Under the centralized procedure, a
single marketing authorization application is submitted to the European Medicines Agency. After the agency evaluates the application, it makes a recommendation to
the European Commission, which then makes the final determination on whether to approve the application. The decentralized procedure provides for mutual
recognition of national approval decisions and is available for products that are not subject to the centralized procedure.
In Japan, applications for approval of a new product are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Bridging studies to
demonstrate that the foreign clinical data applies to Japanese patients may be required. After completing a comprehensive review, the PMDA reports to the Ministry
of Health, Labour and Welfare, which then approves or denies the application.
The regulatory process in many emerging markets continues to evolve. Many emerging markets, including those in Asia, generally require regulatory approval to
have been obtained in a large developed market (such as the United States) before the country will begin or complete its regulatory review process. Some countries
also require that local clinical studies be conducted in order to obtain regulatory approval in the country.
The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and product licensing also vary. In addition, post-approval regulatory obligations such as adverse
event reporting and cGMP compliance generally apply and may vary by country. For example, after a marketing authorization has been granted in the European
Union, periodic safety reports must be submitted and other pharmacovigilance measures must be implemented.
Regulation—Commercialization, Distribution, and Manufacturing
The manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion, and distribution of AbbVie's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Government regulation
by various national, regional, federal, state, and local agencies, both in the United States and other countries, addresses (among other matters) inspection of, and
controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing and promotion,
pricing and
9reimbursement, sampling, distribution, quality control, post-marketing surveillance, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices. AbbVie's operations are also
affected by trade regulations in many countries that limit the import of raw materials and finished products and by laws and regulations that seek to prevent
corruption and bribery in the marketplace (including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act, which provide guidance
on corporate interactions with government officials) and require safeguards for the protection of personal data. In addition, AbbVie is subject to laws and regulations
pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including state and federal anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United States. Prescription drug manufacturers such
as AbbVie are also subject to taxes, as well as application, product, user, establishment, and other fees.
Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects AbbVie's business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially
increase the time, difficulty, and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. AbbVie expects compliance
with these regulations to continue to require significant technical expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can delay the release of a
new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for a product's
production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties.
In addition to regulatory initiatives, AbbVie's business can be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care
products and their components that are regularly conducted by industry participants, government agencies, and others. These studies can call into question the
utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of, or
limitations on, marketing of such products domestically or worldwide, and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a
result of their use.
Access to human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private
organizations in the United States and other countries. A major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private
sector, notably by health care payors and providers, which have instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. AbbVie expects insurers and providers
to continue attempts to reduce the cost of health care products. Outside the United States, many countries control the price of health care products directly or
indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage limitations, or compulsory licensing. Budgetary pressures in the United States and in other countries
may also heighten the scope and severity of pricing pressures on AbbVie's products for the foreseeable future.
United States. Specifically, U.S. federal laws require pharmaceuticals manufacturers to pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid programs on
prescription drugs reimbursed under state Medicaid plans, and the efforts by states to seek additional rebates affect AbbVie's business. Similarly, the Veterans
Health Care Act of 1992, as a prerequisite to participation in Medicaid and other federal health care programs, requires that manufacturers extend additional discounts
on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, and Public Health
Service entities and institutions. In addition, recent legislative changes would require similarly discounted prices to be offered to TRICARE program beneficiaries.
The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 also established the 340B drug discount program, which requires pharmaceuticals manufacturers to provide products at
reduced prices to various designated health care entities and facilities.
In the United States, most states also have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different
manufacturer's generic version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group
10(DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services
delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis
and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures for many health
care products. Medicare reimburses Part B drugs based on average sales price (ASP) plus a certain percentage to account for physician administration costs, which
have recently been reduced in the hospital outpatient setting. End stage renal disease treatment is covered through a bundled payment that likewise creates
incentives for providers to demand lower pharmaceutical prices. Medicare enters into contracts with private plans to negotiate prices for most patient-administered
medicine delivered under Part D.
In March 2010, Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the Affordable
Care Act). Under the Affordable Care Act, AbbVie pays a fee related to its pharmaceuticals sales to government programs. Also in 2011, AbbVie began providing a
discount of 50 percent for branded prescription drugs sold to patients who fall into the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole."
The Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs and biologics covered
under Medicare and Medicaid starting in 2012 to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data beginning in 2013 to the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level in the United
States, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring disclosure of interactions with health care
professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties.
AbbVie expects debate to continue during 2014 at all government levels worldwide over the marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health
care products and services. AbbVie believes that future legislation and regulation in the markets it serves could affect access to health care products and services,
increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, change health care delivery systems, create new fees and
obligations for the pharmaceuticals industry, or require additional reporting and disclosure. It is not possible to predict the extent to which AbbVie or the health care
industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.
AbbVie is subject to a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) entered into by Abbott on May 7, 2012 that requires enhancements to AbbVie's compliance program
and contains reporting obligations, including disclosure of financial payments to doctors. If AbbVie fails to comply with the CIA, the Office of Inspector General for
the United States Department of Health and Human Services may impose monetary penalties or exclude AbbVie from federal health care programs, including
Medicare and Medicaid.
European Union. The European Union has adopted directives and other legislation governing labeling, advertising, distribution, supply, pharmacovigilance,
and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Such legislation provides mandatory standards throughout the European Union and permits member states to supplement
these standards with additional regulations. European governments also regulate pharmaceutical product prices through their control of national health care systems
that fund a large part of the cost of such products to consumers. As a result, patients are unlikely to use a pharmaceutical product that is not reimbursed by the
government. In many European countries, the government either regulates the pricing of a new product at launch or subsequent to launch through direct price
controls or reference pricing. In recent years, many countries have also imposed new or additional cost containment measures on pharmaceutical products.
Differences between national pricing regimes create price differentials within the European Union that can lead to significant parallel trade in pharmaceutical products.
11Most governments also promote generic substitution by mandating or permitting a pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a
pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed and by permitting or mandating that health care professionals prescribe generic versions in certain circumstances. In
addition, governments use reimbursement lists to limit the pharmaceutical products that are eligible for reimbursement by national health care systems.
Japan. In Japan, the National Health Insurance system maintains a Drug Price List specifying which pharmaceutical products are eligible for reimbursement,
and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare sets the prices of the products on this list. The government generally introduces price cut rounds every other year
and also mandates price decreases for specific products. New products judged innovative or useful, that are indicated for pediatric use, or that target orphan or small
population diseases, however, may be eligible for a pricing premium. The government has also promoted the use of generics, where available.
Emerging Markets. Many emerging markets take steps to reduce pharmaceutical product prices, in some cases through direct price controls and in others
through the promotion of generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals.
Since AbbVie markets its products worldwide, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines must also meet other local regulatory
requirements. Certain additional risks are inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in
currency exchange rates, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.
Employees
AbbVie employed approximately 25,000 persons as of January 31, 2014. Outside the United States, some of AbbVie's employees are represented by unions or
works councils. AbbVie believes that it has good relations with its employees.
Internet Information
Copies of AbbVie's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through AbbVie's investor relations website
(www.abbvieinvestor.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after AbbVie electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
AbbVie's corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of AbbVie's audit committee,
compensation committee, nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on AbbVie's investor relations website
(www.abbvieinvestor.com).
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating AbbVie and AbbVie's common stock. Any of the
following risks could materially and adversely affect AbbVie's results of operations or financial condition. The risk factors generally have been separated into
three groups: risks related to AbbVie's business, risks related to AbbVie's separation from Abbott and risks related to AbbVie's common stock. Based on the
information currently known to it, AbbVie believes that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting it in each of these categories
of risks. However, the risks and uncertainties AbbVie faces are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below and may not be in order of
importance or probability of occurrence. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to AbbVie or that AbbVie currently believes to be immaterial
may also
12adversely affect its business. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be
used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.
If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business, financial
condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of AbbVie's common stock could decline.
Risks Related to AbbVie's Business
The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may adversely affect AbbVie's future revenues and operating income.
AbbVie relies on patent, trademark and other intellectual property protection in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and sale of its products. In
particular, patent protection is, in the aggregate, important in AbbVie's marketing of pharmaceutical products in the United States and most major markets outside of
the United States. Patents covering AbbVie products normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the profitability of many of AbbVie's products.
As patents for certain of its products expire, AbbVie will or could face competition from lower priced generic products. The expiration or loss of patent protection
for a product typically is followed promptly by substitutes that may significantly reduce sales for that product in a short amount of time. If AbbVie's competitive
position is compromised because of generics or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business and results of operations. In addition,
proposals emerge from time to time for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. Any such proposals that are enacted into law
could worsen the effect of generic competition.
AbbVie's principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in Item 1, "Business—Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity" and
Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations," and litigation regarding these patents is
described in Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." The United States composition of matter patent for HUMIRA, which is AbbVie's largest selling product and had worldwide
sales of approximately $10.7 billion in 2013, is expected to expire in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of
European Union countries in April 2018. Because HUMIRA is a biologic and biologics cannot be readily substituted, it is uncertain what impact the loss of patent
protection would have on the sales of HUMIRA.
AbbVie's major products could lose patent protection earlier than expected, which could adversely affect AbbVie's future revenues and operating income.
Third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent AbbVie's patents and patent applications. For example, manufacturers
of generic pharmaceutical products file, and may continue to file, Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) with the United States Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) seeking to market generic forms of AbbVie's products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by AbbVie by asserting that
the patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed.
Although most of the challenges to AbbVie's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property
rights. For example, court decisions and potential legislation relating to patents, such as legislation regarding biosimilars, and other regulatory initiatives may result in
further erosion of intellectual property protection. In addition, certain governments outside the United States have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may
be sought to further their domestic policies or on the basis of national emergencies, such as HIV/AIDS. If triggered, compulsory licenses could diminish or eliminate
sales and profits from those jurisdictions and negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations.
13AbbVie normally responds to challenges by vigorously defending its patents, including by filing patent infringement lawsuits. Patent litigation and other
challenges to AbbVie's patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive AbbVie of market exclusivity for a patented product. To the extent AbbVie's intellectual
property is successfully challenged or circumvented or to the extent such intellectual property does not allow AbbVie to compete effectively, AbbVie's business will
suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce AbbVie's intellectual property rights or require compulsory licensing of AbbVie's intellectual property, AbbVie's
future revenues and operating income will be reduced.
A third party's intellectual property may prevent AbbVie from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's future profitability and
financial condition.
Third parties may claim that an AbbVie product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property infringement claim can be costly and
time consuming and may require AbbVie to enter into license agreements. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain license agreements on
commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject AbbVie to significant damages or an injunction
preventing the manufacture, sale, or use of the affected AbbVie product or products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's
profitability and financial condition.
Any significant event that adversely affects HUMIRA revenues could have a material and negative impact on AbbVie's results of operations and cash flows.
HUMIRA generates approximately 57 percent of AbbVie's sales. Any significant event that adversely affects HUMIRA's revenues could have a material adverse
impact on AbbVie's operations and cash flows. These events could include loss of patent protection for HUMIRA, the approval of biosimilars of HUMIRA, the
discovery of previously unknown side effects or impaired efficacy, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective or less expensive treatments,
and discontinuation or removal from the market of HUMIRA for any reason.
AbbVie's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing and marketing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause
its revenue and profitability to decline.
To remain competitive, AbbVie must continue to launch new products and new indications and/or brand extensions for existing products, and such launches
must generate revenue sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales of profitable products that are lost to or displaced
by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenue and profitability. Accordingly, AbbVie commits
substantial effort, funds, and other resources to research and development and must make ongoing substantial expenditures without any assurance that its efforts
will be commercially successful. For example, in 2012 AbbVie discontinued the development of ABT-263, which was in Phase II development for the treatment of
hematologic malignancies. A high rate of failure in the biopharmaceutical industry is inherent in the research and development of new products, and failure can occur
at any point in the research and development process, including after significant funds have been invested. Products that appear promising in development may fail
to reach the market for numerous reasons, including failure to demonstrate effectiveness, safety concerns, superior safety or efficacy of competing therapies, failure
to achieve positive clinical or pre-clinical outcomes beyond the current standard of care, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or delays in the approval
of new products and new indications, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights, or
infringement of the intellectual property rights of others.
Decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a pharmaceutical product candidate can affect the marketing strategy once such
candidate receives approval. More
14detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they also consume time and resources and may delay submitting the
pharmaceutical product candidate for approval. AbbVie cannot guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made with respect to each pharmaceutical
product candidate or that decisions in this area would not adversely affect AbbVie's future results.
Even if AbbVie successfully develops and markets new products or enhancements to its existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing
clinical preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors' innovations. AbbVie's innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of
existing clinical practices or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. AbbVie cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development
will be launched, whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful.
Failure to launch successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause AbbVie's products to become obsolete, causing AbbVie's revenues
and operating results to suffer.
A portion of AbbVie's near-term pharmaceutical pipeline relies on collaborations with third parties, which may adversely affect the development and sale of its
products.
AbbVie depends on alliances with pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies for a portion of the products in its near-term pharmaceutical pipeline. For
example, AbbVie is collaborating with Biogen Idec to develop a treatment for the relapsing remitting form of multiple sclerosis. It is also collaborating with
Galapagos NV to discover, develop, and commercialize a next-generation, oral Janus Kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor in Phase II development with the potential to treat
multiple autoimmune diseases.
Failures by these parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, or other obligations to AbbVie, or any disruption in the relationships between AbbVie and these
third parties, could have an adverse effect on AbbVie's pharmaceutical pipeline and business. In addition, AbbVie's collaborative relationships for research and
development extend for many years and may give rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of AbbVie and its collaboration partners,
including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations. This could result in the loss of intellectual property rights or protection, delay
the development and sale of potential pharmaceutical products, and lead to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration.
Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations.
The successful discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of biologics is a long, expensive and uncertain process. There are unique risks and uncertainties
with biologics. For example, access to and supply of necessary biological materials, such as cell lines, may be limited, and governmental regulations restrict access to
and regulate the transport and use of such materials. In addition, the development, manufacturing, and sale of biologics is subject to regulations that are often more
complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and
may require the use of innovative technologies. Such manufacturing also requires facilities specifically designed and validated for this purpose and sophisticated
quality assurance and quality control procedures. Biologics are also frequently costly to manufacture because production inputs are derived from living animal or
plant material, and some biologics cannot be made synthetically. Failure to successfully discover, develop, manufacture and sell biologics—including HUMIRA—
could adversely impact AbbVie's business and results of operations.
15New products and technological advances by AbbVie's competitors may negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations.
AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies that discover, manufacture, market, and sell proprietary
pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, HUMIRA competes with a number of anti-TNF products that are approved for a number of disease states and
AbbVie's virology products compete with protease inhibitors and other anti-HIV treatments. These competitors may introduce new products or develop
technological advances that compete with AbbVie's products in therapeutic areas such as immunology, virology, renal disease, dyslipidemia, and neuroscience.
AbbVie cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction by competitors of new products or technological advances. Such competing products
may be safer, more effective, more effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or superior performance features than AbbVie's products, and this could
negatively impact AbbVie's business and results of operations.
AbbVie's biologic products may become subject to competition from biosimilars.
The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The law
created a framework for the approval of biosimilars in the United States and could allow competitors to reference data from biologic products already approved. In
Europe, the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for
biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. In addition, companies are developing biosimilars in other countries that could compete with AbbVie's biologic
products. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing AbbVie's biologic products, AbbVie's products may become subject to
competition from such biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure and consequences. Expiration or successful challenge of AbbVie's applicable patent rights
could also trigger competition from other products, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. As a result, AbbVie could face more litigation with respect
to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to its biologic products.
The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if AbbVie or one of its suppliers encounters problems
manufacturing AbbVie's products, AbbVie's business could suffer.
The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise during
manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, delays
related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for AbbVie's products, changes
in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in the types of products produced, physical
limitations that could inhibit continuous supply, man-made or natural disasters, and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a batch of
product, that batch of product may have to be discarded and AbbVie may experience product shortages or incur added expenses. This could, among other things,
lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with
respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be
incurred.
16AbbVie uses a number of products in its pharmaceutical and biologic manufacturing processes that are sourced from single suppliers, and an interruption in the
supply of those products could adversely affect AbbVie's business and results of operations.
AbbVie uses a number of products in its pharmaceutical and biologic manufacturing processes that are sourced from single suppliers. The failure of these single-
source suppliers to fulfill their contractual obligations in a timely manner or as a result of regulatory noncompliance or physical disruption at a manufacturing site may
impair AbbVie's ability to deliver its products to customers on a timely and competitive basis, which could adversely affect AbbVie's business and results of
operations. Finding an alternative supplier could take a significant amount of time and involve significant expense due to the nature of the products and the need to
obtain regulatory approvals. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will be able to reach agreement with alternative providers or that regulatory authorities would approve
AbbVie's use of such alternatives. AbbVie does, however, carry business interruption insurance, which provides a degree of protection in the case of a failure by a
single-source supplier.
Significant safety or efficacy issues could arise for AbbVie's products, which could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenues and financial condition.
Pharmaceutical products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. Following regulatory approval, these
products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If new safety or
efficacy issues are reported or if new scientific information becomes available (including results of post-marketing Phase IV trials), or if governments change
standards regarding safety, efficacy or labeling, AbbVie may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, AbbVie may voluntarily provide
or be required to provide updated information on a product's label or narrow its approved indication, either of which could reduce the product's market acceptance. If
serious safety or efficacy issues with an AbbVie product arise, sales of the product could be halted by AbbVie or by regulatory authorities. Safety or efficacy issues
affecting suppliers' or competitors' products also may reduce the market acceptance of AbbVie's products.
New data about AbbVie's products, or products similar to its products, could negatively impact demand for AbbVie's products due to real or perceived safety
issues or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. Furthermore, new data and information, including information about
product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish
guidelines or recommendations related to the use of AbbVie's products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. Such guidelines or
recommendations may lead to lower sales of AbbVie's products.
AbbVie is subject to product liability claims and lawsuits that may adversely affect its business and results of operations.
In the ordinary course of business, AbbVie is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that AbbVie's products or the products of other
companies that it promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or
product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain
customers. Consequences may also include additional costs, a decrease in market share for the products, lower income and exposure to other claims. Product liability
losses are self-insured. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business and results of operations.
17AbbVie is subject to cost-containment efforts and pricing pressures that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating income.
Cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in Item 1, "Business—Regulation—Commercialization,
Distribution, and Manufacturing." To the extent these cost containment efforts are not offset by greater demand, increased patient access to health care, or other
factors, AbbVie's future revenues and operating income will be reduced. In the United States, the European Union and other countries, AbbVie's business has
experienced downward pressure on product pricing, and this pressure could increase in the future.
In the United States, practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers and United States federal laws and regulations related to
Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,
contribute to pricing pressures. Recently enacted changes to the health care system in the United States and the increased purchasing power of entities that
negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries could result in additional pricing pressures.
In numerous major markets worldwide, the government plays a significant role in funding health care services and determining the pricing and reimbursement of
pharmaceutical products. Consequently, in those markets, AbbVie is subject to government decision-making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. In
particular, many European countries have ongoing government-mandated price reductions for many pharmaceutical products, and AbbVie anticipates continuing
pricing pressures in Europe. Differences between countries in pricing regulations could lead to third-party cross-border trading in AbbVie's products that results in a
reduction in future revenues and operating income.
AbbVie is subject to numerous governmental regulations, and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and
processes.
AbbVie's products are subject to rigorous regulation by numerous international, supranational, federal, and state authorities, as described in Item 1, "Business—
Regulation—Discovery and Clinical Development." The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a pharmaceutical product can be costly and time
consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the
receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in
revenues, and substantial additional costs.
In addition, AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will remain compliant with applicable regulatory requirements once approval has been obtained for a product. These
requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, and advertising and post-marketing reporting, including
adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. AbbVie must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these
complex regulations.
Possible regulatory actions could result in substantial modifications to AbbVie's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls, or seizures of AbbVie's
products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of AbbVie's or its suppliers' facilities while AbbVie or its supplier remedies the alleged violation;
the inability to obtain future approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt AbbVie's business
and have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.
18Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on AbbVie, require it to change its business practices, and restrict
its operations in the future.
The health care industry is subject to various federal, state, and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit programs reimbursement,
rebates, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse. In the United States, these laws include anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid
Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care Act, and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of these laws may be
punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in federal and state
health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and they are
subject to change and evolving interpretations, which could require AbbVie to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales
or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt AbbVie's business and result in a material adverse effect
on its business and results of operations.
AbbVie could be subject to increased monetary penalties and/or other sanctions, including exclusion from federal health care programs, if it fails to comply
with the terms of the May 7, 2012 resolution of the Department of Justice's investigation into sales and marketing activities for Depakote.
On May 7, 2012, Abbott settled United States federal and 49 state investigations into its sales and marketing activities for Depakote by pleading guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of the Food Drug & Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and agreeing to pay approximately $700 million in criminal fines and forfeitures and approximately
$900 million to resolve civil claims. Under the plea agreement, Abbott submitted to a term of probation that was initially set at 5 years, but was shortened to 3 years
upon the separation of Abbott and AbbVie. The obligations of the plea agreement have transferred to and become fully binding on AbbVie. The conditions of
probation include certain reporting requirements, maintenance of certain compliance measures, certifications of AbbVie's CEO and board of directors, and other
conditions. If AbbVie violates the terms of its probation, it may face additional monetary sanctions and other such remedies as the court deems appropriate. On
October 2, 2012, the court accepted the guilty plea and imposed the agreed-upon sentence.
In addition, Abbott entered into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the Office of Inspector General for the United States Department of Health
and Human Services (OIG). The effective date of the CIA is October 11, 2012. The obligations of the CIA have transferred to and become fully binding on AbbVie.
The CIA requires enhancements to AbbVie's compliance program, fulfillment of reporting and monitoring obligations, management certifications, and resolutions
from AbbVie's board of directors, among other requirements. Compliance with the requirements of the settlement will impose additional costs and burdens on
AbbVie, including in the form of employee training, third party reviews, compliance monitoring, reporting obligations, and management attention. If AbbVie fails to
comply with the CIA, the OIG may impose monetary penalties or exclude AbbVie from federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. AbbVie and
Abbott may be subject to third party claims and shareholder lawsuits in connection with the settlement, and AbbVie may be required to indemnify all or a portion of
Abbott's costs.
The international nature of AbbVie's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline.
AbbVie's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including in emerging markets. Sales outside of the United States make up
approximately 46 percent of AbbVie's net sales. The risks associated with its operations outside the United States include:
• fluctuations in currency exchange rates;
19• changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs;
• multiple legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict AbbVie's ability to manufacture, market, and sell its
products;
• differing local product preferences and product requirements;
• trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;
• difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing operations;
• differing labor regulations;
• potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;
• political and economic instability, including sovereign debt issues;
• price and currency exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action;
• inflation, recession and fluctuations in interest rates;
• potential deterioration in the economic position and credit quality of certain non-U.S. countries, including in Europe;
• compulsory licensing or diminished protection of intellectual property; and
• potential penalties or other adverse consequences for violations of anti-corruption, anti-bribery and other similar laws and regulations, including the
United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act.
Events contemplated by these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenues and profitability.
AbbVie may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of assets, which could cause it to incur significant
expenses and could negatively affect profitability.
AbbVie may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of some of its assets, as part of its business strategy.
AbbVie may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits. If AbbVie is successful
in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than
originally anticipated. AbbVie may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and
unknown or contingent liabilities. AbbVie could also experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges,
amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of AbbVie's credit rating and
result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.
Additionally, changes in AbbVie's structure, operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from major transactions such as acquisitions, divestitures,
mergers, alliances, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, may result in greater than expected costs, may take longer than expected to complete or encounter
other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approval where appropriate.
20AbbVie is dependent on wholesale distributors for distribution of its products in the United States and, accordingly, its results of operations could be adversely
affected if they encounter financial difficulties.
In 2013, three wholesale distributors—AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation—accounted for substantially all of
AbbVie's sales in the United States. If one of its significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, such distributor may decrease the amount
of business that it does with AbbVie, and AbbVie may be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes it on a timely basis or at all, which could
negatively impact AbbVie's business and results of operations.
Changes in the terms of rebate and chargeback programs, which are common in the pharmaceuticals industry, could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's
operations.
Rebates related to government programs, such as fee-for-service Medicaid or Medicaid managed care programs, arise from laws and regulations. AbbVie cannot
predict if additional government initiatives to contain health care costs or other factors could lead to new or modified regulatory requirements that include higher or
incremental rebates or discounts. Other rebate and discount programs arise from contractual agreements with private payers. Various factors, including market factors
and the ability of private payers to control patient access to products, may provide payers the leverage to negotiate higher or additional rebates or discounts that
could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's operations.
AbbVie has debt obligations that could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations.
The amount of debt that AbbVie has incurred and intends to incur could have important consequences to AbbVie and its investors. These consequences
include, among other things, requiring a portion of AbbVie's cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt and reducing the cash flow available
to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow AbbVie's business. To the extent that AbbVie incurs additional indebtedness, these risks
could increase. In addition, AbbVie's cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and AbbVie may not be
able to borrow money, sell assets, or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance its debt.
AbbVie may need additional financing in the future to meet its capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on
favorable terms, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing stockholders.
AbbVie may need to seek additional financing for its general corporate purposes. For example, it may need to increase its investment in research and
development activities or need funds to make acquisitions. AbbVie may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to it, if at all. If
AbbVie loses its investment grade credit rating or adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, AbbVie may be unable to fund its expansion, successfully
develop or enhance products, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect AbbVie's business. If AbbVie raises additional funds
through the issuance of equity securities, its stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. If AbbVie raises additional funds by issuing debt or
entering into credit facilities, it may be subject to limitations on its operations due to restrictive covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants could adversely
affect AbbVie's business.
AbbVie depends on information technology and a failure of those systems could adversely affect AbbVie's business.
AbbVie relies on sophisticated information technology systems to operate its business. These systems are potentially vulnerable to malicious intrusion, random
attack, loss of data privacy, or
21breakdown. Although AbbVie has invested in the protection of its data and information technology and also monitors its systems on an ongoing basis, there can be
no assurance that these efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in AbbVie's information technology systems that could adversely affect AbbVie's business.
Other factors can have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's profitability and financial condition.
Many other factors can affect AbbVie's profitability and financial condition, including:
• changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, product marketing
application standards, and environmental laws;
• differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for pensions, retiree health care, stock
compensation, intangibles, and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation, the absence of a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at
the minimum, compared to the actual amount;
• changes in the rate of inflation (including the cost of raw materials, commodities, and supplies), interest rates, market value of AbbVie's equity
investments, and the performance of investments held by it or its employee benefit trusts;
• changes in the commercial and credit environment that may adversely affect AbbVie's ability to finance its business operations;
• changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to AbbVie or its employee benefit trusts; and
• changes in business, economic, and political conditions, including: war, political instability, terrorist attacks, the threat of future terrorist activity and
related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor disputes, strikes, slow-downs,
or other forms of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups.
Risks Related to AbbVie's Separation from Abbott
AbbVie's historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that it would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and
may not be a reliable indicator of its future results.
AbbVie's separation from Abbott was completed on January 1, 2013. Therefore, the historical information about AbbVie in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 and for the periods ending prior to December 31, 2012 refers to AbbVie's business as operated by and integrated with
Abbott. AbbVie's historical financial information for these periods is derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Abbott.
Accordingly, the financial information for these periods does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that AbbVie would
have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that AbbVie will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the factors
described below:
• Prior to the separation, which occurred on January 1, 2013, AbbVie's business was operated by Abbott as part of its broader corporate organization,
rather than as an independent company. Abbott or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for AbbVie, such as accounting,
information technology, and finance. Abbott currently provides some of these functions to AbbVie. AbbVie's historical financial results reflect
allocations of corporate expenses from Abbott for such functions and are likely to be less than the expenses AbbVie would have incurred had it
operated as a separate publicly traded company. Following the separation and the date on which AbbVie ceases to receive services from Abbott
pursuant to
22transition services agreements, AbbVie may not be able to operate its business at comparable costs, and its profitability may decline;
• Prior to the separation, AbbVie was able to use Abbott's size and purchasing power in procuring various goods and services and shared economies of
scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. As a separate, independent company, AbbVie may be unable
to obtain goods and services at the prices and terms obtained prior to the separation, which could decrease AbbVie's overall profitability;
• Generally, AbbVie's working capital requirements and capital for its general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, research and development and
capital expenditures, were historically satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of Abbott. As a result of the separation,
AbbVie may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic
relationships or other arrangements; and
• The cost of capital for AbbVie's business may be higher than Abbott's cost of capital prior to the separation.
For additional information about the past financial performance of AbbVie's business and the basis of presentation of the financial statements of AbbVie's
business, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Item 8, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data."
As AbbVie builds its information technology infrastructure and transitions its data to its own systems, AbbVie could incur substantial additional costs and
experience temporary business interruptions.
AbbVie expects to install and implement information technology infrastructure to support its critical business functions, including accounting and reporting,
manufacturing process control, customer service, inventory control and distribution. AbbVie may incur temporary interruptions in business operations if it cannot
transition effectively from Abbott's existing transactional and operational systems, data centers and the transition services that support these functions as AbbVie
replaces these systems. AbbVie may not be successful in implementing its new systems and transitioning its data, and it may incur substantially higher costs for
implementation than currently anticipated. AbbVie's failure to avoid operational interruptions as it implements the new systems and replaces Abbott's information
technology services, or its failure to implement the new systems and replace Abbott's services successfully, could disrupt its business, adversely affect its ability to
collect receivables from customers, and have a material adverse effect on its profitability. In addition, if AbbVie is unable to replicate or transition certain systems, its
ability to comply with regulatory requirements could be impaired.
Abbott may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that have been executed as part of the separation or AbbVie may fail to have necessary
systems and services in place when certain of the transaction agreements expire.
In connection with the separation, AbbVie and Abbott entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements, including transition
services agreements, a tax sharing agreement, international commercial operations agreements, finished goods supply agreements, contract manufacturing
agreements, an employee matters agreement, a special products master agreement, an information technology agreement, and a transitional trademark license
agreement. Certain of these agreements provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after AbbVie's
separation from Abbott. AbbVie relies on Abbott to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. If Abbott is unable to satisfy its
obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, AbbVie could incur operational difficulties or losses.
23In addition, AbbVie and Abbott entered into long-term arrangements under a special products master agreement relating to certain product rights and into an ex-
U.S. transition services agreement for Abbott to provide AbbVie with back office functions and other services in certain markets outside the United States until
AbbVie has established sufficient back office infrastructure to conduct operations in such markets. These arrangements could lead to disputes between Abbott and
AbbVie over AbbVie's rights to certain intellectual property and territorial commercialization rights and over the allocation of costs and revenues for AbbVie's
products and operations outside of the United States.
If AbbVie does not have in place its own systems and services, or if AbbVie does not have agreements with other providers of these services when the
transaction or long-term agreements terminate, AbbVie may not be able to operate its business effectively and its profitability may decline. AbbVie is in the process
of creating its own, or engaging third parties to provide, systems and services to replace many of the systems and services Abbott currently provides to it. AbbVie
may not be successful in effectively or efficiently implementing these systems and services or in transitioning data from Abbott's systems to AbbVie's. These
systems and services may also be more expensive or less efficient than the systems and services Abbott is expected to provide during the transition period.
AbbVie will be developing and implementing its own back office functions, administrative systems, personnel, and processes for markets outside the United
States where Abbott will initially provide such functions. There can be no assurance that AbbVie will be able to implement such functions effectively and without
disrupting its business in those markets.
Potential indemnification liabilities to Abbott pursuant to the separation agreement could materially adversely affect AbbVie.
The separation agreement with Abbott provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect the separation, certain conditions
to the separation and provisions governing the relationship between AbbVie and Abbott with respect to and resulting from the separation. Among other things, the
separation agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make AbbVie financially responsible for substantially all liabilities, except certain tax
liabilities, that may exist relating to its business activities, whether incurred prior to or after AbbVie's separation from Abbott, as well as those obligations of Abbott
assumed by AbbVie pursuant to the separation agreement, including those relating to Depakote. If AbbVie is required to indemnify Abbott under the circumstances
set forth in the separation agreement, AbbVie may be subject to substantial liabilities.
AbbVie may not be able to engage in certain corporate transactions during the two-year period following the distribution.
To preserve the tax-free treatment to Abbott of the separation and the distribution, under the tax sharing agreement that AbbVie entered into with Abbott,
AbbVie is restricted from taking any action that prevents the distribution and related transactions from being tax-free for United States federal income tax purposes.
Under the tax sharing agreement, for the two-year period following the distribution, AbbVie is prohibited, except in certain circumstances, from:
• entering into any transaction resulting in the acquisition of 25 percent or more of its stock or substantially all of its assets, whether by merger or
otherwise;
• merging, consolidating, or liquidating;
• issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds;
• repurchasing its capital stock; and
• ceasing to actively conduct its business.
24These restrictions may limit AbbVie's ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that it may believe to be in the best interests of its
stockholders or that might increase the value of its business. In addition, under the tax sharing agreement, AbbVie is required to indemnify Abbott against any such
tax liabilities as a result of the acquisition of AbbVie's stock or assets, even if it did not participate in or otherwise facilitate the acquisition.
Certain of AbbVie's executive officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their previous or continuing positions at
Abbott.
Because of their former positions with Abbott, certain of these executive officers and directors own Abbott common shares, options to purchase Abbott
common shares or other equity awards. Even though AbbVie's board of directors consists of a majority of directors who are independent, and AbbVie's executive
officers who were formerly employees of Abbott ceased to be employees of Abbott, some AbbVie executive officers and directors continue to have a financial
interest in Abbott common shares. In addition, four of AbbVie's directors currently serve on the board of directors of Abbott. Continuing ownership of Abbott
common shares and equity awards, or service as a director at both companies could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest if AbbVie and Abbott
pursue the same corporate opportunities or face decisions that could have different implications for AbbVie and Abbott.
AbbVie may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the separation.
AbbVie may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from its separation from Abbott because, among other things:
(a) AbbVie may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than if it were still a part of Abbott; and (b) AbbVie's business is less diversified
than Abbott's business prior to the separation. If AbbVie fails to achieve some or all of the benefits expected to result from the separation, or if such benefits are
delayed, the business, financial conditions, and results of operations of AbbVie could be adversely affected.
Risks Related to AbbVie's Common Stock
AbbVie cannot guarantee the timing, amount, or payment of dividends on its common stock.
Although AbbVie expects to pay regular cash dividends, the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to stockholders will fall within the
discretion of AbbVie's board of directors. The board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as AbbVie's financial
condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and other factors that the board
deems relevant. For more information, see Item 5, "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities."
AbbVie's ability to pay dividends will depend on its ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and access capital markets. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will
pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividend if AbbVie commences paying dividends.
Your percentage of ownership in AbbVie may be diluted in the future.
In the future, your percentage ownership in AbbVie may be diluted because of equity issuances for capital market transactions, equity awards that AbbVie will
be granting to AbbVie's directors, officers and employees, acquisitions, or other purposes. AbbVie's employees will have options to purchase shares of its common
stock as a result of conversion of their Abbott stock options (in whole or in part) to AbbVie stock options. AbbVie anticipates its compensation committee will grant
additional stock options or other stock-based awards to its employees. Such awards will have a dilutive effect on AbbVie's earnings per share, which could adversely
affect the market price of AbbVie's common stock.
25From time to time, AbbVie will issue additional options or other stock-based awards to its employees under AbbVie's employee benefits plans.
In addition, AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes AbbVie to issue, without the approval of AbbVie's stockholders, one or more
classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences
over AbbVie's common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as AbbVie's board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or
series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of AbbVie's common stock. For example, AbbVie could grant the holders of preferred stock
the right to elect some number of AbbVie's directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the
repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences AbbVie could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.
Certain provisions in AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or
delay an acquisition of AbbVie, which could decrease the trading price of AbbVie's common stock.
AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended
to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage
prospective acquirors to negotiate with AbbVie's board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:
• the inability of AbbVie's stockholders to call a special meeting;
• the division of AbbVie's board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term;
• a provision that stockholders may only remove directors for cause;
• the ability of AbbVie's directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on AbbVie's board of directors; and
• the requirement that the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least 80 percent of AbbVie's voting stock is required to amend certain provisions
in AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and AbbVie's amended and restated by-laws relating to the number, term and election of
AbbVie's directors, the filling of board vacancies, the calling of special meetings of stockholders and director and officer indemnification provisions.
In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person
that acquires, more than 15 percent of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation,
including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the
holder of more than 15 percent of the corporation's outstanding voting stock.
AbbVie believes these provisions protect its stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with
AbbVie's board of directors and by providing AbbVie's board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to
make the company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or
prevent an acquisition that AbbVie's board of directors determines is not in the best interests of AbbVie and AbbVie's stockholders. These provisions may also
prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.
26CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward looking statements regarding business strategies, market potential, future financial performance and
other matters. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project" and similar expressions, among others, generally identify "forward looking statements," which
speak only as of the date the statements were made. The matters discussed in these forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. In particular, information included
under Item 1, "Business," Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contain
forward looking statements. Where, in any forward looking statement, an expectation or belief as to future results or events is expressed, such expectation or belief is
based on the current plans and expectations of AbbVie management and expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no
assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. Factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those
anticipated include the matters described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations." AbbVie does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or
circumstances after the date hereof, unless AbbVie is required by applicable securities law to do so.
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
AbbVie's corporate offices are located at 1 North Waukegan Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064-6400. AbbVie's principal manufacturing plants are in the
following locations:
United States Outside the United States
Abbott Park, Illinois* Campoverde di Aprilia, Italy
Barceloneta, Puerto Rico Cork, Ireland
Jayuya, Puerto Rico Ludwigshafen, Germany
North Chicago, Illinois Sligo, Ireland
Worcester, Massachusetts
* Leased property.
In addition to the above, AbbVie has other manufacturing facilities in the United States and worldwide. AbbVie believes its facilities are suitable and provide
adequate production capacity.
In the United States, including Puerto Rico, AbbVie has one distribution center. AbbVie also has four United States research and development facilities located
at: Abbott Park, Illinois; North Chicago, Illinois; Redwood City, California; and Worcester, Massachusetts. Outside the United States, AbbVie's principal research
and development facilities are located in Shanghai, China and Ludwigshafen, Germany.
Except as noted, the principal plants in the United States listed above are owned by AbbVie or subsidiaries of AbbVie. The remaining manufacturing plants and
all other facilities are owned or leased by AbbVie or subsidiaries of AbbVie.
27ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Information pertaining to legal proceedings is provided in Note 13 entitled "Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
28EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
The following table lists AbbVie's executive officers, each of whom was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in December 2012.
Name Age Position
Richard A. Gonzalez 60 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Laura J. Schumacher 50 Executive Vice President, Business Development, External Affairs and General Counsel
William J. Chase 46 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Carlos Alban 51 Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations
Timothy J. Richmond 47 Senior Vice President, Human Resources
Azita Saleki-Gerhardt, Ph.D. 50 Senior Vice President, Operations
Thomas A. Hurwich 53 Vice President, Controller
Mr. Gonzalez is AbbVie's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. He served as Abbott's Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group
from 2010 to 2012, and was responsible for Abbott's worldwide pharmaceutical business, including commercial operations, research and development, and
manufacturing. He has also served as President, Abbott Ventures Inc., Abbott's medical technology investment arm, from 2009 to 2011. Mr. Gonzalez joined Abbott in
1977 and held various management positions before briefly retiring in 2007, including Abbott's President and Chief Operating Officer, President, Chief Operating
Officer of Abbott's Medical Products Group, Senior Vice President and President of Abbott's former Hospital Products Division (now Hospira, Inc.), Vice President
and President of Abbott's Health Systems Division, and Divisional Vice President and General Manager for Abbott's Diagnostics Operations in the United States and
Canada.
Ms. Schumacher is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Business Development, External Affairs and General Counsel. She served as Abbott's Executive Vice
President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary from 2007 to 2012, and as Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary, and General Counsel from 2005 to 2007.
Ms. Schumacher was also responsible for Abbott's licensing and acquisitions function and its Office of Ethics and Compliance. Prior to her appointment as General
Counsel of Abbott, Ms. Schumacher headed Abbott's litigation department. Ms. Schumacher joined Abbott in 1990.
Mr. Chase is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. He served as Abbott's Vice President, Licensing and Acquisitions from 2010 to 2012, as
Vice President, Treasurer from 2007 to 2010, and as Divisional Vice President, Controller of Abbott International from 2004 to 2007. Mr. Chase joined Abbott in 1989.
Mr. Alban is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations. He served as Abbott's Senior Vice President, Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products,
Global Commercial Operations from 2011 to 2012, as Senior Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals from 2009 to 2011, as Vice President, Pharmaceuticals,
Western Europe and Canada from 2008 to 2009, as Vice President, Western Europe and Canada from 2007 to 2008, and as Vice President, European Operations from
2006 to 2007. Mr. Alban joined Abbott in 1986.
Mr. Richmond is AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Human Resources. He served as Abbott's Divisional Vice President of Compensation & Benefits from 2008 to
2012, as Group Vice President of Talent and Rewards from 2007 to 2008, and as Divisional Vice President of Talent Acquisition from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Richmond
joined Abbott in 2006.
Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt is AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Operations. She served as Abbott's Vice President, Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing and Supply from 2011
to 2012, and as Divisional Vice
29President, Quality Assurance, Global Pharmaceutical Operations from 2008 to 2011. Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt joined Abbott in 1993.
Mr. Hurwich is AbbVie's Vice President, Controller. He served as Abbott's Vice President, Internal Audit from 2009 to 2012, and as Divisional Vice President,
Controller, Abbott Diagnostics Division from 2003 to 2009. Mr. Hurwich joined Abbott in 1983.
The executive officers of AbbVie are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers are elected by the board or appointed by the Chairman of the
Board. All officers are either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual stockholder meeting or appointed by the Chairman of the Board
after that board meeting. Each officer holds office until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officer's death, resignation, or
removal. There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers listed above.
30PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Principal Market
The principal market for AbbVie's common stock is the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). A "when-issued" trading market for AbbVie's common stock began on
the NYSE on December 10, 2012, and "regular way" trading of AbbVie's common stock began on January 2, 2013. Prior to December 10, 2012 there was no public
market for AbbVie's common stock. AbbVie's common stock is also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange and traded on various regional and electronic exchanges.
Outside the United States, AbbVie's common stock is listed on NYSE Euronext Paris and the SIX Swiss Exchange.
2013
high low
First Quarter $ 40.80 $ 33.33
Second Quarter 48.00 39.96
Third Quarter 48.42 41.07
Fourth Quarter 54.78 44.32
Stockholders
There were 58,250 stockholders of record of AbbVie common stock as of January 31, 2014.
Dividends
A quarterly dividend of $0.40 per share was paid on common stock in 2013. On December 12, 2013, AbbVie's board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend
of $0.40 per share payable February 14, 2014 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 15, 2014. The timing, declaration, amount of, and payment
of any dividends by AbbVie in the future is within the discretion of its board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including AbbVie's financial condition,
earnings, capital requirements of its operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory
constraints, industry practice, ability to access capital markets, and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors. Moreover, if AbbVie determines to pay
any dividend in the future, there can be no assurance that it will continue to pay such dividends or the amount of such dividends.
AbbVie Inc. is an Illinois High Impact Business (HIB) and is located in a federal Foreign Trade Sub-Zone (Sub-Zone 22S). Dividends may be eligible for a
subtraction from base income for Illinois income tax purposes. If you have questions, please contact your tax advisor.
Performance Graph
The following graph compares the cumulative total returns of AbbVie Inc., the S&P 500 Index and the NYSE Arca Pharmaceuticals Index. This graph covers the
period from January 2, 2013 (the first day our common stock began "regular-way" trading on the NYSE) through December 31, 2013. This graph assumes $100 was
invested in the stock or the index on January 2, 2013 and also assumes the reinvestment of dividends. The stock price performance on the following graph is not
necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.
31COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN
This performance graph is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" with the SEC or subject to Section 18 of the Exchange Act, nor shall it be deemed
incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
(c) Total
Number of
Shares (or Units)
(a) Total Purchased as Part (d) Maximum Number (or
Number (b) Average of Publicly Approximate Dollar Value) of
of Shares Price Announced Shares (or Units) that May
(or Units) Paid per Share Plans or Yet Be Purchased Under the
Period Purchased (or Unit) Programs Plans or Programs
October 1, 2013 - October 31, 2013 23,424(1)$ 48.16 0 $ 1,478,178,553 (2)
November 1, 2013 - November 30, 2013 27,503(1)$ 48.60 0 $ 1,478,178,553(2)
December 1, 2013 - December 31, 2013 3,860,352(1)$ 52.83 3,795,945 $ 1,277,633,716(2)
Total 3,911,279(1)$ 52.77 3,795,945 $ 1,277,633,716(2)
(1) These shares represent:
(i) the shares deemed surrendered to AbbVie to pay the exercise price in connection with the exercise of employee stock options—23,424
in October; 16,203 in November; and 51,107 in December; and
(ii) the shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the AbbVie Employee Stock Purchase Plan—0 in October;
11,300 in November; and 13,300 in December.
These shares do not include the shares surrendered to AbbVie to satisfy minimum tax withholding obligations in connection with the
vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units.
(2) On February 15, 2013, AbbVie announced that its board of directors approved the purchase of up to $1.5 billion of its common stock, from
time to time.
32ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The following table sets forth AbbVie's selected financial information derived from its (i) audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2013; (ii) audited combined financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010;
and (iii) unaudited combined financial statements as of December 31, 2009. The historical financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 were prepared on a
stand-alone basis and were derived from Abbott's consolidated financial statements and accounting records as if the former research-based pharmaceutical business
of Abbott had been part of AbbVie for all periods presented. Accordingly, AbbVie's financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 are presented on a
combined basis and reflect AbbVie's financial position, results of operations and cash flows as its business was operated as part of Abbott prior to the separation, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States. The historical financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 also
reflected an allocation of expenses related to certain Abbott corporate functions, including senior management, legal, human resources, finance, information
technology and quality assurance. These expenses were allocated to AbbVie based on direct usage or benefit where identifiable, with the remainder allocated on a
pro rata basis of revenues, headcount, square footage, number of transactions or other measures. AbbVie considers the expense allocation methodology and results
to be reasonable. However, the allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred had AbbVie operated as an independent,
stand-alone, publicly-traded company for the periods presented. Accordingly, the historical financial information presented for periods prior to January 1, 2013 may
not be indicative of the results of operations or financial position that would have been achieved if AbbVie had been an independent, stand-alone, publicly-traded
company during the periods shown or of AbbVie's performance for periods subsequent to December 31, 2012. Refer to "Basis of Historical Presentation" and
"Transition from Abbott and Cost to Operate as an Independent Company" included under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" for additional information.
The selected financial information should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and accompanying notes included under Item 8, "Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
as of and for the years ended December 31 (in millions, except
per share data) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Statement of earnings data
Net sales $ 18,790 $ 18,380 $ 17,444 $ 15,638 $ 14,214
Net earnings(a) $ 4,128 $ 5,275 $ 3,433 $ 4,178 $ 4,636
Basic earnings per share(a) $ 2.58 $ 3.35 $ 2.18 $ 2.65 $ 2.94
Diluted earnings per share(a) $ 2.56 $ 3.35 $ 2.18 $ 2.65 $ 2.94
Cash dividends declared per share(b) $ 2.00 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Weighted-average basic shares outstanding(c) 1,589 1,577 1,577 1,577 1,577
Weighted-average diluted shares outstanding(c) 1,604 1,577 1,577 1,577 1,577
Balance sheet data
Total assets $ 29,198 $ 27,008 $ 19,521 $ 21,135 $ 15,858
Long-term debt and lease obligations(d) $ 14,310 $ 14,652 $ 48 $ 52 $ 55
(a) Results for the year ended December 31, 2013 included higher expenses associated with operating as an independent, stand-alone publicly
traded company than the historically derived financial statements. The increases include a full year of interest expense on debt issued in
November 2012, a higher tax rate and other full year incremental costs of operating as an independent company.
(b) On January 4, 2013, the board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock. This dividend was declared from pre-
separation earnings and was recorded as a reduction of
33additional paid-in capital. In addition, AbbVie declared regular quarterly cash dividends in 2013 aggregating $1.60 per share of common stock.
Refer to Note 11 to the audited consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
information regarding cash dividends declared in 2013.
(c) On January 1, 2013, Abbott Laboratories distributed 1,577 million shares of AbbVie common stock. For periods prior to the separation, the
weighted-average basic and diluted shares outstanding was based on the number of shares of AbbVie common stock outstanding on the
distribution date. Refer to Note 4 to the audited consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for information regarding the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for the year ended
December 31, 2013.
(d) Also includes current portion of long-term debt and lease obligations.
34ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company) and results of operations as of and for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2013. This commentary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes
appearing in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW
Company Overview
AbbVie is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie develops and markets advanced therapies that address some of the world's most complex
and serious diseases. AbbVie products are used to treat chronic autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, and Crohn's disease; low
testosterone; HIV; endometriosis; thyroid disease; Parkinson's disease; and complications associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and cystic fibrosis, among
other health conditions. AbbVie also has a pipeline of promising new medicines, including more than 20 compounds or indications in Phase II or Phase III
development across such important medical specialties as immunology, virology, oncology, renal disease, neurological diseases and women's health.
In the United States, AbbVie's products are generally sold directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and
independent retailers from distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors,
depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has approximately 25,000 employees and its
products are sold in over 170 countries. AbbVie operates in one business segment—pharmaceutical products.
Financial Results
In its first full year as an independent company, AbbVie achieved its key objectives, including strong sales growth of HUMIRA and other key products, operational
efficiencies and progress in advancing its pipeline, particularly with its late-stage hepatitis C virus (HCV) program. Worldwide net sales in 2013 totaled $18.8 billion,
an increase of 2 percent, despite the loss of exclusivity in the company's lipid franchise during the year. Generic competition began in November 2012 for TriCor, July
2013 for TRILIPIX and September 2013 for Niaspan, resulting in the loss of $1.1 billion of revenue in 2013 over the prior year. The company's financial performance
also included delivering fully diluted earnings per share of $2.56, while accelerating its investment in research and development and increasing sales and marketing
support for new and existing products. In 2013, the company generated cash flows from operations of $6.3 billion. These strong cash flows enabled the company to
enhance its pipeline through licensing and collaboration activities and to pay cash dividends to shareholders of $2.6 billion in 2013. In 2014, AbbVie plans to
continue to invest in key products, advance its pipeline and prepare for anticipated product launches that are expected to drive growth in 2015 and beyond.
Strategic Objectives
AbbVie's long-term strategy is to maximize its existing portfolio of products through new indications, share gains, increased geographic expansion in underserved
markets while also advancing its new product pipeline to meet unmet medical needs. To successfully execute its long-term strategy, AbbVie will focus on expanding
HUMIRA sales, advancing the pipeline, expanding its presence in emerging markets and managing its product portfolio to maximize value.
35AbbVie expects to continue to drive strong HUMIRA sales growth in several ways. AbbVie seeks to expand the HUMIRA patient base by applying for regulatory
approval of new indications for HUMIRA, treating conditions such as uveitis, hidradenitis suppurativa and pediatric Crohn's disease. AbbVie will also seek to drive
HUMIRA sales growth by expanding its market share and its presence in underserved markets.
Research and development (R&D) efforts will continue to focus a significant portion of expenditures on compounds for immunology, virology, oncology, renal
disease, neurological diseases and women's health. AbbVie's scientists work to advance a pipeline of specialty molecules that demonstrate strong clinical
performance for patients and economic value for patients and their healthcare systems. Current R&D projects are described in the "Research and Development"
section below.
AbbVie plans to continue making investments in key emerging markets, including Brazil, China, Mexico and Russia. Continued penetration of HUMIRA and other
leading products is expected to help drive growth in these markets.
AbbVie will continue its investment in products with durable sales, while making adjustments as necessary to increase the value of its product portfolio. AbbVie
plans to achieve this objective in a variety of ways depending on product and circumstances by, for example, identifying supply chain efficiencies, pursuing
additional indications, and optimizing residual value as products reach the end of exclusivity. AbbVie believes that its approach will allow the company to maintain a
strong operating margin.
Research and Development
Research and innovation continues to be a key strategic priority for AbbVie. AbbVie's long-term success depends to a great extent on its ability to continue to
discover and develop innovative pharmaceutical products and acquire or collaborate on compounds currently in development at other biotechnology or
pharmaceutical companies.
AbbVie's pipeline includes more than 20 compounds or indications in Phase II or III development individually or under collaboration or license agreements. Of these
programs, approximately 10 are in Phase III development or in registration. AbbVie expects several Phase II programs to transition into Phase III programs during
2014. R&D is focused on therapeutic areas that include immunology, virology, oncology, renal disease, neurological diseases, and women's health, among others.
Immunology
HUMIRA is currently approved for ten indications in major geographies, including nine indications in Europe and seven in the United States. AbbVie continues to
dedicate R&D efforts to expanding indications for HUMIRA, including in the fields of gastroenterology, dermatology and ophthalmology. Registration submissions
and regulatory approvals for HUMIRA in 2013 included approval for two new gastroenterology indications in Japan—intestinal Behcet's and ulcerative colitis.
Phase III trials are ongoing in preparation for regulatory applications of HUMIRA for uveitis and hidradenitis suppurativa in the United States and the European
Union. The results of AbbVie's two fully-enrolled Phase III clinical trials to evaluate the safety and efficacy of HUMIRA for patients with moderate to severe
hidradenitis suppurativa in the United States are expected in 2014. The FDA issued a Complete Response Letter to the company's registration submission for axial
spondyloarthritis, which is currently under evaluation by the company.
36AbbVie also has a number of next-generation programs underway to address immune-mediated conditions, including the following.
• AbbVie's studies of dual variable domain immunoglobulin (DVD-Ig) technology, which represents an approach that can target multiple disease-
causing antigens with a single biologic agent, continue to progress. This proprietary technology could lead to next-generation biologic treatments for
complex conditions such as cancer or rheumatoid arthritis, where multiple pathways are involved in the disease.
• AbbVie is collaborating with Biotest AG on an anti-CD4 biologic known as tregalizumab. The compound is currently in Phase IIb clinical trials for
rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis.
• GLPG0634, a next-generation, oral Janus Kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor, is being developed with Galapagos NV (Galapagos) in a collaboration entered into
during the first quarter of 2012. GLPG0634 is currently in Phase IIb development to treat rheumatoid arthritis and may be able to address other
autoimmune diseases. In January 2014, a Phase II study to evaluate GLPG0634 to treat Crohn's disease was initiated.
• In September 2013, AbbVie entered into a global collaboration with Ablynx NV (Ablynx) to develop and commercialize the anti-IL-6R Nanobody, ALX-
0061, to treat inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus. ALX-0061 is currently in Phase II development
for rheumatoid arthritis.
• In May 2013, AbbVie entered into a global collaboration with Alvine Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to develop ALV003, a novel oral treatment for patients with
celiac disease. ALV003 is currently in Phase IIb development.
Virology
In October 2012, AbbVie initiated a comprehensive Phase III program for genotype 1 HCV that involves combinations of ABT-450, a protease inhibitor for HCV
infection; ABT-333, a polymerase inhibitor; and ABT-267, a NS5A inhibitor. In December 2013 and January 2014, AbbVie disclosed top-line results from all six of
these registrational studies. AbbVie expects to complete regulatory submissions in the United States and the European Union in the second quarter of 2014 and
anticipates commercialization in the United States before the end of 2014. AbbVie also initiated Phase III development in Japan for HCV infection and expects to
submit a regulatory application in Japan in 2015.
AbbVie also recently initiated Phase II studies of its next-generation HCV program which includes ABT-493, a potent protease inhibitor, and ABT-530, AbbVie's new
NS5A inhibitor.
Oncology
AbbVie is focused on the development of targeted treatments that inhibit tumor growth and improve response to common cancer therapies. AbbVie's later-stage
oncology pipeline includes the following.
• Elotuzumab, an anti-CD37 antibody for the treatment of multiple myeloma under a collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb. Phase III development
began in June 2011 for multiple myeloma. Two Phase III studies are ongoing with results expected in early 2015.
• Veliparib (ABT-888), a PARP-inhibitor. A Phase IIb study in BRCA-mutated breast cancer being treated with chemotherapy was initiated in 2011.
Veliparib is also in Phase II evaluation for the treatment of a variety of other solid tumors, including brain metastases from non-small-cell lung cancer
being treated with radiation therapy and non-small-cell lung cancer in combination with chemotherapy. In January 2014, a Phase III clinical trial was
initiated to evaluate the safety and
37efficacy of Veliparib when added to carboplatin, a chemotherapy, in women with early-stage, triple-negative breast cancer.
• ABT-199, a next-generation Bcl-2 inhibitor in development for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In January 2014, a Phase III evaluation was initiated in
collaboration with AbbVie's development partner, Roche Holding AG. AbbVie anticipates results from this trial in early 2015. ABT-199 is also being
explored for use across a number of different hematologic cancers including non-Hodgkin lymphoma, diffuse large b-cell lymphoma and acute myeloid
leukemia.
• Other molecular targets are being explored with Antibody-Drug Conjugate approaches linking anti-target antibodies with potent cytotoxic agents.
Renal Disease
AbbVie's renal care pipeline includes atrasentan, for the treatment of diabetic CKD. In 2013, a Phase III study was initiated to assess atrasentan, when added to
standard of care, on progression of kidney disease in patients with stage 2 to 4 CKD and type 2 diabetes. This global registrational study is expected to be completed
in 2017. Atrasentan will potentially be the first compound launched to treat diabetic nephropathy by specifically targeting albuminuria and slowing the progression of
CKD. AbbVie is also investigating ABT-719, in Phase IIb development, for the treatment of acute kidney injury associated with major cardiac surgeries.
Neurological Diseases
AbbVie has clinical studies underway on multiple compounds that target receptors in the brain that help regulate mood, memory, and other neurological functions
and conditions, including the following.
• AbbVie is collaborating with Biogen Idec to develop daclizumab for the treatment of the relapsing remitting form of multiple sclerosis (MS), which is
the most common form, and affects nearly 85 percent of newly diagnosed MS patients. Daclizumab, an anti-CD25 monoclonal antibody, is currently in
Phase III development.
• AbbVie recently completed two Phase IIb studies of ABT-126, an a7-NNR modulator, in both Alzheimer's disease and cognitive deficits of
schizophrenia. Based on the results of these studies, AbbVie plans to focus its efforts on the schizophrenia indication.
• A levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel for the treatment of Parkinson's disease is under regulatory review in the United States and a decision is expected
before the end of 2014. This product is sold under the name Duodopa outside the United States.
Women's Health
AbbVie is developing a novel oral gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist, elagolix, under a collaboration with Neurocrine Biosciences for the treatment
of endometriosis-related pain and uterine fibroids. A Phase III study in endometriosis began in mid-2012 and a Phase IIa study for uterine fibroids was initiated in
November 2011. In 2013, AbbVie initiated a second Phase III trial for endometriosis and the study for uterine fibroids transitioned to Phase IIb.
Other
Given the numerous sources for potential future growth, no individual project is expected to be material to cash flows or results of operations over the next five years.
Factors considered included R&D expenses projected to be incurred for the project over the next year relative to AbbVie's total R&D expenses as well as qualitative
factors, such as marketplace perceptions and impact of a new
38product on AbbVie's overall market position. There were no delays in AbbVie's 2013 R&D activities that are expected to have a material impact on operations.
While the aggregate cost to complete the numerous pharmaceutical projects currently in development is expected to be material, the total cost to complete will
depend upon AbbVie's ability to successfully complete each project, the rate at which each project advances, the nature and extent of cost-sharing arrangements,
and the ultimate timing for completion. Given the potential for significant delays and the high rate of failure inherent in the research and development of new
pharmaceutical products, it is not possible to accurately estimate the total cost to complete all projects currently in development. However, AbbVie plans to continue
to manage its portfolio of projects to achieve R&D spend equal to approximately 16 percent of net sales each year. AbbVie does not regularly accumulate or make
management decisions based on the total expenses incurred for a particular development phase in a given period.
Separation from Abbott Laboratories
On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent, publicly-traded company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100 percent of the
outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders (the separation). Each Abbott shareholder of record as of the close of business on December 12,
2012, received one share of AbbVie common stock for each Abbott common share held as of the record date. AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012
and is comprised of Abbott's former research-based pharmaceuticals business. AbbVie's common stock began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol
"ABBV" on the New York Stock Exchange on January 2, 2013. Refer to the "Basis of Historical Presentation" section below for further information.
Basis of Historical Presentation
Prior to the separation, the historical financial statements were prepared on a stand-alone basis and were derived from Abbott's consolidated financial statements and
accounting records as if the former research-based pharmaceutical business of Abbott had been part of AbbVie for all periods presented. Accordingly, AbbVie's
financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 are presented on a combined basis and reflect AbbVie's financial position, results of operations and cash
flows as its business was operated as part of Abbott prior to the separation, in conformity with GAAP in the United States. The combined financial statements
principally represent the historical results of operations and assets and liabilities of Abbott's Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment.
The historical combined financial statements included the allocation of certain assets and liabilities that were historically held at the Abbott corporate level but were
specifically identifiable or allocable to AbbVie. Prior to 2012, cash and equivalents, short-term investments and restricted funds held by Abbott were not allocated to
AbbVie unless those assets were held by an entity that was transferred to AbbVie. As of December 31, 2012, AbbVie's combined balance sheet reflected the direct
holdings of AbbVie legal entities. Prior to 2012, long-term debt and short-term borrowings were not allocated to AbbVie as none of the debt recorded by Abbott was
directly attributable to or guaranteed by AbbVie. In 2012, AbbVie issued $14.7 billion of long-term debt with maturities ranging from three to 30 years and $1.0 billion
of commercial paper, which was reflected on AbbVie's combined balance sheet as of December 31, 2012.
Prior to 2012, all intercompany transactions between AbbVie and Abbott were considered to be effectively settled in the historical combined financial statements at
the time the transactions were recorded. As a result, the total net effect of the settlement of these intercompany transactions was reflected in the combined
statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 as a financing activity and in the combined balance sheet at December 31, 2012 as net
parent company investment in AbbVie. As of December 31, 2012, outstanding transactions between AbbVie and Abbott
39were reflected in the combined balance sheet outside of net parent company investment in AbbVie Inc. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the aggregate amount due
from Abbott totaled $738 million and $696 million, respectively, and was classified in accounts and other receivables, net. The aggregate amount due to Abbott
totaled $876 million and $923 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and was classified in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.
The historical combined financial statements also reflected an allocation of expenses related to certain Abbott corporate functions, including senior management,
legal, human resources, finance, information technology and quality assurance. These expenses were allocated to AbbVie based on direct usage or benefit where
identifiable, with the remainder allocated on a pro rata basis of revenues, headcount, square footage, number of transactions or other measures. AbbVie considers the
expense allocation methodology and results to be reasonable. However, the allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred
had AbbVie operated as an independent, stand-alone, publicly-traded company for the periods presented.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Net Sales
Percent change
At actual At constant
currency currency
rates rates
for the years ended (in millions) 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2013 2012
United States $ 10,181 $ 10,435 $ 9,712 (2)% 8% (2)% 8 %
International 8,609 7,945 7,732 8% 3% 10% 8%
Net sales $ 18,790 $ 18,380 $ 17,444 2% 5% 3% 8 %
The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency sales at the prior year's foreign exchange rates. This measure provides
information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and the current period. AbbVie believes
that the non-GAAP measure of change in net sales at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the GAAP measure of change in net sales at actual
currency rates, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate analysis of the company's results of operations,
particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.
Sales growth in 2013 was driven by the continued strength of HUMIRA, both in the United States and internationally as well as sales of key products including
Synthroid, Creon and Duodopa. Sales increased in 2013 despite unfavorable foreign exchange rate fluctuations and the loss of exclusivity for AbbVie's consolidated
lipid franchise. Generic competition began in November 2012 for TriCor, in July 2013 for TRILIPIX and in September of 2013 for Niaspan. The increase in sales in 2012
was primarily due to higher HUMIRA sales, partially offset by the impact of unfavorable foreign currency and the entry of generic competition for TriCor in
November 2012.
40The following table details the sales of key products.
Percent change
At actual At constant
currency currency
rates rates
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2013 2012
HUMIRA
United States $ 5,236 $ 4,377 $ 3,427 20% 28% 20% 28%
International 5,423 4,888 4,505 11% 8% 12% 15%
Total $ 10,659 $ 9,265 $ 7,932 15% 17% 15% 21 %
AndroGel
United States $ 1,035 $ 1,152 $ 874 (10)% 32% (10)% 32%
Kaletra
United States $ 244 $ 279 $ 326 (13)% (14)% (13)% (14)%
International 718 734 844 (2)% (13)% (1)% (7)%
Total $ 962 $ 1,013 $ 1,170 (5)% (13)% (4)% (9 )%
Synagis
International $ 827 $ 825 $ 775 — 6% 9% 9%
Lupron
United States $ 566 $ 569 $ 540 (1)% 5% (1)% 5%
International 219 231 270 (5)% (14)% (3)% (11)%
Total $ 785 $ 800 $ 810 (2)% (1)% (1)% —
Synthroid
United States $ 622 $ 551 $ 522 13% 6% 13% 6%
Sevoflurane
United States $ 77 $ 82 $ 88 (5)% (7)% (5)% (7)%
International 491 520 577 (6)% (10)% (4)% (5)%
Total $ 568 $ 602 $ 665 (6)% (10)% (4)% (5 )%
Creon
United States $ 412 $ 353 $ 332 17% 6% 17% 6%
Duodopa
International $ 178 $ 149 $ 125 20% 19% 16% 29%
Dyslipidemia products
United States $ 1,076 $ 2,145 $ 2,504 (50)% (14)% (50)% (14)%
Other $ 1,666 $ 1,525 $ 1,735 9% (12)% 10% (11 )%
Total $ 18,790 $ 18,380 $ 17,444 2% 5% 3% 8 %
On a constant currency basis, global HUMIRA sales increased 15 percent in 2013 and 21 percent in 2012 as a result of market expansion and higher market share
across various countries, higher pricing in certain geographies and the global launch of the ulcerative colitis indication in 2012. HUMIRA sales continued to expand
in the rheumatology, dermatology and gastroenterology categories. HUMIRA received approvals from the European Commission for the treatment of moderately to
severely active ulcerative colitis in April 2012, the treatment of severe axial spondyloarthritis in July 2012, and the treatment of pediatric patients with severe active
Crohn's disease in November 2012. AbbVie is pursuing several new indications to help further differentiate from competitive products and add to the sustainability
and future growth of HUMIRA.
AndroGel sales for 2013 were impacted by rebates implemented during the second half of 2012, certain account losses in early 2013 and continued moderation of
market growth. The increase in AndroGel
41sales in 2012 reflected higher prices, market share gains, the launch of AndroGel 1.62% in the second quarter of 2011, and volume growth in the U.S. testosterone
replacement market. AndroGel continues to hold the number one market share position in the U.S. testosterone replacement market, with approximately 60 percent of
the market share. AndroGel 1% sales are expected to be impacted by generic competition in late 2014.
Global sales of Kaletra declined in 2013 and 2012 primarily due to lower market share resulting from the impact of competition.
Synthroid sales increased 13 percent and 6 percent in 2013 and 2012, respectively, due to strong brand loyalty and market leadership, and price.
Sales of Sevoflurane were impacted in both years by generic competition.
Sales of Creon in 2013 and 2012 grew by 17 percent and 6 percent, respectively. Creon maintains market leadership in the pancreatic enzyme market and continued to
capture the vast majority of new prescription starts in 2013. In the first quarter of 2013, the FDA approved Creon in a 36,000 lipase-unit dose for patients with exocrine
pancreatic insufficiency. Creon 36,000 is the highest dose of pancreatic therapy currently available.
Sales of Duodopa, AbbVie's therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease currently approved in Europe and other international markets, increased 16 percent on a
constant currency basis. Duodopa is currently under regulatory review in the United States and a regulatory decision is expected in 2014.
Sales for AbbVie's consolidated lipid franchise, which includes TriCor, TRILIPIX and Niaspan, declined 50 percent in 2013 and 14 percent in 2012 due to the
introduction of generic versions of these products in the U.S. market and, in 2012, softness in the overall branded cholesterol market. Generic competition began in
November 2012 for TriCor, in July 2013 for TRILIPIX, and in September 2013 for Niaspan. AbbVie expects the negative impact of generic competition on sales to
continue in 2014.
Gross Margin
Percent
change
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012
Gross margin $ 14,209 $ 13,872 $ 12,805 2% 8 %
as a % of net sales 76% 75% 73%
The gross profit margin in 2013 reflected the favorable impact of product mix across the product portfolio, including HUMIRA, operational efficiencies, price
increases and lower amortization expense for intangible assets, partially offset by the effect of unfavorable foreign exchange rates. The increase in the gross profit
margin in 2012 was primarily due to product mix, improved efficiencies, higher prices in certain geographies, and the favorable impact of foreign currency, partially
offset by pricing pressures in various other markets. The improvement also reflects lower amortization expense for intangible assets and the impact of restructuring
programs implemented in 2011 to realign various manufacturing operations.
Selling, General and Administrative
Percent
change
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012
Selling, general and administrative $ 5,352 $ 4,989 $ 5,894 7% (15 )%
as a % of net sales 28% 27% 34%
42Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses in 2013 and 2012 included $228 million and $213 million, respectively, of costs associated with the separation of
AbbVie from Abbott. SG&A expenses in 2013 included restructuring charges aggregating $39 million which principally related to the restructuring of certain
commercial operations in conjunction with the loss and expected loss of exclusivity of certain products. SG&A expenses in 2012 and 2011 included litigation charges
of $100 million and $1.5 billion, respectively, related to the Depakote investigation. Refer to Note 13 for information on the Depakote charge.
Excluding these items from all years, SG&A expenses increased 9 percent and 7 percent in 2013 and 2012, respectively. The increases in SG&A expenses over the
three-year period were due primarily to increased selling and marketing support for new and existing products, including continued spending for HUMIRA, and in
2013, the full year incremental costs of becoming an independent company.
Research and Development and Acquired In-Process Research and Development
Percent
change
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012
Research and development $ 2,855 $ 2,778 $ 2,618 3% 6 %
as a % of net sales 15% 15% 15%
Acquired in-process research and development $ 338 $ 288 $ 673 17% (57)%
R&D expense in 2013 reflects added funding to support the company's emerging mid- and late-stage pipeline assets and the continued pursuit of additional HUMIRA
indications. R&D expense in 2013 and 2012 reflected continued pipeline spending on programs in biologics, neuroscience and virology as well as a $50 million R&D
milestone payment related to a product in development for the treatment of CKD in 2012. R&D expenses also included restructuring charges of $15 million in 2013,
$183 million in 2012 and $72 million in 2011. Excluding restructuring charges and milestone payments, R&D expenses increased 11 percent in 2013 and less than
1 percent in 2012.
Acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D) expense in 2013 principally included a charge of $175 million as a result of entering into a global license
agreement with Ablynx NV to develop and commercialize ALX-0061, a charge of $70 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration with Alvine
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to develop ALV003, a charge of $45 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration with Galapagos NV for cystic fibrosis therapies and
charges totaling $48 million as a result of entering into several other arrangements.
IPR&D expense in 2012 included a charge of $110 million for the acquisition of ABT-719, a charge of $150 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration to
develop and commercialize an oral, next-generation JAK1 inhibitor, and a charge of $28 million as a result of entering into a two-year collaboration agreement to
research, develop and commercialize up to three compounds with Antibody-Drug Conjugate approaches.
IPR&D expense in 2011 included a charge of $188 million for the achievement of a developmental milestone under a licensing agreement for bardoxolone methyl, and
charges of $400 million and $85 million for entering into collaboration agreements for second-generation oral antioxidant inflammation modulators and an anti-CD4
biologic for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis, respectively.
Interest Expense
Interest expense (income), net in 2013 was $278 million and was comprised primarily of interest expense on outstanding debt, partially offset by interest income of
$21 million. In November 2012, AbbVie issued $14.7 billion of long-term debt with maturities ranging from three to 30 years and
43entered into interest rate swaps with various financial institutions, which converted $8.0 billion of its fixed rate interest rate debt to floating interest rate debt. In
addition, AbbVie issued $1.0 billion of commercial paper in the fourth quarter of 2012. The balance of commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2013 was
$400 million.
Interest expense, net in 2012 of $84 million was comprised primarily of interest expense on outstanding debt and bridge facility fees related to the separation from
Abbott, partially offset by interest income of $20 million.
Other (Income) Expense
Other (income) expense, net, included expenses of $11 million in 2013, $29 million in 2012 and $56 million in 2011 of fair value adjustments to the contingent
consideration related to an acquisition of a business in 2010. Other (income) expense, net, for 2013, 2012 and 2011 also included ongoing contractual payments
associated with the conclusion of a preexisting joint venture arrangement dissolved in 2008. Other (income) expense, net, in 2012 included income of $21 million from
the resolution of a contractual agreement and a loss of $52 million for the impairment of an equity security.
Income Tax Expense
The income tax rates were 22.6 percent in 2013, 7.9 percent in 2012 and 6.4 percent in 2011. Income taxes in 2012 and 2011 included the recognition of tax benefits
totaling approximately $195 million and $410 million, respectively, as a result of favorable resolutions of various tax positions pertaining to prior years. The increase in
the effective tax rate in 2013 over 2012 is principally due to income tax expense related to certain 2013 earnings outside the United States that are not expected to be
indefinitely reinvested and the absence of the $195 million of tax benefits recorded in 2012 as a result of the favorable resolution of various tax positions pertaining to
a prior year. Income taxes in 2011 also reflected the non-deductibility of a litigation reserve.
Transition from Abbott and Cost to Operate as an Independent Company
AbbVie's historical financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 are presented on a combined basis and reflect AbbVie's financial position, results of
operations and cash flows as its business was operated as part of Abbott, rather than as an independent company. AbbVie has and will continue to incur additional
ongoing operating expenses to operate as an independent company, including the cost of various corporate headquarters functions, incremental information
technology-related costs, and incremental costs to operate a stand-alone back office infrastructure outside the United States.
AbbVie's transition services agreements with Abbott in the United States cover certain corporate support services that AbbVie has historically received from Abbott.
Such services include information technology, accounts payable, payroll, and other financial functions, as well as engineering support for various facilities, quality
assurance support, and other administrative services. The terms of the services under the agreements vary by activity. These agreements facilitate the separation by
allowing AbbVie to operate independently prior to establishing stand-alone back office functions across its organization.
As of the date of the separation, AbbVie did not have sufficient back office infrastructure to operate in markets outside the United States. As a result, AbbVie
entered into transition services agreements with Abbott to provide services outside the United States, including back office services in certain countries, for up to
two years after separation. The back office services provided include information technology, accounts payable, payroll, receivables collection, treasury and other
financial functions, as well as order entry, warehousing, and other administrative services. These transition services agreements have allowed AbbVie to operate its
international pharmaceuticals business independently prior to
44establishing a stand-alone back office infrastructure for all countries. During the transition from Abbott, AbbVie has and will continue to incur non-recurring
expenses to expand its international infrastructure. In addition, in certain international markets as of the date of the separation and as of December 31, 2013, certain
marketing authorizations to sell AbbVie's products continued to be held by Abbott until such authorizations could be transferred through the applicable regulatory
channels.
It is not practicable to estimate the costs that would have been incurred in each of the periods presented in the historical financial statements for the functions
described above. Actual costs that would have been incurred if AbbVie operated as a stand-alone company during these periods would have depended on various
factors, including organizational design, outsourcing and other strategic decisions related to corporate functions, information technology, and international back
office infrastructure. Refer to Note 1 for further description of transactions between AbbVie and Abbott.
FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011
Cash flows provided by/(used in):
Operating activities $ 6,267 $ 6,345 $ 6,247
Investing activities 879 (2,418) 553
Financing activities (3,442) 1,931 (6,783)
Strong cash flows from operating activities were driven by net earnings and focused working capital management. In 2013, cash flows from operating activities also
reflected cash paid for taxes of $1.3 billion, cash paid for interest of $283 million and a voluntary contribution to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan of
$145 million. In 2012, cash flows from operating activities reflected cash paid for interest of $61 million and a voluntary contribution to its sponsored pension plans of
$46 million. In 2011, AbbVie recorded non-cash charges of $1.5 billion in accrued liabilities to establish a litigation reserve related to claims on AbbVie's previous
sales and marketing activities for Depakote. AbbVie made payments of $1.6 billion in 2012 to settle these claims.
Cash flows from investing activities in 2013 and 2012 reflected capital expenditures, net sales (purchases) of short-term investments and payments related to certain
collaboration, license and acquisition agreements. Refer to Note 5 to the audited consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for information regarding significant collaboration, license and acquisition agreements.
AbbVie issued senior notes of $14.7 billion in November 2012 and $1.0 billion of commercial paper in December 2012. Abbott's guarantee of the senior notes
terminated upon the distribution of AbbVie common stock to the shareholders of Abbott upon the separation on January 1, 2013. The senior notes, which have
maturities ranging from three to 30 years, may be redeemed at any time, except the floating rate notes and some of the senior notes of each series, at a redemption
price equal to the principal amount plus a make-whole premium. In 2013, the company issued and redeemed commercial paper. The balance of commercial paper
outstanding at December 31, 2013 and 2012 was $400 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, at weighted-average interest rates of 0.2% and 0.4%, respectively, for each
period. AbbVie may retire or issue additional commercial paper to meet liquidity requirements as needed. Historically, cash flows from financing activities represented
cash transactions with Abbott.
The company's cash and equivalents and short-term investments increased from $8.0 billion at December 31, 2012 to $9.9 billion at December 31, 2013. During 2012,
Abbott contributed approximately $4.4 billion of cash to newly formed AbbVie entities, and AbbVie distributed $13.2 billion in cash and debt securities to Abbott.
Subsequent to the separation, effective January 1, 2013, AbbVie no longer participates in cash management and funding arrangements with Abbott.
45While a significant portion of cash and equivalents at December 31, 2013 are considered reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries, AbbVie does not expect such
reinvestment to affect its liquidity and capital resources. If these funds were needed for operations in the United States, AbbVie would be required to accrue and pay
U.S. income taxes to repatriate these funds. AbbVie believes that it has sufficient sources of liquidity to support its assumption that the disclosed amount of
undistributed earnings at December 31, 2013 has been reinvested indefinitely.
A quarterly dividend of $0.40 per share was paid on common stock in 2013 resulting in total dividends paid of $2.56 billion for 2013. On December 12, 2013, the board
of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.40 per share for stockholders of record on January 15, 2014, payable on February 14, 2014. AbbVie expects to pay
a regular quarterly cash dividend; however, the timing, declaration, amount of, and payment of any dividends is within the discretion of its board of directors and will
depend upon many factors, including AbbVie's financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of its operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of
AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, ability to access capital markets, and other factors deemed relevant
by its board of directors.
On February 15, 2013, the company announced a $1.5 billion stock repurchase program, which was effective immediately. Purchases of AbbVie common stock may be
made from time to time at management's discretion. The plan has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time. During 2013, AbbVie repurchased approximately
4 million shares of common stock for $223 million in the open market. AbbVie's remaining stock repurchase authorization is $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2013.
Substantially all of AbbVie's trade receivables in Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain are with governmental health systems. Global economic conditions and liquidity
issues in these countries have resulted, and may continue to result, in delays in the collection of receivables and credit losses. While the company continues to
receive payments on these receivables, these conditions have resulted in an increase in the average length of time it takes to collect accounts receivable outstanding.
Outstanding net governmental receivables in these countries at December 31 were as follows.
Net receivables
over one year
Net receivables past due
(in millions) 2013 2012 2013 2012
Greece $ 37 $ 52 $ — $ 13
Portugal 59 80 3 23
Italy 245 308 22 40
Spain 440 285 135 2
Total $ 781 $ 725 $ 160 $ 78
With the exception of Greece, AbbVie historically has collected almost all of the outstanding receivables in these countries. AbbVie continues to monitor the
creditworthiness of customers located in these and other geographic areas and establishes an allowance against an accounts receivable when it is probable they will
not be collected. In addition to closely monitoring economic conditions and budgetary and other fiscal developments in these countries, AbbVie regularly
communicates with its customers regarding the status of receivable balances, including their payment plans and obtains positive confirmation of the validity of the
receivables. AbbVie also monitors the potential for and periodically has utilized factoring arrangements to mitigate credit risk although the receivables included in
such arrangements have historically not been a material amount of total outstanding receivables. If government funding were to become unavailable in these
countries or if significant adverse changes in their reimbursement practices were to occur, AbbVie may not be able to collect the entire balance.
46Credit Facility, Access to Capital and Credit Ratings
Credit Facility
AbbVie currently has a $2.0 billion unsecured five-year revolving credit facility from a syndicate of lenders, entered into in July 2012, which also supports commercial
paper borrowings. As of the date of separation, January 1, 2013, Abbott's obligations under this facility were relieved and AbbVie became the sole obligor. The credit
facility enables the company to borrow funds at floating interest rates. At December 31, 2013, the company was in compliance with all its credit facility covenants.
Commitment fees under the new credit facility are not material. There were no amounts outstanding on the credit facility on December 31, 2013.
Access to Capital
The company intends to fund short-term and long-term financial obligations as they mature through cash on hand, future cash flows from operations or by issuing
additional debt. The company's ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt or enter into financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be
adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company's products or in the solvency of its customers or suppliers, deterioration in the
company's key financial ratios or credit ratings or other material unfavorable changes in business conditions. At the current time, the company believes it has
sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to support the company's growth
objectives.
Credit Ratings
Credit ratings of Baa1 and A assigned to AbbVie in 2012 by Moody's Investor Service and Standard & Poor's Corporate, respectively, have not changed as of
December 31, 2013. Unfavorable changes to the ratings may have an adverse impact on future financing arrangements; however, they would not affect the company's
ability to draw on its credit facility and would not result in an acceleration of the scheduled maturities of any of the company's outstanding debt.
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes AbbVie's estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2013.
Less than One to Three to More than
(in millions) Total one year three years five years five years
Short-term borrowings $ 413 $ 413 $ — $ — $ —
Long-term debt and capital lease obligations, including current
portion 14,798 18 4,023 5,014 5,743
Interest on long-term debt(a) 4,882 281 633 621 3,347
Future minimum non-cancelable operating lease commitments 875 87 150 108 530
Purchase obligations and other(b) 26 26 — — —
Other long-term liabilities(c) 1,258 390 182 306 380
Total $ 22,252 $ 1,215 $ 4,988 $ 6,049 $ 10,000
(a) Includes estimated future interest payments on long-term debt securities and capital lease obligations. Interest payments on debt are
calculated for future periods using interest rates in effect at the end of 2013. Projected interest payments include the related effects of interest
rate swap agreements. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in floating interest rates or
other factors or events. The projected interest payments only
47pertain to obligations and agreements outstanding at December 31, 2013. Refer to Notes 8 and 9 for further discussion regarding the
company's debt instruments and related interest rate agreements outstanding at December 31, 2013. Annual interest on capital lease
obligations is not material.
(b) Includes the company's significant unconditional purchase obligations. These commitments do not exceed the company's projected
requirements and are made in the normal course of business.
(c) Amounts less than one year includes a voluntary contribution of $370 million AbbVie made to its main domestic defined benefit plan
subsequent to December 31, 2013. Amounts otherwise exclude pension and other post-employment benefits and related deferred
compensation cash outflows. Timing of funding is uncertain and dependent on future movements in interest rates and investment returns,
changes in laws and regulations, and other variables. Also included in this amount are components of other long-term liabilities including
restructuring and an expected payment related to the contingent sales-based payment recognized as part of the acquisition of a business in
2013. Refer to Notes 7 and 9 for further information.
AbbVie enters into R&D collaboration arrangements with third parties that may require future milestone payments to third parties contingent upon the achievement
of certain development, regulatory or commercial milestones. Individually, these arrangements are not material in any one annual reporting period. However, if
milestones for multiple products covered by these arrangements would happen to be reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate charge to expense could be
material to the results of operations in that period. From a business perspective, the payments are viewed as positive because they signify that the product is
successfully moving through development and is now generating or is more likely to generate cash flows from product sales. It is not possible to predict with
reasonable certainty whether these milestones will be achieved or the timing for achievement. As a result, these potential payments are not included in the table of
contractual obligations. Refer to Note 5 for further discussion of these collaboration arrangements.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. A summary of the company's significant accounting policies is
included in Note 2. Certain of these policies are considered critical as these most significantly impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and
require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
Actual results may vary from these estimates.
Revenue Recognition
AbbVie recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability of
the sales price is reasonably assured. Revenue from product sales is recognized when title and risk of loss have passed to the customer.
Rebates
AbbVie provides rebates to pharmacy benefit management companies, state agencies that administer the federal Medicaid program, insurance companies that
administer Medicare drug plans, wholesalers, group purchasing organizations, and other government agencies and private entities. Rebate amounts are usually based
upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices for a product. For each type of rebate, the factors used in the calculations of the accrual for that
rebate include the identification of which products have been sold subject to the rebate, which customer or government agency price terms apply for that rebate, and
the estimated lag time between sale and payment of the
48rebate. Using historical trends for that rebate, adjusted for current changes, AbbVie estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a
reduction of gross sales when AbbVie records its sale of the product. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from two to eight months after sale. AbbVie regularly
analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs.
Rebate and chargeback accruals are recorded in the same period as the related sales, and are reflected as a reduction of sales. Rebates and chargebacks in 2013, 2012
and 2011 totaled $4.9 billion, $4.3 billion and $3.7 billion, respectively, or 30 percent, 28 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of the gross sales subject to rebate. A
one-percentage point increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales would decrease net sales by $160 million in 2013. AbbVie considers a one-
percentage point increase to be a reasonably likely increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales. Other allowances for cash discounts and returns
charged against gross sales were $748 million, $667 million and $617 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Management analyzes the adequacy of ending rebate accrual balances each quarter. In the United States, the most significant charges against gross sales are for
Medicaid and Medicare rebates, managed care rebates and wholesaler chargebacks. Medicaid rebates relate to the Federal Medicaid program, which is administered
by state agencies, whereby rebates are provided to participating state and local government entities under various laws and regulations and in some cases
supplemental rebates are also provided to the states under contractual agreements. Medicare rebates are negotiated with managed care organizations that manage
prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug benefit. Pharmacy benefit manager rebates arise from contractual agreements with private health care plans
that seek to reduce costs by negotiating discounts with pharmaceuticals manufacturers. Under wholesaler chargeback programs, the wholesaler charges AbbVie back
for the difference between the price paid by the wholesaler to AbbVie and the price paid by the end customer to the wholesaler under contractual discount
agreements negotiated between AbbVie and the end customer. In order to evaluate the adequacy of the ending accrual balances, for each type of rebate, management
uses both internal and external data to estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel and the rebate claims processing lag time for that rebate. External
data sources used to estimate the inventory in the distribution channel include inventory levels periodically reported by wholesalers. Management estimates the
processing lag time based on periodic sampling of claims data. To estimate the rebate percentage or net price, systems and calculations are used to track sales by
product and by customer or payer and to estimate the contractual or statutory rebate or net price. AbbVie believes systems and calculations are reliable.
49The following table is an analysis of the three largest rebate accruals and chargeback allowances, which comprise approximately 88 percent of the combined rebate
provisions charged against revenues in 2013. Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross sales are not significant in the determination of operating earnings.
Medicaid
and Managed
Medicare Care Wholesaler
(in millions) Rebates Rebates Chargebacks
Balance at December 31, 2010 $ 634 $ 410 $ 159
Provisions 985 831 1,361
Payments (899) (735) (1,349)
Balance at December 31, 2011 720 506 171
Provisions 1,077 830 1,645
Payments (990) (840) (1,592)
Balance at December 31, 2012 807 496 224
Provisions 1,028 846 2,362
Payments (1,168) (883) (2,374)
Balance at December 31, 2013 $ 667 $ 459 $ 212
Historically, adjustments to prior years' rebate accruals have not been material to net income. AbbVie employs various techniques to verify the accuracy of claims
submitted to it, and where possible, works with the organizations submitting claims to gain insight into changes that might affect the rebate amounts. For Medicaid,
Medicare and other government agency programs, the calculation of a rebate involves interpretations of relevant regulations, which are subject to challenge or
change in interpretation.
Cash Discounts and Returns
Cash discounts can be reliably estimated. Product returns can be reliably estimated because AbbVie's historical returns are low, and because sales return terms and
other sales terms have remained relatively unchanged for several periods.
Pension and Post-Employment Benefits
AbbVie engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under the plans that are direct obligations of AbbVie. The valuation of
the funded status and the net periodic benefit cost for these plans are calculated using actuarial assumptions. The significant assumptions, which are reviewed
annually, include the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the health care cost trend rates. The significant assumptions used in
determining these calculations are disclosed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
The discount rate is selected based on current market rates on high-quality, fixed-income investments at December 31 each year. AbbVie employs a yield-curve
approach for countries where a robust bond market exists. The yield curve is developed using high-quality bonds. The discount rate is the single rate that equates
the discounted cash flows to the rates utilizing the yield curve. As a result, the yield-curve approach reflects the specific cash flows for plans (i.e. duration) in
calculating the discount rate. For other countries, AbbVie reviews various indices such as corporate bond and government bond benchmarks to estimate the
discount rate. AbbVie's assumed discount rate has a significant effect on the amounts reported for defined benefit pension and post-employment plans as of
December 31, 2013 and will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in 2014. A 0.5% change in the assumed
50discount rate would have had the following effects on AbbVie's calculation of net periodic benefit costs in 2014 and projected benefit obligations as of December 31,
2013:
50 basis point
(in millions) Increase Decrease
Defined benefit plans
Service cost and interest cost $ (37) $ 38
Projected benefit obligation (329) 358
Other post-employment plans
Service cost and interest cost $ (3) $ 4
Projected benefit obligation (30) 34
The expected long-term rate of return is based on the asset allocation, historical performance and the current view of expected future returns. AbbVie considers these
inputs with a long-term focus to avoid short-term market influences. The current long-term rate of return on plan assets is supported by the historical performance of
the trust's actual and target asset allocation. AbbVie's assumed expected long-term rate of return has a significant effect on the amounts reported for defined benefit
pension plans as of December 31, 2013 and will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in 2014. As of December 31, 2013, a 1% change in assumed
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would have increased or decreased the net period benefit cost of these plans in 2014 by $28 million.
The health care cost trend rate is selected by reviewing historical trends and current views on projected future health care cost increases. The current health care cost
trend rate is supported by the historical trend experience of the plan. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for
health care plans as of December 31, 2013 and will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in 2014. A 1% change in assumed health care cost trend rates
would have the following effects on AbbVie's calculation of net periodic benefit costs in 2014 and projected benefit obligation as of December 31, 2013:
One percentage
point
(in millions) Increase Decrease
Service cost and interest cost $ 13 $ (9 )
Projected benefit obligation 71 (56)
Income Taxes
AbbVie accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Provisions for federal, state and foreign income taxes are calculated on reported pretax
earnings based on current tax laws. Deferred taxes are provided using enacted tax rates on the future tax consequences of temporary differences, which are the
differences between the financial statement carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and the tax benefits of carryforwards. A valuation
allowance is established or maintained when, based on currently available information, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be
realized.
Litigation
The company is subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims that arise in the normal course of business. Refer to Note 13 for further information.
Loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss
contingency amount within a probable range is recorded. Accordingly, AbbVie is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum
amount, which could be
51zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made,
also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more
favorable outcome than previously expected. There were no significant litigation reserves at December 31, 2013.
Valuation of Goodwill and Intangible Assets
AbbVie has acquired and may continue to acquire significant intangible assets in connection with business combinations that AbbVie records at fair value.
Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the pharmaceuticals industry and valuations are
usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis incorporating the stage of completion. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and
amount of future net cash flows, risk, cost of capital, terminal values and market participants. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible
asset. IPR&D acquired in a business combination is capitalized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval is obtained, at which time, it is
accounted for as a definite-lived asset and amortized over its estimated useful life. IPR&D acquired in transactions that are not business combinations is expensed
immediately, unless deemed to have an alternative future use. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized over
the remaining useful life.
AbbVie reviews the recoverability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be
recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which relate to IPR&D, are reviewed for impairment annually or when an event that could result in an
impairment occurs. Refer to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.
For its impairment reviews, the company uses an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and
expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, foreign currency exchange rates, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings and other
assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company's business plans and a market participant's views of a company
and similar companies. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair value of the assets, and potentially result in
different impacts to the company's results of operations. Actual results may differ from the company's estimates.
At December 31, 2013 and 2012, goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortization totaled $8.2 billion and $8.5 billion, respectively, and amortization expense for
intangible assets was $509 million, $625 million and $764 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. There were no impairments of goodwill in 2013, 2012 or 2011 and
the results of the last impairment test indicated that the fair value of AbbVie's single reporting unit was substantially in excess of its carrying value. In 2012 and 2011,
AbbVie recorded impairment charges of $13 million and $46 million, respectively, for certain projects under development. These charges are included in R&D
expenses.
CERTAIN REGULATORY MATTERS
Legislative Issues
In the first quarter of 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively referred to herein as
"health care reform legislation") were signed into law in the United States. Health care reform legislation included an increase in the basic Medicaid rebate rate from
15.1 percent to 23.1 percent and extended the rebate to drugs provided through Medicaid managed care organizations. Starting in 2011, additional rebates were
incurred
52related to the Medicare Part D coverage gap "donut hole." These Medicare and Medicaid rebate changes will continue to have a negative effect on AbbVie's gross
profit margin in future years.
In 2011, AbbVie began recording the annual fee imposed by health care reform legislation on companies that sell branded prescription drugs to specified government
programs. The amount of the annual fee, which totaled approximately $110 million in 2013 and $100 million in both 2012 and 2011, is based on the ratio of certain of
AbbVie's sales as compared to the total such sales of all covered entities multiplied by a fixed dollar amount specified in the legislation by year. The fee is not tax
deductible and is included in SG&A expenses.
AbbVie's markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulations. AbbVie expects debate to continue over the availability, method of
delivery, and payment for health care products and services. It is not possible to predict the extent to which AbbVie or the health care industry in general might be
adversely affected by these factors in the future. A more complete discussion of these factors is contained in Item 1, "Business" and Item 1A, "Risk Factors."
53ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The company is exposed to risk that its earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. Certain
derivative instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the company's underlying economic exposures. Refer to Note 9 for further
information regarding the company's financial instruments and hedging strategies.
Foreign Currency Risk
AbbVie's primary net foreign currency exposures are the Euro, British pound and Japanese yen. Various AbbVie foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency
forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated transactions denominated in a currency other than the
functional currency of the local entity. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign currency
exchange rates and are marked-to-market with the resulting gains or losses reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Deferred gains or losses on these
contracts are included in cost of products sold at the time the products are sold to a third party, generally within twelve months. At December 31, 2013 and 2012,
AbbVie held $1.5 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, in notional amounts of such contracts.
AbbVie enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated trade payables and receivables and
intercompany loans. The contracts, which are not designated as hedges, are marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are reflected in net foreign exchange loss
(gain) and are generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency exposure being managed. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, AbbVie held notional amounts of
$5.3 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, of such foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The following table reflects the total foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December 31.
2013 2012
Fair and Fair and
Weighted carrying Weighted carrying
average value average value
Contract exchange receivable/ Contract exchange receivable/
(in millions) amount rate (payable) amount rate (payable)
Receive primarily U.S. dollars in exchange for the
following currencies:
Euro $ 4,650 1.359 $ (56) $ 3,649 1.315 $ (10)
British pound 492 1.638 (3) 91 1.612 —
Japanese yen 401 103.2 7 323 84.4 5
All other currencies 1,308 N/A (4) 1,199 N/A (5)
Total $ 6,851 $ (56) $ 5,262 $ (10 )
The company estimates that a 10 percent appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held
constant, would decrease the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts by $692 million at December 31, 2013. If realized, this appreciation would negatively
affect earnings over the remaining life of the contacts. A 10 percent appreciation is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in foreign currencies. Gains
and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and stockholders' equity volatility relating to
foreign exchange.
Currency restrictions enacted in Venezuela require AbbVie to obtain approval from the Venezuelan government to exchange Venezuelan bolivars for U.S. dollars and
require such exchange to be made at the official exchange rate established by the government. Effective February 8, 2013, the Venezuelan government devalued the
official exchange rate from 4.3 to 6.3, which resulted in a loss of $11 million
54in the first quarter of 2013 recorded in net foreign exchange loss (gain) on the consolidated statement of earnings for 2013.
Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the company's exposure of changes in interest rates on the fair value of fixed-rate debt. The effect of these hedges is to
change the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. AbbVie does not use derivative instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to manage its exposure to changes in
interest rates for investment securities. At both December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, AbbVie had interest rate hedge contracts totaling $8.0 billion. The
company estimates that an increase in the interest rates of 100-basis points would have decrease the fair value of our interest rate swap contracts by approximately
$411 million at December 31, 2013. If realized, the fair value reduction would affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. The company estimates that an
increase of 100-basis points in long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of long-term debt by $848 million at December 31, 2013. A 100-basis point change
is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in interest rates.
Market Price Sensitive Investments
AbbVie holds available-for-sale equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions. The fair value of these investments was approximately $49 million and
$12 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. AbbVie monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges
impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in value occurs. A hypothetical 20 percent decrease in the share prices of these investments
would have had an immaterial decrease to their fair value at December 31, 2013. A 20 percent decrease is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in
share prices.
Non-Publicly Traded Equity Securities
AbbVie holds equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions that are not traded on public stock exchanges. The carrying value of these investments was
approximately $58 million and $72 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. AbbVie monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in
market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs.
55ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Page
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statements of Earnings 57
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 58
Consolidated Balance Sheets 59
Consolidated Statements of Equity 60
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 61
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 62
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 99
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 100
56AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
years ended December 31 (in millions, except per share data) 2013 2012 2011
Net sales $ 18,790 $ 18,380 $ 17,444
Cost of products sold 4,581 4,508 4,639
Selling, general and administrative 5,352 4,989 5,894
Research and development 2,855 2,778 2,618
Acquired in-process research and development 338 288 673
Total operating costs and expenses 13,126 12,563 13,824
Operating earnings 5,664 5,817 3,620
Interest expense (income), net 278 84 (20)
Net foreign exchange loss (gain) 55 17 (30)
Other (income) expense, net (1) (9) 2
Earnings before income tax expense 5,332 5,725 3,668
Income tax expense 1,204 450 235
Net earnings $ 4,128 $ 5,275 $ 3,433
Per share data
Basic earnings per share $ 2.58 $ 3.35 $ 2.18
Diluted earnings per share $ 2.56 $ 3.35 $ 2.18
Cash dividends declared per common share(a) $ 2.00 n/a n/a
Weighted-average basic shares outstanding(b) 1,589 1,577 1,577
Weighted-average diluted shares outstanding(b) 1,604 1,577 1,577
(a) On January 4, 2013, the board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock. This dividend was declared from pre-
separation earnings and was recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. In addition, AbbVie declared regular quarterly cash
dividends in 2013 aggregating $1.60 per share of common stock. Refer to Note 11 for information regarding cash dividends declared in 2013.
(b) On January 1, 2013, Abbott Laboratories distributed 1,577 million shares of AbbVie common stock. For periods prior to the separation, the
weighted-average basic and diluted shares outstanding was based on the number of shares of AbbVie common stock outstanding on the
distribution date. Refer to Note 4 for information regarding the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for the year ended
December 31, 2013.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
57AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011
Net earnings $ 4,128 $ 5,275 $ 3,433
Foreign currency translation gain (loss) adjustments, net of tax expense of $71 in 2013 48 173 (295)
Pension and post-employment benefits, net of tax expense (benefit) of $309 in 2013, $(24) in 2012
and $(12) in 2011 598 (150) (7)
Unrealized gains (losses) on marketable equity securities, net of tax expense (benefit) of $—in
2013, $(15) in 2012 and $10 in 2011 1 (25) 17
Hedging activities, net of tax (benefit) of $—in 2013, $(8) in 2012 and $(8) in 2011 (77) (27) (28)
Other comprehensive income (loss) 570 (29) (313 )
Comprehensive income $ 4,698 $ 5,246 $ 3,120
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
58AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Balance Sheets
as of December 31 (in millions, except share data) 2013 2012
Assets
Current assets
Cash and equivalents $ 9,595 $ 5,901
Short-term investments 300 2,075
Accounts and other receivables, net 3,854 4,298
Inventories, net 1,150 1,091
Income tax receivable 949 —
Deferred income taxes 766 669
Prepaid expenses and other 1,234 1,320
Total current assets 17,848 15,354
Investments 118 119
Property and equipment, net 2,298 2,247
Intangible assets, net of amortization 1,890 2,323
Goodwill 6,277 6,130
Other assets 767 835
Total assets $ 29,198 $ 27,008
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings $ 413 $ 1,020
Current portion of long-term debt and lease obligations 18 22
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 6,448 5,734
Total current liabilities 6,879 6,776
Long-term liabilities 3,535 2,239
Long-term debt and lease obligations 14,292 14,630
Commitments and contingencies
Equity
Net parent company investment in AbbVie Inc., prior to separation — 3,713
Stockholders' equity
Common stock, $0.01 par value, authorized 4,000,000,000 shares, issued 1,594,260,996 shares in 2013 16 —
Common stock held in treasury, at cost, 6,900,434 shares in 2013 (320) —
Additional paid-in-capital 3,671 —
Retained earnings 1,567 —
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (442) (350)
Total stockholders' equity 4,492 (350 )
Total equity 4,492 3,363
Total liabilities and equity $ 29,198 $ 27,008
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
59AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Equity
Accumulated
Common Additional other Net parent
years ended December 31 shares Common Treasury paid-in comprehensive Retained company
(in millions) outstanding stock stock capital Income (loss) earnings investment Total
Balance at December 31, 2010 — $ — $ — $ — $ 288 $ — $ 15,415 $ 15,703
Net earnings — — — — — — 3,433 $ 3,433
Net transactions with Abbott
Laboratories — — — — — — (6,891) $ (6,891)
Other comprehensive loss, net of tax — — — — (313) — — $ (313)
Balance at December 31, 2011 — — — — (25) — 11,957 $ 11,932
Net earnings — — — — — — 5,275 $ 5,275
Net transactions with Abbott
Laboratories — — — — — — (13,519) $ (13,519)
Assumption of accumulated
unrealized losses on pension and
other post-employment benefits,
net of tax benefit of $36 — — — — (296) — — $ (296)
Other comprehensive loss, net of tax — — — — (29) — — $ (29)
Balance at December 31, 2012 — — — — (350) — 3,713 $ 3,363
Separation-related adjustments — — — (1,316) (662) — 707 $ (1,271)
Reclassification of parent company
net investment in connection with
separation — — — 4,420 — — (4,420) $ —
Issuance of common stock at
separation 1,577 16 — (16) — — — $ —
Net earnings — — — — — 4,128 — $ 4,128
Other comprehensive income, net of
tax — — — — 570 — — $ 570
Dividends declared — — — — — (2,561) — $ (2,561)
Share repurchases (4) — (223) — — — — $ (223)
Stock-based compensation plans, net
of tax benefits of $(38), and other 14 — (97) 583 — — — $ 486
Balance at December 31, 2013 1,587 $ 16 $ (320) $ 3,671 $ (442) $ 1,567 $ — $ 4,492
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
60AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
years ended December 31 (in millions) (brackets denote cash outflows) 2013 2012 2011
Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings $ 4,128 $ 5,275 $ 3,433
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash from operating activities:
Depreciation 388 525 508
Amortization of intangible assets 509 625 764
Stock-based compensation 212 187 163
Acquired in-process research and development 338 288 673
Other, net 34 66 —
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:
Accounts and other receivables 681 223 (498)
Inventories (56) (203) (87)
Prepaid expenses and other assets 459 90 (206)
Accounts payable and other liabilities (426) (731) 1,497
Cash flows from operating activities 6,267 6,345 6,247
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisitions and investments, net of cash acquired (405) (688) (273)
Acquisitions of property and equipment (491) (333) (356)
Release of restricted funds — — 1,870
Purchases of investment securities (930) (2,550) (1,943)
Sales and maturities of investment securities 2,705 1,153 1,255
Cash flows from investing activities 879 (2,418) 553
Cash flows from financing activities
Net change in short-term borrowings (601) 1,000 —
Dividends paid (2,555) — —
Purchases of treasury stock (320) — —
Proceeds from the exercise of stock options 347 — —
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt — 14,586 —
Net transactions with Abbott Laboratories, excluding noncash items (247) (13,504) (6,762)
Other, net (66) (151) (21)
Cash flows from financing activities (3,442) 1,931 (6,783 )
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and equivalents (10) 16 —
Net increase in cash and equivalents 3,694 5,874 17
Cash and equivalents, beginning of year 5,901 27 10
Cash and equivalents, end of year $ 9,595 $ 5,901 $ 27
Other supplemental information
Interest paid, net of portion capitalized 283 61 —
Income taxes paid 1,305 — —
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
61AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1 Background and Basis of Presentation
Background
The principal business of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company) is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of proprietary pharmaceutical
products. Substantially all of AbbVie's sales in the United States (U.S.) are to three wholesalers. Outside the U.S., products are sold primarily to health care providers
or through distributors, depending on the market served.
On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent, publicly-traded company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100 percent of the
outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders (the separation). AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. Abbott's Board of Directors
approved the distribution of its shares of AbbVie on November 28, 2012. AbbVie's registration statement on Form 10 was declared effective by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission on December 7, 2012. On January 1, 2013, Abbott's shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 12, 2012, received one
share of AbbVie common stock for every one share of Abbott common stock held as of the record date. AbbVie's common stock began trading "regular-way" under
the ticker symbol "ABBV" on the New York Stock Exchange on January 2, 2013.
During the year ended December 31, 2013, separation-related adjustments totaling $1.3 billion were recorded in stockholders' equity. Separation-related adjustments
to additional paid-in capital principally reflected dividends to AbbVie shareholders that were declared from pre-separation earnings during the first quarter and the
transfer of certain pension plan liabilities and assets from Abbott to AbbVie upon the legal split of those plans in 2013. In addition, because the historical financial
statements were derived from Abbott's records, separation-related adjustments also included an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive loss to reflect the
appropriate opening balances associated with currency translation adjustments related to AbbVie's legal entities at the separation date. Refer to Note 10 for further
information regarding the separation of the pension plans.
In connection with the separation, AbbVie and Abbott entered into transition services agreements covering certain corporate support and back office services that
AbbVie has historically received from Abbott. Such services include information technology, accounts payable, payroll, receivables collection, treasury and other
financial functions, as well as order entry, warehousing, engineering support, quality assurance support and other administrative services. These agreements
facilitate the separation by allowing AbbVie to operate independently prior to establishing stand-alone back office functions across its organization. Transition
services may be provided for up to 24 months, with an option for a one-year extension.
During the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, AbbVie incurred $254 million and $288 million, respectively, of separation-related expenses, including legal,
information technology and regulatory fees, which were principally classified in selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A).
Basis of Historical Presentation
For a certain portion of AbbVie's operations, the legal transfer of AbbVie's assets (net of liabilities) did not occur with the separation of AbbVie on January 1, 2013
due to the time required to transfer marketing authorizations and satisfy other regulatory requirements in certain countries. Under the terms of the separation
agreement with Abbott, AbbVie is responsible for the business activities conducted by Abbott on its behalf, and is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits
generated by these operations and assets. As a result, the related assets and liabilities and results of operations have
62been reported in AbbVie's consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2013. Net sales related to these operations for the year ended
December 31, 2013 totaled approximately $738 million. At December 31, 2013, the assets and liabilities consisted primarily of accounts receivable of $62 million,
inventories of $190 million, other assets of $93 million and accounts payable and other accrued liabilities of $212 million. The majority of these operations are expected
to be transferred to AbbVie by the end of 2014.
Prior to the separation on January 1, 2013, the historical financial statements of AbbVie were prepared on a stand-alone basis and were derived from Abbott's
consolidated financial statements and accounting records as if the former research-based pharmaceutical business of Abbott had been part of AbbVie for all periods
presented. Accordingly, AbbVie's financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 are presented herein on a combined basis and reflect AbbVie's financial
position, results of operations and cash flows as its business was operated as part of Abbott prior to the separation, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP).
The historical combined financial statements included the allocation of certain assets and liabilities that were historically held at the Abbott corporate level but which
were specifically identifiable or allocable to AbbVie. Prior to 2012, cash and equivalents, short-term investments and restricted funds held by Abbott were not
allocated to AbbVie unless those assets were held by an entity that was transferred to AbbVie. As of December 31, 2012, AbbVie's combined balance sheet reflected
the direct holdings of AbbVie legal entities. Prior to November 2012, long-term debt and short-term borrowings were not allocated to AbbVie as none of the debt
recorded by Abbott was directly attributable to or guaranteed by AbbVie. In November 2012, AbbVie issued $14.7 billion of long-term debt with maturities ranging
from three to 30 years and $1.0 billion of commercial paper, which was reflected on AbbVie's combined balance sheet as of December 31, 2012. All AbbVie
intracompany transactions and accounts were eliminated. Prior to 2012, all intercompany transactions between AbbVie and Abbott were considered to be effectively
settled in the historical combined financial statements at the time the transactions were recorded. As a result, the total net effect of the settlement of these
intercompany transactions was reflected in the combined statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 as a financing activity and in the
combined balance sheet as of December 31, 2012 as net parent company investment in AbbVie. As of December 31, 2012, outstanding transactions between AbbVie
and Abbott were reflected in the combined balance sheet outside of net parent company investment in AbbVie Inc. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the aggregate
amount due from Abbott totaled $738 million and $696 million, respectively, and was classified in accounts and other receivables, net. The aggregate amount due to
Abbott totaled $876 million and $923 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and was classified in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.
Prior to the separation on January 1, 2013, Abbott provided AbbVie certain services, which included administration of treasury, payroll, employee compensation and
benefits, travel and meeting services, public and investor relations, real estate services, internal audit, telecommunications, information technology, corporate income
tax and selected legal services. Some of these services continue to be provided to AbbVie on a temporary basis after the separation pursuant to certain transition
services agreements. AbbVie's historical combined financial statements reflect an allocation of expenses related to these services. These expenses were allocated to
AbbVie based on direct usage or benefit where identifiable, with the remainder allocated on a pro rata basis of revenues, headcount, square footage, number of
transactions or other measures. AbbVie considers the expense allocation methodology and results to be reasonable for all periods presented. However, the
allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred had AbbVie operated as an independent, publicly-traded company for the
periods presented. These allocations totaled $838 million and $801 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011.
Prior to the separation on January 1, 2013, AbbVie employees participated in various benefits and stock-based compensation programs maintained by Abbott. A
portion of the cost of those programs was
63included in AbbVie's historical combined financial statements. However, AbbVie's historical combined balance sheet as of December 31, 2012 does not include any
equity related to stock-based compensation plans. See Note 10 and Note 11 for a further description of the accounting for post-employment benefits and stock-based
compensation, respectively.
Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Use of Estimates
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions by management.
Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for sales rebates, pension and post-employment benefits, income taxes,
litigation, valuation of intangible assets and goodwill, financial instruments, and inventory and accounts receivable exposures.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2013 include the accounts of AbbVie and all of its subsidiaries in which a controlling
interest is maintained. Controlling interest is determined by majority ownership interest and the absence of substantive third-party participating rights or, in the case
of variable interest entities, by majority exposure to expected losses, residual returns or both. Investments in companies over which AbbVie has a significant
influence but not a controlling interest are accounted for using the equity method with AbbVie's share of earnings or losses reported in other (income) expense, net.
All other investments are generally accounted for using the cost method. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated.
Certain reclassifications have been made to conform the prior period combined financial statements to the current period presentation.
Revenue Recognition
AbbVie recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability of the
sales price is reasonably assured. Revenue from product sales is recognized when title and risk of loss have passed to the customer. Provisions for discounts, rebates
and sales incentives to customers and returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the related sales are recorded. Sales incentives to customers are
not material. Historical data is readily available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in gross sales. Revenue from the launch of a new
product, from an improved version of an existing product, or for shipments in excess of a customer's normal requirements are recorded when the conditions noted
above are met. In those situations, management records a returns reserve for such revenue, if necessary. Sales of product rights for marketable products are recorded
as revenue upon disposition of the rights.
Research and Development Costs
Internal research and development (R&D) costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted work is
performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development collaborations for pre-commercialization milestones, the
milestone payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results are achieved or are probable. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory
approval are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related product. Amounts capitalized for such payments are included in intangible assets,
net of accumulated amortization.
64Collaborations and Other Arrangements
The company enters into collaborative agreements with third parties to develop and commercialize drug candidates. Collaborative activities may include joint research
and development and commercialization of new products. AbbVie generally receives certain licensing rights under these arrangements. These collaborations often
require upfront payments and may include additional milestone, research and development cost sharing, royalty or profit share payments, contingent upon the
occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development and commercialization. Upfront payments associated with collaborative
arrangements during the development stage are expensed to acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D). Subsequent payments made to the partner for
the achievement of milestones during the development stage are expensed to R&D when the milestone is achieved. Milestone payments made to the partner
subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized to cost of products sold over the estimated useful life of the related asset.
Royalty and sales based milestones are expensed as cost of products sold when incurred.
Advertising
Costs associated with advertising are expensed as incurred and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A). Advertising expenses were
$626 million, $506 million and $375 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Pension and Post-Employment Benefits
AbbVie records annual expenses relating to its defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans based on calculations which include various actuarial
assumptions, including discount rates, assumed asset rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. AbbVie reviews its
actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized
over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method, in accordance with the rules for accounting for post-employment benefits.
Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual annual return are amortized to net period benefit cost over a five-year period.
Prior to separation, AbbVie employees participated in certain defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans sponsored by Abbott, which included
participants of Abbott's other businesses. Such plans were accounted for as multiemployer plans in AbbVie's historical combined financial statements as of and for
the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. As a result, no asset or liability was recorded by AbbVie in the historical combined balance sheets to recognize the
funded status of these plans. In 2013, subsequent to the separation from Abbott, AbbVie's portion of the defined benefit pension plans were separated from the
Abbott defined benefit pension plans using a December 31, 2012 measurement date. As a result, the funded status for each plan is reflected in AbbVie's consolidated
balance sheet as of December 31, 2013. In addition to participation in defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans sponsored by Abbott, AbbVie is the
sole sponsor for certain defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans. The funded status of these plans was recorded in AbbVie's combined balance
sheet at December 31, 2012 and the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2013.
Refer to Note 10 for information regarding AbbVie's pension and post-employment plans.
Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Provisions for federal, state and foreign income taxes are calculated on reported pretax earnings
based on current tax laws. Deferred
65taxes are provided using enacted tax rates on the future tax consequences of temporary differences, which are the differences between the financial statement
carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and the tax benefits of carryforwards. A valuation allowance is established or maintained when,
based on currently available information, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.
In AbbVie's financial statements for periods prior to 2013, income tax expense and tax balances were calculated as if AbbVie was a separate taxpayer, although
AbbVie's operations were historically included in tax returns filed by Abbott. After separation, AbbVie's income tax expense and income tax balances represent
AbbVie's federal, state and foreign income taxes as an independent company. As a result, its effective tax rate and income tax balances are not necessarily comparable
to those for periods prior to the separation.
Prior to the separation, AbbVie did not maintain an income taxes payable to/from account with Abbott. With the exception of certain entities outside the United
States that transferred to AbbVie at separation, AbbVie is deemed to have settled current tax balances with the Abbott tax paying entities in the respective
jurisdictions. These settlements were reflected as changes in net parent company investment.
Cash and Equivalents
Cash and equivalents include time deposits and money market funds with original maturities at the time of purchase of three months or less.
Investments
Short-term investments consist primarily of time deposits and U.S. Treasury securities. Investments in marketable equity securities are classified as available-for-sale
and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Investments in
equity securities that are not traded on public stock exchanges and held-to-maturity debt securities are recorded at cost.
AbbVie reviews the carrying value of investments each quarter to determine whether an other than temporary decline in fair value exists. AbbVie considers factors
affecting the investee, factors affecting the industry the investee operates in and general equity market trends. The company considers the length of time an
investment's fair value has been below cost and the near-term prospects for recovery. When AbbVie determines that an other than temporary decline has occurred,
the cost basis investment is written down with a charge to other (income) expense and the available-for-sale securities' unrealized loss is recognized as a charge to
income and removed from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI).
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable are stated at their net realizable value. The allowance against gross accounts receivable reflects the best estimate of probable losses inherent in
the receivables portfolio determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled accounts and other currently available information.
Accounts receivable are written off after all reasonable means to collect the full amount (including litigation, where appropriate) have been exhausted. The allowance
was $88 million at December 31, 2013 and $83 million at December 31, 2012. The increase in 2013 was due to a higher level of past due receivables.
66Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs. Inventories, net, consist of the following.
as of December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012
Finished goods $ 485 $ 547
Work-in-process 404 286
Materials 261 258
Inventories, net $ 1,150 $ 1,091
Property and Equipment
as of December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012
Land $ 50 $ 48
Buildings 1,263 1,324
Equipment 5,214 4,865
Construction in progress 382 305
Property and equipment, gross 6,909 6,542
Less accumulated depreciation (4,611) (4,295)
Property and equipment, net $ 2,298 $ 2,247
Depreciation for property and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful life for buildings
ranges from 10 to 50 years and five to 20 years for equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the related facility lease (including any renewal
periods, if appropriate) or the asset, whichever is shorter. Depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $388 million, $525 million
and $508 million, respectively. Equipment includes certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining
software for internal use. Assets under capital leases included in property and equipment in the consolidated balance sheets are not material.
Litigation
Loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably
estimated based on existing information. When a best estimate cannot be made, the minimum loss contingency amount in a probable range is recorded. Legal fees are
expensed as incurred.
Product Liability
AbbVie accrues for product liability claims, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be
reasonably estimated based on existing information. The liabilities are adjusted quarterly as additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance
recoveries, if any, for product liability claims are recorded as assets, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized.
Business Combinations
Results of operations of acquired companies are included in AbbVie's results of operations beginning on the respective acquisition dates. Assets acquired and
liabilities assumed are recognized at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the fair value consideration transferred over the estimated fair
values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. Contingent consideration
67is recognized at the estimated fair value on the acquisition date, which is determined by utilizing a probability weighted discounted cash flow model. Subsequent
changes to the fair value of contingent payments are recognized in other (income) expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. The fair value of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed in certain cases may be subject to revision based on the final determination of fair value. Legal costs, due diligence costs, business
valuation costs and all other business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recorded at fair value using a discounted cash flow model. The discounted cash flow model requires
assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, and terminal values of market participants. Definite-lived intangibles are
amortized over their estimated useful lives. AbbVie reviews the recoverability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. AbbVie first compares the projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset to its
carrying value. If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its
fair value, which is usually the discounted cash flow amount and a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the asset's net carrying value over its fair value. Where
cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest level for which cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of
other assets and liabilities.
Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized but are subject to an impairment review annually and more frequently when indicators of impairment exist. An
impairment of goodwill would occur if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeded the fair value of that reporting unit, calculated using a weighting of the income
approach and the market approach. The fair value under the income approach is calculated as the present value of estimated cash flows discounted using a risk-free
market rate adjusted for a market participant's view of similar companies and perceived risks in cash flows. The fair value under the market approach is calculated
using market multiples for peer groups applied to the operating results of the reporting unit to determine fair value. The implied fair value of goodwill is then
determined by subtracting the fair value of all identifiable net assets other than goodwill from the fair value of the reporting unit, with an impairment charge recorded
for the excess, if any, of the carrying amount of goodwill over the implied fair value. Based on the company's most recent annual impairment test performed in the
third quarter of 2013, the fair value of AbbVie's single reporting unit was substantially in excess of its carrying value.
Indefinite-lived intangible assets, which consist of capitalized IPR&D, are tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of each intangible asset with its carrying
value. The fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is based on the present value of projected cash flows using an income approach. If the carrying value
exceeds fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value.
Acquired In-Process Research and Development
The initial costs of rights to IPR&D projects acquired in an asset acquisition are expensed as IPR&D unless the project has an alternative future use. These costs
include initial payments incurred prior to regulatory approval in connection with research and development collaboration agreements that provide rights to develop,
manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products. The fair value of IPR&D projects acquired in a business combination are capitalized and accounted for as
indefinite-lived intangible assets until the underlying project receives regulatory approval, at which point the intangible asset will be accounted for as a definite-lived
intangible asset, or discontinuation, at which point the intangible asset will be written off. Development costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred.
Indefinite- and definite-lived assets are subject to impairment reviews as discussed previously.
68Foreign Currency Translation
Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using
period end exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recognized in other
comprehensive income (OCI). The net assets of subsidiaries in highly inflationary economies are remeasured as if the functional currency were the reporting
currency. The remeasurement is recognized in earnings and is immaterial for all years presented.
Derivatives
All derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities at fair value in AbbVie's balance sheets and are classified as current or long-term based on the
scheduled maturity of the instrument. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been formally designated and
qualifies as part of a hedging relationship under the applicable accounting standards and, further, on the type of hedging relationship.
For derivatives formally designated as hedges, the company assesses at inception and quarterly thereafter, whether the hedging derivatives are highly effective in
offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. The changes in fair value of a derivative designated as a fair value hedge and of the hedged item
attributable to the hedge risk are recognized in earnings immediately. Fair value hedges are used to hedge the interest rate risk associated with certain of the
company's fixed-rate debt. The effective portions of changes in the fair value of a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge are reported in AOCI and are
subsequently recognized in earnings consistent with the underlying hedged item. Cash flow hedges are used to manage exposures from changes in foreign currency
exchange rates.
The derivatives that are not designated and do not qualify as hedges are adjusted to fair value through current earnings. If it is determined that a derivative is no
longer highly effective as a hedge, the company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively. Gains or losses are immediately reclassified from AOCI to earnings
relating to hedged forecasted transactions that are no longer probable of occurring. Gains or losses relating to terminations of effective cash flow hedges in which the
forecasted transactions are still probable of occurring are deferred and recognized consistent with the income or loss recognition of the underlying hedged items.
Terminations of a fair value hedge result in fair value adjustments to the hedged items until the date of termination with the new bases being accreted to par value on
the date of maturity.
Derivatives, including those that are not designated as a hedge, are principally classified in the operating section of the consolidated statements of cash flows,
consistent with the underlying hedged item.
Refer to Note 9 for information regarding AbbVie's derivative and hedging activities.
Note 3 Supplemental Financial Information
Interest Expense (Income), Net
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011
Interest expense $ 299 $ 104 $ —
Interest and dividend income (21) (20) (20)
Interest expense (income), net $ 278 $ 84 $ (20 )
69Other (Income) Expense, Net
Other (income) expense, net, included expenses of $11 million in 2013, $29 million in 2012 and $56 million in 2011 of fair value adjustments to the contingent
consideration related to an acquisition of a business in 2010. Other (income) expense, net, for 2013, 2012 and 2011 also included ongoing contractual payments
associated with the conclusion of a preexisting joint venture arrangement dissolved in 2008. Other (income) expense, net, for 2012 included income of $21 million from
the resolution of a contractual agreement and a loss of $52 million for the impairment of an equity security.
Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities
as of December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012
Sales rebates $ 1,401 $ 1,616
Accounts payable 933 556
Due to Abbott Laboratories 876 923
Dividends payable 643 —
Salaries, wages and commissions 621 523
Royalty license arrangements 443 398
Other 1,531 1,718
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities $ 6,448 $ 5,734
Long-Term Liabilities
as of December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012
Deferred income taxes $ 570 $ 360
Pension and other post-employment benefits 1,628 979
Other 1,337 900
Long-term liabilities $ 3,535 $ 2,239
Note 4 Earnings Per Share
For periods subsequent to the separation, AbbVie calculated basic earnings per share (EPS) pursuant to the two-class method. The two-class method is an earnings
allocation formula that determines earnings per share for common stock and participating securities according to dividends declared and participation rights in
undistributed earnings. Under this method, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) are allocated to common shares and participating securities based on their
respective rights to receive dividends. In addition, participating securities may include certain performance-based awards that may otherwise have been excluded
from the calculation of EPS under the treasury-stock method. AbbVie's forfeitable restricted stock units (RSUs) and restricted stock awards (RSAs), including most
performance-based awards, participate in dividends on the same basis as common shares and such dividends are nonforfeitable to the holder once declared. As a
result, these forfeitable RSUs and RSAs meet the definition of a participating security.
The dilutive effect of participating securities is calculated using the more dilutive of the treasury stock or the two-class method. For the year ended December 31,
2013, the two-class method was more dilutive. As such, the dilutive effect of outstanding RSUs and RSAs for the year ended December 31, 2013 of approximately
5 million was excluded from the denominator for the calculation of diluted EPS. These awards otherwise would have been included in the calculation of EPS under the
treasury stock method. Additionally, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) allocable to participating securities,
70including performance-based awards not otherwise included in the calculation of EPS under the treasury-stock method, was excluded from the numerator for the
calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share under the two-class method. Earnings allocable to participating securities for the year ended December 31, 2013
was $26 million.
For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 1 million common shares issuable under stock-based compensation plans were excluded from the computation
of earnings per common share assuming dilution because the effect would have been antidilutive.
For periods prior to the separation, the numerator for both basic and diluted EPS was net earnings attributable to AbbVie. The denominator for basic and diluted EPS
was calculated using the 1,577 million AbbVie common shares outstanding immediately following the separation. The same number of shares was used to calculate
basic and diluted earnings per share since no AbbVie equity awards were outstanding prior to the separation.
Note 5 Acquisitions, Collaborations and Other Arrangements
In 2013, 2012 and 2011, cash outflows related to collaborations, the acquisition of product rights and other arrangements totaled $405 million, $688 million and
$273 million, respectively. AbbVie recorded IPR&D charges of $338 million, $288 million and $673 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Significant arrangements
impacting 2013, 2012 and 2011, some of which require contingent milestone payments, include the following:
Collaborations and Other Arrangements
Ablynx NV
In September 2013, AbbVie entered into a global collaboration agreement with Ablynx NV to develop and commercialize the anti-IL-6R Nanobody, ALX-0061, to treat
inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus, resulting in a charge to IPR&D of $175 million. Upon the achievement of
certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones, AbbVie could make additional payments of up to $665 million, as well as royalties on net sales.
Galapagos NV
In September 2013, AbbVie recorded a charge to IPR&D of $45 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration with Galapagos NV (Galapagos) to discover,
develop and commercialize cystic fibrosis therapies. Upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones, AbbVie could make
additional payments of up to $360 million, as well as royalties on net sales.
In February 2012, AbbVie recorded a charge to IPR&D of $150 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration with Galapagos to develop and commercialize
a next-generation, oral Janus Kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor in Phase II development with the potential to treat multiple autoimmune diseases. Additional payments of
approximately $1.3 billion could be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under this agreement.
Alvine Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
In May 2013, AbbVie entered into a global collaboration with Alvine Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to develop ALV003, a novel oral treatment for patients with celiac disease.
As part of the agreement, AbbVie made an initial upfront payment of $70 million, which was expensed to IPR&D in the second quarter of 2013. AbbVie could make
additional payments totaling up to $275 million pursuant to this arrangement.
71In addition to the collaborations described above, in 2013, AbbVie entered several other arrangements resulting in charges to IPR&D of $48 million and upon the
achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones, could make additional payments of up to $894 million. It is not possible to predict with
reasonable certainty whether these milestones will be achieved or the timing for achievement.
Action Pharma A/S
In May 2012, AbbVie recorded a charge to IPR&D of $110 million as a result of the acquisition of ABT-719 (previously referred to as AP214), a drug under
development for the prevention of acute kidney injury associated with major cardiac surgery in patients at increased risk.
Reata Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
In the fourth quarter of 2011, AbbVie entered into a collaboration with Reata Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Reata) for the joint development and commercialization of second-
generation oral antioxidant inflammation modulators resulting in a charge to IPR&D of $400 million, which was paid in the first quarter of 2012.
Pursuant to a series of transactions with Reata in 2010, AbbVie acquired licensing rights outside the United States, excluding certain Asian markets, to bardoxolone
methyl. In addition, AbbVie acquired equity interests in Reata of $62 million each in 2010 and 2011. The achievement of certain development milestones under the
license agreement resulted in charges of $50 million in 2012 to R&D and $188 million in 2011 to IPR&D. On October 17, 2012, Reata informed AbbVie that it was
discontinuing a Phase III clinical study for bardoxolone methyl for chronic kidney disease. As a result, AbbVie recorded an impairment charge of $52 million related to
AbbVie's equity investment in Reata. The charge was classified in in other (income) expense, net in the combined statement of earnings for 2012. Reata and AbbVie
continue to evaluate the development of bardoxolone methyl in other indications.
Biotest AG
In June 2011, AbbVie entered into a global agreement with Biotest AG to develop and commercialize an anit-CD4, a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis,
resulting in an $85 million charge to IPR&D. AbbVie could, in the future, be required to make additional payments totaling up to $395 million based on the
achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under this agreement.
Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill
The following table summarizes changes in the carrying amount of AbbVie's goodwill.
(in millions)
Balance at December 31, 2011 $ 6,100
Currency translation and other adjustments 30
Balance at December 31, 2012 6,130
Additions 25
Currency translation and other adjustments 122
Balance at December 31, 2013 $ 6,277
Goodwill additions in 2013 related to product rights acquired during the second quarter. As of December 31, 2013, there were no accumulated goodwill impairment
losses. Future impairment tests for goodwill will be performed annually in the third quarter, or earlier if indicators of impairment exist.
72Intangible Assets, Net
The following table summarizes AbbVie's intangible assets.
December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012
Gross Net Gross Net
carrying Accumulated carrying carrying Accumulated carrying
(in millions) amount amortization amount amount amortization amount
Definite-lived intangible assets
Developed product rights $ 4,744 $ (3,503) $ 1,241 $ 4,699 $ (3,031) $ 1,668
License agreements 994 (792) 202 969 (734) 235
Total definite-lived intangible assets 5,738 (4,295) 1,443 5,668 (3,765) 1,903
Indefinite-lived research and development 447 — 447 420 — 420
Total intangible assets $ 6,185 $ (4,295) $ 1,890 $ 6,088 $ (3,765) $ 2,323
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range between 3 to 16 years with an average of 9 years for both
developed product rights and license agreements. Additions related to the acquisition of amortizable intangible assets in the second quarter of 2013 with an average
amortization period of 5 years.
Amortization expense for 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $509 million, $625 million and $764 million, respectively, and is included in cost of products sold in the consolidated
statements of earnings. At December 31, 2013, the anticipated annual amortization expense for intangible assets recorded as of December 31, 2013 was $352 million in
2014, $279 million in 2015, $137 million in 2016, $131 million in 2017 and $115 million in 2018.
The indefinite-lived intangible assets as of December 31, 2012 relate to IPR&D acquired in a business combination. Additions related to the acquisition of IPR&D in
the second quarter of 2013. In 2012 and 2011, AbbVie recorded impairment charges of $13 million and $46 million, respectively, for certain projects under development.
These charges are included in R&D expenses. In 2013, no material impairment charges were recorded.
Note 7 Restructuring Plans
In 2013, AbbVie management approved plans to restructure certain commercial operations in conjunction with the loss and expected loss of exclusivity of certain
products. Restructuring charges recorded in 2013 were $83 million and were primarily recorded in SG&A and cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of
earnings with the remainder recorded in R&D. Included in the charges were cash costs of $76 million which mainly related to employee severance and contractual
obligations.
In 2012, AbbVie management approved plans to realign its worldwide manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial and R&D
operations in order to reduce costs. In 2012, AbbVie incurred restructuring charges of approximately $191 million for employee severance and contractual obligations,
primarily related to the exit from an R&D facility with $183 million recorded within R&D and $8 million within SG&A expenses in the consolidated statements of
earnings. In 2011, AbbVie recorded a charge of $163 million reflecting employee severance and other related charges, with $42 million classified as cost of products
sold, $72 million as R&D and $49 million as SG&A expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings.
73The following summarizes the cash activity in the restructuring reserve for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. Restructuring reserves as of
December 31, 2010 principally relates to a restructuring plan approved by AbbVie management in 2010.
(in millions)
Accrued balance at December 31, 2010 $ 157
2011 restructuring charges 163
Payments and other adjustments (171)
Accrued balance at December 31, 2011 149
2012 restructuring charges 191
Payments and other adjustments (107)
Accrued balance at December 31, 2012 233
2013 restructuring charges 76
Payments and other adjustments (118)
Accrued balance at December 31, 2013 $ 191
Payments and other adjustments for 2013 includes a $23 million reversal of a previously recorded restructuring reserve due to the company's re-evaluation of a prior
year decision to exit a manufacturing facility. In 2012 and 2011, AbbVie recorded additional restructuring charges of $69 million and $53 million, respectively, primarily
for accelerated depreciation and, for 2011 only, asset impairments.
Note 8 Debt, Credit Facilities, and Commitments and Contingencies
The following is a summary of long-term debt as of December 31, 2013 and 2012.
Effective Effective
interest rate interest rate
(in millions) in 2013(a) 2013 in 2012(a) 2012
Floating rate notes due 2015 1.14% $ 500 1.13% $ 500
1.2% notes due 2015 1.31% 3,500 1.24% 3,500
1.75% notes due 2017 1.86% 4,000 1.82% 4,000
2.0% notes due 2018 2.15% 1,000 2.12% 1,000
2.9% notes due 2022 2.97% 3,100 3.01% 3,100
4.4% notes due 2042 4.46% 2,600 4.50% 2,600
Other — 98 — 104
Fair value hedges — (432) — (81)
Unamortized bond discounts — (56) — (71)
Total long-term debt and lease obligations 14,310 14,652
Current portion 18 22
Noncurrent portion $ 14,292 $ 14,630
(a) Excludes the effect of any related interest rate swaps.
In November 2012, AbbVie issued $14.7 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes. Approximately $3.0 billion of these senior notes were issued to Abbott as
partial consideration for the transfer of assets from Abbott to AbbVie. AbbVie used part of the net proceeds from the sale of senior notes (other than the senior notes
issued to Abbott) to finance the payment made in November 2012 of a $10.2 billion distribution to Abbott, as provided by the terms of the separation agreement. The
debt was guaranteed by Abbott until AbbVie separated from Abbott on January 1, 2013.
74AbbVie may redeem all of the senior notes of each series, other than the floating notes due in 2015, at any time, and some of the senior notes of each series, other
than the floating notes due in 2015, from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium.
AbbVie may not redeem the floating notes due in 2015 prior to maturity.
At December 31, 2013, the company was in compliance with its senior note covenants.
Short-Term Borrowings
At December 31, 2013 and 2012, short-term borrowings included $400 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, of commercial paper borrowings. The weighted-average
interest rate on short-term borrowings was 0.2% and 0.4% for 2013 and 2012, respectively. AbbVie has a $2.0 billion unsecured bank credit facility agreement, which
backs the commercial paper program, and matures in July 2017. Abbott was relieved of its obligations under the credit facility upon separation of AbbVie from Abbott
on January 1, 2013, and AbbVie became the sole obligor of this facility. The credit facility enables the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at floating
interest rates. At December 31, 2013, the company was in compliance with its credit facility covenants. Compensating balances and commitment fees are not material.
Maturities of Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations
As part of the separation, AbbVie entered into agreements to lease certain facilities, including office, laboratory, and factory and warehouse space, under principally
non-cancelable operating leases with Abbott. The leases generally include renewal options and provide for the company to pay taxes, maintenance, insurance and
other operating costs of the leased property. AbbVie also leases office space on a short-term basis typically under cancelable operating leases. Lease expense for
2013 was $107 million and was not material for both 2012 and 2011. Capital lease obligations relate to automobiles and certain facilities. As of December 31, 2013,
annual future minimum lease payments for capital lease obligations are not material. The following table summarizes AbbVie's future minimum lease payments under
non-cancelable operating leases, debt maturities and future minimum lease payments for capital lease obligations as of December 31, 2013.
Operating Debt maturities
as of and for the years ended December 31 (in millions) leases and capital leases
2014 $ 87 $ 18
2015 79 4,012
2016 71 11
2017 62 4,008
2018 46 1,006
Thereafter 530 5,743
Total obligations and commitments 875 14,798
Fair value hedges and unamortized bond discounts n/a (488)
Total debt and lease obligations $ 875 $ 14,310
Contingencies and Guarantees
In connection with the separation, AbbVie has indemnified Abbott for all liabilities resulting from the operation of AbbVie's business other than income tax liabilities
with respect to periods prior to the distribution date and other liabilities as agreed to by AbbVie and Abbott. AbbVie has no material exposures to off-balance sheet
arrangements, no special-purpose entities and no activities that included non-exchange-traded contracts accounted for at fair value. In the ordinary course of
business, AbbVie has periodically entered into third-party agreements, such as the assignment of product rights, which
75have resulted in AbbVie becoming secondarily liable for obligations for which AbbVie had previously been primarily liable. Since AbbVie no longer maintains a
business relationship with the other parties, AbbVie is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these
obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. AbbVie periodically acquires a business or product rights in
which AbbVie agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain events.
Note 9 Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures
Risk Management Policy
The company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks related to its business operations. The company's hedging policy attempts to
manage these risks to an acceptable level based on the company's judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. The company uses
derivative instruments to reduce its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. The company is also exposed to the risk that its earnings and cash flows could be
adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. The company periodically enters into interest rate swaps, based on judgment, to manage interest costs in which
the company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional
amount. Derivative instruments are not used for trading purposes or to manage exposure to changes in interest rates for investment securities, and none of the
company's outstanding derivative instruments contain credit risk related contingent features; collateral is generally not required.
Financial Instruments
Various AbbVie foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for
anticipated transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the local entity. These contracts, with notional amounts totaling $1.5 billion
and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, are designated as cash flow hedges and are recorded at fair value. Accumulated gains and losses as of
December 31, 2013 will be included in cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally through the next twelve months.
The company enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated trade payables and receivables and
intercompany loans. The contracts are marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are generally offset by losses or gains on the
foreign currency exposure being managed. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, AbbVie held notional amounts of $5.3 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, of such foreign
currency forward exchange contracts.
AbbVie was a party to interest rate hedge contracts, designated as fair value hedges, totaling $8.0 billion at both December 31, 2013 and 2012. The effect of the hedge
is to change a fixed-rate interest obligation to a floating rate for that portion of the debt. AbbVie recorded the contracts at fair value and adjusted the carrying amount
of the fixed-rate debt by an offsetting amount.
76The following table summarizes the amounts and location of AbbVie's derivative instruments as of December 31.
Fair value—Derivatives in liability
Fair value—Derivatives in asset position position
(in millions) 2013 2012 Balance sheet caption 2013 2012 Balance sheet caption
Interest rate swaps designated as fair
value hedges $ — $ — n/a $ 432 $ 81 Long-term liabilities
Foreign currency forward exchange
contracts—
Prepaid expenses and Accounts payable and accrued
Hedging instruments — 1 other 61 10 liabilities
Prepaid expenses and Accounts payable and accrued
Others not designated as hedges 17 14 other 12 15 liabilities
Total $ 17 $ 15 $ 505 $ 106
While certain derivatives are subject to netting arrangements with the company's counterparties, the company does not offset derivative assets and liabilities within
the consolidated balance sheets presented herein.
The following table summarizes the activity for derivative instruments and the amounts and location of income (expense) and gain (loss) reclassified into income and
for certain other derivative instruments for the years ended December 31. The amount of hedge ineffectiveness was not significant in 2013, 2012 and 2011.
(Loss) gain
recognized Income (expense)
in other and gain (loss)
comprehensive reclassified
(loss) income into income
(in millions) 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Income statement caption
Foreign currency forward exchange contracts—
Designated as cash flow hedges $ (77) $ (11) $ (2) $ — $ 24 $ 18 Cost of products sold
Net foreign exchange loss
Not designated as hedges n/a n/a n/a 81 (23) 30 (gain)
Interest rate swaps designated as fair value
hedges n/a n/a n/a (351) (81) — Interest expense (income), net
The losses of $351 million and $81 million related to fair value hedges recognized in net interest expense in 2013 and 2012, respectively, were offset equally by
$351 million and $81 million, respectively, in gains on the underlying hedged item, the fixed-rate debt.
Fair Value Measures
The fair value hierarchy under the accounting standard for fair value measurements consists of the following three levels:
• Level 1—Valuations based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets that the company has the ability to access;
• Level 2—Valuations based on quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that
are not active, and model-based valuations in which all significant inputs are observable in the market; and
• Level 3—Valuations using significant inputs that are unobservable in the market and include the use of judgment by the company's management
about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
77The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis in the consolidated balance
sheet as of December 31, 2013.
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices
in active Significant
markets for other Significant
Balance at identical observable unobservable
December 31, assets inputs Inputs
(in millions) 2013 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets
Cash and equivalents $ 9,595 $ 684 $ 8,911 $ —
Time deposits 300 — 300 —
Equity securities 10 10 — —
Foreign currency contracts 17 — 17 —
Total assets $ 9,922 $ 694 $ 9,228 $ —
Liabilities
Interest rate hedges $ 432 $ — $ 432 $ —
Foreign currency contracts 73 — 73 —
Contingent consideration 165 — — 165
Total liabilities $ 670 $ — $ 505 $ 165
The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis in the combined balance sheet
as of December 31, 2012.
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices
in active Significant
markets for other Significant
Balance at identical observable unobservable
December 31, assets inputs Inputs
(in millions) 2012 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets
Cash and equivalents $ 5,901 $ 675 $ 5,226 $ —
Time deposits 1,775 — 1,775 —
U.S. Treasury securities 300 300 — —
Equity securities 12 12 — —
Foreign currency contracts 15 — 15 —
Total assets $ 8,003 $ 987 $ 7,016 $ —
Liabilities
Interest rate hedges $ 81 $ — $ 81 $ —
Foreign currency contracts 25 — 25 —
Contingent consideration 251 — — 251
Total liabilities $ 357 $ — $ 106 $ 251
The fair value for time deposits included in cash and equivalents and short-term investments is determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis reflecting
quoted market rates for the same or similar instruments. The fair values of time deposits approximate their amortized cost due to the short maturities of these
instruments. Available-for-sale equity securities consist of investments for which the fair value is determined by using the published market price per unit multiplied
by the number of units held, without consideration of transaction costs. The derivatives entered into by the company are valued using publicized spot and forward
prices for foreign currency hedges and publicized swap curves for interest rate hedges. The contingent payments are valued using a discounted cash flow technique
that reflects management's expectations about probability of payment.
78Cumulative unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale equity securities totaled $2 million and $1 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between the fair value measurement levels. The following table is a reconciliation of the fair value measurements
that use significant unobservable inputs (Level 3), which consist of contingent payments related to acquisitions and investments.
(in millions)
Fair value as of December 31, 2011 349
Payments (134)
Other 7
Change in fair value recognized in earnings 29
Fair value as of December 31, 2012 251
Payments (131)
Additions 28
Change in fair value recognized in earnings 17
Fair value as of December 31, 2013 $ 165
In connection with an acquisition of a business in 2010, the achievement of a certain sales milestone resulted in a payment of approximately $131 million in 2013 and
$134 million in 2012 for which a liability was previously established. Additions of $28 million related to the acquisition of product rights during the second quarter of
2013. The change in fair value recognized in earnings for both years was recognized in net foreign exchange loss (gain) and other (income) expense, net in the
consolidated statements of earnings.
In addition to the financial instruments that the company is required to recognize at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets, the company has certain financial
instruments that are recognized at historical cost or some basis other than fair value. The carrying values and fair values of certain financial instruments as of
December 31 are shown in the table below.
Approximate
Book values fair values
(in millions) 2013 2012 2013 2012
Assets
Investments $ 108 $ 107 $ 129 $ 104
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings 413 1,020 413 1,020
Current portion of long-term debt and lease obligations 18 22 18 22
Long-term debt and lease obligations, excluding fair value hedges 14,724 14,711 14,493 15,066
79The following table summarizes the bases used to measure the approximate fair values of the financial instruments as of December 31, 2013.
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices
in active Significant
markets for other Significant
Fair value at identical observable unobservable
December 31, assets inputs inputs
(in millions) 2013 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets
Investments $ 129 $ 39 $ 30 $ 60
Total assets $ 129 $ 39 $ 30 $ 60
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings $ 413 $ — $ 413 $ —
Current portion of long-term debt and lease obligations 18 — 18 —
Long-term debt and lease obligations, excluding fair value hedges 14,493 14,413 80 —
Total liabilities $ 14,924 $ 14,413 $ 511 $ —
The following table summarizes the bases used to measure the approximate fair values of the financial instruments as of December 31, 2012.
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices
in active Significant
markets for other Significant
Fair value at identical observable unobservable
December 31, assets inputs inputs
(in millions) 2012 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets
Investments $ 104 $ — $ 32 $ 72
Total assets $ 104 $ — $ 32 $ 72
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings $ 1,020 $ — $ 1,020 $ —
Current portion of long-term debt and lease obligations 22 — 22 —
Long-term debt and lease obligations, excluding fair value hedges 15,066 — 15,066 —
Total liabilities $ 16,108 $ — $ 16,108 $ —
Investments consist of cost method investments and held-to-maturity debt securities. Cost method investments include certain investments for which the fair value is
determined by using the published market price per unit multiplied by the number of units held, without consideration of transaction costs. To determine the fair
value of other cost method investments, the company takes into consideration recent transactions, as well as the financial information of the investee, which
represents a Level 3 basis of fair value measurement. The fair value of held-to-maturity debt securities was estimated based upon the quoted market prices for the
same or similar debt instruments. The fair values of short-term and current borrowings approximate the carrying values due to the short maturities of these
instruments. For 2013, the fair value of long-term debt, excluding fair value hedges, was determined by using the published market price for the debt instruments,
without consideration of
80transaction costs, which represents a Level 1 basis of fair value measurement. For 2012, the fair value of long-term debt, excluding fair value hedges, was estimated
based upon the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt instruments. For 2013 and 2012, the fair value of other debt and lease obligations was estimated
based on a discounted cash flow analysis reflecting quoted market prices for the same or similar debt instruments. There were no material adjustments to fair value
during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 of assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis, except as discussed in Note 5
regarding the impairment of the company's investment in Reata. The counterparties to financial instruments consist of select major international financial institutions.
Concentrations of Risk
The company invests excess cash in time deposits, money market funds and U.S. Treasury securities and diversifies the concentration of cash among different
financial institutions. The company monitors concentrations of credit risk associated with deposits with financial institutions. Credit exposure limits have been
established to limit a concentration with any single issuer or institution.
Three U.S. wholesalers accounted for 38 percent and 48 percent of total net accounts receivables as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and substantially all
of AbbVie's U.S. sales are to these three wholesalers. In addition, substantially all of AbbVie's trade receivables in Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain are with
governmental health systems. Global economic conditions and liquidity issues in these countries have resulted, and may continue to result, in delays in the collection
of receivables and credit losses. While the company continues to receive payments on these receivables, these conditions have resulted in an increase in the average
length of time it takes to collect accounts receivable outstanding. Net governmental receivables outstanding in Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain totaled $781 million
and $725 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
HUMIRA is AbbVie's single largest product and accounted for approximately 57 percent, 50 percent and 45 percent of AbbVie's total sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively. Any significant event that adversely affects HUMIRA's revenues could have a material adverse impact on AbbVie's results of operations, financial
position and cash flows. Because HUMIRA is a biologic and biologics cannot be readily substituted, it is uncertain what impact the loss of patent protection would
have on the sales of HUMIRA.
Note 10 Post-Employment Benefits
AbbVie sponsors various pension and other post-employment benefit plans, including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination indemnity plans, which
cover most employees worldwide. In addition, AbbVie provides medical benefits, primarily to eligible U.S. retirees, through other post-retirement benefit plans.
Abbott Sponsored Plans
Prior to separation, AbbVie employees participated in certain U.S. and international defined benefit pension and other post-employment (OPEB) plans sponsored by
Abbott. These plans included participants of Abbott's other businesses and were accounted for as multiemployer benefit plans in AbbVie's combined financial
statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. As a result, no asset or liability was recorded by AbbVie in the historical combined balance
sheets through December 31, 2012 to recognize the funded status of these plans. Effective January 1, 2013, in connection with the separation of AbbVie from Abbott,
these plans were separated and AbbVie assumed net benefit plan obligations that were previously provided by Abbott. For Abbott-sponsored defined benefit and
post-employment benefit plans, AbbVie recorded expenses of $200 million in 2012 and $150 million in 2011. Abbott made voluntary contributions to its defined benefit
pension plans that AbbVie accounted for as multiemployer benefit plans totaling $310 million and $289 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. The multiemployer
benefit pension plans were approximately 94 percent funded as of December 31, 2012.
81AbbVie Sponsored Plans
AbbVie is the sole sponsor of certain other defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans, which have been reflected in the consolidated balance sheet
as of December 31, 2013 and the combined balance sheet as of December 31, 2012. During 2012, in preparation for the separation from Abbott, certain defined benefit
pension and other post-employment benefit plans were assumed by AbbVie and were reflected in the December 31, 2012 combined balance sheet. AbbVie made
voluntary contributions to the AbbVie sponsored pension plans of $46 million and $64 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Prior to the separation, AbbVie employees participated in the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan, which was Abbott's principal domestic defined benefit
pension plan. In connection with the separation, AbbVie established the AbbVie Pension Plan, which is AbbVie's principal domestic defined benefit pension plan,
with substantially the same terms as the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan. AbbVie employees who were eligible to participate in the Abbott Laboratories
Annuity Retirement Plan on December 31, 2012 automatically became eligible for the AbbVie Pension Plan. During the first quarter of 2013, the AbbVie Pension Plan
assumed the obligations and related assets for its employees from the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan. In the first quarter of 2013, AbbVie made a
voluntary contribution of $145 million this plan. AbbVie also made a voluntary contribution of $370 million to this plan subsequent to December 31, 2013.
82The benefit plan information in the table below pertains to the global AbbVie-sponsored defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans.
Other
Defined post-employment
benefit plans plans
as of and for the years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2013 2012
Projected benefit obligations
Beginning of period $ 1,669 $ 649 $ 231 $ —
Service cost 184 21 23 —
Interest cost 196 38 19 —
Employee contributions 1 — — —
Plan amendments (1) — — —
Assumption of plan liabilities 3,009 797 209 231
Removal of plans — — (12) —
Actuarial (gain) loss (455) 182 (55) —
Benefits paid (146) (40) (12) —
Other, primarily foreign currency translation loss 27 22 — —
End of period $ 4,484 $ 1,669 $ 403 $ 231
Fair value of plan assets
Beginning of period $ 898 $ 230 $ — $ —
Actual return on plan assets 491 42 — —
Company contributions 198 46 12 —
Employee contributions 1 — — —
Assumption of plan assets 2,221 620 — —
Benefits paid (146) (40) (12) —
Other, primarily foreign currency translation gain 3 — — —
End of period $ 3,666 $ 898 — —
Funded status at December 31 $ (818) $ (771) $ (403) $ (231)
Amounts recognized in consolidated balance sheets
Other assets $ 442 $ 11 $ — $ —
Current liabilities (27) (27) (8) (7)
Long-term liabilities (1,233) (755) (395) (224)
Net liability at December 31 $ (818) $ (771) $ (403) $ (231 )
Actuarial losses, net $ 1,194 $ 526 $ 74 $ 69
Prior service cost 22 10 (47) (1)
AOCI at December 31 $ 1,216 $ 536 $ 27 $ 68
The projected benefit obligations (PBO) in the table above included $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, related to international
defined benefit pension plans, a number of which generally are not funded, in accordance with local regulations. Benefit payments under those plans are funded from
company assets.
For plans reflected in the table above, the accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) were $3.9 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. For
those plans reflected in the table above in which the ABO exceeded plan assets at December 31, 2013, the ABO, PBO and aggregate plan assets were $1.8 billion,
$2.4 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively.
83Amounts Recognized in AOCI and OCI
The defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans' actuarial gains or losses and prior service costs or credits not yet recognized in net periodic benefit
cost are recognized on a net-of-tax basis in AOCI and will be amortized to net periodic benefit cost in the future. The following is a summary of the pretax gains and
losses included in OCI.
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011
Defined benefit plans
Actuarial (gain) loss $ (715) $ 98 19
Prior service cost 15 9 —
Amortization of actuarial losses and prior service costs (114) (7) (2)
Foreign exchange loss 2 5 2
Total pretax (gain) loss recognized in OCI $ (812) $ 105 $ 19
Other post-employment plans
Actuarial (gain) loss $ (42) $ 69 $ —
Prior service cost (53) — —
Total pretax (gain) loss recognized in OCI $ (95) $ 69 $ —
The pretax amount of actuarial (gain) loss and prior service cost included in AOCI at December 31, 2013 that is expected to be recognized in the net periodic benefit
cost in 2014 is $69 million for defined benefit plans and $(4) million for other post-employment plans.
Net Periodic Benefit Cost
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011
Defined benefit plans
Service cost $ 184 $ 21 $ 18
Interest cost 196 38 32
Expected return on plan assets (259) (29) (21)
Amortization of actuarial losses and prior service costs 114 7 2
Net periodic pension benefit cost $ 235 $ 37 $ 31
Other post-employment plans
Service cost $ 23 — —
Interest cost 19 — —
Amortization of actuarial gain and prior service costs (1) — —
Net periodic OPEB cost $ 41 $ — $ —
Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Benefit Obligations at the Measurement Date
2013 2012
Defined benefit plans
Discount rate 4.9% 4.0%
Rate of compensation increases 5.0% 3.9%
Other post-employment plans
Discount rate 5.3% 4.3%
Rate of compensation increases 6.0% 3.5%
84The assumptions above, which were used in calculating the December 31, 2013 measurement date benefit obligations, will be used in the calculation of net periodic
benefit cost in 2014.
Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Net Periodic Benefit Cost
2013 2012 2011
Defined benefit plans
Discount rate 4.3% 5.1% 5.0%
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 8.2% 8.5% 8.5%
Expected rate of change in compensation 5.0% 4.2% 4.1%
Other post-employment plans
Discount rate 4.5% N/A N/A
For purposes of measuring post-retirement health care obligations as of the measurement date, the Company assumed a 7.9% pre-65 (7.6% post-65) annual rate of
increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 5% in 2051 and remain at that level thereafter. For
purposes of measuring post-retirement health care costs for 2013, the company assumed a 7.9% pre-65 (7.6% post-65) annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of
covered health care benefits. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 5% for 2051 and remain at that level thereafter.
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for health care plans. As of December 31, 2013, a 1% change in assumed
health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
One percentage
point
year ended December 31, 2013 (in millions) Increase Decrease
Service cost and interest cost $ 8 $ (6 )
Projected benefit obligation 71 (56)
Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets
Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in Significant other Significant
Balance at active markets for observable unobservable
December 31, identical assets inputs inputs
(in millions) 2013 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Equities
U.S. large cap(a) $ 1,197 $ 576 $ 621 $ —
U.S. mid cap(b) 244 62 182 —
International(c) 614 225 389 —
Fixed income securities
U.S. government securities(d) 292 35 257 —
Corporate debt instruments(e) 212 57 155 —
Government Securities International 216 159 57 —
Other 52 45 7 —
Absolute return funds(f) 704 3 290 411
Real assets 70 8 62 —
Other(g) 65 62 3 —
Fair value of plan assets $ 3,666 $ 1,232 $ 2,023 $ 411
85Basis of fair value measurement
Quoted prices in Significant other Significant
Balance at active markets for observable unobservable
December 31, identical assets inputs inputs
(in millions) 2012 (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Equities
U.S. large cap(a) $ 232 $ 232 $ — $ —
U.S. mid cap(b) 45 31 14 —
International(c) 276 234 42 —
Fixed income securities
U.S. government securities(d) 73 24 49 —
Corporate debt instruments(e) 109 93 16 —
Government Securities International 26 26 — —
Other 2 1 1 —
Absolute return funds(f) 90 22 37 31
Real assets 18 9 7 2
Other(g) 27 27 — —
Fair value of plan assets $ 898 $ 699 $ 166 $ 33
(a) A mix of pooled index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various large cap indices.
(b) A mix of pooled index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various mid cap indices.
(c) A mix of pooled index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various non-US equity indices in both
developed and emerging markets.
(d) Securities held by pooled index funds and mutual funds.
(e) Securities held by actively managed accounts, pooled index funds, and mutual funds.
(f) Funds having global mandates with the flexibility to allocate capital broadly across a wide range of asset classes and strategies, including but
not limited to equities, fixed income, commodities, financial futures, currencies, and other securities, with objectives to outperform agreed
upon benchmarks of specific return and volatility targets.
(g) Investments in cash and cash equivalents.
Equities that are valued using quoted prices are valued at the published market prices. Equities in a common collective trust or a registered investment company that
are valued using significant other observable inputs are valued at the net asset value (NAV) provided by the fund administrator. The NAV is based on the value of
the underlying assets owned by the fund minus its liabilities. Fixed income securities that are valued using significant other observable inputs are valued at prices
obtained from independent financial service industry-recognized vendors. Absolute return funds and commodities are valued at the NAV provided by the fund
administrator.
86The following table summarizes the change in the value of plan assets that are measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3).
(in millions) 2013 2012
Balance as of January 1 $ 33 $ 27
Transfers in from other categories — —
Actual return on plan assets on hand at year end 4 3
Assumption of level 3 assets 372 —
Purchases, sales and settlements, net 2 3
Balance as of December 31 $ 411 $ 33
The investment mix of equity securities, fixed income and other asset allocation strategies is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher return, more
volatile equity securities, and lower return, less volatile fixed income securities. Investment allocations are established for each plan and are generally made across a
range of markets, industry sectors, capitalization sizes, and in the case of fixed income securities, maturities and credit quality. The target investment allocations for
the AbbVie Pension Plan is 50% in equity securities, 20% in fixed income securities and 30% in asset allocation strategies and other holdings. There are no known
significant concentrations of risk in the plan assets of the AbbVie Pension Plan or any other plans' assets.
The plans' expected return on assets, as shown above, is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying
investment portfolios. In establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, as
well as current economic and capital market conditions.
Expected Pension and Other Post-Employment Payments
Other
Defined post-employment
(in millions) benefit plans plans
2014 $ 154 $ 9
2015 162 11
2016 170 13
2017 180 15
2018 192 18
2019 to 2023 1,164 129
The above table reflects total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which includes payments funded from company assets as well as paid from the
plans.
Other
Prior to the separation, AbbVie employees also participated in the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan, which was Abbott's principal defined contribution
plan. AbbVie recorded expense of $67 million and $68 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively, related to this plan. In connection with the separation, AbbVie
established the AbbVie Savings Plan, which is AbbVie's principal defined contribution plan, with substantially the same terms as the Abbott Laboratories Stock
Retirement Plan. AbbVie employees who were eligible to participate in the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan on January 1, 2013 automatically became
eligible for the AbbVie Savings Plan. AbbVie recorded expense of $62 million in 2013 related to this plan.
AbbVie provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation plans, to qualifying employees and accrues for the related cost over the
service lives of the employees.
87Note 11 Equity
Stock-Based Compensation
Stock-based compensation expense was $212 million, $187 million and $163 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The related tax benefit recognized was
$68 million, $56 million and $48 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In 2013, realized excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation totaled
$38 million and was presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an outflow within the operating section and an inflow within the financing section. For
2013, $134 million of stock-compensation expense was classified in SG&A, $58 million in R&D and $20 million in cost of products sold. Stock-based compensation
expense for both 2012 and 2011 was allocated to AbbVie based on the portion of Abbott's incentive stock program in which AbbVie employees participated. For both
2012 and 2011, more than half of stock-based compensation expense was classified in SG&A, with the remainder classified in R&D and cost of products sold.
Compensation cost capitalized as part of inventory at December 31, 2013 and 2012 was not significant.
Compensation expense for stock-based awards is measured based on the fair value of the awards, as of the date the stock-based awards are granted and adjusted to
the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience at the time of grant and revised in subsequent
periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Compensation cost for stock-based awards are amortized over their service period, which could be shorter
than the vesting period if an employee is retirement eligible, with a charge to compensation expense. For stock-based awards granted to retirement-eligible employees,
compensation expense is recognized immediately at the grant date because the employee is able to retain the award without continuing to provide service.
Prior to separation, AbbVie employees participated in Abbott's incentive stock program. The AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program, adopted at the time of separation,
facilitated the assumption of certain awards granted under Abbott's incentive stock program and authorizes the post-separation grant of several different forms of
benefits, including nonqualified stock options, RSAs, RSUs and performance-based RSAs and RSUs. Under the AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program, 100 million
shares of common stock were reserved for issuance with respect to post-separation awards for participants.
In connection with the separation, outstanding Abbott employee stock options, RSAs and RSUs previously issued under Abbott's incentive stock program were
adjusted and converted into new Abbott and AbbVie stock-based awards using a formula designed to preserve the intrinsic value and fair value of the awards
immediately prior to the separation. Upon the separation on January 1, 2013, holders of Abbott stock options, RSAs and RSUs generally received one AbbVie stock-
based award for each Abbott stock-based award outstanding. These adjusted awards retained the vesting schedule and expiration date of the original awards. No
awards have been granted to Abbott employees other than in connection with the separation.
Stock Options
The exercise price for options granted is at least equal to 100 percent of the market value on the date of grant. Stock options typically have a contractual term of
10 years and generally vest in one-third increments over a three-year period except for stock options with a replacement feature. Pre-2005 options were granted with a
replacement option feature. The terms and conditions of the replacement option are the same in all material respects as those applicable to the original grant. When
the exercise price of an option with a replacement option feature is paid with common shares held by the employee, a replacement option is granted for the number of
shares used to make that payment. The closing price of the common share on the business day before the exercise is used to determine the number of shares required
to exercise the related option and the exercise price of the replacement option. The replacement option is exercisable in full six months after the date of grant, and has
a term expiring on the expiration date of the original option.
88The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes model. The weighted-average assumptions used in estimating the fair value of stock options
granted during each year, along with weighted-average grant-date fair values, were as follows.
years ended December 31 2013 2012 2011
Risk-free interest rate 1.10% 1.20% 2.70 %
Average life of options (years) 6.0 6.0 6.0
Volatility 32.63% 21.00% 21.00%
Dividend yield 4.30% 3.60% 4.10%
Fair value per stock option $ 6.87 $ 6.80 $ 6.23
The risk-free interest rate is based on the rates available at the time of the grant for zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the option's
expected life. The average life of an option for 2013 is based on the simplified method. Prior to 2013, the average life of an option was based on both historical and
projected exercise and lapsing data. For 2013, the expected volatility is based on an average peer historical volatility over the expected life of the option. Prior to 2013,
the expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of Abbott's stock over the expected life of the option. Dividend yield is based on the option's exercise
price and annual dividend rate at the time of grant.
The following table summarizes AbbVie stock option activity for both AbbVie and Abbott employees for the year ended December 31, 2013.
Weighted-
Weighted- Average
(options in thousands, aggregate intrinsic average remaining Aggregate
value in millions) Options exercise price life (in years) intrinsic value
Outstanding at December 31, 2012 — $ —
Options converted on January 1, 2013 47,718 27.00
Granted 3,128 37.91
Exercised (14,620) 28.14
Lapsed (232) 28.21
Outstanding at December 31, 2013 35,994 27.48 3.6 $ 912
Exercisable at December 31, 2013 32,564 $ 27.04 3.1 $ 840
The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the difference between the exercise price and the company's closing stock price on the last day of trading
for the year ended December 31, 2013. The total intrinsic value of options exercised in 2013 was $229 million. For options issued under Abbott's incentive stock
programs to AbbVie employees prior to the separation, the total intrinsic value of options exercises in 2012 and 2011 was $170 million and $31 million, respectively.
The total fair value of options vested during 2013 was $17 million.
The tax benefit realized from option exercises totaled $21 million for 2013. As of December 31, 2013, $2 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock
options is expected to be recognized as expense over approximately the next two years.
RSAs & RSUs
RSAs generally vest over three and five years. For RSAs that vest over five years, no more than one-third of the award vests in any one year. RSUs vest over three
years and, upon vesting, the recipient receives one share of common stock for each vested RSU. In addition, AbbVie grants selected executives and other key
employees performance-based RSAs and RSUs with vesting contingent upon meeting various departmental and company-wide performance goals, including AbbVie
achieving a
89minimum return on equity. The fair value of RSAs and RSUs (including performance-based awards) is determined based on the number of shares granted and the
quoted price of the common stock on the date of grant. AbbVie assumes that the performance goals will be achieved. If such goals are not met, no compensation cost
is recognized and any previously recognized compensation cost is reversed.
The following table summarizes AbbVie RSA and RSU activity (including performance-based awards) for both AbbVie and Abbott employees for the year ended
December 31, 2013.
Weighted-average
(share units in thousands) Share units grant date fair value
Outstanding at December 31, 2012 — $ —
Awards converted on January 1, 2013 15,394 27.55
Granted 7,615 36.39
Vested (7,553) 27.33
Lapsed (546) 30.65
Outstanding at December 31, 2013 14,910 $ 32.07
Unvested shares at December 31, 2013 14,804 $ 32.08
The fair market value of RSAs and RSUs vested in 2013 was $285 million. For RSAs and RSUs issued under Abbott's incentive stock programs prior to the separation,
the fair market value of RSAs and RSUs vested in 2012 and 2011 was $123 million and $74 million, respectively. The weighted-average grant-date fair value per share
of RSAs and RSUs granted during 2012 and 2011 was $56.07 and $46.85, respectively. Such amounts have not been adjusted to reflect the separation from Abbott.
As of December 31, 2013, $177 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to RSAs and RSUs is expected to be recognized as expense over approximately the
next two years.
Cash Dividends
On January 4, February 15, June 20, and September 19, 2013, the board of directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.40 per share of common stock, which were
paid on February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15, 2013, respectively. Additionally, on December 12, 2013, the board of directors declared a quarterly cash
dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock for stockholders of record on January 15, 2014, which was paid on February 14, 2014.
The cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock declared on January 4, 2013 was declared from pre-separation earnings and was recorded as a reduction of
additional paid-in capital.
Stock Repurchase Program
On February 15, 2013, AbbVie's board of directors authorized a $1.5 billion stock repurchase program. Purchases of AbbVie shares may be made from time to time at
management's discretion depending on the company's cash flows, net debt level and market conditions. The plan has no time limit and can be discontinued at any
time. During 2013, AbbVie repurchased approximately 4 million shares for $223 million in the open market. Shares repurchased under this program are recorded at
acquisition cost, including related expenses, and are available for general corporate purposes. AbbVie's remaining share repurchase authorization is $1.3 billion as of
December 31, 2013.
90Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
The following table summarizes the changes in balances of each component of AOCI, net of tax for the three year period ended December 31, 2013.
Unrealized
gains
Foreign Pension (losses) on Gains
currency and post- marketable (losses) on
translation employment equity hedging
(in millions) (brackets denote losses) adjustments benefits securities activities Total
Balance as of December 31, 2010 $ 303 $ (58) $ 9 $ 34 $ 288
Other comprehensive income before reclassifications (295) (8) 17 (14) $ (300 )
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive
income — 1 — (14) $ (13)
Net current-period other comprehensive income (295) (7) 17 (28) $ (313 )
Balance as of December 31, 2011 $ 8 $ (65) $ 26 $ 6 $ (25 )
Other comprehensive income before reclassifications 173 (157) (25) (9) $ (18 )
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive
income — 7 — (18) $ (11)
Net current-period other comprehensive income 173 (150) (25) (27) $ (29 )
Separation-related adjustments — (296) — — $ (296 )
Balance as of December 31, 2012 $ 181 $ (511) $ 1 $ (21) $ (350 )
Other comprehensive income before reclassifications 48 519 1 (77) $ 491
Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive
income — 79 — — $ 79
Net current-period other comprehensive income 48 598 1 (77) $ 570
Separation-related adjustments 241 (914) — 11 $ (662 )
Balance as of December 31, 2013 $ 470 $ (827) $ 2 $ (87) $ (442 )
The table below presents the significant amounts reclassified out of each component of accumulated other comprehensive loss for the three year period ended
December 31, 2013.
Years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011
Pension and post-employee benefits
Amortization of actuarial losses and other $ 114 $ 7 $ 2
Less tax expense (35) (—) (1)
Total reclassification, net of tax $ 79 $ 7 $ 1
Other
In addition to common stock, AbbVie's authorized capital includes 200 million shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01. As of December 31, 2013, no shares of
preferred stock were issued or outstanding.
91Note 12 Income Taxes
Earnings Before Income Taxes
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011
Domestic $ (581) $ 625 $ 626
Foreign 5,913 5,100 3,042
Total earnings before income taxes $ 5,332 $ 5,725 $ 3,668
Income Taxes
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011
Current
Domestic $ 226 $ 94 $ 177
Foreign 354 252 390
Total current taxes $ 580 $ 346 $ 567
Deferred
Domestic $ 678 $ 89 $ (198)
Foreign (54) 15 (134)
Total deferred taxes 624 104 (332 )
Total income taxes $ 1,204 $ 450 $ 235
Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011
Statutory tax rate 35.0% 35.0% 35.0 %
Effect of foreign operations (11.5) (23.5) (25.4)
Resolution of uncertain tax positions — (3.4) (11.2)
Non-deductible litigation loss — 0.6 12.9
Puerto Rico excise tax credit (1.9) (1.2) (3.2)
State taxes, net of federal benefit 0.4 0.1 0.3
All other, net 0.6 0.3 (2.0)
Effective tax rate 22.6% 7.9% 6.4 %
The benefit from foreign operations reflected the impact of lower income tax rates in locations outside the United States, tax exemptions and incentives in Puerto Rico
and other foreign tax jurisdictions, together with the cost of repatriation decisions. As further discussed in the "Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities" section
following, income tax expense in 2013 included income tax expense relating to 2013 earnings outside the United States that are not deemed indefinitely reinvested.
Income taxes in 2012 and 2011 included the recognition of tax benefits totaling approximately $195 million and $410 million, respectively, as a result of favorable
resolutions of various tax positions pertaining to prior years. Income taxes in 2011 also reflected the non-deductibility of a litigation reserve.
Puerto Rico enacted legislation that assesses an excise tax beginning in 2011 on certain products manufactured in Puerto Rico. The tax is levied on gross inventory
purchases from entities in Puerto Rico and is included in cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of earnings. The majority of the tax is creditable for U.S.
income tax purposes.
92Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
as of December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012
Deferred tax assets
Compensation and employee benefits $ 279 $ 190
Accruals and reserves 252 173
Chargebacks and rebates 333 403
Deferred revenue 348 283
Depreciation 64 42
State income taxes 67 87
Other 122 274
Net operating losses and other credit carryforwards 115 92
Total deferred tax assets 1,580 1,544
Valuation allowances (43) (7)
Total net deferred tax assets $ 1,537 $ 1,537
Deferred tax liabilities
Excess of book basis over tax basis of intangible assets $ (508) $ (500)
Repatriation of foreign earnings (606) —
Total deferred tax liabilities $ (1,114) $ (500 )
Net deferred tax asset $ 423 $ 1,037
In 2013, certain prior period amounts were reclassified to conform with the current period presentation, primarily in connection with reclassifying prepaid taxes of
$777 million associated with deferred intercompany profit in inventory from current deferred income taxes to prepaid expenses and other in the combined balance
sheet as of December 31, 2012.
As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the company has loss carryforwards for U.S. tax purposes totaling approximately $585 million and $419 million, respectively, which
are available for use by the company between 2014 and 2033. As of December 31, 2013, the company has state tax credit carryforwards of $53 million. As of
December 31, 2013 and 2012, the company has loss carryforwards for foreign tax purposes totaling approximately $95 million and $114 million, respectively. The
majority of the foreign loss carryforwards do not have an expiration period. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the company has recorded valuation allowances of
$43 million and $7 million, respectively, related to certain state net operating losses and credit carryforwards that are not expected to be realized.
Deferred income taxes have not been provided on approximately $21 billion of the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as these earnings have been
indefinitely reinvested for continued use in foreign operations. It is not practicable to determine the tax effect of a distribution of these earnings.
Unrecognized Tax Benefits
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011
Balance as of January 1 $ 1,140 $ 1,039 $ 1,645
Increase due to current year tax positions 195 370 294
Increase due to prior year tax positions — 1 149
Decrease due to current year tax positions — — (15)
Decrease due to prior year tax positions — (220) (604)
Settlements — (50) (430)
Separation-related adjustments (1,088) — —
Balance as of December 31 $ 247 $ 1,140 $ 1,039
93AbbVie and Abbott entered into a tax sharing agreement, effective on the date of separation, which provides that Abbott is liable for and has indemnified AbbVie
against all income tax liabilities for periods prior to the separation if the tax positions are settled for amounts in excess of recorded liabilities. AbbVie will not benefit if
prior tax positions are resolved more favorably than recorded amounts. As a result, no liability for uncertain tax positions was recorded in the combined financial
statements as of December 31, 2012 and 2011.
The table above reflects a reduction of $1.1 billion relating to tax periods prior to the separation for which Abbott is the primary obligor. However, under U.S.
Treasury Regulations, each member of a consolidated group is severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group.
Accordingly, with respect to periods in which AbbVie was included in Abbott's consolidated group, AbbVie could be liable to the U.S. government for any U.S.
federal income tax liability incurred by the consolidated group, to the extent not discharged by any other member. However, if any such liability were imposed,
AbbVie would be entitled to be indemnified by Abbott pursuant to the tax sharing agreement.
AbbVie will be responsible for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties for periods after separation or in instances where an existing entity was
transferred to AbbVie upon separation. As a result, AbbVie has continued to account for these tax uncertainties. To the extent that these obligations relate to periods
prior to the separation, a reimbursement receivable of approximately $41 million has been recorded within other assets at December 31, 2013.
If recognized, the net amount of potential tax benefits that would impact the company's effective tax rate is $218 million. The company is routinely audited by the tax
authorities in these jurisdictions, and a number of audits are currently underway. It is reasonably possible during the next twelve months that uncertain tax positions
may be settled, which could result in a decrease in the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits. Due to the potential for resolution of federal, state, and foreign
examinations, and the expiration of various statutes of limitation, the company's gross unrecognized tax benefits balance may change within the next twelve months
up to $22 million. All significant federal, state, local, and international matters have been concluded for years through 2005. The company believes adequate provision
has been made for all income tax uncertainties.
AbbVie recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. The amounts expensed and the liabilities accrued are
immaterial as of and for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. Uncertain tax positions are included as a long-term liability on the balance sheet.
Note 13 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies
Subject to certain exceptions specified in the separation agreement, AbbVie assumed the liability for, and control of, all pending and threatened legal matters related
to its business, including liabilities for any claims or legal proceedings related to products that had been part of its business but were discontinued prior to the
distribution, as well as assumed or retained liabilities, and will indemnify Abbott for any liability arising out of or resulting from such assumed legal matters. AbbVie is
involved in various claims, legal proceedings and investigations, including those described below. The recorded accrual balance for litigation at December 31, 2013
was not significant. Within the next year, other legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated loss accrued by AbbVie. While it is not
feasible to predict the outcome of all other proceedings and exposures with certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material
adverse effect on AbbVie's consolidated financial position, cash flows, or results of operations, except as described below.
The U.S. Department of Justice, through the U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Virginia, and various state Attorneys General investigated AbbVie's sales and
marketing activities for Depakote. The government sought to determine whether any of these activities violated civil and/or criminal laws,
94including the Federal False Claims Act, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and the Anti-Kickback Statute in connection with Medicare and/or Medicaid
reimbursement to third parties. The state Attorneys General offices sought to determine whether any of these activities violated various state laws, including state
consumer fraud/protection statutes. AbbVie recorded charges of $1.5 billion in the third quarter of 2011 and $100 million in the first quarter of 2012 related to civil and
criminal claims arising from this matter. In May 2012, AbbVie reached resolution of all Depakote-related federal claims, Medicaid-related claims with 49 states and the
District of Columbia, and consumer protection claims with 45 states and the District of Columbia. In 2012, AbbVie paid approximately $1.6 billion for the settlement.
The payments were material to AbbVie's combined statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2012.
Two cases are pending in state courts against AbbVie that generally allege Abbott and numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false pricing information
in connection with certain drugs that are reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid. These cases, State of Wisconsin, filed in June 2004 in the Circuit Court of Dane
County, Wisconsin, and State of Illinois, filed in February 2005 in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, were brought by state Attorneys General and generally
seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorney's fees. This litigation is no longer material to AbbVie and AbbVie will no longer report on such cases. All
other previously-reported cases that were pending against AbbVie in state courts have been settled.
Lawsuits have been filed against AbbVie and others generally alleging that the 2005 patent litigation settlement involving Niaspan® entered into between Kos
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company acquired by Abbott Laboratories in 2006 and presently a subsidiary of AbbVie) and a generic company violates federal and state
antitrust laws and state unfair and deceptive trade practices and unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and
attorneys' fees. In September 2013, all of these pending putative class action lawsuits were centralized for consolidated or coordinated pre-trial proceedings in the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania under the Multi-District Litigation Rules as In re Niaspan Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 2460.
In August 2013, a putative class action lawsuit, Sidney Hillman Health Center of Rochester, et al. v. AbbVie Inc., et al., was filed against AbbVie in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois by three healthcare benefit providers alleging violations of federal RICO statutes and state deceptive business
practice and unjust enrichment laws in connection with reimbursements for certain uses of Depakote from 1998 to 2012. Plaintiffs seek monetary damages and/or
equitable relief and attorneys' fees.
Several pending lawsuits filed against Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company Abbott acquired in February 2010) and others were
consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia under the Multi District Litigation Rules as In re AndroGel
Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 2084. These cases, brought by private plaintiffs and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), generally allege Solvay's 2006 patent
litigation involving AndroGel was sham litigation and the patent litigation settlement agreement and related agreements with three generic companies violate federal
and state antitrust laws and state consumer protection and unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys'
fees. MDL 2084 includes: (a) three individual plaintiff lawsuits; (b) seven purported class actions; and (c) Federal Trade Commission v. Watson
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al., filed in May 2009 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. In February 2010, Solvay's motion to dismiss the
cases was partially granted and all of the FTC's claims and all of the plaintiffs' claims except those alleging sham litigation were dismissed. The FTC appealed and in
May 2012 the district court's decision was affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. In June 2013, the United States Supreme Court
reversed the Eleventh Circuit's decision affirming dismissal of the FTC's claims and remanded the case brought by the FTC, ruling that the patent
95litigation settlement agreement with three generic companies should be examined under a "rule of reason" analysis. In September 2012, the district court dismissed the
remaining sham litigation claims and the plaintiffs' appeal of that dismissal is pending in the Eleventh Circuit.
AbbVie is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to testosterone gel (a drug AbbVie sells under the trademark AndroGel® 1.62%). In a case filed in the United
States District Court for the District of Delaware in February 2013, AbbVie alleges that Perrigo Company's and Perrigo Israel Pharmaceutical Ltd.'s proposed generic
product infringes an AbbVie patent and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. In a second case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in
March 2013, AbbVie alleges that Watson Laboratories Inc.'s and Actavis Inc.'s proposed generic product infringes AbbVie's patent and seeks declaratory and
injunctive relief.
AbbVie is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to ritonavir/lopinavir tablets (a drug AbbVie sells under the trademark Kaletra®). In a case filed in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois in March 2009, AbbVie alleges that Matrix Laboratories, Inc.'s, Matrix Laboratories, Ltd.'s, and Mylan, Inc.'s
proposed generic products infringe AbbVie's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. Upon Matrix's motion in November 2009, the court granted a five-
year stay of the litigation unless good cause to lift the stay is shown.
AbbVie is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to ritonavir tablets (a drug AbbVie sells under the trademark Norvir®). In a case pending in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Ohio since April 2012, AbbVie alleges that Roxane Laboratories, Inc.'s (Roxane) proposed generic product infringes
AbbVie's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. In another case filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio in July 2013,
AbbVie alleges that Roxane's proposed generic ritonavir product infringes additional AbbVie patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief on these additional
patents. In a separate case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in May 2013, AbbVie alleges that Hetero USA Inc.'s and Hetero Labs
Limited's proposed generic ritonavir tablets product infringes AbbVie's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief.
AbbVie is seeking to enforce certain patent rights that cover the use of fully human anti-TNF alpha antibodies with methotrexate to treat rheumatoid arthritis. In a
case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts in May 2009, AbbVie alleges Centocor Ortho Biotech, Inc.'s (now Janssen
Biotech, Inc.'s) product Simponi® infringes AbbVie's patents and seeks damages and injunctive relief.
AbbVie previously reported that it was seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to fenofibric acid capsules (a drug AbbVie sells in the U.S. under the trademark
TRILIPIX®). In a case filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in March 2011, AbbVie and its subsidiary Fournier Laboratories
Ireland Ltd. alleged that Sandoz Inc. 's proposed generic product infringes AbbVie's patent and seek injunctive relief. In January 2014, the parties settled this case and
it was dismissed without prejudice.
96Note 14 Segment and Geographic Area Information
AbbVie operates in one business segment—pharmaceutical products. Substantially all of AbbVie's U.S. sales are to three wholesalers. Outside the United States,
products are sold primarily to health care providers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Worldwide net sales of key products were as follows.
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011
HUMIRA $ 10,659 $ 9,265 $ 7,932
AndroGel 1,035 1,152 874
Kaletra 962 1,013 1,170
Synagis 827 825 775
Lupron 785 800 810
Synthroid 622 551 522
Sevoflurane 568 602 665
Creon 412 353 332
Duodopa 178 149 125
Dyslipidemia products 1,076 2,145 2,504
All other 1,666 1,525 1,735
Net sales $ 18,790 $ 18,380 $ 17,444
Net sales to external customers, based on the country that sold the product, were as follows.
years ended December 31 (in millions) 2013 2012 2011
United States $ 10,181 $ 10,435 $ 9,712
Germany 911 756 701
The Netherlands 858 776 904
Japan 625 718 616
United Kingdom 606 552 496
Spain 543 525 569
France 540 500 516
Canada 538 500 446
Brazil 439 434 382
Italy 404 408 428
All other countries 3,145 2,776 2,674
Net sales $ 18,790 $ 18,380 $ 17,444
Long-lived assets include net property and equipment of $2.3 billion and $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, of which $1.6 billion and $1.6 billion,
respectively, was located in the United States and Puerto Rico and $591 million and $536 million, respectively, was located in Europe.
97Note 15 Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
(in millions except per share data) 2013 2012
First Quarter
Net sales $ 4,329 $ 4,173
Gross margin 3,176 3,017
Net earnings 968 883
Basic earnings per share 0.61 0.56
Diluted earnings per share 0.60 0.56
Cash dividends declared per common share(a) 0.80 —
Second Quarter
Net sales $ 4,692 $ 4,493
Gross margin 3,638 3,420
Net earnings 1,068 1,267
Basic earnings per share 0.67 0.80
Diluted earnings per share 0.66 0.80
Cash dividends declared per common share 0.40 —
Third Quarter
Net sales $ 4,658 $ 4,508
Gross margin 3,566 3,494
Net earnings 964 1,585
Basic earnings per share 0.60 1.01
Diluted earnings per share 0.60 1.01
Cash dividends declared per common share 0.40 —
Fourth Quarter
Net sales $ 5,111 $ 5,206
Gross margin 3,829 3,941
Net earnings 1,128 1,540
Basic earnings per share 0.70 0.98
Diluted earnings per share 0.70 0.98
Cash dividends declared per common share 0.40 —
(a) On January 4, 2013, the board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock. This dividend was declared from pre-
separation earnings and was recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. In addition, AbbVie declared regular quarterly cash
dividends in 2013 aggregating $1.60 per share of common stock. Refer to Note 11 for information regarding cash dividends declared in 2013.
For periods prior to the separation, the weighted-average basic and diluted shares outstanding was based on the number of shares of AbbVie common stock
outstanding on the distribution date. Refer to Note 4 for information regarding the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for the year ended
December 31, 2013.
98REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of AbbVie Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2013, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2013. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of AbbVie Inc. and
subsidiaries at December 31, 2013, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2013, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries'
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 framework) and our report dated February 21, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
February 21, 2014
99REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of AbbVie Inc.:
We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheet of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2012 and the related combined
statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2012. These combined financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the combined financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not
required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over
financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such combined financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2012 and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2012 in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America.
As described in Note 1, the accompanying combined financial statements have been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records
of Abbott Laboratories. The combined financial statements also include expense allocations for certain corporate functions historically provided by Abbott
Laboratories. These allocations may not be reflective of the actual expense which would have been incurred had the Company operated as a separate entity apart
from Abbott Laboratories.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chicago, Illinois
March 15, 2013
100ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures. The Chief Executive Officer, Richard A. Gonzalez, and the Chief Financial Officer, William J. Chase,
evaluated the effectiveness of AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and concluded that AbbVie's
disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information AbbVie is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the Securities
and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the
Commission's rules and forms, and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by AbbVie in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is
accumulated and communicated to AbbVie's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure.
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting. Management's report on internal control over financial reporting is included on
page 102 hereof. The report of AbbVie's independent registered public accounting firm related to its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting is included on page 103 hereof.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting. During the quarter ended December 31, 2013, there were no changes in AbbVie's internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, AbbVie's internal
control over financial reporting.
Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls. AbbVie's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer, do not expect
that AbbVie's disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well
designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. The design of a control system must
reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent limitations
in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and
instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns
can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by
management override of the controls.
The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any
design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are
subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or
procedures.
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
None.
101Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Management of AbbVie is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-
15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States. However, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be
effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and reporting.
Management assessed the effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013. In making this assessment, management
used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (1992
framework). Based on that assessment, management concluded that AbbVie maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013,
based on the COSO criteria.
The effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report appearing on page 103 hereof, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of
AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013.
102REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of AbbVie Inc.
We have audited AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control
—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 framework) (the COSO criteria). AbbVie Inc. and
subsidiaries' management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries' maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based
on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet as
of December 31, 2013, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2013 of
AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries and our report dated February 21, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
February 21, 2014
103PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Incorporated herein by reference are "Information Concerning Director Nominees," "The Board of Directors and its Committees—Committees of the Board of
Directors," "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance," and "Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of
Business at Annual Meeting" to be included in the 2014 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement. The 2014 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 24, 2014. Also
incorporated herein by reference is the text found under the caption, "Executive Officers of the Registrant" on pages 29 and 30 hereof.
AbbVie's code of business conduct requires all its business activities to be conducted in compliance with laws, regulations, and ethical principles and values. All
directors, officers, and employees of AbbVie are required to read, understand, and abide by the requirements of the code of business conduct applicable to them.
AbbVie's code of business conduct is available in the corporate governance section of AbbVie's investor relations website at www.abbvieinvestor.com.
Any waiver of the code of business conduct for directors or executive officers may be made only by AbbVie's audit committee. AbbVie will disclose any
amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of the code of conduct for the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or
controller, or persons performing similar functions, on its website within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver. In addition, AbbVie will
disclose any waiver from the code of business conduct for the other executive officers and for directors on the website.
AbbVie has a chief ethics and compliance officer who reports to the chief executive officer and to the public policy committee. The chief ethics and compliance
officer is responsible for overseeing, administering, and monitoring AbbVie's compliance program.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The material to be included in the 2014 Proxy Statement under the headings "Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and "Compensation
Committee Report" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2014 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 24, 2014.
104ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
(a) Equity Compensation Plan Information.
The following table presents information as of December 31, 2013 about AbbVie's equity compensation plans under which AbbVie common stock has been
authorized for issuance.
(c)
Number of
securities
(a) remaining
Number of (b) available for
securities to be Weighted- future issuance
issued upon average exercise under equity
exercise of price of compensation
outstanding outstanding plans (excluding
options, options, securities
warrants and warrants and reflected in
Plan Category rights(1) rights(2) column (a))
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 48,862,326 $ 27.48 99,307,279
Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders — $ — —
Total 48,862,326 $ 27.48 99,307,279
(1) Includes 40,024,559 shares issuable under AbbVie's Incentive Stock Program pursuant to awards granted by Abbott and adjusted into
AbbVie awards in connection with AbbVie's separation from Abbott.
(2) The weighted-average exercise price does not include outstanding restricted stock units that have no exercise price.
(b) Information Concerning Security Ownership. Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the heading "Securities Ownership—Securities
Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in the 2014 Proxy Statement. The 2014 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 24, 2014.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The material to be included in the 2014 Proxy Statement under the headings "The Board of Directors and its Committees," "Corporate Governance Materials,"
and "Procedures for Approval of Related Person Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2014 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 24,
2014.
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
The material to be included in the 2014 Proxy Statement under the headings "Audit Information—Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" and "Audit Information—
Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" is incorporated herein
by reference. The 2014 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 24, 2014.
105PART IV
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a) Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K.
(1) Financial Statements: See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," on page 56 hereof, for a list of financial statements.
(2) Financial Statement Schedules: All schedules omitted are inapplicable or the information required is shown in the consolidated financial statements
or notes thereto.
(3) Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K: The information called for by this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit
Index on pages 108 through 110 of this Form 10-K.
(b) Exhibits filed (see Exhibit Index on pages 108 through 110).
(c) Financial Statement Schedules: None applicable.
106SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, AbbVie Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
AbbVie Inc.
By: /s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ
Name: Richard A. Gonzalez
Title: Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer
Date: February 21, 2014
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of AbbVie Inc. on
February 21, 2014 in the capacities indicated below.
/s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ /s/ WILLIAM J. CHASE
Richard A. Gonzalez William J. Chase
Chairman of the Board and Executive Vice President,
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Executive Officer) (Principal Financial Officer)
/s/ THOMAS A. HURWICH
Thomas A. Hurwich
Vice President, Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
/s/ ROBERT J. ALPERN, M.D. /s/ ROXANNE S. AUSTIN
Robert J. Alpern, M.D. Roxanne S. Austin
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ WILLIAM H.L. BURNSIDE /s/ EDWARD M. LIDDY
William H.L. Burnside Edward M. Liddy
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ EDWARD J. RAPP /s/ ROY S. ROBERTS
Edward J. Rapp Roy S. Roberts
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
/s/ GLENN F. TILTON /s/ FREDERICK H. WADDELL
Glenn F. Tilton Frederick H. Waddell
Director of AbbVie Inc. Director of AbbVie Inc.
107EXHIBIT INDEX
ABBVIE INC.
ANNUAL REPORT
FORM 10-K
2013
Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934."
Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description
2.1 *Separation and Distribution Agreement dated as of November 28, 2012 by and between Abbott Laboratories and
AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of Amendment No. 6 to the Company's Registration Statement on
Form 10 filed on November 30, 2012).
3.1 *Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).
3.2 *Amended and Restated By-Laws of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Company's Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).
4.1 *Indenture dated as of November 8, 2012 between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16,
2012).
4.2 *Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated as of November 8, 2012 among AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed
on November 16, 2012).
10.1 *U.S. Transition Services Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 by and between Abbott Laboratories and
AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2,
2013).
10.2 *Ex-U.S. Transition Services Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 by and between Abbott Laboratories and
AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2,
2013).
10.3 *Tax Sharing Agreement entered into as of December 31, 2012 by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc.
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).
10.4 *Special Products Master Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 by and between Abbott Laboratories and
AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2,
2013).
10.5 *Employee Matters Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc.
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).
10.6 *International Commercial Operations Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 by and between Abbott Laboratories
and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
January 2, 2013).
10.7 First Amendment to International Commercial Operations Agreement effective as of December 31, 2012 by and between
Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc.
108Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description
10.8 *Luxembourg International Commercial Operations Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 by and between Abbott
Investments Luxembourg S.àr.l. and AbbVie Investments S.àr.l. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).
10.9 First Amendment to Luxembourg International Commercial Operations Agreement effective as of December 31, 2012 by
and between Abbott Investments Luxembourg S.àr.l. and AbbVie Investments S.àr.l.
10.10 *Information Technology Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 by and between Abbott Laboratories and
AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2,
2013).
10.11 *Transitional Trademark License Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 by and between Abbott Laboratories and
AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2,
2013).
10.12 *Form of Finished Goods Supply Agreements by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.11 of Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on September 4,
2012).
10.13 *Form of Contract Manufacturing Agreements by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.12 of Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on September 4,
2012).
10.14 *Form of Agreement Regarding Change in Control by and between AbbVie Inc. and its named executive officers
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed
on November 16, 2012).**
10.15 *AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the AbbVie Inc. Definitive Proxy
Statement on Schedule 14A dated March 15, 2013).**
10.16 *AbbVie 2013 Management Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of the Company's Annual Report
on Form 10-K filed on March 15, 2013).**
10.17 *AbbVie 2013 Performance Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 of the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed on March 15, 2013).**
10.18 *AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed on March 15, 2013).**
10.19 *AbbVie Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 of the Company's Annual Report
on Form 10-K filed on March 15, 2013).**
10.20 *AbbVie Supplemental Pension Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 of the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed on March 15, 2013).**
10.21 *AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 of the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed on March 15, 2013).**
10.22 *Purchase Agreement dated November 5, 2012 between AbbVie Inc., Abbott Laboratories, as guarantor, and Morgan
Stanley & Co. LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 of Amendment No. 6 to the Company's Registration Statement
on Form 10 filed on November 30, 2012).
10.23 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).**
109Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description
10.24 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).**
10.25 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Restricted Stock Agreement (CEO/Chairman) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).**
10.26 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Restricted Stock Agreement (Annual) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the
Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).**
10.27 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Restricted Stock Agreement (Interim) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the
Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).**
10.28 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the Company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).**
10.29 *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Replacement Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of
the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).**
12 Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
21 Subsidiaries of AbbVie Inc.
23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
23.2 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).
31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).
32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
101 The following financial statements and notes from the AbbVie Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2013 filed on February 21, 2014, formatted in XBRL: (i) Consolidated Statements of Earnings;
(ii) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows; (iii) Consolidated Balance Sheets; and (iv) the notes to the consolidated
financial statements.
The AbbVie Inc. 2014 Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under separate cover on
or about March 24, 2014.
* Incorporated herein by reference. Commission file number 001-35565.
** Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.
AbbVie will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a stockholder upon written request to the Secretary, AbbVie Inc., 1 North Waukegan Road, North
Chicago, Illinois 60064.
110