Experience patients telling their stories.
Scan the marked images with the
Xtend app to watch the videos.
Annual Report 2019Experience Adeline telling her story.
Scan the image with the Xtend app to
watch the video.
Every day
Developing cures for patients—as a science-
driven organisation we strive towards converting
today’s knowledge into tomorrow’s therapies.
We are pushing boundaries.
Millions of people, like Adeline, have hepatitis B and we are developing medicines to help them.Everywhere
Bringing our products to patients—we are
committed to bringing our medicines and tests
rapidly and sustainably to those who need them.
We are open to new ideas.
Working in collaboration with healthcare systems and our partners is key to resolving critical access barriers to therapies.Everyone
Benefiting people in need—motivated and
skilled employees collaborate across cultures
and locations to develop life-saving products.
We share one purpose.
An abiding dedication to high quality ensures that doctors have the backing of pioneering science to treat their patients.Doing
now
what
patients
need nextWe believe it’s urgent to deliver medical solutions
right now—even as we develop innovations for
the future. We are passionate about transforming
patients’ lives. We are courageous in both
decision and action. And we believe that good
business means a better world.
That is why we come to work each day. We
commit ourselves to scientific rigour, unassailable
ethics, and access to medical innovations for all.
We do this today to build a better tomorrow.
We are proud of who we are, what we do, and
how we do it. We are many, working as one across
functions, across companies, and across the world.
We are Roche.“I feel that I have been able to strengthen
the patient’s position as a stakeholder.”
Ike de Rooij-van Haaren, Consultant, Oman
I moved to Basel five years ago with my husband and numbers and always asked what it meant for
three sons. Just a few months later I was diagnosed individual patients such as myself.
with HER2-positive breast cancer. Fortunately, I
received timely treatment with two of Roche’s breast The project itself was meant to last three months.
cancer medicines in my native Holland. For that, I But the team realised they could benefit more from
had to leave my young boys and husband behind my journey and real-life experiences as a patient.
here in what was a new place for them. Therefore, I signed a patient consultant contract and
continued to work with Roche. It has been more
I made up my mind while still undergoing treatment than three years now.
that I wanted to give something back to Roche. The
company had kindly allowed me to participate in I now live in the Middle East and this sometimes
a study of one of its medicines and this inspired me poses a logistical challenge. Technology helps, but I
greatly. I mentioned it to a friend who worked at try to attend meetings in person when possible. I work
Roche and he came back to me with some details with the broader HER2 franchise team these days
about a project aimed at putting a patient in one of and over the years have been involved in prelaunch,
the brand teams to see what effect that would have launch and postlaunch activities. My role is to give
and if it would change the decision-making within the patient perspective at any stage of the medicine’s
the team. life cycle. I am also a member of a committee set up
by Roche, where, along with other patients, we review
I was nervous at first, but decided to take the plunge. topics that teams request advice on, such as patient
I realised that I just had to be myself and share my information materials and clinical trials.
experiences. It took a couple of meetings with the
brand team to get used to each other. The team I got I feel that I have been able to strengthen the patient’s
to work with was working on the same breast cancer position as a stakeholder. It has been difficult to
medicine that I had been treated with. They were engage with patients at times and this makes it hard
curious to hear my experience and therefore I felt to understand their real needs. Now, with efforts such
confident to share my opinions. From the beginning as the one I am involved in, business teams are really
I could see the impact of having the actual patient’s looking at ways to give this important stakeholder a
voice in the room. I was never interested in the stronger voice in the work they do.
Experience Ike telling her story.
Scan the images with the Xtend
app to watch the video.Innovation—it’s in our DNA
We have always worked across disciplines and geographies to
drive scientific discovery and redefine what is possible to improve
patients’ lives.
We are working on understanding how diseases differ also the world leader in the in vitro diagnostics
down to molecular level. So we can develop new business. This track record allows us to build lasting
tests and medicines that prevent, diagnose and treat and meaningful partnerships across the world with
diseases, and bring them to the patients who need research academia and public healthcare institutions.
them. With our combined strengths in diagnostics
and pharmaceuticals, our personalised healthcare The founding families continue to hold the majority
strategy aims to fit the right treatment to the right voting stake in the company. This stability allows for
patient. a tradition of sustainable thinking, so we can learn
from setbacks and focus on lasting value for patients
As the world’s largest biotech company, we develop and society. We remain dedicated to the highest
breakthrough medicines, improving the standard standards of quality, safety and integrity. Our legacy
of care across oncology, immunology, infectious is based on respect for the individual as well as the
diseases, ophthalmology and neuroscience. We are communities and the world we live in.Experience more about Roche.
Scan the world map with the Xtend
app to watch the video.
Key figures Highlights
CHF 61,466 million
Driving growth
Group sales +9%* With CHF 5.4 billion incremental sales,
medicines launched since 2012 drive growth
and rejuvenation of our product portfolio
CHF 22,479 million
Read more on page 24
Core operating profit +11%
Treating rare cancer
CHF 9.00 Rozlytrek approved to treat rare form of lung
cancer that occurs in 1–2% of patients only
Dividend
Read more on page 35
CHF 11,696 million
Launching cobas pro
R & D core investments +6% Next-generation integrated Serum Work
Area solutions improve efficiency and
shorten results delivery
37 million patients
Read more on page 26
treated with Roche medicines
Contributing to sustainability
32 Roche medicines Roche ranked amongst most sustainable
healthcare companies in the Dow Jones
on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines Sustainability Indices97,735
employees** worldwide
North America Europe
26,176 employees 42,112 employees
Genentech, South San Francisco, US ( ) Basel, Kaiseraugst and Rotkreuz, Switzerland ( )
Roche Diagnostics, Indianapolis, US ( ) Mannheim and Penzberg, Germany ( )
Latin America Asia
4,682 employees 22,802 employees
Chugai, Tokyo, Japan ( )
Africa Shanghai and Suzhou, China ( )
1,258 employees
Australia/New Zealand
705 employees
29 23
research and development sites in manufacturing sites in Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics worldwide and Diagnostics worldwide
Roche Group headquarters Manufacturing sites in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
Largest sites based on number of employees Sales sites in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
Research and development sites in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2018). | ** Number of employees expressed in full-time equivalents, on 31.12.201912 Overview 76 Environment
22 Business performance 86 Community engagement
42 Science and innovation 92 Integrity in business
58 Access to healthcare 102 Corporate Governance
68 Our people 120 Remuneration Report12
Material topic covered in this chapter
Cybersecurity
Our reporting approach
Roche is committed to transparent reporting and we endeavour
to drive our economic, social and environmental performance
with the same diligence as our financial performance.
Reporting scope and boundaries all material risks and opportunities, is discussed
Our financial and non- financial reporting consists annually with the Corporate Executive Committee
of the Annual Report, the Finance Report and the and reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Board
online report. It contains the annual financial of Directors and by the Board of Directors. The
statements, consolidated financial statements and effectiveness of the Group Risk Management Process
non- financial performance indicators. It covers is regularly monitored by the Group Risk Advisory
all regions and divisions of the Roche Group from team, and the overall process is reviewed externally
1 January to 31 December 2019. The financial when appropriate. Risk management is embedded at
reporting scope is defined and outlined in our all levels of the Group. Our Pharmaceuticals and
Finance Report, and there have been no significant Diagnostics Divisions and global functions conduct
changes in scope in 2019 compared to 2018. a formal risk assessment process at least once a year
and must develop mitigation plans for their most
GRI standards and materiality material risks.
We have followed the GRI G4 guidelines (Global
Reporting Initiative) since 2014, and have transitioned Read more in ‘Corporate Governance’ on page 102
to the GRI Standards in 2017. By using the GRI
guidelines, we disclose the most critical impacts of We also identify long-term business sustainability
our activities on the environment, society and the trends with associated risks and opportunities on
economy. In this respect, we conducted a first an annual basis and integrate these into our existing
materiality analysis at the corporate level in 2014. In Group risk management process. Each year, emerging
2018/2019, we conducted a second global materiality trends (including associated risks and opportunities)
assessment including expert interviews and feedback are identified from internal and external sources.
from more than 600 stakeholders. The results of this Based on these findings the Corporate Sustainability
www
assessment are featured on pages 14 and 15 of this Committee prioritises and selects the top business
Report 2019: report and are also published on our website (see sustainability trends. Among those identified trends
ar19.roche.com link on page 14). are technological transformation and rising cyber
roche.com/ar19e.pdf dependency.
roche.com/fb19e.pdf Risk management
Our Risk Management Policy sets out Roche’s UN Sustainable Development Goals
Risk management: approach to identifying, analysing, managing and We support the United Nations Sustainable
roche.com/risk- reporting internal and external risks and opportunities. Development Goals (SDGs) within the sphere of
management A consolidated Group Risk Report, which covers our corporate business strategy. We contribute toOur reporting approach | Roche
13
Business sustainability trends
a number of the SDGs and are particularly
pleased to see a dedicated goal on Health (SDG 3). Technological transformation
This goal is closely connected with the achievement Digital evolution in the external world helps drive the
of universal health coverage, which goes hand in technological transformation of Roche and this allows us to
hand with better access to quality essential medicines develop more effective and tailored solutions in healthcare
and diagnostics. This fits in perfectly with our vision and to create new markets. Our Digital Growth Network
to improve and save lives. Since 2016, the SDGs has the mandate to safeguard compliance and, at the same
have been an integral part of our annual reporting. time, to accelerate and enable digital innovation across
Examples of our contribution to the UN goals the organisation. The Roche Digital Registry provides a
are listed on our UN SDG webpage (see link on live database of digital channels in our ecosystem that
page 14). helps in ensuring compliance, transparency and efficiency.
In addition, the risks associated with technological
External assurance transformation are assessed and managed through the
Our non-financial reporting has been verified by an Group Risk Management Process.
independent third party. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
(PwC) focused on the materiality determination Rising cyber dependency
process, the design of the sustainability risks and In an era where cybersecurity threats are constantly on
opportunities determination process and on the the rise, we are committed to security enhancements
figures in the areas of Safety, Security, Health and and personal privacy protection. Roche initiated the Bug
Environmental protection, people and contributions. Bounty programme where we partner with the global
Roche strengthened its control framework, review hacker community to identify the most relevant security
procedures and reporting aspects in terms of issues before they are exploited by non-authorised external
contributions to healthcare and patient organisations users. In addition, the data privacy aspect is included in
in 2019. For example, a new Roche directive was our Roche Supplier Code of Conduct to ensure proper
developed and communicated to the respective use of confidential information by third parties.
internal stakeholders. As a result, the figures related
to our grants, donations and sponsorships to
healthcare and patient organisations are subject to
reasonable assurance performed by PwC (limited
assurance procedures in prior years).
See ‘Independent assurance report’ on page 15014
Materiality assessment and stakeholder
engagement
Engaging with our stakeholders is essential to build trust and an
understanding of their expectations. By embedding their feedback
in our strategy and our daily business, we are able to jointly
address our common issues and develop long-term solutions.
In order to identify the topics that are particularly institutions, peers, suppliers, contract research
relevant to Roche, its stakeholders and society at organisations, universities and investors) and
large to deliver lasting shared value, we conducted collected over 600 external and internal stakeholder
an in-depth materiality assessment at corporate level views via an online survey to identify the most
among our key stakeholders in 2018/2019. This built important and pressing issues that Roche should
on the first materiality analysis that was conducted address in the next three to five years.
in 2014 and added an external perspective, gaining
critical insights into what is important to our In a final step, we analysed the various insights
stakeholders, and what they consider as emerging and identified 19 material topics that stood out as
trends and topics. highly relevant to us and to our key stakeholders. To
properly address these topics, we have then aligned
Our approach them with our current goals and are measuring
Our approach to materiality assessment is performance through our defined set of indicators.
integrated—building on our Group Risk Management
Process—and inclusive, being designed collaboratively In addition, the materiality assessment has been
www
with colleagues across multiple functions (Risk shared internally with the functions in charge of
Materiality: Advisory, Human Resources, Investor Relations, managing respective topics. It has also informed
roche.com/materiality Compliance, Finance, Safety, Security, Health discussion to define our new corporate goals,
and Environmental Protection as well as subsequent sustainability objectives and
Key performance Communications). communications priorities that will be rolled out
indicators: in 2020. Finally, the outcomes of the materiality
roche.com/ We took the outcomes of our Group Risk assessment will be fed back into our 2020
performance Management Process as a starting point to identify Group Risk Management Process.
those key emerging trends of relevance to the Roche
Our contribution Group. We then conducted qualitative interviews The process and the results of our materiality
to the UN SDGs: with more than 30 experts (across broad stakeholder analysis have been endorsed by the Roche Corporate
roche.com/un-sdgs categories, including patient organisations, global Sustainability Committee.Materiality | Roche
15
Our 19 material topics
We are committed to delivering sustainable value to all stakeholders by addressing the following material topics:
Our commitment Our performance Our material topics Supporting UN SDGs
Innovating for patients • 63 million patients treated with • Sustainable healthcare systems
We are committed to developing medicines Roche medicines • Availability of healthcare
and diagnostics that significantly improve • 21 billion tests conducted with • Affordability of healthcare
people’s lives, and to delivering rapid, Roche Diagnostics products • Personalised healthcare
broad, sustainable patient access to our • 31 BTDs (breakthrough therapy • Real-world data
products. designation) awarded by the FDA • Patient centricity
since 2013 • R&D efficiency
• 32 Roche medicines on the WHO • Preparedness for aging society
Model List of Essential Medicines • Product safety
• Product quality
Being a trustworthy partner • 128 new partnerships in • Human rights
We are committed to establishing mutually Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics • Ethics and transparency
beneficial, long-term relationships with • #1 partner of choice according to • Compliance
our partners. third-party surveys • Product safety
• 0 supplier with critical issue or • Product quality
discontinued based on audit results • Cybersecurity
• 8 grievances about human rights • Data privacy
impacts filed, addressed and resolved • Real-world data
through formal grievance mechanism
Providing a great workplace • 32% of women in key leadership roles • Talent attraction and retention
We are committed to providing a work • 24% of key leaders with diverse work • Organisational agility
environment where our employees are experience • Preparedness for aging society
encouraged to build their careers and • 68% employee engagement
pursue their passions.
Protecting the environment • 29% improvement in eco-balance • Energy efficiency
We are committed to minimising our since 2014 • Long-term mindset
environmental impact in our operations • 12% decrease in energy consumption
and in the use of our products. per employee since 2015
• 11% decrease in general waste per
employee since 2015
Delivering continued growth • +9%* in Group sales • Long-term mindset
We are committed to creating value • +11% in core operating profit
continuously for our stakeholders and • 19% of sales invested in R&D
achieving sustainable, high profitability.
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2018).16
What we do How we do it
Our focus Our leadership
Fitting treatments to patients Inspiring outcomes that matter
Our distinctiveness Our ways of working
Excellence in science Agile and networked
Our delivery Our set-up
Value for all stakeholders Built for innovationOur strategy | Roche
17
Our strategy
We focus on finding new medicines and diagnostics that help
How we do it
patients live longer, better lives and evolve the practice of medicine.
We are guided by our purpose: pharmaceuticals and diagnostics capabilities, a
Doing now what patients need next. diversity of approaches to maximise innovation,
Our company has a more than 120-year history of and a long-term orientation.
advancing the field of medicine and bringing novel
treatments and diagnostics to patients. The patient is Our delivery is to create value for all our
and will remain at the core of what we do, the reason stakeholders: being a partner of choice; bringing
we come to work every day. significant medical benefit for patients, doctors and
payers; offering a great place to work for employees;
delivering a sustainable positive contribution to
What we do
society; and earning competitive returns for
our investors.
Our focus is on fitting treatments to patients:
providing the right therapy for the group of people
How we do it
that respond best at the right time for the right value.
With our in-house combination of Pharmaceuticals
and Diagnostics, we are uniquely positioned to Ultimately, it takes people with integrity, courage
deliver personalised healthcare. We are developing and passion to make a difference for patients. It
our internal capabilities and building strategic is our people who are proud to say: We are Roche.
partnerships ready for the next stage in personalised Our leadership inspires outcomes that matter
healthcare: to combine insights from multiple data by embracing diversity and inclusion. Different
sources with sophisticated analytics to drive more backgrounds, perspectives and experiences, across
effective and efficient research and allow for better the entire organisation, foster innovative solutions
therapeutic decisions for patients. Access to our for the benefit of patients.
products is also a critical part of our strategy. Our
detailed access plans are embedded in the business Our ways of working enable agile and networked
at a local level. responses to the ever-increasing pace of change by
balancing the needs for stability, speed and flexibility.
We will continue to concentrate our energies entirely
on prescription medicines and in vitro diagnostics, Our set-up is built for innovation. Our autonomous
rather than diversify into other sectors like generics, research and development centres and alliances with
biosimilars or over-the-counter medicines. more than 200 external partners foster a diversity
of scientific approaches and agility. Our global
In our pursuit of excellence in science, our geographical scale and reach enables us to attract
distinctiveness rests on four key elements: an talent in the leading global science clusters and to
exceptionally broad and deep understanding of bring our diagnostics and medicines quickly to
disease biology, the seamless integration of our people who need them.18
Dear Shareholders,
In 2019, we continued to make significant progress in our efforts
to use outstanding scientific achievements to give people a better
quality of life and help them lead healthy lives.
The demand for our recently launched medicines We intend to use our partnership-based approach
for multiple sclerosis (Ocrevus) and haemophilia to help resolve the challenges facing the healthcare
(Hemlibra) was particularly high, and the same system. Not only does this mean partnering research
goes for our cancer immunotherapy Tecentriq. These laboratories, patient organisations and biotech
three products were major contributors to the Roche companies, but also the authorities. For example,
Group’s impressive sales growth of 9%** in 2019 to I signed a framework agreement with the Croatian
CHF 61.5 billion. government in 2019 with a view to providing
personalised cancer treatment for the approximately
The approval of the targeted cancer treatment 25,000 people in the country diagnosed with the
(Rozlytrek) with a genomic test enabled us to open disease annually. Globally, Roche is working with
up a new chapter in the development of personalised many other partners to deliver better care to patients.
healthcare. Because this new medicine is effective
against tumours that exhibit two relatively rare Progress was made not only in oncology, but also in
genetic changes, accurate pre-treatment diagnosis is other therapeutic areas. We were thus able to submit
essential, which is where one of Roche’s biggest core dossiers for two new medicines in the second half of
competencies really comes into its own. Our ability the year: risdiplam in the hereditary disorder spinal
to combine diagnostic procedures, data from clinical muscular atrophy, and satralizumab for a specific
practice and medicines brings us closer to our goal of disease of the central nervous system. Both of these
finding personalised treatment options for as many new active ingredients bring hope to people with
patients as possible and eventually offering even more rare, severely debilitating diseases. For risdiplam, the
effective treatment options. By doing so we alleviate US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted
people’s symptoms and, in the best case, help them priority review and for satralizumab breakthrough
make a full recovery from their disease. therapy designation.Chairman’s shareholder letter | Roche
19
Gene therapies are particularly promising for a Roche’s innovativeness is also reflected in its net
number of rare diseases because they directly address income (under IFRS), which rose by a substantial
the genetic cause of such conditions. We therefore 32% to CHF 14.1 billion. In view of this strong
intend to bolster our presence substantially in this business performance, we will be proposing a
area, expanding our portfolio of therapeutic active dividend of CHF 9.00 per share and non-voting
ingredients through our acquisition of the US gene equity security at the Annual General Meeting
therapy company Spark Therapeutics. on 17 March 2020. Subject to your approval, this
will be the 33rd consecutive dividend increase.
However, innovation and life-improving medicines
come at a price. In his interview on pages 20 and 21, Thanks to successful new launches and a first-class
Severin Schwan, CEO Roche Group, discusses both development portfolio, we are confident that Roche
the added value that these new treatments offer will continue on its growth trajectory despite some
patients and their potential for generating economic of our important medicines going off patent.
benefits for the healthcare system overall.
I would like to thank our partners for their trust and
Despite the progress in medicine, the global demand cooperation and the 97,735 Roche Group employees
for state-of-the-art diagnostics and personalised for their tireless commitment to patient wellbeing.
treatments remains huge. We therefore invested And I offer you, our shareholders, my heartfelt thanks
CHF 11.7 billion in research and development last for the trust you have placed in us and your affinity
year and intend to maintain this record level of with our company.
investment for the industry. It is gratifying to note
that the FDA was sufficiently persuaded by the clinical
benefits of four more Roche medicines to award them
breakthrough therapy designations in 2019, bringing
the total to 31 since 2013. This achievement is an
expression not least of the value that our new products Dr Christoph Franz
represent for patients and society. Chairman of the Board of Directors
Roche Board of Directors on 31 December 2019. Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E, G | Prof. Sir John Bell (1952) E, G | Dr Christoph Franz (1960) Chairman,
C, D*, E, G | Anita Hauser (1969) A, E, G | Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E, G | Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) Representative of the shareholder group with
pooled voting rights, A*, E, G | André Hoffmann (1958) Vice-Chairman, Representative of the shareholder group with pooled voting rights, A, C*, D, E, G |
Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F | Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967) A, B, E, G | Julie Brown (1962) B*, E, G | Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953)
C, E, G | Prof. Dr Hans Clevers (1957) B, E, G
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee | B Audit Committee | C Remuneration Committee | D Chairman’s/Nomination Committee |
E Non-executive director | F Executive director | G Independent member of the Board of Directors | * Committee chairperson | ** All growth rates
in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2018).20
“The most important thing is that such
medicines exist at all.”
Severin Schwan, CEO Roche Group, talks about the blessings of
new medicines, their prices and emotional moments in his work.
Perhaps you have heard about baby Pia, a nine- than affordability. In Switzerland, people spend
month-old girl from Belgium with spinal muscular more on alcohol and tobacco than on medicines.
atrophy (SMA). Her mother financed her treatment
with extremely expensive gene therapy via crowd However, is charging millions for gene therapy
funding. What would we say to the world if something justifiable?
like that happened with a Roche medicine? Gene therapy is a new field. Unlike conventional
First, I think the commitment shown by Pia’s mother therapies, the treatment targets the roots of the
is wonderful. And the most important thing is that disorder and remedies the cause—for a lifetime in
medicines that can help her daughter exist at all. the best case—with a single injection. With the
I remember very well spending time with the Swiss current billing procedures, a huge sum is due in one
patients’ organisation for SMA a few years ago. At that fell swoop. What we need here is new financing
time, there were absolutely no options for SMA and solutions. I firmly believe we need some form of risk
many of the parents lost their children at a very young sharing between health insurers and pharmaceutical
age. When you see how far we have come—two drugs companies. The health insurers would pay for
to treat SMA are already on the market and ours is treatment over several years, but only in those cases
coming soon—then it is a huge blessing for families. and only for as long as the medicine is proven to be
effective. This way, the financial expenditure would
A blessing if those affected have access to the be linked more closely to the benefits of the therapy
medicines … and patients would have guaranteed access.
Yes, the question of access is crucial. First and
foremost, this requires a functioning insurance system What contribution is Roche making to keep
to which we all make our regular contributions so medicines affordable?
that medical care can be guaranteed for the patients If you look at surveys in the United States today,
affected in such unfortunate cases. In developed most people believe that medicines make up 80% of
countries, this is more a question of social solidarity health costs, when it is actually 13%. It is a similarInterview with the CEO Roche Group | Roche
21
story in Switzerland. Many people assume that The theme for this year’s Annual Report is
health insurance contributions are rising because of ‘The patient at the centre’. What does this mean
medicines, but medicines actually make up a far lower for you personally?
percentage of the overall costs today than they did For me, it is the benchmark for everything we do.
ten years ago. Simply reducing prices would certainly For every decision, we have to ask ourselves what
not be in the patients’ interests because hardly any will benefit patients most in the long run.
company would take on the considerable financial
risk in order to keep investing in new medicines. When you talk to patients, what do you hear most
Therefore, our most important contribution is that we frequently?
are continuing to invest in research and development, Above all, gratitude. When talking to patients, many
and taking risks to develop new and better drugs in of whom are only alive because Roche has developed
the first place. particular drugs, it is predominantly gratitude. That
gives me added motivation.
What about people in emerging and developing
countries who simply cannot afford our medicines? You are a rational person. What moments in your
We have achieved pioneering work in the field of work also affect you emotionally?
differential pricing. This means that we tailor prices It might be an e-mail from an acquaintance who
to the purchasing power in the country in question. has been treated successfully with one of our
Using this model, it has been possible to expand access medicines …
to vital cancer drugs massively in China, for example.
But there are also countries where the infrastructure Like the letter from a patient who thanked you
is completely lacking, where there are hardly any for her life ...
hospitals, doctors or laboratories. In these countries, Yes, that patient was treated with our cancer drug
our thinking goes beyond medicines and we work with Alecensa. I only received that letter on behalf of all
local partners to lay the foundations for reasonably Roche employees, so I think we can all be proud of
functioning basic healthcare. I am constantly impressed what we are accomplishing with our work.
with what our employees achieve in this field.
Roche Corporate Executive Committee on 31 December 2019. Dr James H. Sabry* (1958), Global Head Pharma Partnering | Dr William Pao* (1967),
Head Roche Pharma Research & Early Development (pRED) | Dr Alan Hippe (1967), Chief Financial and IT Officer | Cristina A. Wilbur (1967), Head Group
Human Resources | Dr Severin Schwan (1967), CEO Roche Group | Bill Anderson (1966), CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals | Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954),
General Counsel | Dr Michael D. Varney* (1958), Head Genentech Research & Early Development (gRED) | Barbara Schädler* (1966), Head Group
Communications | Dr Thomas Schinecker (1975), CEO Roche Diagnostics | * Member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee22
Sustainable Development GoalBusiness performance | Roche
23
Business
performance
New products drive the performance
of the Roche Group.
We are dedicated to long-term success.
New product approvals and a strong flow of positive data from our clinical studies demonstrate the high quality of our pipeline.24
Material topic covered in this chapter
Long-term mindset
Very strong results for the Roche Group
A significant increase of the number of people treated and new
products are the basis of our strong performance in 2019.
In 2019, Group sales rose 9%* to CHF 61.5 billion of the lower sales of Herceptin (-43%) and MabThera/
and core EPS grew 13%, ahead of sales. The core Rituxan (-33%).
operating profit increased by 11%, reflecting the strong
underlying business performance. The IFRS net income Growth in Japan (+9%) was also driven by recently
increased 32%, due to impact of lower impairments launched products, despite considerable competition
of intangible assets in 2019 compared to 2018. from biosimilars.
The continued strong uptake of our new medicines In the International region, sales grew 15%, mainly
and successful product launches in new disease areas driven by a significant increase in the number of
provide important new treatment options for more patients benefiting from Roche cancer drugs in
people with severe diseases or chronic conditions. China with strong sales of Herceptin, Avastin and
As a result, sales in the Pharmaceuticals Division M abThera/Rituxan.
increased by 11% to CHF 48.5 billion. Key growth
drivers were the multiple sclerosis medicine Ocrevus, Diagnostics Division sales increased by 3% to
the new haemophilia medicine Hemlibra and CHF 12.9 billion. The business area Centralised and
cancer medicines Tecentriq and Perjeta. The strong Point of Care Solutions (+3%) was the main contributor,
uptake of medicines introduced since 2012 generated with growth driven by the immunodiagnostics
CHF 5.4 billion in growth, more than offsetting the business. Growth was reported in Asia-Pacific (+6%),
impact of the competition from biosimilars for Latin America (+12%), EMEA1 (+2%). In North
MabThera/Rituxan and Herceptin in Europe, Japan America, sales were stable.
(decline combined CHF 1.2 billion) and MabThera/
Rituxan, Herceptin and Avastin in the US (estimated Pharmaceuticals: key drug approvals
decline CHF 0.3 billion). In 2019, the US FDA granted additional approvals for
medicines that are already commercially available and
In the US, sales increased by 13%, led by Ocrevus, for two new cancer therapies:
Hemlibra and Tecentriq. Ocrevus sales were driven • Tecentriq combination therapy for initial treatment
by demand from both new and returning patients. of metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung
The first biosimilar versions of MabThera/Rituxan, cancer (NSCLC)
Herceptin and Avastin were launched in the market • Tecentriq combination therapy for extensive-stage
later in the year. small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC)
• Tecentriq combination therapy for triple-negative
In Europe, sales stabilised as the strong demand for breast cancer and companion diagnostic test
new medicines, including Ocrevus, Perjeta, Tecentriq, • Herceptin Hylecta for subcutaneous injection for
Alecensa and Hemlibra was able to offset the impact the treatment of breast cancerBusiness performance | Roche
25
• Kadcyla for the adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive
early breast cancer
• New cancer medicines: Rozlytrek for lung cancer
with a specific gene mutation and solid tumours
carrying a certain gene fusion as well as Polivy for
previously treated aggressive lymphoma.
The authorities in the EU approved:
• Hemlibra for people with severe haemophilia A
without factor VIII inhibitors;
• Tecentriq combination therapies:
– for the initial treatment of a form of lung cancer;
– for a certain type of breast cancer;
– for the initial treatment of NSCLC;
– for small cell lung cancer. A quality expert at a Roche production unit conducts one of the multiple checks of our
medicines to ensure that all respective production criteria are met.
In Japan, Rozlytrek was approved for the treatment
of NTRK-positive tumours.
Diagnostics: next-generation systems and tests
The FDA cleared the cobas pro integrated solutions,
a new generation of Serum Work Area (clinical The Global Access Program was expanded beyond
chemistry and immunochemistry) laboratory solution HIV, to include tests for Mycobacterium tuberculosis
designed to optimise laboratory operations. With the (MTB), hepatitis B and C (HBV and HCV), and
cobas pro integrated solutions, laboratories are now human papillomavirus (HPV) for low- and middle-
able to run tests faster on less equipment, automate income country programmes where the disease
manual tasks and deliver results more quickly to aid burden is the highest. The expansion of the Global
treatment decisions. Access Program highlights Roche’s commitment
towards making cost-effective resources more easily
The FDA approved the Ventana PD-L1 (SP142) Assay available for many people and contributing to the
as the first companion diagnostic test to help identify elimination of diseases in the regions with the
triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) patients eligible greatest need.
for treatment with Tecentriq plus chemotherapy.
Outlook for 2020
Roche launched the Ventana HER2 Dual ISH DNA Sales are expected to grow in the low- to mid-single
Probe Cocktail companion diagnostic test for breast digit range, at constant exchange rates. Core earnings
and gastric cancer patients eligible for targeted therapy. per share are targeted to grow broadly in line with
HER2—human epidermal growth factor receptor 2—is sales, at constant exchange rates. Roche expects to
an important biomarker in breast and gastric cancers. increase its dividend in Swiss francs further.
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2018). | 1 EMEA = Europe, Middle East and Africa26
Immunodiagnostics driving divisional
performance
Integrated solutions and a broad test portfolio support precise
and fast treatment decisions, thus benefiting the patient.
The Diagnostics Division continued to increase sales instrument sales due to shipment delays. Regionally,
with growth of 3%* to CHF 12.9 billion. the decline in sales was led by North America (-6%).
Asia-Pacific sales increased by 14%, with China being
Centralised and Point of Care Solutions. With an the main growth market.
increase in sales of 3%, this business area was the major
contributor to the divisional performance. Growth Diabetes Care. Sales increased by 1%, driven by
was primarily driven by the immunodiagnostics North America (+15%), sales growth mainly came
business (+6%), due to instrument launches and the from the Accu-Chek Guide product line.
ongoing rollouts, mainly in China, the US and South
Korea. Sales growth was partially offset by a decline Through our instruments and solutions, the Roche
in coagulation monitoring in North America. Diagnostics business is improving the standard of
patient care. This means extending the clinical use
Molecular Diagnostics. Overall sales increased 6%, of current tests and developing new algorithms, and
with 6% growth in the underlying molecular business. it means investing in breakthrough clinical studies
Growth was driven by blood screening as well as by and digital solutions for clinical decision support.
the sequencing business. Regional growth was led by
Asia-Pacific (+16%) mainly in China, and EMEA (+6%). Setting new standards in precision medicine
Roche Diagnostics maintained its industry-leading
Tissue Diagnostics. Sales were stable, with higher position by continuing to bring to market advanced
sales of advanced staining reagents offset by lower and integrated solutions in diagnostic testing,
laboratory efficiency, clinical decision support and
diabetes management.
cobas pro
The integrated diagnostic solutions we provide are
designed to meet the challenges of today even as we
anticipate the needs of tomorrow. They also simplify
shortens delivery time of results to
the complexity that laboratory professionals and
physicians and patients across therapeutic healthcare organisations face every day, helping to
improve patient outcomes in a rapidly changing
areas to support clinical decision-making.
healthcare environment.Business performance | Roche
27
Top-selling product portfolios in 2019 (CHF millions)
4,400
+6%
cobas
Immunodiagnostics
1,821
+1%
cobas
Clinical chemistry
856
+1%
Ventana
Advanced staining
357
+7%
cobas
Blood screening
1,918
+1%
Accu-Chek
Diabetes Care
The cobas 6800/8800 systems and tests help to speed up treatment decisions and reduce
the spread of infectious diseases that cause deaths worldwide.
In 2019, we significantly expanded our range of assays Also in May, Roche launched new tests for the
for the Integrated Core Lab with several launches and cobas 6800/8800 systems to help speed up treatment
approvals. Our broad portfolio—the industry’s most and reduce the spread of tuberculosis, the leading
comprehensive—enables clinical decision-making and cause of infectious disease deaths worldwide.
personalised healthcare. The launch of the cobas MTB and cobas MAI tests
in countries accepting the CE-mark accelerated
In May, the FDA granted 510(k) clearance for the tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment by detecting
cobas TV/MG test for use on our cobas 6800/8800 antimicrobial resistance. The high sensitivity of the
systems. The addition of the cobas TV/MG test to the cobas MTB test enables the increased detection of
testing menu provides the flexibility to process up to tuberculosis in challenging smear-negative samples.
four sexually transmitted infections from one patient A complete mycobacteria test menu provides the
sample: Chlamydia trachomatis (CT), Neisseria flexibility to detect a combination of tuberculosis,
gonorrhoeae (NG), Trichomonas vaginalis (TV) and drug-resistant tuberculosis and non-tuberculous
Mycoplasma genitalium (MG). mycobacteria infections from a single patient sample.
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2018).28
In the same month, we launched the Ventana ROS1 We also had important approvals for companion
(SP384) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary Antibody diagnostics. In March, the Ventana PD-L1 (SP142)
globally, the first and only in vitro diagnostic ROS1 Assay gained FDA approval as the first companion
immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay. The test detects diagnostic to identify triple-negative breast cancer
the presence of ROS1 protein in tissue and may be patients eligible for treatment with Tecentriq and
useful in identifying ROS1-positive cancer cases. Abraxane (Celgene); the assay was launched in
Guidelines from the College of American Pathologists CE markets in August. The Ventana PD-L1 (SP142)
and the National Comprehensive Cancer Network Assay was developed to enhance the visual contrast
recommend ROS1 testing for confirmed lung of tumour-infiltrating immune cell staining; in
adenocarcinoma cases. ROS1 is also being studied triple-negative breast cancer, PD-L1 is primarily
in a number of clinical trials in other cancer types. expressed on these cells rather than on the tumour
cells themselves. This assay is the primary diagnostic
Improving lab efficiency, quality control and assay for the Tecentriq clinical development
information sharing are key benefits of our Integrated programme (for more on Tecentriq, see page 34).
Core Lab and, in April, we released cobas infinity 3.0,
our proven global lab software solution. The new In April, we launched the Ventana HER2 Dual ISH
features of the cobas infinity lab software solutions— DNA Probe Cocktail companion diagnostic test
already installed in more than 60 countries—help in CE-IVD countries for breast and gastric cancer
laboratories integrate a wide range of processes from patients eligible for targeted therapy. HER2 is an
ordering diagnostic tests to actual test results. And with important biomarker found in breast and gastric
the new cobas mobile solution, we offer to customers a cancers and the new assay helps drive personalised
modern tablet solution to interact with their instrument healthcare by quickly delivering critical information
and boost efficiency and convenience further using on treatment options.
mobile apps such as cobas mobicheck 2.0, cobas screen
share, User Assistance and Roche DiaLog. The cobas In September, the FDA approved the cobas Babesia
mobile solution will be continuously enhanced and test for use on the cobas 6800/8800 systems for
extended to meet current and future customer demands. individual blood donation testing. The use of whole
blood is an important innovation because the
And in September, the FDA cleared the cobas pro Babesia parasite lives in red blood cells and cannot
integrated solutions, a new generation of Serum be detected in traditional plasma or serum samples.
Work Area solutions; it had already been launched The approval of Roche’s first whole-blood assay
in January in countries accepting the CE mark. To helps healthcare professionals diminish potential
improve efficiency, it allows for up to 2,200 tests per risks of infection from transfused blood products.
hour with three synchronised modules working in Whole-blood testing paves the way for an even safer
parallel. The cobas pro shortens delivery time of blood supply by exposing previously undetectable
results to physicians and patients across therapeutic red blood cell-based pathogens like Babesia.
areas to support clinical decision-making.Business performance | Roche
29
Experience the advantages of modern diagnosis.
Scan the images with the Xtend app to watch
the video.
Immunocompromised transplant patients can benefit Digital transformation gains momentum
from the cobas EBV and BKV tests, also launched in Our approach to data and healthcare digitalisation
September for countries accepting the CE mark. With extends well beyond technology. Automation,
these new tests, run on the cobas 6800/8800 systems, digitalisation and integration are taking diagnostics
healthcare professionals can now determine which beyond the lab and beyond what would have been
transplant patients are at risk of further complications possible just a few years ago.
caused by reactivation of the Epstein-Barr (EBV) or
BK viruses.
Systems, tests and software solutions—our Integrated Core Lab helps laboratories to improve their efficiency, quality controls and information sharing and thereby
supports physicians and patients in treatment decisions.30
In January, we launched the uPath enterprise software Board. When opening a patient case, the app
for digital pathology, offering a new standard of identifies the appropriate guidelines based on the
personalisation for pathology workflows. The uPath patient’s cancer type. Clinicians can then select the
enterprise software enhances user experience by intended pathway, easily click through the digitised
drastically decreasing image-rendering times, decision tree or flowchart and personalise individual
integrating automated image analysis and improving steps for a specific patient. The pathway is accessible
efficiency through an improved workflow for sharing to all tumour board participants and can be exported
cases between pathologists. The uPath launch follows to an EMR (electronic medical record) system, sent
the 2018 release of the Ventana DP 200 digital slide to patients or submitted for reimbursement approval
scanner. by payers.
Our digital tools help convert vast amounts of The Roche and GE Healthcare partnership
healthcare data into actionable insights. The Navify exemplifies our collaborative approach of combining
Clinical Decision Support portfolio continues to complementary expertise to advance patient care.
grow and strengthen. In March, we announced the Our partnerships are playing a key role in driving
CE mark for the Navify Mutation Profiler, clinical the future of precision medicine by creating a
software for annotation, interpretation and clinical comprehensive data-driven healthcare ecosystem.
reporting on next-generation sequencing (NGS)
tests. We have launched both the Navify Mutation Improving infectious disease testing access
Profiler and the Navify Therapy Matcher, an optional The Global Access Program has had a major
clinical support aid that helps clinicians by linking positive impact on diagnosing, treating and helping
clinically actionable mutations with relevant therapy to reduce the spread of HIV in low- and middle-
options. income countries. The positive impact of our HIV
diagnostics continues to grow; in January, we
In May, Roche and GE Healthcare launched the added two new sample types for utilisation on the
Navify Tumor Board 2.0, the first collaboration cobas 4800 system.
product of this partnership. Incorporating medical
image viewing and storage capabilities with other In July, we expanded this programme and it now
patient data, it enables tumour boards to have a includes molecular diagnostics for HIV-1 viral load,
more comprehensive view of each patient. HIV-1 and HIV-2 early infant diagnosis, the cobas
Plasma Separation Card, MTB and MTB-RIF/INH,
In October, we released Navify Guidelines, a new hepatitis B and C, and human papillomavirus.
app for the Navify Decision Support portfolio. The All these assays run on the cobas 4800/6800/8800
app embeds the latest National Comprehensive platforms for various testing volume needs. See
Cancer Network Clinical Practice Guidelines in the ‘Access’ chapter for more information about
Oncology (NCCN Guidelines), covering the four Roche initiatives to increase access to life-saving
most common cancers within the Navify Tumor diagnostics and medicines.Business performance | Roche
31
The cobas Plasma Separation Card supports the diagnosis of infections with several viruses and bacteria. This card has been designed to simplify blood collection,
spanning from early infants to adults, and sample transportation.
Connections that count the blood glucose range just by taking a picture
Our Diabetes Care portfolio offers a collaborative, of an Accu-Chek Active strip with a smartphone.
integrated and personalised approach that aims to
determine the optimal therapy for each person with In February, we expanded the collaboration
diabetes or at risk of developing the disease. agreement with Senseonics for the distribution of
the Eversense XL insertable continuous glucose
In March, we launched Accu-Chek Smart Pix Online monitoring (CGM) sensor in 17 additional markets
in Spain and Portugal, with launches in other in Europe, Latin America and the Asia-Pacific
countries planned for 2020. As the successor to the region. And in June we marked the placement of the
Smart Pix software, it allows for the management 10,000th Eversense XL sensor. Working with the
of multiple patients within a single digital diabetes mySugr mobile diabetes management app, Eversense
solution with open connectivity. XL can measure glucose values for up to 180 days.
For non-insulin-dependent people with type 2 The tubeless Accu-Chek Solo micropump system,
diabetes, the CE-marked Accu-Chek SugarView 2.0, now fully integrated in the Accu-Chek portfolio, has
which enables meter-free glucose monitoring, has been launched in nine markets: Argentina, Australia,
been launched as a pilot project in Mexico, the Austria, Italy, Kuwait, Poland, Spain, Switzerland
Philippines and Nigeria. It is the first app that displays and the United Kingdom.32Business performance | Roche
33
“Not all women and their babies have this
good fortune.”
Maria Schoedl, Roche, Germany
I work in Roche Diagnostics in Penzberg and It might have been a different story if the diagnostic
preeclampsia is one of the focus areas of my work. tests or markers had already been available that
It is fate, probably even ironic, that shortly after afternoon when my blood pressure first shot up.
the birth of my daughter, who is now seven, I was A preeclampsia diagnosis could have been made
diagnosed with the severe form of this condition. Well much earlier and the necessary steps could have
actually, I diagnosed myself given my understanding been taken to avoid the onset of the disease.
of preeclampsia from work. The doctors at the
medium-sized perinatal centre I was in did not suspect At that time, I was leading a large clinical trial
anything until my condition turned very critical. validating the two diagnostic tests for the short-term
prediction of preeclampsia. The benefit of these
Fortunately, my daughter was delivered by caesarean measures was that women suspected of having the
before I began to display any serious symptoms. And disorder can be tested when they arrived at the clinic.
so she escaped unscathed. I was lucky too, as I could By applying specific criteria, it is a helpful tool to
so easily have suffered a brain haemorrhage or even identify patients who are at high risk of developing
liver failure. By that stage I had severe eclampsia and the disease and who need to be monitored more
these are common outcomes. Not all women and their closely. It also enables clinicians to rule out
babies have this good fortune. preeclampsia in women who otherwise showed
some symptoms of the condition.
On the day my daughter was delivered, I remember
that my blood pressure spiked to very high levels. My husband and I knew that we wanted to have
The doctors, however, were not that concerned and another child. I was acutely aware that having
put it down to the C-section. Later that evening things developed preeclampsia during my first pregnancy
started spiralling out of control as I began to have meant that I was a high-risk patient but was reassured
serious visual disturbances and could hardly see. I by the fact that better tests were now available. It was
still managed to express my suspicion and told the an immense relief, especially as during my second
doctor that I could be suffering from a serious form pregnancy I went to a specialised university hospital
of preeclampsia before I lost consciousness and where they already tested these markers. I actually
started to have seizures. That was when the doctors benefited from the new Roche tests we had developed.
got really worried. They also had to rule out other Happily, my son was born without any complications
complications like a cerebral bleed. five years ago.34
Continued demand for new medicines
An increasing number of patients can benefit from innovations
based on Roche’s legacy medicines and in new disease areas.
The uptake of our newly introduced medicines breast cancer. Strong sales growth was reported
continues to be very strong, contributing to almost by all regions. In the US, the new indications for
all the growth. Sales in the Pharmaceuticals Division extensive-stage small cell lung cancer and triple-
increased by 11% to CHF 48.5 billion. negative breast cancer drove sales growth.
New medicines—key growth drivers Kadcyla (first approved in 2013; CHF 1.4 billion,
Ocrevus (first approved in 2017; CHF 3.7 billion, +45%). For treating HER2-positive breast cancer.
+57%*). For the treatment of both the relapsing The increased demand for Kadcyla was driven by
(RMS) and primary progressive (PPMS) forms of the US and the International region, supported by
multiple sclerosis (MS). More than 150,000 people its use in treating patients with residual disease
have been treated with Ocrevus globally, in clinical- after surgery.
trial and real-world settings; data continue to show
a consistent and favourable benefit-risk profile. The Hemlibra (first approved in 2017; CHF 1.4 billion,
strong demand for this treatment in both indications >500%). For treating people with haemophilia A
has continued. In addition to sales increases in with factor VIII inhibitors. It is also approved to
the US, growth was supported by launches in treat people with haemophilia A without factor VIII
international markets. inhibitors. Hemlibra is the only prophylactic treatment
that can be administered subcutaneously and with
Perjeta (first approved in 2012; CHF 3.5 billion, multiple dosing options (once weekly, once every two
+29%). As therapy for HER2-positive breast cancer. weeks or once every four weeks). The uptake is very
Sales grew strongly in all regions. The increased strong in the US, Japan and Europe.
patient demand for Perjeta for adjuvant early
breast cancer therapy supports its continued Esbriet (first approved in 2014; CHF 1.1 billion, +9%).
strong growth. For idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Sales continued
to expand, driven by growth in Europe and the US.
Tecentriq (first approved in 2016; CHF 1.9 billion,
+143%). Approved either alone or in combination with Alecensa (first approved in 2015; CHF 876 million,
targeted therapies and/or chemotherapies in various +38%). To treat ALK-positive lung cancer. Alecensa
forms of non-small cell (NSCLC) and small cell lung showed continued strong sales growth across all
cancer, certain types of metastatic urothelial cancer, regions, with Europe and the International region
and in PD-L1-positive metastatic triple-negative being the main drivers.Business performance | Roche
35
Incremental sales in 2019 (CHF millions)
1,331
Ocrevus
Neuroscience
1,141
Hemlibra
Haemophilia
1,102
Tecentriq
Oncology
798
Perjeta
Oncology
436
Kadcyla
Oncology
By running the most stringent controls for our medicines, we ensure that products
provided to patients meet all the respective requirements. 280
Avastin
Oncology
Gazyva/Gazyvaro (first approved in 2013; 241
CHF 552 million, +43%). For chronic lymphocytic
leukaemia (CLL), rituximab-refractory follicular Alecensa
lymphoma and previously untreated advanced Oncology
follicular lymphoma. Sales expanded in all regions.
169
Polivy (first approved in 2019; CHF 51 million).
Part of a combination therapy for the treatment Actemra/RoActemra
of adults with relapsed or refractory diffuse large Immunology
B-cell lymphoma who have received at least two
prior therapies. FDA granted accelerated approval. 166
Rozlytrek (first approved in 2019; CHF 7 million). Gazyva/Gazyvaro
For lung cancer with a specific gene mutation and Oncology
solid tumours carrying a certain gene fusion.
Rozlytrek received approvals in the US and in Japan. 138
Lucentis
Ophthalmology
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2018).36
Experience Andy telling his story.
Scan here with the Xtend app to
watch the video.
New treatment options for patients
The speed at which Roche brings new medicines to PD-L1 expression (≥1%) and who have not received
physicians and their patients is accelerating. We prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease; for the
launched two medicines in 2019, making it 15 since initial treatment of adults with ES-SCLC; for initial
2012, and are preparing for the launch of another two therapy of adults with metastatic non-squamous
in 2020. The number of drug candidates in late-stage NSCLC without EGFR-mutant or ALK-positive
clinical development has increased by 50% over the NSCLC; for a combination therapy for the first-line
past three years. treatment of adults with metastatic non-squamous
NSCLC. In people with EGFR-mutant or ALK-positive
Ocrevus—reducing risk of disease progression NSCLC, Tecentriq combination treatment is indicated
Longer-term data from the phase III open-label only after the failure of appropriate targeted therapies.
extension studies Opera I, Opera II and Oratorio
showed that patients who had been treated with The phase III IMbrave150 study, evaluating Tecentriq
Ocrevus continuously for six years or more had a in combination with Avastin as a treatment for people
reduced risk of disability progression in relapsing MS with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC),
and primary progressive MS. These results suggest who have not received prior systemic therapy, met
that earlier treatment with Ocrevus, administered both of its co-primary endpoints, demonstrating
twice yearly, reduced the risk of disability progression statistically significant and clinically meaningful
and this effect was sustained over time. improvements in overall survival and progression-free
survival compared with standard-of-care sorafenib.
Tecentriq—entering new cancer areas This study represents the first improvement in overall
Tecentriq is a first-in-class medicine to treat extensive- survival for people with unresectable HCC, compared
stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC) and metastatic with the current standard of care, in more than a
triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). In 2019, decade.
Tecentriq was approved in additional indications
across multiple tumour types. Kadcyla—important option in breast cancer
The FDA approved Kadcyla for the adjuvant (after
In the US, Tecentriq combination therapy was surgery) treatment of people with HER2-positive early
approved for the initial treatment of ES-SCLC. The breast cancer who have residual invasive disease after
FDA granted accelerated approval to Tecentriq neoadjuvant (before surgery) treatment. In the EU,
plus nab-paclitaxel for the treatment of metastatic Kadcyla was approved for treatment after surgery of
PD-L1-positive TNBC, and also approved Tecentriq HER2-positive early breast cancer.
combination therapy for initial treatment of
metastatic non-squamous NSCLC with no EGFR Hemlibra—for all age groups
or ALK genomic tumour aberrations. Hemlibra was approved in the EU for the routine
prophylaxis of bleeding episodes in people with severe
In the EU, Tecentriq received four additional haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency,
approvals: for patients with unresectable locally FVIII <1%) without factor VIII inhibitors. Hemlibra
advanced or metastatic TNBC whose tumours have can be used in all age groups.Business performance | Roche
37
CHF million 31%
15,000
14,000
13,000
% of divisional sales
12,000
22% Erivedge (2012)
11,000
Perjeta (2012)
10,000 Kadcyla (2013)
Gazyva/Gazyvaro (2013)
9,000
Esbriet (2014)
8,000 15% Cotellic (2015)
Alecensa (2015)
7,000
Tecentriq (2016)
6,000 Venclexta/Venclyxto (2016)*
11%
Ocrevus (2017)
5,000
Hemlibra (2017)
8%
4,000 Luxturna (2017)
Xofluza (2018)
3,000
Polivy (2019)
2,000 Rozlytrek (2019)
1,000
* Venclexta/Venclyxto sales are
0 booked by partner AbbVie.
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
The percentage of sales contribution of medicines launched since 2012 increased steadily.
Gazyva/Gazyvaro—BTD in lupus nephritis received at least two prior therapies. Continued
The FDA granted breakthrough therapy designation approval for this indication may be contingent upon
(BTD) to Gazyva/Gazyvaro for adults with lupus the verification and description of the clinical benefit
nephritis. In the phase II clinical study Nobility, in a confirmatory trial.
Gazyva/Gazyvaro met both primary and key
secondary endpoints. Lupus nephritis is a severe and Rozlytrek—for rare forms of lung cancer
potentially life-threatening disorder of the kidneys. This new medicine was approved for the treatment
A phase III programme has been initiated. of, metastatic NSCLC: in Japan (NTRK+) and in the
US (ROS1+/NTRK+). The FDA granted accelerated
Gazyva/Gazyvaro—CLL and SLL approval to Rozlytrek for the treatment of adult and
The FDA approved Venclexta/Venclyxto in paediatric patients 12 years of age and older with
combination with Gazyva/Gazyvaro for the treatment solid tumours that have a neurotrophic tyrosine
of previously untreated chronic lymphocytic receptor kinase (NTRK) gene fusion without a
leukaemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma known acquired resistance mutation.
(SLL).
Cotellic—breakthrough therapy designation
Polivy—accelerated approval The FDA also granted BTD for Cotellic in histiocytic
The FDA granted accelerated approval to Polivy in neoplasms which do not harbour the BRAF V600
combination with bendamustine plus MabThera/ mutation. This was based on a phase II study in
Rituxan for the treatment of adults with relapsed or adults with histiocytosis of any mutational status
refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma who have demonstrating a high overall response rate of 89%.38
Next-generation medicines
We are continuing to drive treatment in oncology, Vision loss is a major global health problem and our
immunology, ophthalmology, neuroscience, infectious late-stage pipeline includes projects in neovascular
diseases and rare diseases with our strong in-house age-related macular degeneration (nAMD), diabetic
pipeline. At the end of 2019, there were 72 new macular oedema (DME), diabetic retinopathy and
molecular entities in the clinical pipeline of our retinal vein occlusion. Faricimab, the first bispecific
Pharmaceuticals Division. A number of these antibody designed specifically for the eye, is in
compounds are next-generation products based on phase III trials for DME and nAMD. It simultaneously
very successful Roche legacy medicines. At the same targets two key drivers in the development and
time, we are entering other disease areas where progression of both diseases. PDS, a small, refillable
scientific progress enables us to make meaningful device about the size of a grain of rice, and the first-
improvements for patients. ever continuous delivery system with a biologic
medicine in nAMD, is currently being investigated
In oncology, new medicines follow on from Roche’s in a phase III study.
strong legacy in this disease area, including Gazyva/
Gazyvaro, Venclexta/Venclyxto, recently approved In infectious diseases, Xofluza is a first-in-class,
Polivy (US, polatuzumab vedotin), as well as late-stage one-dose oral antiviral medicine against influenza.
development compounds, including mosunetuzumab Xofluza is currently approved in several countries
and CD20-TCB. Mosunetuzumab and CD20-TCB are for the treatment of influenza in otherwise healthy
two novel bispecific antibodies under investigation people. In October 2019, Xofluza became the first
in blood cancer for relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin and only antiviral medicine approved by the FDA
lymphoma. Both drug candidates have demonstrated specifically for patients at high risk of developing
compelling early data and significantly advanced our serious complications from influenza.
expertise in developing antibodies to treat blood
diseases. Entering new disease areas
The successful launches of Ocrevus for the treatment
In HER2-positive cancer, Perjeta, Kadcyla and of two forms of multiple sclerosis and Hemlibra
subcutaneous Herceptin are key medicines in for forms of haemophilia mark Roche’s entry in
fighting breast cancer and follow on from the success disease areas that had previously not been our focus.
seen with Herceptin. The phase III FeDeriCa study Similarly, our late-stage development pipeline covers
met its primary endpoint. The new investigational compounds for several conditions of the central
fixed-dose combination of Perjeta and Herceptin, nervous system, including spinal muscular atrophy
administered by subcutaneous injection in combination (SMA), neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder
with intravenous chemotherapy, demonstrated non- (NMOSD), autism, Huntington’s disease and
inferior levels of Perjeta in the blood (pharmacokinetics) Alzheimer’s disease.
compared to standard intravenous infusion of Perjeta
plus Herceptin and chemotherapy in people with Risdiplam has the potential to be the first oral therapy
HER2-positive early breast cancer. This method of for people with SMA, too many of whom remain
drug administration significantly reduces the time untreated. Data from the dose-finding part 1 of the
spent receiving treatment. pivotal Firefish trial show that infants with type 1Business performance | Roche
39
Roche is successfully entering new disease areas, providing important new treatments for people with severe conditions, including multiple sclerosis and haemophilia.
Our development pipeline also covers ailments of the central nervous system, inflammatory bowel disease and several rare diseases.
SMA achieved key motor milestones after one year population, whether given as a monotherapy or in
of treatment with the investigational molecule. The combination with baseline immunosuppressant
pivotal second part of the Sunfish study evaluating therapy. The FDA granted breakthrough therapy
risdiplam in people aged 2–25 years with type 2 or 3 designation for satralizumab.
SMA met its primary endpoint of change from
baseline in the Motor Function Measure 32 scale For etrolizumab, eight large phase III studies are
after one year of treatment with risdiplam, compared ongoing in Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis,
to placebo. The FDA granted priority review for two main forms of inflammatory bowel disease,
risdiplam for SMA. for which there is currently no cure.
Satralizumab is undergoing regulatory review in Roche has a comprehensive clinical development
many countries for NMOSD, a rare, debilitating programme investigating the dosing, safety profile
central nervous system disease. Data from the and potential clinical benefit of RG6042 in people
phase III SAkuraStar and SAkuraSky studies suggest with Huntington’s disease. This programme includes
that satralizumab could be an efficacious treatment the pivotal phase III Generation HD1 study of
option, administered subcutaneously every four RG6042, the world’s first and largest huntingtin-
weeks, for patients across a broad NMOSD patient lowering study.40Business performance | Roche
41
“Someone, somewhere, is going through
what I went through years ago.”
Angela Kiraba, Roche, South Africa
I remember crying at work once. This happened in an of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and began to
auditorium in Budapest, Hungary. In February 2017, correspond with Professor A. J. Buller. He empathised
when I was listening to a senior manager from Roche’s with her situation, explained the condition to her
Global Medical Affairs department. Three words and was very honest about the treatment options, or
jumped out from his slide—Duchenne muscular lack thereof, and the prognosis. All of this was done
dystrophy (DMD). My brothers had both died of this by post!
rare genetic disorder at the age of 14.
From orthopaedic procedures that didn’t help to leg
What a blessing I thought it was that Roche is involved braces that aided with mobility a bit, my brothers
in DMD research. It was divine intervention that I got all the support they could from my mother. Back
was working for Medical Affairs in Roche South at home, things were only getting bleaker and there
Africa at the same time. My thoughts went back to was no peace. Our neighbours did not understand
when my two older brothers, born in 1975 and 1978, the disease and most people said we were cursed and
both started displaying signs of progressive muscle avoided us. My brothers continued to deteriorate and
weakening and walking on their toes at the age of lose weight. The eldest passed away in November 1989.
about three. I was still living in my native Kenya in One week after we buried him, my mother took me
those days. and my other brother out of our father’s house. My
second brother then died in July 1992.
My father was neither understanding nor empathetic.
He distanced himself from us. It was all left to my I was barely ten years old and remember standing
mother, who struggled through the healthcare system, over his grave and taking a vow to become a doctor.
trying to find out what was wrong with her sons. She In 2008, I graduated with a Bachelor of Medicine and
saw all kinds of specialists before she was able to a Bachelor of Surgery. I worked in clinical practice
get through to a top neurologist and an orthopaedic for a few years after that before joining Roche in 2014.
surgeon in Nairobi. They finally made the DMD I now carry with me the optimism that we will find
diagnosis. But information was scarce. With no a treatment for DMD and imagine the kind of
Internet in those days, my mother did most of her hope my brothers would have had if they were here
research by reading newspapers and meeting people. right now. I am reminded every day that someone,
It was through one of these contacts that she was somewhere, is going through what I went through
able to reach out to the Muscular Dystrophy Group years ago.
Refer to 23 December 2019 media release on licensing agreement with Sarepta Therapeutics, USA.42
Sustainable Development GoalsScience and innovation | Roche
43
Science and
innovation
Our ability to capture what makes each patient
unique has improved significantly and is now paving
the way for the next stage of personalised healthcare.
We convert knowledge into therapies.
The combined power of advanced imaging technology, artificial intelligence and large databases allows new insights into diseases.44
Material topics covered in this chapter
Patient centricity
R&D efficiency
Personalised healthcare
Real-world data
Preparedness for aging society
Patient benefit at the centre
The data age in healthcare is rapidly becoming a reality and is
here to stay.
It is driven by continually improving our ability to expertise in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics, Roche
digitally collect, aggregate, curate and make sense of is at the forefront of this effort to fulfil the promise
vast quantities of diverse patient data. The massive of truly personalised healthcare (PHC).
generation of data does not add any value as such. It
is the ‘translation’, or processing, of this data deluge New insights from patient data to inform and
into meaningful data on a scale that, with the help of advance research and development
sophisticated analytics, will ultimately help provide Today’s ability to glean new insights by connecting
actionable and meaningful information across the diverse datasets from a sizeable number of patients
continuum of care—for researchers, physicians and, digitally can reveal differences between them that
most importantly, the individual patients with their would not have been possible otherwise. This
unique characteristics. information can be used to develop novel treatments,
make clinical trials more efficient and optimise
To be successful in this field, it is indispensable to clinical decision-making.
engage and create synergies with strong, innovative
partners, while leveraging Roche’s own deep in-house Linking genomic profiles with real-world data to
expertise in diagnostics and pharmaceuticals. This will attain deeper knowledge
allow the company to achieve progress throughout Two newer developments are helping to advance
the entire value chain, from the development to the the field of personalised medicine further. The
delivery of a medicine and from facilitating discoveries first is comprehensive genomic profiling which
in the lab and enhancing clinical trial design to can reveal as yet unknown genetic anomalies or
accelerating the approval of targeted therapies for mutational patterns driving a tumour’s growth.
the benefit of patients. The second involves the power of large quantities
of curated medical data, such as therapy outcome
Our ability to mine and analyse unprecedented data, captured from the electronic health records
quantities of data in new ways has matured to a point of numerous patients. The next frontier will be
where it can now be used to support the development reached by integrating these two sets of data,
and delivery of the right treatment to the right namely genomic information and real-world
patient at the right time. From interlinking genomic clinical outcomes.
information with real-world data (eg, in oncology)
to the use of wearables and sensors that enable a This is exactly what Foundation Medicine, focusing
much more granular view of a person’s disease course on the genetic profiling of cancer, and Flatiron Health,
including a greater ability to measure clinical change curating electronic medical records of cancer patients,
(eg, in neuroscience), we are leveraging an array of decided to accomplish jointly, starting back in 2016.
powerful partnerships and new technologies to seize Having acquired these two companies in 2018, Roche
these opportunities. With our pioneering in-house strongly supports this effort. The continuouslyScience and innovation | Roche
45
Digitalisation in healthcare is continually improving our ability to digitally collect, curate and make sense of vast quantities of diverse patient data. The ‘translation’ of this
data will ultimately help provide actionable and meaningful information for researchers, physicians and, most importantly, individual patients.
updated, de-identified data includes patient outcomes with clinical outcomes. The study revealed a strong
data from Flatiron’s network of oncology clinics, linked link between the tumour mutational burden (TMB)
with comprehensive genomic profiling insights from and the response to cancer immunotherapy. For
Foundation Medicine’s database. This rapidly growing example, patients who had a high TMB lived almost
‘clinico-genomic database’ (CGDB) already contains twice as long as those who had a low or intermediate
more than 50,000 linked profiles, spanning many TMB when treated with anti-PD-1/PD-L1
tumour types. It is expected to become a key asset in immunotherapies.
advancing the development of cancer therapeutics
and in optimising the design and execution of clinical One current use of the CGDB involves leveraging
trials. its data to decide whether a biomarker (such as TMB)
is prognostic across a wide range of tumour types,
On 9 April 2019, the Journal of the American Medical an insight that may be important when considering
Association (JAMA) published the validation of this additional development opportunities for a molecule.
CGDB, acknowledging that real-world clinico-genomic There are also plans to use this database as a data
data obtained during the course of routine patient source for an external (or virtual) control arm in
care can yield scientifically and clinically meaningful tumour-agnostic settings where conducting a
insights. In the corresponding study, more than randomised, placebo-controlled trial that includes
4,000 patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) both an active (experimental) and a traditional
from the CGDB were investigated in an effort to control arm would be difficult. (See also the example
understand how their genomic profiles correlated of Rozlytrek, page 37.)46
Leveraging real-world data to prioritise clinical Going forward, real-world data will increasingly
development, better design trials and determine be used as a building block to help develop the
patient response best molecules for the most ‘under-served’ patient
At Roche, we are committed to developing medicines populations.
for patients with the highest level of unmet medical
needs. Part of the process is to understand the current Examples of targeted therapy in ophthalmology
outcome of patients whose disease is similar. One way and oncology
of doing this is to look at the real-world electronic Advanced imaging technology, new scientific
health records of patients. insights, groundbreaking technologies and discovery
platforms are driving the development of novel, highly
This is exactly what Roche did when exploring a personalised therapies, but also the identification
specific target in lung cancer, which includes two of more conclusive clinical endpoints that can be
distinct populations with different tumour mutations. game changing for patients. In this segment, after
By looking at the Flatiron Health anonymous summarising some of the exciting diagnostic and
electronic health records of tens of thousands of lung therapeutic innovations taking place in the field of
cancer patients on standard-of-care medication, ophthalmology R&D at Roche, we will examine a
Roche discovered that patients with one of the tumour new example from our discovery and development
mutations had a worse prognosis and higher mortality efforts in oncology.
than the other. Based on this data, the project team
decided to prioritise the development of molecules Opening up new vistas in ophthalmology
that target the lung cancer mutation population with Roche’s focus in ophthalmology is on the development
the greatest unmet medical need. of transformational therapies for patients with a
major unmet medical need who run the risk of
developing potentially blinding retinal disease, such
as neovascular age-related macular degeneration
Sustainable Development Goal
(nAMD), diabetic retinopathy (DR) and diabetic
macular oedema (DME).
At Roche, we aim to create safe, effective new
medicines and diagnostic tests that help people With the rapidly growing aging and diabetic
live longer, healthier lives. We develop novel populations, the sheer number of individuals with
medicines in the therapeutic areas of oncology, serious eye diseases that often result in grave visual
impairment and blindness is increasing around
immunology, infectious diseases, ophthalmology
the world. While anti-VEGF molecules have
and diseases of the central nervous system. Our
revolutionised the treatment of many patients with
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions work
retinal diseases, a significant proportion of them
together on R&D projects, sharing our research
have shown only partial improvement in their
facilities, technologies and developments, and vision or have diseases that do not benefit from
benefiting jointly from our innovations. this approach.Science and innovation | Roche
47
Target A
Target B
Monospecific Fab fragment Bispecific MAb Bispecific Fab fragment
eg, Lucentis (CrossMAb) (DutaFab)
eg, faricimab
New bispecific format (DutaFab)—further improving the standard of care: Bispecific antibodies combine two or more antigen-recognising elements into a single
construct, able to bind two or more targets. This accounts for the fact that more than one pathway is often at the root of the disease.
Our PHC approach means we may be able to engagement and may lead to less frequent dosing
predict more effectively how patients will respond and improved long-term efficacy compared to the
to treatment before enrolling them in trials. This standard of care.
will translate into leaner and more efficient clinical
trials that require fewer patients and ultimately In further support of our ophthalmology programme,
bring solutions to patients in a shorter amount Roche entered into a three-year multi-party
of time. collaboration agreement in September 2019 to
establish INSIGHT: The Health Data Research Hub
In addition, Roche has a strong pipeline of for Eye Health in the UK. INSIGHT brings Roche
investigational molecules in ophthalmology, in both together with the NHS/HDR-UK, university hospitals,
the early and late stages of clinical development; non-governmental organisations and technology
some engineered using highly innovative antibody companies to establish data hubs across the UK to
technologies. accelerate research for new medicines, therapies and
technologies that support improved diagnosis and
The most advanced investigational medicine in the treatment. This hub will gather anonymised NHS
pipeline is faricimab, the first-ever bispecific antibody patient data from across the UK and combine it with
to enter pivotal clinical trials in ophthalmology (for unparalleled high-order retinal imaging, initially
DME and nAMD). It was developed using Roche’s focusing on diabetes, age-related macular degeneration
innovative CrossMAb technology. The next generation (AMD) and dementia. INSIGHT will provide the data
of bispecific antibodies, developed on the DutaFab gathered and certain services (such as rapid-response
technology platform, entered the clinical development real-world evidence and AI tools and systems) to users
programme for intravitreal nAMD and DME testing from both industry and academia. This fundamental
in April 2019. The platform allows for the generation and transformational collaboration reflects Roche’s
of small, extremely stable, highly potent bispecific commitment towards establishing a strong network
antibodies at two independent binding sites. These among many stakeholders and playing an active role
properties increase the durability of the ocular target in shaping the future of healthcare.48
Highly personalised cell therapies for cancer are an with clear precision. The goal is to harness the vast
area of focus for Roche majority of therapeutically relevant, patient-specific
Genentech’s first foray into the field of cell therapy was neoantigens to advance the next generation of cellular
made public in January 2019 with the announcement therapies in a broad range of solid tumours. The
of a collaboration agreement with Adaptive ultimate vision is to effectively target a patient’s
Biotechnologies, the world leader in sequencing and tumour cells at the individual level, thereby paving
functional profiling of T-cell receptors, to develop, the way for the development and delivery of a
manufacture and commercialise T-cell therapies truly personalised cell therapy for every patient
targeting neoantigens. Long the subject of pioneering who needs it.
research at Genentech, neoantigens are proteins on the
surface of cancer cells generated by tumour-specific Neoantigen-directed T-cell treatments are a new
mutations. They are not present in the patient’s healthy form of cancer immunotherapy. It is the fourth
cells and differ from patient to patient. Because they distinct immunotherapeutic strategy pursued
are clearly distinguishable from normal cellular by Roche besides immunomodulators (such as
proteins, these neoantigens can be recognised as checkpoint inhibitors), tumour-targeted bispecific
foreign by the T cells of a person’s immune system. antibodies and personalised cancer vaccines. An
For this reason, they are considered a tumour’s example of the latter is Genentech’s collaboration
weak spot, or ‘Achilles heel’, which means they are with the German biotech company BioNTech, which
accessible to therapeutic intervention. analyses the genomic sequence of each individual
patient’s tumour to identify the most promising
While T cells are produced naturally by the immune neoantigens to fight it. In the next step, they insert
system, they can also be artificially engineered to the genetic information encoding these neoantigens
accurately recognise these neoantigens. Adaptive into mRNA—a messenger molecule that BioNTech
Biotechnologies is responsible for developing has specifically optimised to provide that information
innovative technologies that allow high throughput to the immune system and activate it to combat the
analysis. Beyond their proprietary T-cell sequencing cancer. Such a personalised cancer vaccine could work
and neoantigen-matching technologies, Genentech with Genentech and Roche’s checkpoint inhibitors
will have access to Adaptive Biotechnologies’ extensive to provide an effective personalised treatment option
library of more than 30 billion neoantigen-targeting for patients. This combined approach is currently
T-cell receptors. being tested in early clinical trials. Roche continues
to explore cell therapy as a meaningful path of
Adaptive Biotechnologies will utilise its discovery treatment for patients.
platform to identify the optimal T-cell receptors to
target each patient’s individual neoantigen ‘signature’ Innovating clinical trial design by harnessing the
the most effectively. On that basis, Genentech will power of data
then design and manufacture a personalised cellular Meaningful data at scale from a real-world setting
medicine for each patient. This entails reshaping offer a tremendous opportunity to improve how we
the immune system by engineering the individual’s conduct clinical trials by making them leaner and
own T cells, or T cells derived from stem cells, with more efficient. There are already realistic scenarios
receptors that recognise the cancer’s neoantigens in which electronic health records can provideScience and innovation | Roche
49
Neoantigen- Infuse with engineered
Isolate and directed TCR neoantigen-directed
Collect blood stimulate T cells engineering Expand T cells T cells
The vision is to design and manufacture a personalised cellular medicine for each patient that effectively targets her or his tumour cells at an individual level. This will
represent the development and delivery of a truly personalised cell therapy for every patient who needs it.
advantages over and above the classic control arm Rozlytrek could only be approved so swiftly because
of randomised, placebo-controlled clinical trials. Roche was able to choose a highly innovative way of
This is because real-world data (RWD) can be used designing its registrational clinical trials. The main
to create an ‘external’ control arm that replaces the reason for Roche’s departure from the standard way
regular standard-of-care arm in conventional trials of running clinical trials (comprising a control arm
or when it is not possible to do a control arm, such as with standard-of-care medication and an active arm
for rare diseases, and when recruitment takes much with the experimental medicine) is the fact that ROS1
longer due to the low prevalence of the disease. positivity only occurs in 1–2% of NSCLC patients. As
it is a rare form of cancer, finding enough patients to be
As a result, this enables more trial participants to enrolled in two different trial arms can be a daunting
receive the experimental medicine, which speeds up challenge. In addition, one of the main reasons for
the recruitment process, lowers trial costs and enables non-participation in clinical cancer trials is the fear
all of the participants to be treated with a potentially of ending up in the placebo or standard- of-care arm.
more effective medicine than the historical standard.
Therefore, Roche decided to leverage the rich
Expediting a medicine’s path to approval with RWD electronic health records that Flatiron has screened
On 16 August 2019, the FDA approved Roche’s and collated from hundreds of thousands of cancer
Rozlytrek for people with ROS1-positive, metastatic patients, before generating real-world comparator
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and patients evidence from this data. This made it possible to create
with NTRK gene fusion-positive solid tumours. an external control arm, as it were, eliminating the
Concerning NTRK, Rozlytrek is a tumour-agnostic need to enrol patients in a real or standard control
medicine, meaning it was assessed and approved by arm. This led to increased trial efficiency, reducing
health authorities based on a specific genetic driver delays, lowering costs and speeding this life-saving
of the disease. It is an oral, small-molecule medicine, therapy to the market. Most importantly, using an
a selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor designed to external control ensures that more patients receive
block ROS1 and NTRK activity, thus promoting the the active investigational medicine from the start,
destruction of the corresponding cancer cells. eliminating concerns about treatment assignment.50
Data from large academic medical centres Clinical trial optimisation
Data from community centres
Patient data CGDB data Real-world data Guide for new treatment
Genomic profiles from De-identified • Validated Development and selection
Foundation Medicine plus clinico-genomic • Scientifically rigorous
clinical data from Flatiron Health database • Demographically diverse
Electronic health records can provide advantages over and above the classic control arm of randomised, placebo-controlled clinical trials. Real-world data allow the
creation of an ‘external’ control arm in conditions that require the replacement of the regular standard-of-care arm.
In order to generate comparative evidence for the measures of change (eg, mobility) is a big challenge.
53 ROS1-positive patients to receive Rozlytrek, Roche Without such well-defined baseline measures,
started with more than two million patients on the however, evaluating treatment progress in a clinical
Flatiron database, who were screened for specific trial setting becomes virtually impossible.
forms of lung cancer and for ROS1 positivity. In the
end, 69 patients were included in the analysis, who This is also the case with Angelman syndrome,
were matched with the 53 patients in the Rozlytrek a neurodevelopmental disorder with no disease-
arm. The study design and data was of interest to the modifying therapies available. It is a rare genetic
regulatory bodies and allowed us to file for approval disease, affecting approximately one in 12,000 to
early with one health authority without needing a 20,000 individuals. This devastating disease usually
comparative study. manifests in early childhood (at around one year of
age) and the main symptoms are severe intellectual
Remotely measuring the quality of sleep in a rare disability (lack of verbal skills), balance and movement
genetic disease problems, seizures and sleep impairment.
For neurological conditions, it is very difficult to
find relevant biomarkers or identify meaningful Before carrying out an early-stage clinical trial on
endpoints that would allow clinicians to assess the an investigational new drug for the treatment of
therapeutic efficacy of new investigational medicines Angelman syndrome, Roche is trying to understand
confidently. In a number of neuromuscular and the heavily disturbed sleeping patterns of Angelman
neurodevelopmental conditions, finding meaningful patients better by longitudinally capturing theScience and innovation | Roche
51
syndrome’s phenotypic features in a number of 1.0 2.3 3.3 1.0 * 7.5 Phase I
affected young people. By placing sleeping mats with Phase II
integrated sensors under their mattresses, subtle 1.0 1.9 2.3 0.7 Fast track: 5.8 Phase III
changes in their movement, heartbeat and breathing Filing
rate can be measured continually. This data about 0.9 1.7 0.7 0.5 Accelerated review: 3.8
sleep quality will be complemented by actigraphic Phase duration
(via a device placed on the wrist) information, sleep 1.1 1.5 0.50.6 Breakthrough therapy: 3.6 (years)
staging (‘rapid-eye movement’ [REM], non-REM, etc.)
and polysomnography once or twice a year either Innovative approaches in R&D and expedited review procedures make
in the hospital or during a home visit by a nurse, new medicines available for patients much earlier. (* Normal procedure)
to take various readings, such as eye movement
and heart function. The purpose of these tests is to
develop an algorithm based on these rich datasets.
Discerning relevant patterns in medical records of
This should help answer questions such as: Which MS patients
measures of sleep disruption are relevant? How can Healthcare in general is highly fragmented, with lots
corresponding changes be quantified? And how can of potentially relevant information about a patient
potential improvements be evaluated and validated widely scattered, in multiple formats and registries,
in a meaningful way in light of the well-defined and from many different sources. It is very hard for
baseline measures? The ability to measure sleep is patients to access their own medical records in a
also relevant for many neurological conditions. holistic and meaningful way.
Therefore, understanding sleep by taking remote
digital measurements should help with other It was this insight that led to the creation of
neurological conditions as well, not just Angelman PicnicHealth in 2014. This digital healthcare company
syndrome. helps patients collect and manage their medical
records comprehensively, from blood tests to X-rays.
Navigating complexity by teaming up with partners The patients are the owners of their entire medical
Personalised healthcare can only become a reality history as documented by these records. With
if all the stakeholders in the healthcare system PicnicHealth collecting and managing their electronic
work together in new ways, making sure that the health records, its users enjoy full control over their
digital transformation, powered by data, will yield health data. Furthermore, compiling all these records
better patient outcomes in different disease areas from thousands of patients in a structured manner
and indications. In order to expedite integrated, opens up enormous opportunities for research in
individualised healthcare solutions, Roche is building important new ways.
a network of targeted partnerships and collaborations.
Without strong partners with complementary skill Roche’s partnership with PicnicHealth, launched in
sets and unique technological assets, the complexity 2018, is designed to do exactly that, namely aggregate
of the challenges that need to be tackled all the way and curate valuable patient data and broaden
from the laboratory bench to the doctor’s surgery the scientific insight. The centrepiece of Roche’s
cannot be tackled successfully. collaboration with PicnicHealth is FlywheelMS, an52
observational study that will combine retrospective The result will be a large dataset that can be analysed
(the past seven years) and prospective (up to five to facilitate a more granular understanding of how
years going forward) electronic health records of MS patients across the US are treated, how the disease
2,000 people living with multiple sclerosis (MS) into is experienced by patients and what the different
a single database. Nearly 1,200 participants have therapeutic outcomes are. While the first goal is to
enrolled in the study. The health records will contain understand the disease better, the ultimate aim is to
X-rays, lab values, MRI images and blood tests, but also create better treatments tailored to the individual
information on comorbidities and therapeutic history. needs of patients.
In multiple sclerosis, large datasets of curated patient data can support a deeper understanding of how these patients are treated, how the disease is experienced by
patients and what the different therapeutic outcomes are. The aim is to create better treatments tailored to the individual needs of patients.Science and innovation | Roche
53
Working with startups to bring disease management CRC is to improve the screening rate, which is
to a new level currently lower than 40% in most developed countries.
Diagnostics play a leading role in both disease Another challenge is to detect tumours early, even
prevention and management, and helps face the at a precancerous stage, and direct patients to an
increasingly complex healthcare challenges. This is appropriate medical follow-up. In order to better
evident as in vitro diagnostics influence approximately address this specific unmet medical need within
two thirds of all clinical decision-making, despite CRC, Roche is piloting a machine learning-based
accounting for only about 2% of the total healthcare clinical algorithm at Medilab in Salzburg, Austria.
spending. The algorithms developed by Medial EarlySign,
Israel, are risk assessment tools which identify high-
With evolving digital technologies and the advent risk individuals for CRC based on the standard
of digital health, Roche saw the opportunity to laboratory test parameters of a complete blood count
expand its diagnostics portfolio to include new digital plus patient age and gender. It addresses the non-
solutions, thus complementing, and sometimes compliant population for screening when patients are
challenging, its traditional innovation approach. This still asymptomatic, and acts as a safety net for those
is why Roche decided to seek new ways of cooperating people. A positive result should be followed by further
with startups which bring complementary strengths evaluation based on the clinical judgement of the
to the table such as out-of-the-box thinking, care provider. The pilot, once completed, will provide
breakthrough technologies and novel digital tools. Roche with its first experience of the application of
machine learning-based clinical algorithms in the
Therefore, Roche took the decision to initiate and private lab environment.
sponsor Startup Creasphere, which was launched in
2018. Since then, it has developed into the largest hub Diabetes: creating an open ecosystem for
for digital health innovation in Europe. By the end value-based care
of 2019, almost 30 startups had participated in one Diabetes is a chronic disease with one of the highest
of the 12-week Creasphere accelerator programmes prevalence rates worldwide (around 500 million
(referred to as ‘batches’), working on pilot projects people are affected), displaying staggering growth
together with Roche. The aim is to develop digital rates in many countries (especially in Africa, South
health solutions that challenge and optimise clinical East Asia, the Middle East and Latin America).
practices, improve data analytics and help patients
on their individual journeys. Roche is very active in this field and has been a
pioneer in innovative diabetes technologies for more
Clinical artificial intelligence to identify people at than 40 years. Under the brand Accu-Chek, it is
high risk for CRC the world leader in blood glucose monitoring with
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second leading cause glucose meters, test strips and lancing devices. It offers
of cancer death with more than 860,000 deaths an established portfolio of insulin delivery systems
worldwide in 2018. Whilst treatment options have with insulin pumps and infusion sets. While the
improved over the last decades, screening tools diagnosis and treatment of diabetes has made great
have stagnated, with colonoscopy being the gold strides in recent years, many people with diabetes are
standard. One of the key diagnostic challenges for still failing to reach their therapeutic goals. This is54
Structured Structured and
assessment/training therapy-adapted SMBG
Integrated
Personalised
Treatment effectiveness Structured
Diabetes
assessment documentation
Management
(iPDM)
Personalised Systematic analysis
treatment
Significant improvements in HbA1c, higher patient and physician satisfaction rates and increased patient adherence when compared to control groups are the result
of integrated Personalised Diabetes Management approaches. (SMBG: self-monitoring of blood glucose)
because diabetes is a highly complex condition that extended in early 2019 to include numerous countries.
is difficult to control and manage, and many people The integration of this CGM data into mySugr,
are developing serious, diabetes-related health Roche’s world-leading mobile diabetes management
complications much earlier than would be the case application, since May 2019 is an important step.
with an individually tailored, optimal disease
management approach. Therefore, the strategy is to create the leading open
ecosystem of personalised diabetes management
In view of this complexity, an integrated Personalised solutions that are embedded in a fully connected
Diabetes Management (iPDM) is necessary. In data and analytics platform with a view to offering
order to shape and advance the way diabetes care is outcome-based, easy-to-handle care solutions that
provided in the future, Roche is creating a leading, support healthcare professionals and bring true
open ecosystem for iPDM, and has already made relief to people with diabetes.
significant progress. A broad range of partners,
experts and solution providers are contributing to Importance of intellectual property for innovation
Roche’s open ecosystem, with the aim of broadening In 2019, again Roche invested almost a fifth of its
and accelerating access to better diabetes care annual sales in R&D. This follows on investments
around the globe. The key words in this context are of a similar ratio in previous years to provide new
connection and integration: integrating relevant therapies, diagnostic tests and services to people in
data and connecting devices but also technologies need. These investments are also the basis for our
and analytics in this one system. long-term commercial success.
One recent example of Roche’s commitment to In order to allow for this continued investment,
driving iPDM is the distribution of the long-term patents and other intellectual property rights
insertable Eversense Continuous Glucose Monitoring provide time-limited exclusivity for innovations.
(CGM) system from Senseonics. This is a partnership The disclosure of inventions in patents fosters the
that the two companies announced in late 2018 and development of new and improved therapies.Science and innovation | Roche
55
Pharmaceuticals clinical pipeline
31 FDA breakthrough therapy designations granted since 2013.
Phase I Phase lI Phase Ill Registration
Oncology 2
2
2
20
Inflammation/ 1
Immunology 6
4
Neuroscience 2
3
5
4
1
Infectious diseases
6
Ophthalmology 2
2
3
Spark Therapeutics 3
Others 4
Our pipeline of 72 new molecular entities covers a broad range of diseases, and highly innovative technologies are applied to create and produce the active molecules.56Science and innovation | Roche
57
“I am a child in a wheelchair, but I am
not ill.”
Victoria, school student, Switzerland
I am nine years old and go to school in my village annoying. Sometimes, I think it would be nice if
in Switzerland. At school I have a personal assistant I could walk. I am a child in a wheelchair, but I am
who helps me with everything I cannot do such as not ill.
changing my shoes, taking off my coat or gloves,
giving me my books or helping me write when I get What bothers me more is that I am always dependent
very tired. I live with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). on help. This means that I am always having to wait
I am in a wheelchair. for support. In addition to the personal assistant
at school, I have other helpers who come in once or
I enjoy school a lot and my favourite subjects are twice a month to help me with showering and
German, maths and music. When my classmates go brushing my teeth while I am still a child. This will
out for sports, I go for my physiotherapy sessions. help me to deal with different people around me
I have good friends at school; one of them is also in when I grow up. But I get the most help from my
a wheelchair. She has SMA, too, and is a few years parents, my sister and my grandparents.
older than me. But we have a lot of fun when we are
together. My younger sister Sophia is four years old. Earlier this year I had an operation for scoliosis. Now
She just started kindergarten this year. She does I have two titanium rods in my back. On top of all
not have SMA. I like to see her running and I am the other appointments that I have on a weekly basis,
not jealous of her. We form a great team at home. I I now also have to go to the doctor every three months
usually give her instructions and she helps me do to grow a few millimetres. He extends the rods with
what I want. We also have Maja, our cat, at home. a magnet a little bit each time. I was afraid at first, but
She is shy but I spent a lot of time taming her. Now soon learnt that it did not hurt.
she comes close to my hands and I can pet her.
Children with SMA like me will never be running
I live with SMA which results in me not having around like other kids. But I hope that we will be
enough strength to walk or do some other things. able to move our arms around more. I don’t think
I will get weaker as I grow older. I am not really there is a cure, but scientists could try and produce
afraid of the future, but it is a strange feeling. My a medicine that stabilises us. For those like me, who
parents explained what SMA is to me. But I know it can still move a little, this is already an improvement.
myself because I live with it every day. When I need Companies should make medicines that help children
to play with something and cannot reach it, that is and adults live a good and joyful life.
Experience Victoria telling her story.
Scan the images with the Xtend app to
watch the video.58
Sustainable Development GoalsAccess to healthcare | Roche
59
Access to
healthcare
Our innovations are meaningless if they are
out of reach to those in need.
We want to ensure sustainable access.
This picture stems from the photo competition ‘Faces of hope’, initiated by Roche Pakistan. Amateur and professional photographers
captured emotions of people recovering from a disease and those who care for them.60
Material topics covered in this chapter
Sustainable healthcare systems
Availability of healthcare
Affordability of healthcare
Partnerships—the basis for success
In order to tackle complex access challenges successfully,
collaboration with multiple stakeholders is essential.
At Roche, patients are at the heart of everything Improve Access to Drugs or Products’ by the 2019
we do. We are acutely aware that, no matter how Dow Jones Sustainability Indices in recognition of
innovative and effective a medicine may be, it is our efforts in this field.
meaningless if those who need it are unable to access
it. That is why we are committed to facilitating rapid, Addressing affordability in the interest of patients
broad, sustainable access to our innovations, on a Through multiple programmes and approaches, we
global scale. are working to ensure that successful treatment is
not restricted by finances.
In order to tackle this complex challenge successfully,
it is essential to collaborate with a range of Roche works in close partnership with governments,
stakeholders and focus on the root causes of access healthcare systems and other decision-makers to
barriers. Roche teams working on improving access adjust costs and help make sure that medicines are
do so in close collaboration with healthcare systems, affordable on a sustainable basis.
government agencies, patient advocacy groups, and
other organisations. These adjustments are based on multiple criteria,
including a country’s GDP (Gross Domestic Product)
Although affordability can be a barrier to accessing or PPP (Purchasing Power Parity) and its per capita
treatment, once we look into the root causes behind public healthcare expenditure. This calculation
the lack of access to care, we often see that there are a also considers a country’s position on the Human
number of different factors to consider. For instance, Development Index that was created by the United
awareness of symptoms and screening or diagnostic Nations Development Programme to emphasise that
and treatment capacity. These core barriers exist ‘people and their capabilities should be the ultimate
in various forms and degrees from one location to criteria for assessing the development of a country,
the next. not economic growth alone’.1
Throughout 2019, Roche continued to make Patient support programmes
progress on several ongoing access initiatives, Access to cancer medicines in Pakistan—the Unmol
embraced many new programmes and concentrated Programme
on facilitating access for the patients who need it most. Named after the Urdu word for ‘precious’, the Unmol
Moreover, we are proud to have been acknowledged Programme offers a sustainable financial solution
as the industry leader in the category ‘Strategy to for cancer patients in Pakistan, where the averageAccess to healthcare | Roche
61
New diagnostic tests and next-generation medicines represent options for unmet needs and they have the potential to increase the number of patients requiring
support in accessing these therapies.
income per capita is as low as USD 1,629 per year, access to its medicines irrespective of their ability
healthcare only makes up 2.8% of the GDP and to pay. Over the last 20 years, Genentech has helped
patients must pay for treatment out of their own more than two million patients access medicines.
pocket.
The Genentech Patient Foundation provides its
Some of Roche’s most well-known cancer medicines medicines for free to people who meet certain
are included in this programme. The Pakistan Federal financial criteria and do not have insurance, whose
Government covers 50% of the cost of treatment for insurance will not cover a Genentech medicine and
the neediest patients, with Roche Pakistan providing who cannot afford our medicine. Every year, the
the remainder of the treatment free of charge. By foundation provides much-needed medication to
the end of 2019, the programme had benefited more than 60,000 patients free of charge.
approximately 8,650 patients.
As we add innovations to our portfolio, the number
The Genentech Patient Foundation of patients who need help accessing these medicines
US-based Genentech, a member of the Roche Group, is likely to increase, and we plan to expand our
is committed to ensuring that Americans have programmes accordingly.
1 United Nations Development Programme: http://hdr.undp.org/en/content/human-development-index-hdi62
Roche supports the Global Access Program since 2014 with the aim of significantly increasing the availability of HIV testing and supporting efforts to fight AIDS. In 2019,
this successful programme was extended to tackle additional infectious diseases.
Structured donation programmes developing countries. Roche’s participation in the
We are committed to working with partners across WFH Humanitarian Aid Program consists of a
the healthcare sector to find solutions that will be donation of Hemlibra and funding to support the
sustainable for all. One example is our efforts to WFH Program’s integrated care development training.
address gaps in care and provide consistent and Our donation will substantially increase access by
predictable access to treatment for people with providing prophylactic treatment to as many as
haemophilia A. 1,000 people with haemophilia A over five years in
countries where there is little or no treatment
Roche has joined the European Haemophilia available.
Consortium (EHC) Partners Programme, which
focuses on sustainably improving access and quality Improving access to diagnostic tests
of care for haemophilia A and B in EHC partner Limited access to diagnostic resources leads to the
countries in Europe and Central Asia. spread of preventable diseases and the loss of life. In
developing countries, lack of screening, early detection
Moreover, in February 2019 Roche joined the World and resources to prevent transmission are the leading
Federation of Hemophilia’s (WFH) Humanitarian causes of deaths from infectious diseases.
Aid Program, a landmark initiative leading the efforts
to remedy the lack of access to care and treatment The Global Access Program was established in 2014
for people with hereditary bleeding disorders in to increase access to diagnostic testing in line withAccess to healthcare | Roche
63
the UNAIDS 90-90-90 goal. The aim is that by 2020, procedure. Prior to the CIT Framework, approximately
90% of all people living with HIV will know their 500 patients had access to immunotherapy. With the
disease status, 90% of all those diagnosed with the new framework, an estimated 10,000 patients will
HIV infection will receive sustained antiretroviral have access over a three-year period.
therapy, and 90% of all those receiving antiretroviral
therapy will have viral suppression. Roche works with payers to devise financial
arrangements rooted in the actual outcomes that
Working in collaboration with global partners, the medicines deliver—the differences they make in
programme has been highly successful in providing the day-to-day lives of patients.
access to testing, training healthcare workers and
boosting the capacity of the healthcare system. We combine the results of clinical trials with
real-world evidence, which includes quality of life,
In 2019, Roche expanded the programme to include the socio-economic impact and much more. This
tests for tuberculosis, hepatitis B and C and human combined information helps payers allocate resources
papillomavirus (HPV), the leading cause of cervical according to the actual overall benefit a treatment
cancer. This involved collaborating with the Clinton provides, rather than spending money where they
Health Access Initiative and the Foundation for hope it will have the most impact.
Innovative New Diagnostics, and others.
By linking payment agreements to outcomes, we
The expansion of the Global Access Program is aimed can better ensure that scarce healthcare resources
at helping the WHO meet its disease elimination are directed to treatments that are most effective.
targets for hepatitis, cervical cancer and tuberculosis.
For example, in 2019, Roche supported three local
Increasing outcome certainty for healthcare studies to generate data for Avastin first-line treatment
systems of lung cancer in China. Avastin received technical
When we clearly understand the clinical, financial and approval from the Chinese National Medical Products
other outcomes of a treatment, we can equip healthcare Administration, providing over 70,000 Chinese
systems in such a way as to facilitate fully informed patients with access.
decisions about the most effective ways to allocate
resources. Our process of developing outcome-based
agreements with payers results in flexible pricing
systems. 20 times
One successful example is the Cancer Immunotherapy
(CIT) Framework in Belgium. Roche is working with
as many patients will have access to cancer
the Belgian Minister of Health and other partners
to help patients access effective immunotherapy immunotherapy in Belgium thanks to
treatments almost one year earlier than would
collaborative efforts.
otherwise be possible under a standard reimbursement64
Meeting patient needs in low- and
middle-income countries
Patients in low- and middle-income countries face In 2018, the initiative issued ‘Access Accelerated
a range of barriers to receiving vital medical care in in Action: Key Learnings in Program Design and
a timely manner, including: Implementation’, a report outlining principles for
• Disease awareness—does the patient know they good programme design and highlighting examples
have contracted the illness? of their successful implementation. In 2019, Roche
• Timely diagnosis—has a diagnosis been made launched a partnership with Boston University
early enough for treatment to be effective? to develop projects that build upon the metrics
• Funding challenges—are resources available to framework provided in the report. These projects
enable the patient to receive treatment? will be reported to the Boston University Access
Observatory, a publicly available database covering
The World Health Organization and the World public-private industry partnerships that aim to
Bank estimate that half of the global population— improve access to preventive and treatment services
an estimated 3.5 billion people—do not have access in low- and middle-income countries.
to essential health services. Additionally, the Access
to Medicine Foundation estimates that two billion City Cancer Challenge (C/Can) 2025
people do not have access to essential medicines. As This multi-sector initiative supports cities in the
a partner to these and other organisations, Roche is design, planning and implementation of cancer
committed to addressing access challenges through treatment solutions to reduce premature deaths
a range of programmes. from NCDs by 25% by 2025.
Access Accelerated initiative Specifically, the project is advancing city-based
Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are the fastest oncology in Asunción (Paraguay), Cali (Colombia),
growing diseases in low- and middle-income Kumasi (Ghana) and Yangon (Myanmar). These cities
countries and cause extensive economic and social serve a combined population of more than 25 million.
hardships.
Initial efforts have already been effective. In Cali,
This collaboration among more than 20 healthcare for example, the C/Can needs assessment led to
and pharmaceutical companies from Europe, Japan the allocation of USD 20 million for diagnostic
and North America works towards a future where equipment. And in Asunción it resulted in the
anyone living with an NCD has access to high-quality adoption of a national cancer law.
treatment and care. This mission is aligned with
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 3.4 Roche is the leading industry partner in the plans
and 3.8, which focus on NCDs and universal health to expand the C/Can initiative to include 20 cities
coverage. by 2020 with a view to developing and launchingAccess to healthcare | Roche
65
In more than 80 low- to middle-income countries the Global Access Program supports efforts to fight infectious diseases.
Low-income countries
Lower middle-income countries
Upper middle-income countries
a C/Can model that can be upscaled globally. Kigali and perspective is part of the needs assessment
(Rwanda), Porto Alegre (Brazil) and Tbilisi (Georgia) process. Through focus group discussions and patient-
became the first cities to take part in the next phase, focused events, we gather information from patients
while León (Mexico) and Greater Petaling (Malaysia) on their experience of cancer care services in the
recently joined the C/Can programme. city, and specifically what the greatest barriers and
challenges have been for them in accessing quality
As of late 2019, C/Can serves 43.5 million people, has cancer care services.
engaged with 1,286 healthcare professionals, mobilised
over 50 local organisations and is currently involving Needs assessments are generating data that can
757 patients in the needs assessment process in the be used to develop evidence-based cancer policies.
current cities. As of January 2019, more than 1,100 data points
from assessments were being collected and stored,
In each city, C/Can works with civil society and providing capacity for real-time analysis and
patient organisations to ensure that the patient voice reporting.66Access to healthcare | Roche
67
“We had to improve the supply chain that
was resulting in cost markups and putting
modern cancer therapies out of reach.”
Ladi Hameed, Roche, Nigeria
The best medicine can be of little worth to patients transferred to the patients, who were paying out of
if it does not reach them on time. Imagine, if you their own pockets. At one stage, they were paying a
have to pay every cent of your healthcare costs and difference of between USD 200 and 500 every month
you make less than a dollar a day. This was the reality for well-known breast cancer and blood cancer
for many in Nigeria. One of the primary reasons for medicines.
this was a broken or suboptimal supply chain which
sometimes led to cost markups of between 40% and One of the major changes we made involved our
700%. Some of our leading physicians even told us business model. Roche Products Nigeria went
that they were reluctant to prescribe these medicines from being a pure marketing services company to
because they were out of reach of most patients. a buy-and-sell operation, meaning we could bring
in the medicines ourselves. We took on the risk of
We were one of the first Roche affiliates in sub- forex fluctuations upon ourselves. Importantly, we
Saharan Africa to take action. One of the main could supply the crucial medicines to the hospital
problems we faced was having multiple distribution pharmacies directly without constantly affecting the
levels. In Nigeria we would go from a main distributor prices. With this step we removed several layers of
to a sub-distributor to several sub-distributors before markups and that brought an almost 50% reduction
finally getting to the end user in the hospital. We had in the price of some of the medicines immediately.
to improve the supply chain, which was driving up
costs and putting modern cancer therapies out of That having been achieved, we at Roche Nigeria
reach. were empowered to approach the state and federal
governments and open discussions on reimbursement
First of all, each individual throughout this complex and how to make sure patients were receiving the
distribution chain would add markups of 5%–10% therapies their doctors thought were best for them.
on the cost of these medicines. Secondly, there was As a start, some state governments agreed to cover
concern about the quality of the products because the treatment costs for 20 breast cancer patients.
often the cold chain was a weak link. The third major We discussed with the federal government to create
problem: The drugs were not imported directly by a fund for critical illnesses. The number of patients
us, but by the distributor on our behalf, which kept who could access Roche’s modern medicines rose
pushing up the costs. That meant we had no control. from 105 in 2016 to 232 in 2017 before almost
Any currency fluctuation would immediately be doubling to 431 in 2018.68
Sustainable Development GoalsOur people | Roche
69
Our people
Working together supports what we can
collectively and sustainably create.
We make an impact on society.
Building 1 in Basel, Switzerland, provides a layout with café-style tables for informal meetings.70
Material topics covered in this chapter
Talent attraction and retention
Organisational agility
Patient centricity
Working together to help patients
Working for Roche gives us the opportunity to enhance the early
diagnosis of diseases and improve the health of patients.
With this clear and meaningful purpose, our people healthy workplace and 75% feel that the company has
come to work each day with passion, energy and a genuine interest in their wellbeing.
creativity, all focused on making truly differentiated
contributions. Working together means more than sharing common
values. It also means seeking out and valuing each
The Roche culture serves as a common foundation for other’s diversity and working together to achieve an
who we are and defines us as a company. It embodies even greater impact. In the survey, 84% of employees
the values people expect of each other in the workplace said that they were treated with respect and dignity.
—courage, integrity and passion—and sets high This is a testament to what has been part of the Roche
standards and expectations for and from our people culture for over 120 years—a deep focus on and
around the globe. commitment to our people.
Employee engagement and feedback provide strong Preparing people and the organisation for the future
indicators of how a company culture is being lived in Our employees believe that Roche has a great culture
reality. Roche has conducted periodic Global Employee and take our purpose to heart—Doing now what
Opinion Surveys (GEOS) since 2011. In 2019, we patients need next. This foundation is vital to how we
introduced a new engagement tool in partnership think, prepare, leverage opportunities and confront
with Glint. 86% of all Roche employees participated, challenges with even greater confidence, creativity
and the results below refer to all employees who and focus.
took the survey. We asked employees a fundamental
question: “How happy are you working at Roche?” Our new People Practices, which were introduced
83% of employees responded that they were happy. two years ago and have been embedded across the
Moreover, 89% of employees believe that the work they organisation, are an important element of this solid
accomplish at Roche has a positive impact on society. foundation. The focus on more agile goal-setting
and frequent, meaningful conversations between
These numbers are impressively high and, coupled employees and their managers has enabled Roche to
with a high degree of confidence in Roche’s future adapt more nimbly to the fast-paced changes and
prospects, serve as a sound basis for the ongoing work rapidly arising opportunities, including digitalisation.
on our transformation to render our processes simpler These enhanced capabilities will enable us to bring
and more focused. In addition, 81% of people working groundbreaking diagnostics and medicines to more
at Roche share the opinion that the company offers a patients faster.Our people | Roche
71
Finding innovative solutions for medical needs is at the heart of what we do. Our ideas and research help save lives.
Kinesis: shift mindsets of leaders general managers, functional heads, and scientific
Ensuring that our new approach to leadership is the and technical leaders, have participated since 2017.
very best it can be is an important part of Roche’s The second part encourages leaders to apply the
readiness for the future and ensuring we remain a insights from the first part more profoundly in their
highly attractive employer. To this end, we introduced area of the company, supported by an internal,
Kinesis nearly three years ago. This leadership self-organised Agility Working Group. More than
development programme is designed to shift mindsets 8,000 employees, nominated by the senior leaders,
and introduce tangible approaches that will help have taken part in at least one of these programmes.
transform Roche to a more agile organisation. Kinesis In 2019, 145 senior leaders participated in the next
consists of two parts. The first part is a programme level of Kinesis, called Synergy, which focuses on
designed to offer leaders deep insights into their own sustaining Roche’s transformation and operating
behavioural patterns. 780 senior leaders, including in a highly networked, dynamic setting.72
Impacting healthcare with leadership development success there, with the number of cervical cancer
The NJIA (Kiswahili for ‘path’) leadership development screenings increasing threefold compared to other
programme is yet another way in which we are regions, and the positive feedback from participants
preparing leaders for more agile ways of working in and partners, the programme is now being introduced
an increasingly unpredictable environment. The in India.
programme, which is run in collaboration with
NGOs and governmental institutions in Tanzania, Change and a new environment require us to learn
was launched in 2015 with the goal of tackling the every day. Employees must have access to learning
cervical cancer burden in the country’s Kagera region tools that offer the right content, in the right format,
through leadership development. Thanks to NJIA’s at the right time. The introduction of Cornerstone,
Studies show that nowadays we spend less than 45% of our working day at our desk.Our people | Roche
73
Five-year corporate goals
32%
30%
Women in key leadership roles 26% 28% 29%
22% 23%
24% 24%
Key leaders with diverse work experience 22% 22% 25%
20%
19%
Employee engagement rate 71% (72%)* 72% (73%) Top quartile
68% (76%)
* Numbers in brackets refer to the
top quartile benchmark.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Five-year goal
Baseline
Five-year corporate goals
our global learning system, in September 2019 has
paved the way for a new approach to learning. The five-year corporate goals (2015–2019) include three goals as
Starting with essential training, in the long term indicators of a great place to work:
the system offers modern learning techniques and
makes it easy for people to know what kind of training Roche has conducted periodic Global Employee Opinion Surveys
is relevant at a certain time. The evolving learning (GEOS) since 2011. For the period 2015–2019, we set the goal to be
strategy is also supported by the piloting of LinkedIn in the top quartile of benchmark companies in terms of employee
Learning and Humu at Roche in 2019. These platforms engagement. During the five-year period, the employee
will provide thousands of online learning resources engagement was measured using methodology from AON Hewitt
for employees. The results of the pilot projects will and, in the final year, also from Glint. With the change to Glint, we
help us explore further scaling potential across the gain deeper insights through the extensive comments possible
organisation for 2020. with each survey question and more frequent and targeted pulse-
checks. Please see key results from the Glint survey on page 70.
Personalised professional journeys
One element of these efforts to adopt a new mindset Diversity and Inclusion are also part our overall corporate goals
and adapt to changing employee needs is focused in two dimensions. Firstly, we have a goal to increase the number
on career development. A company that operates of women in key leadership positions by 30%, and, secondly, to
with increased agility and flatter hierarchies also increase the number of key position incumbents with experience
requires new approaches to career development. In in both developing and established regions by 30%. We achieved
2019, a new, more personalised career philosophy the five-year goal on gender diversity a year early, in 2018. On the
was introduced across Roche focusing on what each key position incumbents with diverse experience, we made good
individual requires to lead a fulfilled professional progress in the first three years, although we fell short of meeting
life while working towards the common purpose of our overall target.
improving healthcare. What this entails can vary,
depending on the particular phase in the person’s
life and career, as well as on their unique interests
and capabilities. One approach might include
gaining experience in another department or
location at Roche via specific projects or a particular
development programme. No matter how each
individual decides to move forward, all of our
career journeys at Roche require a healthy dose
of curiosity and self-awareness, and a hunger to
keep learning every single day.74
Working in new ways to advance healthcare points with approval committees previously used
When employees can be their true selves at work, feel in early development, the team decided to approach
part of an empowered team with a shared purpose, decisions on an ‘as needed’ basis, involving experts
and use their collective capabilities, expertise and only when clearly required. This increased the sense
creativity to find meaningful solutions, Roche is of ownership and accountability of those working
well positioned to achieve its mission of bringing on different projects, as well as the quality and speed
new medicines and diagnostics to patients faster of decision-making. One example where the benefit
and better. This is at the heart of agility at Roche. of such an agile approach was seen was in the case of
Tecentriq in triple-negative breast cancer, where the
The ReImagineD transformation project, undertaken team filed for FDA approval in less than 12 weeks
by the Pharma Product Development organisation, instead of the more usual 24.
is a case in point. The goal was to bring medicines
to patients faster by accelerating their development Similarly, the life cycle teams that comprise a variety
without compromising on quality. of experts and decide upon the future development
of a product began to work differently. Attendance is
Simplifying processes was considered key to this based on need, which frees up time for people who
acceleration. Therefore, instead of the static decision are not required for a specific topic under discussion.
This makes the entire process more efficient and easier
for people who often work in different countries and
time zones.
Sustainable Development Goal
This new way of working requires experts who have
The United Nation’s Sustainable Development a holistic view, in addition to their deep expertise,
Goal 3: “Ensure healthy lives and promote and who are open about what they have learned
wellbeing for all at all ages” is also important from past failures. They are willing to share their
in the workplace. Roche has been supporting experiences with others. This enables the broader
this goal with a number of initiatives. The Live community to learn quickly and build on past
achievements, rather than ‘reinventing the wheel’
Well campaign, for example, which was held in
every time. It also empowers the team to potentially
September 2019, translated the theme ‘Healthy
halt projects and devote their attention to priority
Relationships’ into local activities that fit the
initiatives.
needs of Roche’s own employees and the cultural
setting. Across 122 different sites, the project
Ensuring that Roche is a great place to work
included programmes devoted to healthy
A successful company that strives to be a place where
nutrition, psychological counselling or courses on
talented people want to work must offer an inclusive
resilience. The aim of the campaign was to raise
and healthy work environment, good working
awareness of the diverse Live Well events which conditions and effective methods of dealing with
take place throughout the year at each site. change and transformation.Our people | Roche
75
Supporting gender parity is one way in which we are working to create a diverse and inclusive culture.
Resilience and the ability to maintain a balanced One concrete effort to continuously raise awareness
attitude towards work and new technologies are key. around diversity and inclusion was the International
An essential element of a healthy sense of balance Women’s Day, which is celebrated worldwide in March.
is the feeling of being respected for individuality and Thirty women’s networks that exist at Roche engaged
diversity, the ability to bring one’s authentic self to in dialogue with colleagues—irrespective of gender—
work every day. This sense is strengthened when on the topic of equality, diversity and inclusion.
coupled with a feeling of belonging to a team that
works towards a common purpose. The second Global Diversity and Inclusion Week, an
additional milestone of Roche’s commitment, took
As part of its commitment to be the place to work and place in October 2019. The event included sessions
drive innovation, Roche is dedicated to supporting covering mental health, inclusive leadership and more.
diversity and inclusion, and works in accordance with All of the global sessions were conducted virtually,
UN Sustainable Development Goal 5: “Achieve gender allowing all Roche employees to participate, no matter
equality and empower all women and girls”. Roche where they were located. The week brought together
promoted equal opportunities and measured how employees across Roche with the objective to emphasise
many women reach leadership positions, a key step the importance of diversity and inclusion to our
towards equality. future success.76
Sustainable Development GoalsEnvironment | Roche
77
Environment
Roche seeks more sustainable technologies
to minimise its impact on the environment.
We are acting now.
Photovoltaic array on a new car park building at our site in Kaiseraugst, Switzerland.78
Material topics covered in this chapter
Energy efficiency
Long-term mindset
Minimising our impact on the ecosystem
We take responsibility and appropriate measures to address the
most pressing environmental issues.
Our commitment to the environment is not just as environmental specialists, inspect our facilities’
about reducing the amount of waste or using less environmental performance, the implementation
energy, but also developing processes that will of our environmental policy and their compliance
make our business more sustainable. Roche’s with legal requirements and internal standards.
process for mitigating any environmental risk is We are committed to monitoring our performance
multi-disciplinary and focuses on prevention. It is continuously, and our aim is to cover at least 95%
a system which is proactive and reduces costs, of each key performance indicator. By doing so,
increases efficiency and enhances competitiveness. we ensure compliance with our high standards
The Group Safety, Security, Health and Environmental and objectives and guarantee that our processes
Protection (SHE) department’s audit team, as well and equipment are state of the art.
2.0 %
12.4 %
Noise pollution
Emissions to water
7.9%
67.3 % Energy consumption
Roche
eco-balance
Emissions to air
2019 7.9 %
Water consumption
2.5 %
Landfilled wasteEnvironment | Roche
79
The solar power programmes of Genentech, a member of the Roche Group, make the organisation the largest corporate generator of solar energy in the San Francisco
Bay Area.
We have developed a clear and defined process we are striving to reduce in many ways. This
to minimise our environmental impact by setting metric provides us with a global view of how we
and initiating action plans. From 2014 to 2019, are affecting the Earth’s ecosystems and gives the
Roche focused on reducing its environmental local site management the freedom to develop
impact. We measure our total environmental impact appropriate strategies and objectives to curb their
using the eco-balance metric, which is a system of environmental impact. The Group’s eco-balance
points allocated to ecologically relevant parameters.1 goal was achieved in 2016. Product stewardship and
From the consumption of energy and resources to sustainable construction are two long-term initiatives
the emission of by-products and waste from our that have significantly contributed to the eco-balance
business activities, the eco-balance considers many and reduced our environmental impact.
environmental parameters, the impact of which
1 Developed by the Swiss Federal Office for the Environment; we are compliant with their latest guidelines.80
Product stewardship
Our main contribution to society is to deliver (PSP) tool. Starting in 2020 the new tool will enable
innovative diagnostic tests and medicines that development teams to score (and improve) product
save and improve lives, but we also do more. We design and performance at each stage of the product
take responsibility, along with other stakeholders, life cycle, with respect to important business,
to minimise the impact of our medicines and sustainability and product stewardship objectives.
diagnostic products on safety, security, health and Taken together, the eco-balance and product
the environment throughout the entire product life stewardship scores paint a more complete picture
cycle. This is the essence of product stewardship. It of Roche’s global sustainability impact from both
actively supports sustainability programmes, which its operations and products, and highlights areas
are an important part of Roche’s R&D activities and where we have opportunities to improve further.
drug manufacturing. Here, the use of environmentally
friendly chemicals and materials and innovative Innovative product design
technologies help minimise Roche’s ecological The Diabetes Care design and process engineers
footprint. redesigned the blood glucose monitoring strips,
meters and packaging completely to improve material
The outcome of product stewardship improves Roche’s efficiency and reduce waste. The new innovative strip
eco-balance during the development, production, architecture resulted in a strip size that is 60% smaller
distribution and use phases of a product, and there are than the prior version and has fewer components
other benefits, too. To address this broader range of overall. The new design has reduced polyester usage
impacts and complement the eco-balance score, Roche by approximately 1,000 tonnes per annum. Moreover,
has developed a Product Stewardship Performance new packaging bundles and configurations have
improved the pack density by 35–45%, allowing more
products to be shipped on skids and in tertiary
containers. This reduces the distribution cost and
Sustainable Development Goals
environmental impact. Other optimisations were
achieved by reducing the thickness and weight of
Roche’s ECOmpetition gives employees the the cardboard and paper for product information,
opportunity to submit ideas for environmental- increasing the use of recycled corrugated distribution
protection activities. Suggestions for improving components to 100% and utilising packaging materials
certain manufacturing processes have that are certified by the Forest Stewardship Council.
resulted in major cost savings, and other
Innovative packaging design
ideas, including measures to reduce energy
Our cancer drugs, such as Herceptin and Avastin,
consumption of air-conditioning systems, have
come with elaborate packaging to protect the product
proved useful at multiple sites. In the eighth
and accommodate the product information (typically
edition of the competition in 2019, reducing
one vial and one insert per package). Clinics
energy consumption got the most interest as
accumulate large numbers of vials, which need to be
well as improving logistics both with respect stored in coolers, and vast quantities of packaging
to packaging and transportation concepts. waste, which needs to be disposed of. Starting withEnvironment | Roche
81
Development
End of life
Reuse, recycle
Production
Product
stewardship
cycle
Use Distribution
Product stewardship is the business process used for the management of products throughout their entire life cycle to ensure that our products are developed,
produced, used and disposed of in a responsible manner.
the end user in mind, our Genentech engineers have Researchers can donate excess supplies at any time,
developed a new generation of packaging known which are either directly repurposed within a
as GenPack, which comes in two sizes and can centralised supply system or given to local schools
accommodate up to ten vials with a single insert in through Genentech’s partnership with BioLink
one package. Benefits for clinics include lower labour Equipment Depot, a non-profit organisation dedicated
costs to put away the product, less packaging waste to to boosting scientific education with donated supplies
manage and less consumption of packaging materials and equipment. Since the programme started, we have
and inserts by Genentech. GenPack evolved from a actively diverted significant amounts of laboratory
winning idea submitted to an internal sustainability supply waste from landfill and positively impacted
innovation competition. on local schools and their students.
Less waste in R&D Environmentally friendly medicines
Scientific research is constantly evolving and when MabThera/Rituxan, Avastin, Herceptin and Lucentis
projects change or end, supplies and equipment are monoclonal antibodies, which generated a large
languish on shelves and in cabinets. Once the storage proportion of Roche’s Group sales in 2019. They belong
space runs out, these items usually end up in the waste to a defined class of active pharmaceutical ingredients
stream, which affects the eco-balance. To help reduce (APIs) exempt from the European Medicines Agency
this waste and minimise the company’s ecological (EMA) guideline on environmental risk assessment.
footprint, Genentech hosts the annual Lab Supply These products have a low excretion rate and are
Sidewalk Sale. Excess supplies and equipment are judged to present no significant risk to sewage works
collected from laboratories across the South San and surface waters. As such they are termed ‘benign
Francisco campus for a one-day event, where all in nature’ and constitute environmentally sustainable
researchers can pick out the supplies they actually compounds. Nevertheless, all of our chemical
need. Any leftover supplies are donated to local products are subjected to a rigorous environmental
schools. The programme has evolved over the years. risk assessment.82
Sustainable construction
Roche is committed to creating a better workplace the relevant requirements. A building’s entire
that benefits both the employee and the environment. performance can now be evaluated from the planning
Sustainable construction comprises structures, stage through to the end of its life cycle. Since 2006,
construction processes and occupancy processes that guidelines and Group directives addressing energy
consider economic, environmental and sociocultural conservation are in place and enforce a systematic
aspects throughout a building’s life cycle. Employee approach towards improving the energy performance
productivity has been shown to increase in buildings at all sites. They include energy efficiency standards
offering more daylight, better views and better indoor for the design of new equipment, buildings and the
air. Moreover, job seekers are increasingly paying optimisation of existing energy-consuming items.
attention to their new potential employer’s stance
on sustainability issues. Critical components of Minimising energy use
sustainable construction, such as reduced energy and To reduce operating energy consumption, the
water consumption and using renewable energy, are buildings are designed in such a way as to improve
reflected in Roche’s eco-balance. Since the turn of their energy performance. This also includes high-
the millennium, Roche has been optimising its performance windows and extra insulation in walls,
constructions to be energy-efficient with the aim ceilings and doors. In addition, effective window
of reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to placement can provide more natural light, reduce the
zero by the middle of the century. need for electric lighting and minimise energy losses
via the glass. In particular, highly efficient ventilation
Roche has standardised sustainable construction in and air conditioning is instrumental to a building’s
accordance with its own requirements and drawn up energy performance. This approach is applied to new
clear regulations to be implemented throughout Roche. facilities across our global organisation. The newest
A specially developed software tool makes it possible office building in South San Francisco and production
to carry out construction projects in compliance with building in Mannheim were designed to provide
optimal working conditions and operate on less
energy than the standard. As a result, the buildings
were awarded the LEED Gold certification and
Sustainable Development Goal
Platinum certificate, respectively, from the German
Society for Sustainable Building.
At headquarters in Basel, our waste water
is treated in a dedicated facility. However, LED lights, which are the lights of choice and 60%
antibiotics and buffer from biotech cannot more efficient than high-efficiency fluorescent lamps,
be removed in such a way as to guarantee are fitted in Roche’s buildings. This reduces operating
expenses and waste, the results of which feed directly
compliance with overall discharge permits for
into the eco-balance, thereby minimising our
the river Rhine in all cases. A new approach
ecological footprint. Another example of minimising
was introduced that sends the waste water
energy use is the innovative façade on Building 1 in
to a nano-filtration unit, thus concentrating
Basel. Triple thermal panes combined with a closed
the waste water and removing 70–99% of the cavity of air and integrated sunscreens reduce glare
critical components to comply with all permits. and help insulate the interior from the heat and cold.Environment | Roche
83
Since 2010, a total of
1,672 projects
have been completed, avoiding
217,131 tonnes of CO emissions. This
2
has led to an estimated cost-saving of
approximately CHF 51.7 million.
Sustainable energy sources Energy efficiency
Building 1 in Basel is heated by energy recovered Sensors at each workstation detect when someone
from manufacturing processes. Ground water, which is present and turn on the lights and ventilation
remains at a constant temperature of 12 degrees automatically. There is a monitoring system for the
Celsius, is used to cool the building in summer. whole building to track energy usage.
Approximately 30 Roche sites around the world source Energy efficiency might be one of the best-known
their electricity from either: factors in sustainable construction, but it is not the
• Energy providers who generate electricity from only one. Other issues are also critical, such as a
water, solar or wind power. circular economy—in other words, a production
• Solar panels installed on site. A solar panel system and consumption model in which existing materials
meets a percentage of the site’s total electricity and products are shared, leased, reused, repaired,
requirements. The rest comes from energy providers. refurbished and recycled for as long as possible.
For example, the solar panel system in Suzhou, For the most recent buildings at the Basel site, the
China, produces enough electricity from sunlight to rubble was broken down on site and mixed to form
cover almost 80% of the administrative building’s fresh concrete again. Around 40% of the concrete
energy needs, which is equivalent to power almost used is recycled. This reduces the amount of transport
500 private households for an entire year. Three of needed to dispose of the concrete waste and deliver
Roche’s sites in California have successfully installed new materials, and conserves natural resources
solar arrays within the last few years and, as of (ie, gravel), which has a direct positive impact on
mid-2019, they had generated approximately Roche’s ecological footprint.
250,000 GJ of electricity, supplying about 50% of
the site’s electrical needs.
In both cases the electricity sourced is generated
without emitting GHG, which has a positive impact
on Roche’s eco-balance.84
Environmental performance data
Roche measures its environmental impact using the environmental impact per employee, taking business
eco-balance metric. The key metrics of this method growth into account. Our strategic goal was to reduce
are eco-factors which measure the environmental our eco-balance by 10% between 2014 and 2019; we
impact of pollutant emissions or resource extraction reached our target in 2016. Since then, we have been
activities in eco-points per unit of quantity. These aiming to reduce our footprint by a further 2% each
points are added up and related to the total number year (see eco-balance performance below).
of employees. This enables us to monitor our
Five-year goals
24.1%
>20%
21.3% Share of
18.5%
15.0% 16.2% sustainable energy
6.99 6.35 5.79 5.60 5.16 -10%
-3.6% -12.4% -20.1% -22.8% Eco-balance
-29.0% (million points/employee), 2014–2019
173 167
158 156 152 -15%
Energy consumption
-3.5%
-8.7% -9.8%
-12.1% (GJ [FFE*]/employee), 2015–2025
435 455
422
395 -10%
+4.6% 388 General waste
-3.0% -9.2%
-10.8% (kg/employee), 2015–2020
533 481 477 464
-10%
-9.8% -10.5% -12.9% 408 Water consumption
(1,000 m3/employee)**, 2015–2020
-23.5%
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Goal
* FFE: Fossil Fuel Equivalent | ** Weighted by water stress | Changes in % related to 2014 and 2015, respectivelyEnvironment | Roche
85
CO -equivalent emissions in tonnes
2 Eco-balance
2019 2018 2017 2016
Scope 1*
Fuel combustion 282,184 284,890 291,850 319,538
Halogenated hydrocarbons 5,973 4,746 3,469 6,463
Emissions
Scope 2** # 195,766 263,973 270,123 320,860
into the air
Scope 3***
Business flights 201,522 195,530 203,814 209,660
* Scope 1: Direct emissions generated within own facilities | ** Scope 2: Indirect emissions from purchased energy |
*** Scope 3: Indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) in the value chain | # Market-based data
Emissions into the air in tonnes
2019 2018 2017 2016
VOCs* 85 85 101 124
Particulates 13 20 20 21
Nitrogen oxides 133 201 232 219
Sulphur dioxide 4 5 7 6
* Volatile organic compounds
Halogenated hydrocarbons in tonnes*
2019 2018 2017 2016
Inventory 90.8 91.3 114.3 134.3
Consumed | released 2.2 2.2 1.3 2.7
* Global inventory including Chugai, Genentech and Ventana
Energy consumption in terajoules
2019 2018 2017 2016
Energy
Total (scope 1 and scope 2) 8,983 9,185 9,219 9,824
consumption
Energy (scope 1 and scope 2) consumption (GJ/employee)* 89 91 91 98
* Data collected by Group SHE | (GJ = gigajoule)
Water usage and discharge
2019 2018 2017 2016
Water withdrawn (million m3) 15.9 16.6 15.9 18.2 Water
consumption
Water consumed (million m3) 3.1 3.4 3.0 3.1
and emissions
Organic matter discharged to waterways after treatment (t) 127 185 144 149 to water
Heavy metals discharged to waterways after treatment (kg) 228 149 129 164
Landfilled and incinerated waste in tonnes
2019 2018 2017 2016
General waste generated 10,500 11,183 12,478 12,498
Landfilled
Chemical waste generated 17,422 13,563 17,245 21,906
waste
Contaminated soil 91,951 77,681 108,766 54,937
Construction waste 14,360 8,443 16,189 12,80486
Sustainable Development GoalsCommunity engagement | Roche
87
Community
engagement
This works best when it is built on meaningful
relationships and mutual trust. A philosophy
we have been following for more than a century.
We deliver sustainable outcomes.
Working side by side in the aftermath of heavy earthquakes and floods in Nepal: Roche partners NGOs such as Habitat
for Humanity to help rebuild communities.88
Material topics covered in this chapter
Long-term mindset
Availability of healthcare
Strong partnerships for strong communities
In order to make a lasting impact, Roche liaises with local
partners to assess needs and take possible action.
Whether it be a long-term commitment or an provide comprehensive services to communities
urgently needed response, we seek to achieve lasting which had little or no access to essential healthcare
improvements for society. Our main focus areas services before.” Today, the 19-coach trains each
involve humanitarian and social efforts, community have six clinics on board and are equipped with
and environmental projects, science and education pharmacies and diagnostic tools for diabetes and
programmes, and the arts and contemporary culture. cancer screenings, such as breast examinations, and
cervical and prostate cancer checks. In 2019, the trains
Roche has a long history of philanthropic engagement. provided free primary healthcare services to more
What began with supporting the International than 450,000 people across 70 rural communities.
Committee of the Red Cross more than a hundred
years ago has evolved into an impressive string of Having grown up in a very remote area of South
lasting partnerships. Accredited non-governmental Africa herself, Thabisile knows the impact Phelophepa
organisations (NGOs) such as the World Wide Fund can have above and beyond the healthcare benefits:
for Nature (WWF), UNICEF or Habitat for Humanity “The trains also boost the local economy, which is
have all become our trusted partners. critical in areas with high unemployment rates. We
are able to offer work on the trains in the communities
Staying on track for many years to come where they stop, on top of the 40 permanent staff who
By selectively developing, supporting and live and work on the trains nine months of the year.”
implementing innovative solutions together with The train also provides a platform for experiential
our local partners, our aim is for simple measures learning for students from various disciplines
to bring about lasting improvements and make a studying in South Africa and beyond.
sustainable impact on society. The two South African
Phelophepa primary healthcare trains are a leading As one of the longest-running public-private
example of this. Roche and Transnet, the country’s partnerships in South Africa, Phelophepa speaks
main freight logistics company, came together in volumes about Roche’s unwavering commitment to
1994 to provide free primary healthcare to rural areas. the country. The train has accompanied the nation on
Marking the 25th anniversary of the collaboration, its journey of incredible change and potentially into
Roche renewed its support as the initiative’s main an era that will bring universal healthcare. For these
external sponsor in 2019. efforts Roche is seen as a respected partner, not only
for Transnet, but also for the people of South Africa.
Over the years, the mobile health clinic has come
a long way, recalls Thabisile Makhaye, Phelophepa Delivering urgently needed help in a
Operations Manager: “From humble beginnings sustainable way
with a three-coach train to a state-of-the-art primary Due to climate change, there has been an increasing
healthcare facility on two trains, we are now able to demand to respond to weather disasters. We primarilyCommunity engagement | Roche
89
support programmes that will benefit from an active,
long-term commitment. After the initial emergency
phase, we partner with local authorities and relief
organisations to support sustainable rebuilding
efforts. Roche also sponsors the development of
training centres to help communities prepare against
future threats.
In 2019, cyclone Idai hit Mozambique, Zimbabwe and
Malawi as one of the worst tropical storms to affect
Africa. In response, we were able to help via three
of our NGO partners. We donated 20,000 mosquito
nets, a vital and much-needed piece of equipment
to prevent the transmission of malaria, to each
country through our long-term partner UNICEF. The journey continues: Thabisile Makhaye, Phelophepa Operations Manager, in front of the
In conjunction with the WWF, we are supporting Roche Health Clinic coach, celebrating 25 years of a successful partnership with Roche.
the construction of two community disaster relief
centres in Zimbabwe. We also provided funding to
the NGO ActionAid through the Roger Federer
Foundation to help rebuild 13 preschools in Malawi
(see more in box). In addition, Roche Portugal
granted funding to the Portuguese branch of the
Red Cross, in support of people affected by the
Sustainable Development Goals
disaster in Mozambique. We also donated over
3,000 units of Bactrim, a Roche antibiotic, as part
of the emergency disaster relief efforts there. Since 2015, the Roche Employee Action and
Charity Trust (Re&Act) has been partnering the
These most recent efforts build upon ongoing disaster Roger Federer Foundation (RFF) to support the
relief commitments across Africa and Asia. For local NGO ActionAid build four model preschools
example, following the heavy rain and flooding that and 20 satellite preschools in Malawi. In March
affected Kenya in 2018, we partnered WWF to help
2019, the country was devastated by cyclone Idai.
fund the construction of two disaster relief centres
While the preschools that Roche supported were
along the lower reaches of the Tana River. Following
not affected, we provided additional funding to
the severe 2017 floods in Nepal, we collaborated with
rebuild 13 preschools that were damaged. “The
Habitat for Humanity to build homes in safer areas
rapid and unbureaucratic aid from Roche was
and restore damaged housing. In 2019, 34 houses
extremely valuable and allowed us to resume the
were completed and another 32 are almost ready. In
service as quickly as possible. Children should not
addition, over 100 households benefited from disaster
resilience training and more than 50 locals attended miss out on their education,” commented Janine
specialist masonry courses. Händel, CEO of RFF.90
Believing in the power of education
Roche is dedicated to programmes that promote son in the family, he was the first from his household
educational opportunities for young people around to obtain a university degree. “The opportunity to get
the world. By equipping them with academic know- an education must not be underestimated. It is the
how and essential soft skills, the initiatives prepare key to everything,” says the freshly-minted Bachelor
students to thrive as individuals and serve their of Business Administration. “With Roche as my main
communities. benefactor I was able to cover most of the expenses
during my studies. My family would not have been
In emerging markets, one of our major focal points is able to bear such a financial burden. Now I am eager
to fund education programmes that support talented to work in marketing or business development and
students from poor and disadvantaged backgrounds. put what I have learned into practice.”
We engage in sustainable local projects to ensure that
the students have strong employment prospects after In Latin America, we collaborate with Fundación
their graduation. Educación in Peru, Colombia, El Salvador and
Guatemala. Launched in 2016, Roche provides
Focus on disadvantaged youngsters four-year scholarships for talented young people
In India, we funded college and university scholar- from low-income families at leading colleges and
ships for 19 students from Kiran Children’s Village, universities. Much like our Indian and South African
some of whom had disabilities. Literally meaning scholars, these students also have a great likelihood
‘ray of light’, Kiran provides rehabilitation, education (around 95%) of finding employment in their
and vocational training, and shines a beacon of light respective countries.
into the lives of these disadvantaged youngsters. By
attending university in Varanasi, the Roche-sponsored Asked about one of the foundation’s recipe for
students have become the first generation from their success, the president of Fundación Educación
village to go into higher education. Ricardo Cordero is quick to answer: “Our programme
is characterised by focus. We concentrate on finding
In 2019, 28 students who received scholarships the best talents in four countries and are active in
from Roche graduated from the Maharishi Institute only ten schools. Moreover, we focus our attention on
in Johannesburg and another 22 students are set what is most needed in the economies of the countries
to graduate in 2020. The institute is a non-profit in question and solely sponsor economics and business
organisation with the aim of educating a new administration students. Thanks to our highly
generation of leaders for South Africa by providing motivated and dedicated team, we are able to offer truly
funding for students looking to access education tailor-made and highly sustainable programmes.”
offered by its educational partners. With future
employment prospects of about 95% for the graduates, Giving back to the community
Maharishi has proved highly successful and leaves a What also sets the scholarships apart from some other
lasting impact not only on the students but also on programmes is the ‘compromiso de honor’ principle:
their families and communities. once the scholars have finished their studies, they are
expected to repay the scholarship provided they have
One of this year’s graduates is Nkulumo Dlamini from the financial means. While not a real contract, more
Soweto, a township in Johannesburg. The youngest a simple oath, most graduates are happy to do so.Community engagement | Roche
91
A bright future ahead: The first batch of Roche-sponsored students from the Maharishi Institute in Johannesburg graduated in 2019.
“The foundation also fosters a very active alumni career or started an enterprise. Seeing our scholars
network,” says Ricardo. “This way we not only succeed, we aim to continuously grow the programme,
promote networking among our scholars and alumni and thanks to Roche and other strategic partners we
but can also actively stay in contact with them. We can gradually do so.”
want to know what happens to them after these four
years of scholarship to see if it was worthwhile and Science and technology are at the core of our
adjust our programme if necessary.” business. That is why we support international and
local programmes to spark an interest in these
Roche initially provided scholarships for 34 students disciplines among young people. In Europe, we have
with the Fundación Educación. The first graduated in a number of science and education initiatives. We
2018, followed by another 11 in 2019 and the remainder have been supporting Swiss Youth in Science for over
will complete their studies in 2020. To ensure 50 years and have been a founding sponsor of their
continuity, the company has already committed to International Swiss Talent Forum, a think tank for
another four years of sponsoring 35 scholars. Roche students from all over the world. Since the beginning
is therefore contributing to the foundation’s ongoing of the ISTF, more than 600 highly talented young
success story, which its president describes thus: people from 30 different countries have participated
“While the direct impact of scholarships on family in the programme. And in the US, Genentech runs
and the community is obvious, it also has a rather Futurelab in cooperation with the local school district
invisible one: Very often former scholars serve as role to inspire young students to explore careers in science,
models for younger students when they have made a technology, engineering and mathematics.92
Sustainable Development GoalsIntegrity in business | Roche
93
Integrity in
business
Working with integrity is a professional
virtue asked of all employees.
A matter of culture.
We ensure that manufacturing processes and finished products meet the strict regulatory requirements set by authorities.94
Material topics covered in this chapter
Human rights
Ethics and transparency
Real-world data
Product quality
Patient centricity
Data privacy
Compliance
Respect for human rights
Our company influences what happens to our employees,
the value chain, customers and local communities.
In the long run, we can only be successful as a Respect for human rights is often viewed as simply
business if we act with integrity, trust and respect a matter of compliance. However, Roche takes it one
in our everyday operations. This goes far beyond step further. Our aim is not just to avoid harm but
complying with mandatory requirements. It is also deliver meaningful, positive outcomes for our
about making a positive impact on society with our stakeholders.
endeavours.1 A subject of vital importance in our
operations worldwide is human rights—a topic that There are a number of recent examples of how
we at Roche have fostered globally in our business. Roche has worked with partners to embed human
rights in its daily business. At our Pharmaceuticals
As stated in our Code of Conduct, we support and site in Shanghai, China, for example, we run a
respect human rights. We have implemented the financing programme for small and minority-owned
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human innovative suppliers that are in need of funds.
Rights building on the ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ This fosters supplier diversity and gives us better
framework developed by Harvard Professor John access to innovation from these small, agile
Ruggie. We are equally committed to the 10 UN companies.
Global Compact Principles, the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights, and the Fundamental Labour At our sites in Basel and Rotkreuz (Switzerland),
Rights stipulated by the International Labour and Penzberg (Germany), we collaborate with third
Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental parties that employ disabled people who are fully
Principles and Rights at Work. integrated in our day-to-day work and support us
in our manufacturing and supply chain activities.
We also ask affiliates to talk about their human
Compliance
rights achievements as this provides more
In 2019, 182 employees used the Roche Group SpeakUp Line, which is available in transparency in our corporate actions and
53 languages in 103 countries. The Chief Compliance Officer received 543 reports of strengthens the relationship with our stakeholders.
alleged violations of the Code of Conduct via the Business Ethics Incident Reporting
system. Of these, 196 were unfounded, 241 were founded and 106 are still under Jointly improving human rights standards
investigation. As a result, 128 employment contracts and 13 agreements with business We have been working with the Pharmaceutical
partners were terminated on grounds of unethical behaviour. Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) to revise its auditIntegrity in business | Roche
95
programme and create a more robust process for
the identification of human rights violations.2
In 2018, we implemented a risk management
programme designed to systematically identify,
assess, mitigate and adequately manage the risk of
human rights violations. This programme does not
only apply to our operations, but also our value
chain and business-related activities. We identified
the four main human rights risk areas: data privacy,
safety in the workplace, working conditions and
employee representation. In 2019, we published
guidelines (https://go.roche.com/due_diligence_process)
which provide an overview on how to develop and
implement an adequate due-diligence process, which We foster the inclusion of employees with disabilities.
helps identify and assess the potential impact and
risks related to human rights in the Roche Group.
During our supplier sustainability assurance
visits, the major findings in the area of working
conditions included excessive overtime, unsatisfactory
compensation for overtime, insufficient rest days
per working week and the inadequate payment of Sustainable Development Goal
social benefits. In 2019, we conducted 84 supplier
sustainability assurance visits, resulting in 499 findings. Roche’s Global Procurement organisation
Most of them were minor issues, such as the lack of a has developed a method for identifying the
written safety or health policy for employees. Corrective risk of human rights violations in our global
action plans were implemented with all our suppliers.
supply base. We perform site visits to make
sure that suppliers who have been identified
Roche continued to assess and mitigate the risk of
of being at risk protect human rights. In 2019,
human rights violations using our enhanced human
we had discovered 102 human rights and
rights violation risk process to identify risks among
labour issues, none of them were critical. We
our own suppliers’ providers. We did not receive any
reports of critical findings among the suppliers of did not find any evidence of child labour or
our own suppliers. modern slavery.
1 See Philipp Aerni, Global business in local culture, Springer, 2018. | 2 PSCI is a group of more than 30 pharmaceutical companies
dedicated to establishing and promoting responsible corporate practice.96
Managing safety and quality culture
In Roche’s philosophy of health and safety, our The key principle of Roche’s strategy to keep tabs on
employees are our most valuable resource. Roche is mental health risks involves three levels of prevention:
committed to promoting a safe and healthy workplace primary, secondary and tertiary. One core element of
and environment for all our employees and to establish the strategy is Roche’s health protection directive with
and maintain safe working practices through proper a separate section dedicated to the primary prevention
procedures and direction. Safety is everyone’s respon- of mental health problems in the workplace. Primary
sibility. It rests with all levels of management and with prevention is designed to monitor the risk factors that
each employee. As a result, our safety data have shown cause stress. These may be related to work itself, the
a further marked improvement compared with last year work environment or the social setting.
(see graph). However, despite our efforts an employee
died during a company event. We profoundly regret Secondary and tertiary prevention is organised
this tragic accident, and again offer our sincere according to local needs. The responsibility is with
condolences to the victim’s family and friends. local Human Resources, Safety, Security, Health and
Environment (SHE) officers, medical services or
Monitoring mental health risks management, depending on how the site is organised.
Digitalisation, globalisation, substantial workloads and Secondary prevention measures are aimed at the
job insecurity are the new hallmarks of the modern personal capability to cope with stress. For example,
workplace. These characteristics have been identified time management courses or resilience training help
as the main source of work-related stress and potential the employees manage their individual stress levels.
mental strain which may affect employee health. The aim of tertiary prevention is to minimise the
impact of existing mental health problems through
individual counselling.
Employee health and safety
Every Roche site must have a mental health strategy
<0.32
0.179 0.173 0.174 in place to tackle this issue. To drive this forward
0.127
and aid its implementation, SHE at headquarters has
0.061 developed a starter pack of guidelines and is also
0.059 0.053 <0.06*
0.047
using social media to exchange experiences between
the sites. Furthermore, two mental health workshops
0.445 <0.5*
0.430 0.411 0.385 were held at the Roche sites in Mississauga (Canada)
and Singapore in April and November 2019,
400
348 346 respectively, attracting 70 participants from 40 sites
334
in North America and the APAC region. The main
6,298
4,828 4,773 focus of each workshop was the prevention of mental
4,397 health problems. Groups of participants were given
the opportunity to conduct a risk assessment on mock
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Goal
work situations. Mental health will continue to play
Lost-time illness rate Roche accident rate an important role at Roche as we continue to offer
Lost-time accident rate Number of work-related accidents an ever-improving healthy working environment
Working days lost per year due to accidents * Three-year average for all our employees.Integrity in business | Roche
97
Quality engrained in our culture
The provision of high-quality products for every
patient, every time represents the foundation of our
approach to manufacturing operations. Quality is
everyone’s responsibility and we believe that our
‘quality culture’ is formed by the attitudes and actions
of every single person in our global manufacturing
community. We believe that the constant nurturing
and development of our quality culture is our greatest
priority as we seek to accelerate the delivery of
medicines to our patients.
In 2019, we continued to do this by encouraging our
people to look for opportunities to strengthen the
quality aspects of our manufacturing environment. We focus on safeguarding high-quality supplies for patients.
For example, a colleague based at our Kaiseraugst
site in Switzerland proposed moving our quality
assurance team from their own discrete area to
operate at the manufacturing line, resulting in better
Contributions to healthcare and patient organisations
integration with production operations. We have
also made other simple and incremental changes, We are dedicated to engaging in transparent dialogue with healthcare and patient
such as increasing the numbers of visual support organisations. In 2019, our grants and donations to patient organisations totalled
boards on every shop floor, which help and support CHF 33 million, those to healthcare organisations CHF 175 million, and our sponsorships
our people in fully understanding new processes. of healthcare and patient organisations totalled CHF 97 million.
More details can be found on our website: roche.com/performance
2019 also saw our successful conclusion of the
Manufacturing Quality Work Plan—a multi-year
journey which succeeded in addressing over
Car safety
250 technical improvements throughout our entire
manufacturing network. For example, in the In Indianapolis, US, the safety and fleet teams joined forces to tackle driver safety. All
Corrective and Preventive Action System, we new vehicles must be equipped with several safety features, such as forward collision
introduced a more disciplined review of performance warning with emergency braking or blind-spot detection functions. Car safety statistics
metrics. We also improved our sample management show that added safety features can reduce the number of reported car crashes by
in the Laboratory Control System. approximately 40%. The teams are also looking to bring about a change in behaviour.
Sales representatives whose driving is considered risky or even dangerous are
The spirit of this initiative continues in 2020 via monitored using a telemetric solution (monitors harsh acceleration, cornering or braking,
the Quality and Compliance Sustainability Plan, speeding and wearing of seat belts). Furthermore, all drivers are required to attend an
which will seek to reinforce the changes made and eight-hour training course entitled ‘Behind the Wheel’. Although the programme is still
drive the search for further opportunities for in its infancy, Roche in Indianapolis has already recorded a drop in the number of car
improvement. crashes: from 161 in 2015 to 143 in 2018.98
Democratising health data
Data-driven healthcare has the potential to transform Regulation (GDPR). Roche is building on the
health systems, improve outcomes for patients and considerable data protection expertise it has gained
make healthcare more sustainable. To unlock the over several decades while conducting thousands
potential of health data, it needs to be made accessible of clinical trials and involving millions of patients
and shared. Consequently, data privacy and protection across the globe.
is a legitimate concern. Therefore, it is important to
strike a balance between protecting personal data For instance, transparency and privacy are at the core
and using data to benefit society. This balance and of our partnership with PicnicHealth. The aim of this
transparency is the foundation of a data-driven collaboration is to translate the valuable information
healthcare system that can be trusted by citizens captured in patients’ individual medical records into
and supported by different stakeholders. data that is standardised for research purposes. It
is a new approach to data sharing as the patients are
Putting the patient at the centre provided with a service that allows them to access
We continue to be a respected and a preferred their aggregated medical records to support their
partner for all those who trust us with their data. care and consent to a research programme that is
The protection and responsible use of personal data free of common barriers to research participation.
is reflected in our daily operations, anchored in the
Roche Group Code of Conduct and endorsed in our Harnessing the power of data
position paper on Access to and Use of Real-World We are collaborating with leading companies in the
Data (RWD). Roche complies with all the applicable field of genomics and RWD, such as Foundation
data privacy laws including the Swiss Data Protection Medicine and Flatiron Health, and building more
Act and the European Union General Data Protection strategic partnerships to develop new targeted
diagnostics and therapies and to help improve
decision- making along the patient journey. One
example of such a strategic collaboration is with
Sustainable Development Goal
GE Healthcare. Together, we are combining
complementary expertise in diagnostics to develop
A cross-sector collaboration has been clinical decision support solutions in oncology and
established with The Michael J. Fox Foundation acute care, helping healthcare professionals navigate
for Parkinson’s Research (MJFF). As of June increasingly complex medical practice and make
2019, Roche has been providing its digital more confident decisions in a timely fashion.
biomarker platform for a study funded by
Roche is also driving cross-sector collaboration
MJFF and a cross-sector consortium. With the
between industry, academia and research
aid of a mobile tool, data on how Parkinson’s
organisations. The societal benefits of such
disease affects the patient’s life every day can
collaborations are significant. People from diverse
be captured. The aim is to adopt a unified
backgrounds come together, share ideas and high-
biomarker approach across the board in quality data, and work on accelerating innovation
Parkinson’s research and development. in the area of healthcare.Integrity in business | Roche
99
Roughly 70%
of citizens are willing to share health
data for research if security and privacy
are guaranteed.*
Advancing the regulatory framework RWD was also essential to the clinical development
RWD allows regulators to make more informed of Rozlytrek. In one of our studies, it was not feasible
decisions on the safety, efficacy and value of medicines to include a comparator arm due to the rarity of the
and diagnostics. patient group’s condition we were studying, so we
developed an external control arm using Flatiron
Roche is working with authorities to understand how data from patients who underwent standard-of-care
best to use RWD to support approvals of in vitro treatment. These comparative real-world data have
diagnostics and new medicines and regulate digital been successfully used for our filing in Japan and are
health products. For example, Roche and Flatiron a great example of making research more efficient
Health are part of a cross-industry collaboration and providing a better option for participants faster.
established by The Duke-Margolis Center for Health
Policy in the US. The aim of the collaboration is to
advance policy development related to the regulatory
acceptability of RWD in the United States. In the
FDA’s Software Pre-Cert Pilot Program, Roche
engages with other diagnostics and tech industry
leaders to develop a novel digital health regulatory
framework that speeds product access while
Policy
maintaining safety and effectiveness.
When it comes to health data and other topics related to innovation, access or
Agencies such as the FDA ask the industry to put personalised healthcare, engaging with public policy stakeholders is a fundamental
forward best-practice examples of where RWD is aspect of good public governance. We strive to strengthen stakeholders’
utilised for regulatory submissions. One such example understanding of—and trust in—our business. We are convinced that this constructive
is the influenza medicine Xofluza, where the FDA form of lobbying is in the interest of all parties involved and of society as a whole.
required additional toxicology studies. By using RWD Roche remains independent of any political affiliation. Where appropriate, Roche
from over three million Tamiflu patients, Roche was discloses contributions and signs up in transparency registers of public authorities.
able to show that the repeated use of the medicine did Further information can be found on our public policy webpage. In 2019, we spent
not pose a risk. The data was accepted by the FDA CHF 9.6 million in Switzerland, which included payments to industry associations and
and no additional safety studies had to be conducted. various chambers of commerce, financial assistance for trade unions, and donations
Consequently, RWD saved four crucial years of to political parties at cantonal and federal level. Donations to political parties were
clinical development and Xofluza became available each in the low double-digit thousand range in Swiss francs, and together accounted
to US patients much faster. for approximately 3% of the total contributions and donations.
* European Commission (2017), Results of the Public Consultation on transformation of health and care in the digital single market100Integrity in business | Roche
101
“Patients want to be considered as partners
when the decision is being made on how to
use their data.”
Noga Leviner, PicnicHealth, USA
My company was born out of my own experiences as them. Patients want to be considered as partners when
a patient after being diagnosed with Crohn’s disease. the decision is being made on how to use their data.
Everything in our healthcare system is extremely
fragmented. My expectation from watching TV shows The data fundamentally belongs to the patient. We are
was that there would be one doctor who is in charge setting up an infrastructure or processes that rely on
and knows everything that is going on. The reality is the patients who are sometimes not even aware that
that no one is really in charge of your care. The only their data is being used for research purposes. If we
person who was actually there at every step, at every really want to have a system that is going to be here
appointment, was me. for the long run, we will need to make sure that there
is patient consent. It is also the right thing to do. We
That inspired me to set up PicnicHealth in 2014. The will get the best outcomes from research if we avoid
app we developed is dedicated to compiling electronic creating an antagonistic dynamic where patients feel
health records and making them available to patients that they are being tricked or that they do not fully
and the scientific community. Once authorised by the understand how their data is being used.
patient, the app works by collecting and managing all
their available health records. We do whatever it takes Patients want research to happen. They also want
to go and get those medical records. PicnicHealth better care for their diseases and new treatments. The
then organises the data in a personal health record. big challenge is getting over the initial hurdle and
discomfort that patients, actually all of us, have about
People are sensitive about how personal data is big companies using our data. The ecosystem has
being used. Not everybody wants their personal data somehow given rise to the feeling that you are not in
to be used outside of their own care but there is an control. To turn that around we need to engage with
overwhelming need for patients to be able to contribute the patient as an equal partner.
to the bigger picture—for research and to improve
care. The objection to the use of data we realised was It just makes no sense to generate so much data in
mainly in connection with the non-transparent way the real world in order to understand diseases better,
in which it is done quite often. We found that when what works and what does not, only for no one to be
we were transparent with the patients, and got their able to use it because of transparency issues. That
consent, we received overwhelming support from would be a travesty.102
Material topic covered in this chapter
ComplianceCorporate Governance | Roche
103
Corporate
Governance
A strong Board of Directors and highly skilled
managers who act with integrity are essential
for the well-functioning governance of Roche.
This report sets out the structures, processes and rules that Roche takes as the basis for good governance of the company.104
Principles
Business activities with a focus on sustainable value corporate governance requirements, in particular
creation and innovation, a management culture with all applicable laws, the Swiss Stock Exchange
conforming to recognised standards of good corporate (SIX Swiss Exchange) directives and the Swiss Code of
governance and a policy of transparent communication Best Practice for Corporate Governance promulgated
embody Roche’s corporate governance principles, which by the Swiss business federation ‘economiesuisse’.
build the basis for the successful implementation of The company’s internal governance framework,
Roche’s commitment to serving all its stakeholders. particularly its Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws,
embodies all the principles needed to ensure that the
A strong Board of Directors, which represents company’s businesses are managed and supervised in
the interests of the shareholders and all other a manner consistent with good corporate governance,
stakeholders, and highly skilled managers who including the necessary checks and balances.1
act with integrity are extremely important.
The printed Annual Report contains selected links to
After having been recognised for ten consecutive the Roche website (https://www.roche.com). Readers
years as the most sustainable company in the are thus provided not only with a ‘snapshot’ of our
Pharmaceuticals index of the Dow Jones Sustainability company at the reporting date but are also directed
Indices (DJSI), Roche ranked second in the 2019 DJSI. to sources which they can consult at any time for
This is based on an in-depth analysis of economic, up-to-date information about corporate governance
social and environmental performance. The DJSI at Roche. Whereas each annual report covers a single
serve as a benchmark for investors who integrate financial year ending 31 December, our website
sustainability considerations into their portfolios. contains information of a more permanent nature, as
Sustainability is at the core of our business practices well as the latest Roche news. The company’s Articles
and this award reflects our commitment to running of Incorporation, Bylaws and the curricula vitae of
our business in a way that is ethical, responsible and current and former (status as per end of term and as
creates long-term value for stakeholders. at the reporting date on 31 December of each year,
at least of the last five years) members of the Board of
This Corporate Governance Report sets out the Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
structures, processes and rules which Roche takes as are published on our website.
the basis for well-functioning corporate governance.
In doing so, Roche complies with all relevant For further details please refer to the following report.
1 https://www.roche.com/about/governance.htmCorporate Governance | Roche
105
Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting
Board of Directors
Board Committees
Board of Directors
Chairman’s and Nomination Committee
and Board Committees
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee
CEO CEO CEO General
Committee CFO HR
Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Counsel
Enlarged Corporate Executive Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Committee gRED pRED Partnering Communications
Board of Directors
At the 101st Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Roche At its organising meeting immediately following
Holding Ltd, on 5 March 2019, shareholders re-elected the AGM, the Board of Directors has determined
Dr Christoph Franz as Chairman of the Board of the structure and composition of its remaining
Directors. committees as shown on page 107 (see also pages 18
to 19 and page 111 ‘Board of Directors and Corporate
Furthermore, the AGM re-elected André Hoffmann, Executive Committee’).
Prof. Sir John Bell, Julie Brown, Paul Bulcke, Anita
Hauser, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, Dr Andreas Oeri, Peter Voser, who served as a member of the Board of
Bernard Poussot, Dr Severin Schwan, Dr Claudia Directors of Roche Holding Ltd since 2011, stepped
Suessmuth Dyckerhoff and Peter R. Voser and elected down as a member of the Board of Directors of Roche
Prof. Dr Hans Clevers as an additional new member at the end of June 2019 due to his additional role as
of the Board of Directors for a term of one year as interim CEO of ABB.
provided by the Articles of Incorporation.
On 17 March 2020, at the forthcoming AGM the
In addition, the AGM elected Dr Christoph Franz, Board of Directors nominates the Chairman and
André Hoffmann, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, Bernard with the exception of Dr Andreas Oeri and Prof. Sir
Poussot and Peter R. Voser as members of the John Bell all remaining members of the Board of
Remuneration Committee. Directors for re-election. On 26 July 2018, Roche106
announced that Dr Andreas Oeri, after his 24-year Moreover, the Board of Directors nominates
term of office, had informed the Board of Directors Dr Christoph Franz, André Hoffmann,
that he will not stand for re-election as a member Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton and Bernard Poussot
of the Board of Directors at the AGM 2020 and that for re-election as members of the Remuneration
Dr Jörg Duschmalé, a fifth-generation descendant Committee at the AGM in 2020.
of the founder of Roche, has confirmed his interest
in standing for election as a member of the Board of Due to BDO AG’s resignation in July 2019 as the
Directors in 2020. Therefore, the Board of Directors independent proxy elected at the 2019 AGM with
proposes Dr Jörg Duschmalé, new representative of a view to ceasing the execution of mandates as
the shareholder group with pooled voting rights, for independent proxy, pursuant to article 8 para. 6 of
election to the Board of Directors at the 2020 AGM. the ‘Ordinance against excessive compensation at
listed joint-stock companies’ (VegüV) the Board
After 19 years of service on the Board, Prof. Sir John of Directors appointed Testaris AG as a replacement
Bell has also decided not to stand for re-election to independent proxy until the conclusion of the 2020
the Board of Directors at the AGM 2020. The Board AGM. The Board of Directors nominates Testaris
of Directors proposes in addition Dr Patrick Frost, AG for election as independent proxy by the AGM
CEO of the Swiss Life Group, for election to the Board in 2020 for the period from 2020 until the conclusion
of Directors at the 2020 AGM. of the 2021 ordinary AGM of shareholders.
Board of Directors
Board Committees
Board of Directors
Chairman’s and Nomination Committee
and Board Committees
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability CommitteeCorporate Governance | Roche
107
Composition as at 31.12.2019 Name (year of birth) First elected
Board of Directors Dr Christoph Franz (1960) C, D *, E, G Chairman 2011
André Hoffmann (1958) (representative of the A, C *, D, E, G Vice-Chairman 1996
shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) (representative of the A *, E, G 1996
shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Prof. Sir John Bell (1952) E, G 2001
Julie Brown (1962) B*, E, G 2016
Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E, G 2011
Prof. Dr Hans Clevers (1957) B, E, G 2019
Anita Hauser (1969) A, E, G 2017
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953) C, E, G 2015
Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E, G 2015
Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F 2013
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967) A, B, E, G 2016
Secretary to the Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
Board of Directors
Honorary Chairman Dr Fritz Gerber (1929)
of the Board of Directors
Curricula vitae (CVs) of members of the Board of Directors:
a) current members: https://www.roche.com/about/governance/board_of_directors.htm
b) former members (at least of the last five years): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/ec_bod_former.htm
c) information of CVs at the reporting date on 31 December of each year (at least of the last five years):
https://www.roche.com/about/governance/archiv_former_cvs.htm
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee B Audit Committee C Remuneration Committee
D Chairman’s/Nomination Committee E Non-executive director F Executive director
G Independent member of the Board of Directors * Committee chairperson
Corporate Executive Committee
William (Bill) Anderson, former CEO of Genen tech, Dr Michael Heuer, who assumed the ad interim
was appointed CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals effective leadership of Roche’s Diagnostics Division and
1 January 2019, and as a new member of the Corporate became a member of the Corporate Executive
Executive Committee is reporting to Dr Severin Committee effective 1 October 2018, retired as
Schwan, CEO Roche Group. His predecessor Daniel planned at the end of July 2019.
O’Day, who stepped down from his role as CEO
Roche Pharmaceuticals and member of the Corporate The Board of Directors has appointed Dr Thomas
Executive Committee as of 31 December 2018, prior Schinecker, former Head of the Diagnostics business
to assuming new responsibilities outside of Roche area Centralised and Point of Care Solutions, as CEO
provided support to ensure a smooth transition of Roche Diagnostics and a member of the Corporate
activities until the end of February. Executive Committee with effect from 1 August 2019.108
Dr Stephan Feldhaus, Head of Group Communications Directors has appointed Claudia Böckstiegel,
and member of Roche’s Enlarged Corporate Executive currently Head of Legal for the Diagnostics Division,
Committee, has decided to continue his career outside to the position of General Counsel. She will join the
the company as of the end of September 2019. Barbara Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee and report
Schädler, former Head of Communications and Public to Dr Severin Schwan as of 1 April 2020. In parallel,
Affairs at E.ON SE, succeeded him on 1 October 2019 Dr Annette Luther, currently General Manager of
as the Head of Group Communications and member Roche Diagnostics International Ltd, Rotkreuz,
of Roche’s Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee Switzerland, will become Secretary to the Board of
reporting to the CEO Roche Group, Dr Severin Directors and report to Dr Christoph Franz.
Schwan.
Information on each member of the Corporate
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller, General Counsel, member of Executive Committee and of the Enlarged Corporate
the Corporate Executive Committee and Secretary Executive Committee is listed below (see also pages 20
to the Board of Directors, will retire after 35 years to 21 and page 111 ‘Board of Directors and Corporate
with Roche at the end of March 2020. The Board of Executive Committee’).
Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee
CEO CEO CEO General
Committee CFO HR
Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Counsel
Enlarged Corporate Executive Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Committee gRED pRED Partnering Communications
Composition as at 31.12.2019 Name (year of birth) Position Since
Corporate Executive Dr Severin Schwan (1967) CEO Roche Group 2008
Committee Bill Anderson (1966) CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals 2019
Dr Thomas Schinecker (1975) CEO Roche Diagnostics 2019
Dr Alan Hippe (1967) Chief Financial and IT Officer 2011
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967) Head Group Human Resources 2016
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954) General Counsel 2003
Enlarged Corporate Dr Michael D. Varney (1958) Head Genentech Research & 2015
Executive Committee Early Development (gRED)
Dr William Pao (1967) Head Roche Pharma Research & 2018
Early Development (pRED)
Dr James H. Sabry (1958) Global Head Pharma Partnering 2018
Barbara Schädler (1962) Head Group Communications 2019
Secretary to the Corporate Per-Olof Attinger (1960)
Executive Committee
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (reporting years 2004–2008)
of Roche Holding Ltd KPMG AG (since 2009)
Auditor in charge: John A. Morris (2004–2010)
Ian Starkey (2011–2017)
Mark Baillache (as of business year 2018)
Chief Compliance Officer Dr Urs Jaisli (1956) (until 30 September 2019)
Pascale Schmidt (1973) (as of 1 October 2019)
Curricula vitae (CVs) of the members of the Corporate Executive and the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee:
a) current members: https://www.roche.com/about/governance/executive_committee.htm
b) former members (at least five years back): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/ec_bod_former.htm
c) information of CVs at the reporting date on 31 December of each year (at least of the last five years):
https://www.roche.com/about/governance/archiv_former_cvs.htmCorporate Governance | Roche
109
Dr Andreas Oeri, Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee, and André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Group structure and shareholders
Roche’s operating businesses are organised into two integrated into Roche Pharmaceuticals. The
divisions: Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. The Diagnostics Division consists of the following
Pharmaceuticals Division comprises the two business four business areas: Centralised and Point of Care
segments Roche Pharmaceuticals and Chugai, whereas Solutions, Molecular Diagnostics, Tissue Diagnostics
Genentech as the former third segment has been and Diabetes Care.
Roche Pharmaceuticals (incl. Genentech)
Pharmaceuticals
Chugai
Centralised and Point of Care Solutions
Molecular Diagnostics
Diagnostics
Tissue Diagnostics
Composition as at 31.12.2019 Diabetes Care110
www
Business activities are carried out through Group André Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman of the Board
SIX Exchange subsidiaries and associated companies. Detailed of Directors and Chairman of the Remuneration
Regulation: information on Roche Holding Ltd and on significant Committee, and Dr Andreas Oeri, member of the
https://www.six- subsidiaries and associated companies (including Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board’s
exchange- company name, listing information, domicile, share Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee,
regulation.com/en/ capital and equity interest) is listed in the Finance serve in their respective capacities on the Board and
home/publications/ Report, Note 33 to the Roche Group Consolidated its committees as representatives of the shareholder
significant- Financial Statements (‘List of subsidiaries and group with pooled voting rights and receive the
shareholders.html associates’, page 134). remuneration set forth in the Remuneration Report
on page 132 and in the Finance Report, Note 32 to
Major shareholders are listed in the Finance Report, the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes 22 and 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated (‘Related parties’, page 131). No other relationships
Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche exist with the shareholders with pooled voting rights.
shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pages 94 and 131),
and in Note 4 to the Financial Statements of Roche There are no cross-shareholdings.
Holding Ltd (‘Significant shareholders’, page 175). In
addition, significant shareholders are published on
the relevant webpage of the disclosure office of SIX
Exchange Regulation.
Capital structure
Information on Roche’s capital structure is provided form part of the share capital and confer no voting
in the Finance Report, Notes to the Financial rights. Each NES confers the same rights as one
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (page 174). share to participate in available earnings and in any
Additional details are contained in the Articles of liquidation proceeds following repayment of the share
Incorporation of Roche Holding. 2 capital. Roche’s NES and the rights pertaining thereto
(including the provisions protecting the interests of
Movement in recognised amounts during the last three NES holders) are described in §4 of the Articles of
financial years are detailed in the Finance Report, Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.
Notes to the Financial Statements of Roche Holding
Ltd (page 175). Information on debt instruments which have been
issued and on outstanding bonds is provided in
The company has a share capital of CHF 160,000,000, the Finance Report, Note 21 to the Roche Group
divided into 160,000,000 fully paid bearer shares Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Debt’, page 89).
with a nominal value of CHF 1 each. There are no
restrictions on the exercise of the voting rights of these Information on employee stock options is provided
shares. Upon deposit, shares can be voted without in the Finance Report, Note 27 to the Roche Group
any restrictions. Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity
compensation plans’, page 107), including detailed
There is no authorised or conditional capital. information on the Stock-settled Stock Appreciation
Rights (S-SARs) Plan, the Restricted Stock Units
In addition, 702,562,700 non-voting equity securities (RSUs) Plan, the Performance Share Plan (PSP),
(NES) have been issued in bearer form. They do not Roche Connect and the Roche Option Plan.
2 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htmCorporate Governance | Roche
111
Roche has issued no options apart from employee Neither the options awarded to employees nor the
stock options as described in the Finance Report, debt instruments which have been issued have any
Note 27 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial effect on Roche’s share capital.
Statements (‘Equity compensation plans’, page 107)
and options issued in connection with debt
instruments.
Board of Directors and Corporate
Executive Committee
Information on each member of the Board of With the exception of Dr Severin Schwan none of
Directors and on each member of the Corporate the members of the Board of Directors in office at the
Executive Committee is listed on pages 107 and 108. end of 2019 has been a member of Roche’s Corporate
Members of the Board of Directors have no age limit Executive Committee or served in an executive
or restriction on their term of office. capacity at any Group subsidiary during the five
financial years preceeding the current reporting
Curricula vitae (CVs) of all current and former period and they are for lack of existing business
members (of at least the last five years) of both bodies connections with any Group subsidiary independent.
and other information (including information on Roche’s Board of Directors’ independence definition
the years of their first election, additional positions, is based on the definition in the Swiss Code of Best
memberships and activities) are available and Practice for Corporate Governance of ‘economiesuisse’
continuously updated on the Internet. In addition, and is complemented by specific preceding criteria
the status of the CVs of both bodies at the relevant (see https://www.roche.com/about/governance/board_
reporting date on 31 December (of at least the last of_directors.htm).
five years) is separately available too.3
The Principles of Governance (principles of
Rules pursuant to article 12 para. 1 point 1 VegüV delegation and competence, reservation of powers
on the number of permitted activities of the Board of and management of a group of companies) of the
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee executive bodies of the company include economic,
members are outlined in §22.4 of the Articles of environmental and social topics. The principles
Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.4 together with the internal organisation of the
Board of Directors, the division of authority and
Since 2014, the Annual General Meeting has elected responsibilities between the Board and management,
all members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman the remits of the Board Committees, and the
of the Board of Directors and the members of the information and control mechanisms available to
Remuneration Committee on an annual basis in the Board in its dealings with corporate management,
elections in which each nominee is voted on separately are governed by the Bylaws.6
(see §18 of the Articles of Incorporation of Roche
Holding Ltd4 and the Minutes of the 101st Annual The Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd is
General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, held on organised so as to ensure that the Group conducts its
5 March 20195). businesses responsibly and with a focus on long-term
3 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/board_of_directors.htm and https://www.roche.com/about/governance/executive_committee.htm
4 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
5 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/annual_general_meetings.htm
6 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm112
Board of Directors
Board Committees
Board of Directors
Chairman’s and Nomination Committee
and Board Committees
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Corporate Executive
Corporate Executive Committee
Committee
value creation. To this end, the Roche Board has The Board of Directors has established a system
delegated certain responsibilities to several of controls which is continuously monitored by the
committees.7 Their composition and chairpersons Audit Committee, by the Corporate Governance
as at 31 December 2019 are described on page 107. and Sustainability Committee and by the Board of
Each committee’s authorities and responsibilities Directors and consists of the following elements:
are defined in detail in the Bylaws of the Board of • Report on operating and financial risks (risk
Directors.8 management system)
The Roche Group has established a risk management
All the committees are chaired by independent process covering the entire company with a system
directors. in place to identify and manage all types of risks
potentially affecting its business (including economic,
According to the Bylaws of the Board of Directors, environmental and social impacts, risks and
a Board meeting may be convened without the opportunities and containing stakeholder input).
Chairman present at the request of any of its The Board of Directors is the highest governance
members. The Roche Board meets once a year to body involved. Roche’s Risk Management Policy sets
assess the Chairman’s performance. This meeting, out the approach and accompanying responsibilities.
which is not attended by the Chairman, is chaired The Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions and
by the Vice-Chairman. global functions conduct a formal risk assessment
process at least once a year and must develop risk
As part of the Management Information System plans for their most material risks. These are
(MIS), the Board of Directors is regularly informed monitored and deviations reviewed in regular
about the most important issues, sales performance, performance dialogues. The consolidated Group Risk
etc. The Board has access to an electronic information Report including target risk profile is discussed by
platform which provides timely information to the the Corporate Executive Committee and approved
Board of Directors and the Board’s committees together with the Group Business Plan. All material
as does the system of controls as set forth below. risks are reviewed by the Board on a yearly basis.
7 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/committees.htm
8 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htmCorporate Governance | Roche
113
The effectiveness of the risk management process is evaluates the appropriateness, completeness and
monitored by the Group Risk Advisory team and efficiency of the processes and controls. Action plans
the overall process is regularly reviewed by external to implement necessary changes and enhancements
auditors, with findings presented to the Audit are developed together with the business/auditee and
Committee and the full Board. For details on risk are tracked to completion.
management, including risk factors and the Risk • Statutory auditors, see page 116
Management Policy, see ‘Risk Management’ on our • Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance Officers
website.9 Financial risk management is specifically in subsidiaries, see page 119
described in the Finance Report.10 • Safety, Health and Environmental Protection
• System of internal controls over financial reporting Department11
(see pages 149 and 156 of the Finance Report) • Corporate Sustainability Committee12
• Internal audit • Science and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG), for
Group Audit reports to the General Counsel, has issues relating to genetics and genetic engineering13
direct access and gives regular briefings to the Audit
Committee and to the Corporate Governance and The members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Sustainability Committee about ongoing activities are invited to attend meetings of the Board of Directors
and audit reports. The Chief Audit & Risk Advisory for, and report in person on, those agenda items
Executive attends the Audit Committee and partly concerning them. When the situation warrants,
the Corporate Governance and Sustainability members of the Enlarged Corporate Executive
Committee meetings, as do the external auditors. Committee may also be invited to attend. The Board
Group Audit is an independent appraisal function Committees invite the Chairman of the Board and
which evaluates and reviews the Group’s activities Corporate Executive Committee members to deliver
as a service to the Board of Directors and to reports at committee meetings and may elect to
management. The annual audit plan with yearly commission independent expert reports and call on
defined focus areas (eg, market access, third-party the services of consultants.
management) is validated by Senior Management
and presented to the Audit Committee. The Roche Each year several black-out periods are imposed
Group is committed to maintaining a high standard during which members of the Board of Directors and
of internal control throughout its worldwide senior employees are prohibited from trading in
operations. Management is responsible for assessing company stock. The following black-out periods are
the business risks in all aspects of its operation and in effect for 2020:
for implementing effective and efficient processes and 26 December 2019 to 30 January 2020
controls whilst ensuring compliance with internal 1 April to 22 April 2020
and external rules and regulations. 26 June to 23 July 2020
By conducting operational audits, Group Audit 1 October to 15 October 2020
determines management’s response to the risks Black-out periods can be changed by the Chairman
surrounding business processes and systems, and of the Board of Directors if circumstances warrant.
9 https://www.roche.com/sustainability/approach/risk-management.htm
10 Additional information is provided in the Finance Report, Note 31 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements, ‘Risk management’, page 119.
11 https://www.roche.com/sustainability/environment.htm
12 https://www.roche.com/sustainability.htm
13 https://www.roche.com/research_and_development/who_we_are_how_we_work/ethics_in_rd/ethical_conflicts.htm114
Dr Andreas Oeri, Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee.
In 2019, the Board of Directors met for 7 meetings, The Board of Directors regularly conducts an
generally each from 3 to 6 hours in length, including assessment (self-assessment/assessment by third
a full-day meeting, and in addition for a 4-day visit parties via electronical survey and personal
to a major subsidiary.* interviews) of its performance.
The Board Committees met as follows in 2019: Members of the Corporate Executive Committee
• Chairman’s/Nomination Committee: 8 (approx. have a maximum ordinary notice period of twelve
2 hours each*) months. There are no change-of-control clauses in
• Remuneration Committee: 2 meetings14 (approx. the employment contracts.
2 to 3 hours each*)
• Audit Committee: 4 meetings (approx. 3 to 4 hours There are no management contracts which fall
each*) within the scope of Subsection 4.4 (annex) of the
• Corporate Governance and Sustainability SIX Directive on Information relating to Corporate
Committee: 3 meetings (approx. 3 hours each*) Governance.
14 Remuneration Committee members recuse themselves from deliberations and decisions on matters that affect their interests.
* These figures indicate the actual length of meetings and do not include the directors’ extensive pre-meeting preparations and post-meeting follow-up activitiesCorporate Governance | Roche
115
Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings in 2019
Corporate
Chairman’s/ Governance and
Nomination Remuneration Audit Sustainability
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 7 8 2 4 3
C. Franz 7 8 2 – –
A. Hoffmann 7 8 2 – 3
J. Bell 7 – – 1** –
J. Brown 7 – – 4 –
P. Bulcke 7 – – 4 –
H. Clevers (member of the Board
since March 2019) 5* – – 3* –
A. Hauser 7 – – – 3
R.P. Lifton 7 – 2 – –
A. Oeri 7 – – – 3
B. Poussot 7 – 2 – –
S. Schwan 7 – – – –
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 7 – – 4 3
P. R. Voser (member of the Board
until 30 June 2019) 4*** – 1*** – –
– Not a member of that committee
* Member since March 2019
** Member until March 2019
*** Member until 30 June 2019
Remuneration, shareholdings and loans
All details regarding remuneration, shareholdings Rules in Aol 15 for
and loans (content and method of determining the Content Board CEC
compensation and the shareholding programmes, Rules on the principles §25.1–6 §25.1–6
basic principles and elements of compensation and applicable to performance-
shareholding programmes for serving and former related pay
members of the Board of Directors and Corporate Rules on the principles to the §25.7 §25.7
Executive Committee, together with a description of allocation of equity securities,
the authorities and procedure for determining such) convertible rights and options
are set forth in the separate Remuneration Report Additional amount for payments §24.5
on pages 120 to 148 and in the Finance Report, to members of the Executive
Notes 22 and 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated Committee appointed after the
Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche vote on pay at the General
shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pages 94 and 131), Meeting of Shareholders
and are listed in Note 6 to the Financial Statements Rules on loans, credit facilities §25.1 and 3 §25.2 and 3
of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive and post-employment benefits
shareholdings’, page 176). Rules on the vote on pay at §24 §24
the AGM
The following rules on remuneration, shareholdings
and loans for the Board of Directors (Board) and the
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) are set forth
in the Articles of Incorporation (AoI)15:
15 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm116
Participatory rights of shareholders
The participatory rights of shareholders are defined Under §10.2 of the Articles of Incorporation,
in Roche’s Articles of Incorporation.16 As Roche shareholders representing shares with a nominal value
shares are issued to bearer, there are no restrictions of at least CHF 1 million can request the placement
on admission to Annual General Meetings, with of items on the agenda of an Annual General Meeting.
the exception that shares must be deposited within a This must be done no later than 28 days before the
specified period before the date of a meeting and an date of the meeting.
admittance card must be issued in the shareholder’s
name, as provided in §12 of the Articles of The rules on the issue of instructions to the
Incorporation. Any shareholder can elect to be independent proxy and rules on the electronic
represented by a third party at an Annual General participation in the Annual General Meeting are laid
Meeting. down in the corresponding invitation to the Annual
General Meeting and are not regulated in the Articles
The Articles of Incorporation contain no restrictions of Incorporation.
on the exercise of voting rights, and the only
quorum requirements are those stipulated in §16,
in conformity with the Swiss Code of Obligations.
Change of control and defensive measures
The Articles of Incorporation contain no provisions would be terminated in the event of an acquisition,
on the mandatory bid rule. Swiss law applies. and vesting period restrictions on pre-existing awards
would be removed, so that all such options could be
There are no change-of-control clauses. Those exercised immediately.
components of remuneration based on Roche NES
Relationship to statutory auditors
At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd have been serving in these capacities is provided
on 5 March 2019, the shareholders voted to appoint on page 108). The statutory auditors participate in
KPMG AG (KPMG) as statutory auditors. Audit Committee meetings. They prepare written
and oral reports on the results of their audits. The
Based on the existing legal requirements of the Swiss Audit Committee oversees and assesses the auditors
Code of Obligations (Article 730a) concerning the and makes recommendations to the Board (for
maximum term of office of seven years of the auditor information on the authorities and responsibilities
in charge, Ian Starkey as auditor-in-charge since of the Audit Committee, see Article 8.1 of the
business year 2011 was replaced by Mark Baillache Bylaws17). The statutory auditors participated in all
starting with the business year 2018 (information four meetings of the Audit Committee in 2019.
on how long the auditors and auditor-in-charge
16 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
17 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htmCorporate Governance | Roche
117
The performance of KPMG is assessed based on The audit fee is reviewed by the Head of Group Audit
different elements such as affiliate surveys (to evaluate and approved by the Audit Committee every year and
the service level at the country level), interviews with takes into consideration changes in Roche’s business,
Roche key stakeholders and the self-evaluation of the as well as changes in financial reporting and audit
KPMG internal processes to ensure compliance with standards and regulations.
the Federal Audit Oversight Authority (FAOA) Audit
Committee Guide. The statutory auditors are elected each year by the
Annual General Meeting.
KPMG’s independence is ensured by limiting KPMG
from providing certain non-auditing services. Auditing services are provided as legally required.
Furthermore, permitted services cannot exceed in
total 20% of the audit fee. The auditors have direct Audit-related services include assurance and
access to the Audit Committee and its chair as well as accounting services provided by auditors but which
the Head of Group Audit to discuss relevant issues. are not necessarily provided by the statutory auditor.
These services which go beyond the legal requirements
The reports of the statutory auditor on the could include other attestation services, comfort
Consolidated Financial Statements and on the letters, consents and consultations.
Financial Statements can be found on pages 150
and 180, respectively, of the Finance Report. Tax services include services with respect to
compliance, tax returns and tax advice except those
KPMG received the following remuneration for their services related to the audit of tax.
services as statutory auditors of Roche Holding Ltd
and as the auditors of other Roche companies Other services include advice relating to process
(including Chugai): improvements, regulations and trainings.
2019 2018
The company has a formal policy governing the
(millions of CHF) engagement of the statutory auditor for non-audit
Auditing services 21.7 21.7 services. The policy prohibits certain services from
Audit-related services being provided but permits certain other services
– Assurance 0.1 0.7 up to limits agreed by the Audit Committee. Each
– Non-statutory audits – – potential non-audit service engagement is reviewed
Tax services 1.9 2.1 against this policy before any authority to proceed
Other services 0.4 0.4 is given.
Total 24.1 24.9118
Relationship to the independent proxy
In recent years, BDO AG served as the independent compensation at listed joint-stock companies’ (VegüV)
proxy and at the Annual General Meeting on the Board of Directors appointed Testaris AG as a
5 March 2019, shareholders elected BDO AG as the replacement independent proxy until the conclusion
independent proxy for the period from 2019 until of the 2020 General Meeting. The Board of Directors
the conclusion of the 2020 ordinary Annual General nominates Testaris AG for election as independent
Meeting of Shareholders. BDO AG was paid for proxy by the General Meeting 2020 for the period
its services for the Annual General Meeting 2019 from 2020 until the conclusion of the 2021 ordinary
according to expenditure totalling CHF 14,939 General Meeting of Shareholders.
(2018: CHF 13,736).
The rules on the issue of instructions to the
Due to BDO AG’s resignation in July 2019 as the independent proxy and rules on the electronic
independent proxy elected at the 2019 General participation in the Annual General Meeting are
Meeting with a view to ceasing the execution laid down in the corresponding invitation to the
of mandates as independent proxy, pursuant to Annual General Meeting and are not regulated
article 8 para. 6 of the ‘Ordinance against excessive in the Articles of Incorporation.
Information policy
As provided by §34 of the Articles of Incorporation18, to analyst and investor conferences are available
corporate notices are published in the Swiss Official on the Internet. Further publications are available
Gazette of Commerce and in other daily newspapers on https://www.roche.com/publications.htm or can be
designated by the Board of Directors (‘Basler Zeitung’, ordered by e-mail: basel.warehouse-services@roche.com
‘Finanz und Wirtschaft’, ‘L’Agefi’, ‘Le Temps’, ‘Neue or fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
Zürcher Zeitung’).
The contact address for Investor Relations is:
Roche reports its half-year and full-year results in F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations,
business reports (published in print and/or online Group Finance, 4070 Basel, Switzerland
formats) and at media events. In addition, detailed tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
first-quarter and nine months sales figures are fax: +41 (0)61 691 00 14
published each year in April and October. The
most current list of publication dates is available Additional information, including details on specific
in English and German on the Internet.19 contact persons, is available on the Internet.21
All relevant information and documents, including all
media releases, investor updates20 and presentations
18 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
19 https://www.roche.com/media.htm
20 https://www.roche.com/investors.htm
21 https://www.roche.com/investors/contacts.htmCorporate Governance | Roche
119
Chief Compliance Officer and
Compliance Officers network
The Chief Compliance Officer with his Compliance In addition, Roche has established a Business Ethics
Officers network is committed to ensuring that the Incident Reporting (BEIR) system which enables
Roche Group Code of Conduct22 is consistently the Chief Compliance Officer to capture, track and
complied with throughout the Roche Group. He monitor alleged violations, from initial reports by
also serves as a contact person for shareholders, local Compliance Officers through to resolution.
employees, customers, suppliers and the general
public on issues relating to the implementation of Business ethics incidents are recorded in the system
and compliance with this Code. Employees and when the Group Internal Investigation department or
other parties who become aware of violations of the the regional/local management receives specific and
Roche Group Code of Conduct can bring them to concrete information about an alleged violation of
the attention of their managers or supervisors, to the the Roche Group Code of Conduct in one of certain
local Compliance Officer or report them to the Chief pre-defined categories.23 The Corporate Governance
Compliance Officer (Ms Pascale Schmidt, e-mail: and Sustainability Committee and the Audit
pascale.schmidt@roche.com, tel.: +41 (0)61 688 11 11). Committee of the Board of Directors are informed
Such disclosures will be treated confidentially. In of substantial violations and management’s corrective
addition, as of the end of 2009, employees may actions made.
anonymously report irregularities or complaints in
their mother tongue via a ‘SpeakUp Line’. Starting The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the General
in December 2013, a new compliance tool on Group Counsel and also submits regular reports to the
level, the so-called Roche Group Code of Conduct Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Help & Advice Line, was introduced which strives to and as needed to the Audit Committee of the Board
provide guidance in case of questions or uncertainties of Directors.
about the interpretation of the Roche Group Code of
Conduct and its reference documents. It furthermore
will serve as a platform for ideas and suggestions
concerning those documents.
Non-applicability/negative disclosure
It is expressly noted that any information not a negative declaration (as provided in the SIX Swiss
contained or mentioned herein is either non- Exchange Corporate Governance Directive and the
applicable or its omission is to be construed as Commentary thereto).
22 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/code_of_conduct.htm
23 https://www.roche.com/sustainability/approach.htm120Remuneration Report | Roche
121
Remuneration
Report
All employees should be compensated fairly,
transparently and competitively and participate
appropriately in the company’s success.
We honour performance and success.
Optimal conditions enable employees to make their best possible contribution to improving the wellbeing of people in need.122
1. Principles
www
Roche is an innovative and agile company whose based, transparent compensation structure. To
Compensation success depends substantially on the expertise, ensure that compensation packages are competitive,
policy: motivation and performance of its employees. This both the structure and individual components are
https://www.roche. conviction forms the basis of our compensation policy. regularly benchmarked against Swiss, European and
com/careers/for_ international criteria. Our remuneration guidelines
employees/ Roche aims to remunerate all employees fairly, and their underlying principles are also subject to
rewards.htm transparently and in line with market conditions, regular outside comparisons.
to enable them to participate appropriately in the
Sound value company’s success. We pursue this goal by providing However, compensation policy is only one factor
system: competitive, performance-based and results-oriented in safeguarding Roche’s future success. The key
https://www.roche. compensation. element is a corporate culture that offers employees
com/careers/for_ conditions in which they can make their best
employees/living_ We strive for a balanced mix of fixed and variable possible contribution to the shared corporate goal of
our_values.htm compensation components geared to each employee’s improving healthcare to patients. This includes a
position and management responsibility. sound and a sustainability-oriented value system that
is based on integrity, courage and passion. At the
Firstly, the variable components are intended to create same time, our decentralised management approach
additional financial incentives to achieve corporate plays a major role with its wide scope for individual
goals and to keep innovation at a consistently high decision-making, respectful interactions, openness
level while increasing the value that the company to diversity, wide-ranging training and development
creates for all stakeholder groups. Secondly, in order opportunities and an attractive working environment.
to allow employees and managers to participate in the An unidimensional diminishment to questions on
company’s business success, adequate compensation remuneration would fall by far too short.
measures are key. Both objectives are incentivised by
annual bonus payments and long-term securities- Roche is committed to a fair, performance-based
based programmes. and results-oriented compensation policy that links
employees’ interests with those of various other
For a global company like Roche, market-competitive stakeholder groups.
remuneration plays a key role along with a performance-Remuneration Report | Roche
123
2. Remuneration decision process and
approval framework
2.1 Overview companies1 and at major Swiss companies2 and
Each year the Remuneration Committee of Roche’s reports its findings to the full Board. The external
Board of Directors decides the remuneration of Board consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC)
members and the members of the Group’s Corporate assists the Remuneration Committee of Roche in
Executive Committee. performing market comparisons and in advising.
PwC has been awarded additional mandates in the
Chairman, Group CEO and all other members of the Roche Group. Information on the Remuneration
Group’s Corporate Executive Committee must not be Committee’s remit, powers and procedures for
present when the Remuneration Committee decides making remuneration decisions can be found in the
their corresponding compensation and have no right Bylaws of the Roche Board of Directors3 and in the
to a say in decisions. The decision right is reserved to Articles of Incorporation.4 They are also outlined
Remuneration Committee members only. in the sections below on the principles governing
specific remuneration components (see 3.).
The Remuneration Committee tracks market data
on salaries at other leading global pharmaceutical
Remuneration decision process and approval framework as of 2019
Beneficiary
Remuneration Board of Directors (BoD) Corporate Executive Decision by Approval by
components Chairman (C) Committee (CEC) incl.
CEO Roche Group
Base pay/remuneration √ √
Bonus √ (C only) √
Stock-settled Stock – √ Remuneration Committee
Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) – √ Annual General
Performance Share Plan (PSP) – √ Board of Directors upon Meeting
(expiring plans: recommendation from
PSP 2017–2019 and Remuneration Committee
PSP 2018–2020, see 3.1.5) (at the end of 2019 and 2020,
respectively)
Decisions on pension √ (C only) √ Remuneration Committee
As of the end of 2018, no new PSP awards are the Board of Directors determined the payment of
granted under the Performance Share Plan (PSP). the expired PSP 2017–2019 and must determine the
Acting upon recommendations from the payment of the PSP 2018–2020 at the end of 2020,
Remuneration Committee, at the end of 2019 respectively (see 3.1).
1 Peer set for 2019: Abbott Laboratories, AbbVie, Amgen, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson
& Johnson, Merck & Co., Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, Takeda (no change in composition of peer set compared to 2018).
2 ABB, Credit Suisse, LafargeHolcim, Nestlé, Sonova, Straumann, Swiss Re, UBS, Zurich Insurance.
3 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
4 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm124
Since 2014, total aggregate amounts that are based on The General Meeting shall vote annually and with
these decisions have been submitted to the General binding effect on the approval of the remuneration
Meeting for approval implementing the ‘Ordinance (that the Board of Directors has resolved) of the Board
against excessive compensation at listed joint-stock of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
companies’ (Verordnung gegen übermässige Vergü tun- (for details see 4. and 5.).
gen bei börsenkotierten Aktiengesellschaften [VegüV]).
Peer set for 2019
Abbott Laboratories
AbbVie
Amgen
Astellas
AstraZeneca ABB
Bayer Credit Suisse
Bristol-Myers Squibb Roche LafargeHolcim
Eli Lilly Nestlé
GlaxoSmithKline Sonova
Johnson & Johnson Straumann
Merck & Co. Swiss Re
Novartis UBS
Pfizer Zurich Insurance
Sanofi
Takeda Peer set for 2019
Market comparison companies for salary assessment
Pharma peer set
Major Swiss companies
2.2 Procedure for submitting total Board and Retrospective approval
Executive remuneration for shareholder approval Total aggregate bonus amounts for the Corporate
at the Annual General Meeting Executive Committee and the Chairman of the Board
Each year at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Directors for the financial year just ended will be
shareholders approve the total remuneration for the submitted retrospectively at each ordinary AGM for
Board of Directors and for the Corporate Executive separate and binding approval.
Committee as decided by the Board of Directors’
Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors, Prospective approval
respectively. All other Board and Executive aggregate remuneration
will be submitted prospectively to the AGM for
According to the approval at the AGM 2014, separate and binding approval for the period between
Roche has committed itself to obtaining separate two ordinary AGMs.
and binding shareholder approvals of the total
remuneration paid to the Board of Directors and to
the Corporate Executive Committee as follows:Remuneration Report | Roche
125
André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Peer set for 2019
Approval of total remuneration at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 2020 Financial year 2019 Financial year 2020
Retrospective:
C
Chairman of the BoD (C): Bonus
• Bonus for financial year 2019 (total amount)
CEC
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including CEO Roche Group: Bonus
• Bonus for financial year 2019 (total amount)
Prospective:
BoD
Board of Directors (BoD) including C: Base pay/remuneration
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2020–AGM 2021)
• Base pay/remuneration
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including CEO Roche Group: CEC
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2020–AGM 2021) Base pay
S-SARs
• Base pay
RSUs
• Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) Indirect benefits
• Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
• Indirect benefits
AGM 2019 AGM 2020 AGM 2021
1.1.2019 1.1.2020 1.1.2021126
3. Remuneration components
3.1 Overview of remuneration elements and is composed of 80% S-SARs and 20% RSUs
As already described in the outlook for 2019 of the (based on the already existing individual target value
Annual Report 2018 (page 128, 3.1.6), starting in of the total LTI for Corporate Executive Committee
2019, composition of the remuneration components members of 133.33% of a base pay measured on
of the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) for the Corporate 1 January of a year). Vesting and expiration periods
Executive Committee and the Enlarged Corporate are aligned for any newly issued S-SARs and RSUs
Executive Committee is changed. (see below). Unlike all other participants of the two
programmes, members of the Corporate Executive
LTI 2019 of the Corporate Executive Committee Committee have no choice in determining the mix
and Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee is of RSUs and S-SARs, which will have a four-year
complemented with Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) cliff vesting.
Corporate Executive Committee LTI (as of 2019)
Mix (S-SARs/RSUs) fixed Base for calculation Vesting period Cliff vesting Expiration period
Based on the already existing
New: 4 years New: 4 years New: 10 years
80% S-SARs individual target value of
(until 2019: 3 years) (until 2019: 3 years) (until 2019: 7 years)
the total LTI for Corporate
Executive Committee
members of 133.33% of
20% RSUs a base pay measured on New: 4 years New: 4 years –
1 January of a year
As of 2019, remaining participants of the S-SARs The expiration period for any newly issued S-SARs
and RSUs programmes are offered on a yearly basis a is extended from currently seven years to ten years.
choice of three combinations to determine the mix of This gives participants an additional three years to
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock-settled Stock exercise vested S-SARs. The vesting schedule for any
Appreciation Rights (S-SARs, options are used instead newly issued RSUs was changed from three-year cliff
of S-SARs in some countries). The following options vesting to four-year annual vesting. Each year, 25% of
are available: the granted RSUs will vest and will become available
to participants. The vesting schedule for S-SARs,
Choice 1 Choice 2 Choice 3 currently three-year annual vesting, was also aligned
80% S-SARs 50% S-SARs 20% S-SARs with a four-year annual vesting schedule for any
20% RSUs 50% RSUs 80% RSUs new grants.
Offering this level of choice empowers participants These changes make the Roche Long- Term Incentive
to engage more fully in their total rewards, enables programme more attractive, enabling Roche to attract,
them to better understand a critical element of their motivate and retain the best talent and keep it aligned
compensation, increases the value of the programme, with the company’s long-term success.
and positions Roche as the first among its peer group
to provide this benefit.Remuneration Report | Roche
127
Therefore, as of 2019, the remuneration to the The remuneration components are linked to the
members of the Board of Directors and the Corporate employees’ performance, the company’s financial
Executive Committee is composed of the following performance and commercial success and thus align
elements (for concrete composition see chart below: the interests of Roche and its employees with those
‘Composition of remuneration to the Board of of shareholders.
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee’):
The LTI remuneration components are intended
The fixed base salary is complemented with the annual to sustainably, homogenously and in a long-term-
variable bonus as Short-Term Incentive (STI) and oriented perspective align management’s interest
with perennial remuneration elements (S-SARs, RSUs) with those of shareholders and holders of non-voting
as Long-Term Incentive (LTI). equity securities and to give participating managers
an additional incentive to achieve sustainable
Since the end of 2018, no new Performance shareholder value growth.
Share Plan (PSP) awards have been granted. Acting
upon recommendations from the Remuneration
Committee, at the end of 2019 the Board of Directors
determined the payment of the expired PSP 2017–2019
and must determine the payment of the PSP 2018–2020
at the end of 2020, respectively.
Composition of remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
Annual
remuneration elements Description C BoD CEO Roche Group CEC
Base pay/ Monthly payment √ √ Q uarterly √ √
remuneration (see 3.1.1 below) payments
Bonus Annual payment √ For 10 years – √ For 10 years √ Cash
(see 3.1.2 below) blocked non-voting blocked non-voting
equity securities equity securities
and/or shares and/or shares
Pensions etc. (see 3.1.6 below) √ – √ √
Perennial
remuneration elements
Stock-settled Stock (see 3.1.3 below) – – √ √
Appreciation Rights
(S-SARs)
Restricted Stock (see 3.1.4 below) – – √ √
Units (RSUs)
Performance Share (see 3.1.5 below) – – √ For 10 years √
Plan (PSP) blocked non-voting
(expiring plans: equity securities
PSP 2017–2019 and and/or shares
PSP 2018–2020)128
Variable, long-term
STI: Base salary
• Bonus
Indirect benefits (employer contribution):
LTI: • Pensions and insurance contributions
• Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights Roche • Roche Connect
• Restricted Stock Units • Tax consulting services
remuneration
• Performance Share Plan
components Expense allowances
Others:
• Children’s schooling costs
• Foreign tax obligation
• AHV/IV/ALV
Fixed
3.1.1 Base pay (fixed) qualitative individual or functional performance
Base pay (cash payment) is determined for each objectives. For competitive reasons, Roche does not
position based on salary market data of other leading disclose the individual performance objectives of
global pharmaceutical companies (see footnote 1) members of its Corporate Executive Committee and
and of other major Swiss companies (see footnote 2) of its Chairman.
and reflects individuals’ abilities, experience and
performance over time. Pay adjustments are likewise In December at the end of a reporting year or in
linked to individual performance and take into January following a reporting year, the Remuneration
account prevailing market conditions and the Committee decides on the bonuses and their amounts
company’s overall financial situation. payable to the Chairman of the Board and the members
of the Corporate Executive Committee in respect
The Remuneration Committee makes and reviews of the current reporting year, based on performance
the final decision on the individual base pay paid to against the aforementioned objectives. At the same
the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members time, the Remuneration Committee also decides in
of the Corporate Executive Committee and on the what form bonuses will be awarded, ie, cash payments
remuneration of the other members of the Board. and/or non-voting equity securities and/or shares.
3.1.2 Bonuses (variable) The Remuneration Committee uses complete
Bonuses are annually awarded for individual discretion in the weighting of each criteria and in
contributions of value creation in a business year and the bonus allocation.
are meant to be an incentive to strive for outstanding
results and to create new business opportunities. 3.1.3 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
Bonus amounts are linked to Group and divisional (S-SARs) (long-term)
core profits, sales growth at constant exchange rates, As of 2019, the S-SARs proportion of the LTI of the
Operating Profit After Capital Charge (OPAC) based Corporate Executive Committee is composed of 80%
on core operating profit, core earnings per share and (based on the already existing individual target value
non-voting equity security (NES) growth at constant of the total LTI for Corporate Executive Committee
exchange rates, product development pipeline, members of 133.33% of a base pay measured on
diversity of employees and managers, environmental 1 January of a year).
goals and to the achievement of measurable andRemuneration Report | Roche
129
S-SARs entitle holders to benefit financially from any 3.1.5 Performance Share Plan (PSP) (long-term)
increase in the value of Roche’s non-voting equity The PSP was established in 2002 for periods of three
securities between the grant date and the exercise years each and based on a three-year comparison
date. As of 2019, S-SARs granted all vest together after of the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) with 15 peer
four years and then have to be exercised within ten companies (see footnote 1). In a respective year,
years of the grant date. Unexercised S-SARs lapse the PSP consisted of three overlapping performance
without compensation. Since 2012, the fair value of cycles, with a new cycle starting at the beginning of
S-SARs has been calculated at the grant date using the each year and a cycle finishing at the end of each year.
trinomial model for American call options (for details The plan’s key performance metric for an award, the
see page 140). TSR, was calculated as a three-month moving average
rate before the start of and before the end of the
S-SARs to the Corporate Executive Committee performance cycle.
are allocated individually at the Remuneration
Committee’s discretion. In 2019 in total, around No new PSP awards have been granted since the end
20,950 employees received S-SARs. of 2018. Therefore, in 2019, there were only the two
overlapping performance cycles PSP 2017–2019 and
3.1.4 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) (long-term) PSP 2018–2020, of which PSP 2017–2019 closed on
As of 2019, the proportion of Restricted Stock Units 31 December 2019 (see 5.8 and 5.3).
(RSUs) of the members of the Corporate Executive
Committee is 20% of the total LTI (based on the The Board of Directors, acting upon recommendations
already existing individual target value of the total from the Remuneration Committee, must determine
LTI for Corporate Executive Committee members the payment of the ongoing PSP 2018–2020 at the end
of 133.33% of a base pay measured on 1 January of a of 2020 using complete discretion.
year). RSU awards are allocated individually for the
Corporate Executive Committee at the Remuneration 3.1.6 Indirect benefits
Committee’s discretion. As shown in 5.9 (5.3 [for the CEO Roche Group]
and 4.3 [for the Chairman], respectively), members
RSUs contain rights to receive non-voting equity of the Corporate Executive Committee additionally
securities and/or shares after a (since 2019 newly received indirect benefits (payments in pension funds,
defined) four-year vesting period plus a value insurances, Roche Connect, payments for foreign
adjustment (being the amount equivalent to the tax obligation and tax consulting services and annual
sum of the dividend paid during the vesting period expense allowances) and as shown under 5.10 individual
attributable to the number of non-voting equity members of the Corporate Executive Committee
securities and/or shares for which an individual award received payments for family, children and education
has been granted). They will be vested to the recipient allowance and for schooling costs for their children.
for the Corporate Executive Committee after four
years only. Thereafter, resulting non-voting equity
securities and/or shares may remain blocked for up
to ten years.
RSUs serve as a remuneration component for around
21,070 eligible Roche employees.130
3.2 Weighting (fixed/variable, long-term) of 2019 remuneration components (at target and as percentage of total
remuneration in 2019)
90% 10%
Chairman
100%
Board of Directors
Corporate Executive Committee 39% 61%
(including CEO Roche Group)
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
fixed variable, long-term
The variable, long-term remuneration paid out to the members of the Corporate Executive Committee ranged from 0% to 68% of the fixed
compensation.
3.3 Ratio of variable remuneration components relative to fixed base pay of the Corporate Executive
Committee 2019
Ratio of variable remuneration components (bonuses, S-SARs and RSUs) relative to % of value of fixed base pay
LTI (long-term)
STI (variable) (total: 133,33%**)
Criteria Bonus S-SARs (80% of total LTI) RSUs (20% of total LTI)
Individual target value * 100% 106.66% ** 26.66% **
Minimum 0% 0% 0%
Maximum 200% 106.66% 26.66%
Performance criteria Group objectives (Group and divisional Value development determined Value development determined
business performance) and individual by performance of NES after by performance (plus a value
objectives considering core profits, grant adjustment for dividends) of
sales growth at constant exchange NES after grant
rates, Operating Profit After Capital
Charge (OPAC) based on core
operating profit, core earnings per
share and non-voting equity security
(NES) growth at constant exchange
rates, product development pipeline,
diversity of employees and managers,
environmental goals
Split in %
a) Group objectives 70% n.a. n.a.
b) Individual objectives 30% n.a. n.a.
Weighting criteria/ Complete discretion of the Remunertion Committee
Decision on objectives
n.a. – not applicable
* Assessed in consideration of the performance of competitors and the macro-economic development
** B ased on the already existing individual target value of the total LTI for Corporate Executive Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay measured
on 1 January of a year
For all further details please refer to the following
sections of this Remuneration Report.5
5 See also in the Finance Report Note 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related parties’, page 131) and Note 6 to the
Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, page 176).Remuneration Report | Roche
131
4. Remuneration of the Board of Directors
4.1 Resolution and approval Directors 2019’ table on page 132 for their Board
Remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of activities. Roche paid legally required employer’s
Directors and of members of the Board of Directors contributions of total CHF 109,784 to Swiss social
was decided at the Remuneration Committee’s security programmes providing retirement, disability
discretion, taking into account market comparisons. and unemployment benefits (AHV/IV/ALV) for the
members of the Board of Directors beside the legally
The remuneration is in form of cash payments and is required contributions separately stated for the
annually tracked against market data on directors’ Chairman of the Board of Directors.
pay at other leading global pharmaceutical companies
(see footnote 1) and other major Swiss companies The basic remuneration of the Board of Directors
(see footnote 2) which is assisted by the consultancy (excluding the Chairman) has remained unchanged
of PwC. since 2001.
As in the previous years, in 2020, the Board of With the exception of the Chairman of the Board
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate of Directors (bonus in form of blocked shares) and
bonus of the Chairman of the Board of Directors to Dr Severin Schwan as an executive member of the
the General Meeting for the 2019 financial year for Board, members of the Board of Directors were not
retrospectively binding approval. awarded any shares, non-voting equity securities or
S-SARs.
The maximum amounts of the total other aggregate
remuneration of the Board of Directors for the period There are no loans or credits granted to the members
between the ordinary General Meeting 2020 and the of the Board of Directors.
ordinary General Meeting 2021 will be separately
tabled in 2020 as in the previous years for the General In his capacity as a member of the Chugai
Meeting’s prospectively binding approval (see 2.2). International Council (CIC) of Chugai Pharmaceutical
Co., Ltd. André Hoffmann received in 2019 honoraria
4.2 Amount of remuneration to the members of amounting to a total of USD 40,000 (CHF 39,753).
the Board of Directors
In 2019, the members of the Board of Directors6 For his advisory service on the Genentech Scientific
received remuneration and additional compensation Review Board, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton received in
in form of quarterly fixed cash payments as shown 2019 honoraria amounting to a total of USD 10,000
in the ‘Remuneration of members of the Board of (CHF 9,938).
6 For a list of members, their positions and their committee memberships and chairmanships see page 107.
DETIDUA132
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2019 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration Additional special
Basic remuneration for committee members/chairs 7 remuneration Total remuneration
C. Franz, Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 8 – 39,753 439,753
(see page 131)
J. Bell 300,000 7,500 – 307,500
J. Brown 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
H. Clevers (since March 20199) 250,000 22,500 – 272,500
A. Hauser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
R.P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 9,938 339,938
(see page 131)
A. Oeri 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
S. Schwan (see ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group is reflected in total
remuneration for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P.R. Voser (until end of June 201910) 150,000 15,000 – 165,000
Total 11 3,200,000 345,000 49,691 3,594,691
7 With the exception of members of the Chairman’s Committee (Chairman, Vice-Chairman) Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee
they serve on and CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
8 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
9 Prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2019.
10 Prorated remuneration for the period from January to end of June 2019.
11 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 340,551 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUARemuneration Report | Roche
133
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2018 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration Additional special
Basic remuneration for committee members/chairs12 remuneration Total remuneration
C. Franz, Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 13 – 39,123 439,123
J. Bell 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
J. Brown 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
A. Hauser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
R.P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 9,781 339,781
A. Oeri 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
S. Schwan (see ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group is reflected in total
remuneration for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P.R. Voser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
Total 14 3,100,000 360,000 48,904 3,508,904
12 W ith the exception of members of the Chairman’s Committee (Chairman, Vice-Chairman) Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee
they serve on and CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
13 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
14 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 351,618 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman (in form of shares blocked for ten years, payable in
of the Board of Directors March 2020) will be put for shareholder binding vote
As Chairman, Dr Christoph Franz received total at the 2020 ordinary Annual General Meeting (AGM).
remuneration for 2019 as shown below. The
Remuneration Committee’s bonus proposal (adopted The Chairman’s total remuneration is contained in the
in late 2019) in respect of the 2019 financial year total remuneration of the Board of Directors in 4.4.
Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors (in CHF)
2019 2018
Base salary (in cash) 3,500,000 3,500,000
Bonus (subject to approval of the Annual General Meeting) 558,390 * 558,390 *
Pension funds/MGB 15/insurances/annual 1,674,159 ** 1,687,311 **
expense allowances
Total 5,732,549 16 5,745,701
* In form of shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares, based on the price at the date of transfer in March 2020 and 2019, respectively,
after approval at the AGM 2020/AGM 2019, respectively), calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years
(reduced market value: 55.839%) to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2020/as approved at the AGM 2019, respectively
** I ncluding employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
15 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits), dissolved in 2019.
16 A dditionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 230,767 (2018: CHF 231,145) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUA
DETIDUA134
4.4 Total remuneration paid to the Board 4.6 Board remuneration subject to approval at the
of Directors Annual General Meeting
For the 2019 calendar year the members of the
Board of Directors received remuneration including 4.6.1 Submission of the Chairman’s total aggregate
bonuses and employer contribution of social bonus for a binding vote at the Annual General
securities’ beneficial parts totalling CHF 9,405,725 Meeting
(2018: CHF 9,328,325), excluding additional Remuneration to the Chairman of the Board of
employer’s contribution paid to AHV/IV/ALV Directors includes a bonus award of CHF 558,390
totalling CHF 340,551 (2018: CHF 351,618) that in form of shares blocked for ten years as shown in
does not form part of remuneration. the table in section ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to
the Chairman of the Board of Directors’. The Board of
4.5 Remuneration paid to the former members Directors will submit the Remuneration Committee’s
of the Board of Directors bonus proposal (adopted in late 2019) for the
Former member of the Board of Directors Dr Franz Chairman of the Board, Dr Christoph Franz, in
B. Humer in 2019 received fees amounting to a total respect of the 2019 financial year (payable in March
of USD 40,000 (CHF 39,753) for serving as a member 2020, excluding legally required employer’s
of the Chugai International Council (CIC) of Chugai contributions to AHV/IV/ALV) for the shareholder
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. binding vote to the 2020 ordinary Annual General
Meeting.
Former member of the Board of Directors William
M. Burns in 2019 received honoraria amounting to a
total of USD 40, 000 (CHF 39,753) in his capacity as
a member of the Chugai International Council (CIC)
of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
No additional remuneration was paid.
Retrospective approvals of the Chairman’s total aggregate bonus (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2020 AGM 2019 AGM 2018
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2019 financial year 2018 financial year 2017
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 558,390 ** 558,390 ** 558,390 **
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
** Bonus award (in form of shares, blocked for 10 years [calculation of number of shares based on the price at the date of transfer in March 2020/March
2019/April 2018, respectively, after approval at the AGM 2020/AGM 2019/AGM 2018, respectively], calculation of value in consideration of reduction
of value due to blocking period of 10 years [reduced market value: 55.839%] to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2020/as approved
at the AGM 2019 and AGM 2018, respectively)
DETIDUARemuneration Report | Roche
135
4.6.2 Submission of the Board’s total aggregate Dr Severin Schwan’s remuneration as shown in
future remuneration for a binding shareholder vote 5.3 which he receives in his function as CEO Roche
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2020 Group and member of the Corporate Executive
ordinary AGM approve Board remuneration totalling Committee is not included here but is part of the
not more than CHF 10,000,000 (excluding legally Corporate Executive Committee’s total remuneration.
required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the
2021 ordinary AGM.
Prospective approvals of the Board’s total aggregate future remuneration (in CHF)*
Proposal AGM 2020 AGM 2019 AGM 2018
Aggregate amount Aggregate amount Aggregate amount
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2020–AGM 2021 AGM 2019–AGM 2020 AGM 2018–AGM 2019
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
4.6.3 Reconciliation of the reported remuneration For comparison, from the 2018 ordinary AGM to the
with the shareholders’ approved remuneration for 2019 ordinary AGM actual remuneration amounted to
the members of the Board of Directors CHF 8,694,022 (excluding legally required employer’s
The 2018 ordinary AGM approved Board remuneration contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses).
totalling not more than CHF 10,000,000 (excluding
legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/
ALV and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at
the 2019 ordinary AGM.
Prospectively approved total remuneration for the members of the Board of Directors in comparison to the actual total
payments made (in CHF) *
Total remuneration Total remuneration Total remuneration
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2019–AGM 2020 AGM 2018–AGM 2019 AGM 2017–AGM 2018
Maximum of total remuneration approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000
Actual total remuneration paid Calculation at end of period 8,694,022 8,700,243
Within the approved limit Calculation at end of period Yes Yes
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses136
4.7 Security holdings (‘Related parties’, page 131) and in Note 4 to
Directors André Hoffmann and Dr Andreas Oeri and the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd
members of the founders’ families who are closely (‘Significant shareholders’, page 175). In addition,
associated with them belong to a contractually bound as at 31 December 2019 (as at 31 December 2018,
shareholder group with pooled voting rights. At the respectively) the members of the Board of Directors
end of 2019 this group held 72,018,000 shares (45.01% and persons closely associated with them held Roche
of issued shares). Detailed information about this shares, non-voting equity securities (NES) and
group can be found in the Finance Report, Note 32 to American Depositary Receipts (ADRs***) as shown
the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements in the table ‘Security holdings’ below.
Security holdings (shares and NES)
(as at 31 December 2019) (as at 31 December 2018)
Non-voting Non-voting
equity Close relatives’ equity Close relatives’
securities security securities security
Shares (NES) holdings Others Shares (NES) holdings Others
(number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number) (number/type) (number)
Board of Directors
C. Franz 19,771 4,810 – – 16,014 4,810 – –
A. Hoffmann – * 200 – – – * 200 – –
J. Bell 1,115 1,647 – – 1,115 1,647 – –
J. Brown 729 – – – 729 – – –
P. Bulcke – 4,000 – – – 4,000 – –
H. Clevers – – – – n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
A. Hauser 3,000 150 20 NES – – 150 20 NES –
R.P. Lifton – – – 300 ADRs*** – – – 300 ADRs***
A. Oeri – * 187,793 – – – * 187,793 – –
B. Poussot 500 500 – – 500 500 – –
S. Schwan (see ‘5.16 Security holdings’ (see ‘5.16 Security holdings’
Corporate Executive Committee on page 147) Corporate Executive Committee on page 147)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff – 2,100 ** – – – 2,100 ** – –
Total 25,115 201,200 20 NES 300 ADRs*** 18,358 201,200 20 NES 300 ADRs***
n.a. – not applicable
* Shares held by the shareholder group with pooled voting rights not listed
** Jointly held with close relative
*** Roche’s ADR (American Depositary Receipt) listed on OTCQX https://www.otcmarkets.com/stock/RHHBY/quote International Premier under the
symbol RHHBY, ISIN US771195104. Traded in USD, eight (8) ADRs represent one (1) underlying NESRemuneration Report | Roche
137
5. Remuneration of the Corporate
Executive Committee
5.1 Resolution and approval In 2019, members of the Corporate Executive
Remuneration of the members of the Corporate Committee received remuneration for their work
Executive Committee was decided at the as shown in 5.3–5.12. The amount of remuneration
Remuneration Committee’s discretion, taking into for the CEO Roche Group, Dr Severin Schwan, is
account market comparisons. explained in 5.3 in detail.
As in the previous years, in 2020, the Board of Payments to Daniel O’Day, who retired from the
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate Corporate Executive Committee at the end of
bonuses of the Corporate Executive Committee to December 2018 and from Roche at the end of
the General Meeting for the 2019 financial year for February 2019, for 2019 are included and aggregated
retrospectively binding approval. in the total remuneration of the Corporate Executive
Committee (see 5.12).
The maximum amounts of the total other aggregate
remuneration of the Corporate Executive Committee Payments for 2019 to Dr Michael Heuer, CEO Roche
for the period between the ordinary General Meeting Diagnostics a. i., who retired as member of the
2020 and the ordinary General Meeting 2021 will be Corporate Executive Committee and retired from
tabled in 2020 as in the previous years for the General Roche as of 31 July 2019, are included and aggregated
Meeting’s prospectively binding approval (see 2.2). in the total remuneration of the Corporate Executive
Committee (see 5.12).
5.2 Amount of remuneration to members of the
Corporate Executive Committee Individually specified remuneration to Dr Thomas
The general provisions assigning authority for decisions Schinecker include payments for 2019 in his former
on Corporate Executive Committee remuneration role as well as payments as a member of the Corporate
to the Remuneration Committee and to the Board of Executive Committee as of 1 August 2019.
Directors are outlined on page 123, ‘2. Remuneration
decision process and approval framework’.138
Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive Committee (in CHF)
2019 2018 17
Base salary 4,000,000 4,000,000
S-SARs 18 3,379,524 *** 2,666,934 ****
Pension funds/MGB 19/insurances 580,843 ** 585,418 **
Roche Connect 100,008 100,008
Bonus (subject to approval of the total aggregate bonuses for the Corporate Executive Committee
by Annual General Meeting)
– Blocked shares 2,791,950 20* 2,791,950 *
RSUs 595,673 21* n.a.
PSP n.a. 1,488,911 22*
Other payments incl. expense allowance/for tax consulting services 68,856 127,314
Total 11,516,854 23 11,760,535 23
n.a. – not applicable
* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities/shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market
value: 55.839%)
** Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
17 For detailed calculation of the remuneration for 2018 and 2017 see Annual Report 2018, page 138.
18 *** Number of S-SARs 2019: 122,322, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 34.88. Trinomial model for American
call options value as described in ‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’,
page 140. S-SARs 2019 are blocked for 4 years and may thereafter be exercised only, whilst exercising resulting NES are automatically blocked for
additional 4 years (calculation of value of non-voting equity securities in consideration of reduction of value due to additional blocking period of
4 years, reduced market value: 79,209%).
**** Number of S-SARs 2018: 100,677, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 26.49. Trinomial model for American
call options value as described in ‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’,
page 140.
19 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits), dissolved in 2019.
20 S hares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in March 2020 after approval at the
AGM 2020).
21 C alculation of RSUs value 2019: number of RSUs (3,927) multiplied by grant value of CHF 271.65 (NES closing price at grant date on 15 March 2019)
per RSU.
22 T arget number of non-voting equity securities for PSP 2018–2020 (11,076 non-voting equity securities) multiplied per non-voting equity securities’
price averaged over the three months (October to December 2017) prior to the start of the performance cycle 2018–2020, CHF 240.74/non-voting
equity security.
23 Includes an annual expense allowance (CHF 30,000), payments for tax consulting services (CHF 28,056; 2018: CHF 47,314), family, children and
education allowance (CHF 10,800) and anniversary payment in 2018 of CHF 50,000. Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of
CHF 495,882 (2018: CHF 428,867) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUA
5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to highest total remuneration paid to a member of the
Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Corporate Executive Committee (see below) and
Executive Committee included in the total amount paid to the Corporate
Dr Severin Schwan, executive member of the Board Executive Committee (see ‘5.12 Total remuneration
of Directors, received his remuneration in his primary paid to the members of the Corporate Executive
function as CEO Roche Group. It is reflected as the Committee’, page 144).Remuneration Report | Roche
139
allocation. For Dr Michael Heuer a bonus of
CHF 750,000 is being proposed. It is included and
aggregated in the total remuneration of the Corporate
Executive Committee (see 5.12). The total aggregate
amount of bonuses will be brought forward for a
binding vote by the Annual General Meeting 2020.
Daniel O’Day received no bonus payment for 2019.
Except for Dr Severin Schwan, all members of the
Corporate Executive Committee will receive the
bonus 2019 as a 100% cash payment which is due in
March 2020. Dr Severin Schwan will receive the bonus
in form of Roche shares which are blocked for ten years
(see page 138). Bonus payment is due in March 2020.
Bonus (in CHF)
2019 2018
(Subject to approval of the
total aggregate bonuses of the
Corporate Executive Committee by
the Annual General Meeting 2020)
B. Anderson 2,500,000 n.a.
A. Hippe 2,000,000 2,000,000
G. A. Keller 1,400,000 1,400,000
T. Schinecker 500,000 n.a.
C. A. Wilbur 1,200,000 1,200,000
Total 7,600,000 4,600,000
n.a. – not applicable
DETIDUA
5.4 Base pay of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Base pay (in CHF)
2019 2018
B. Anderson 1,804,301 n.a.
A. Hippe 1,600,000 1,600,000
G. A. Keller 1,500,000 1,500,000
T. Schinecker 608,704 n.a.
C. A. Wilbur 989,156 925,000
Total 6,502,161 4,025,000
n.a. – not applicable
DETIDUA
Payments to Daniel O’Day and Dr Michael Heuer
until their retirement from Roche at the end of
February and July 2019, respectively, are included and
aggregated in the total remuneration of the Corporate
Executive Committee (see 5.12).
5.5 Bonuses of the other members of the Corporate
Executive Committee
The Remuneration Committee of the Board of
Directors determined the Corporate Executive
Committee members’ bonuses based on the
performance 2019 against the agreed objectives. The
Remuneration Committee uses complete discretion
in the weighting of each criteria and in the bonus140
DETIDUA
5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights of the total LTI for Corporate Executive Committee
(S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate members of 133.33% of a base pay measured on
Executive Committee 1 January of a year).
S-SARs to the Corporate Executive Committee
are allocated individually at the Remuneration The fair value of the S-SARs is calculated at the grant
Committee’s discretion. The S-SARs shown in the date using the trinomial model for American call
5.16.2 ‘S-SARs’ table on page 148 entitle holders to options. The trinomial model is an effective method
benefit financially from any increase in the value of for valuation of American call options, as it considers
Roche’s non-voting equity securities (NES) between the possibility of exercising the option any time prior
the grant date and the exercise date. The strike price to maturity (called ‘American’ option, as compared
for S-SARs under the terms of this multi-year plan to a ‘European’ option, which only allows exercise at
is the closing price for Roche NES at grant date. its maturity date).24
All S-SARs as of 2019 vest four (previously granted
S-SARs three) years after the grant date. Vested The numbers of S-SARs, the strike prices, expiry dates
S-SARs can be exercised (converted into NES) within and grant values for S-SARs are shown in the 5.16.2
ten (previously granted S-SARs within seven) years ‘S-SARs’ table on page 148. The numbers of S-SARs
of the grant date. Unexercised S-SARs lapse without as calculated at the time of issue have been entered
compensation. as values in the table below and on page 138.25
As of 2019, the S-SARs proportion of the LTI of the For 2019, no S-SARs were granted to Daniel O’Day
Corporate Executive Committee is composed of 80% and Dr Michael Heuer.
(based on the already existing individual target value
Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) (in CHF)
S-SARs S-SARs
2019 2018
B. Anderson 1,919,970 n.a.
A. Hippe 1,706,678 1,066,885
G. A. Keller 1,600,015 1,000,209
T. Schinecker 270,111 n.a.
C. A. Wilbur 1,013,334 566,939
Total 6,510,108 2,634,033
n.a. – not applicable
24 For further information on the trinomial model for American call options: Please refer to Boyle, Phelim P.: ‘A lattice framework for option pricing
with two state variables’, The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Volume 23, Issue 1 (Mar 1988), 1–12, https://www.roche.com/dam/
jcr:1a6a5a5c-7b9f-4019-810a-7b57c4b89eac/en/trinomial-model.pdf
25 See strike prices in table 5.16.2 ‘S-SARs’, page 148.Remuneration Report | Roche
141
5.7 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) of the other defined) four-year vesting period plus a value
members of the Corporate Executive Committee adjustment (being the amount equivalent to the
As of 2019, the proportion of Restricted Stock Units sum of the dividend paid during the vesting period
(RSUs) of the members of the Corporate Executive attributable to the number of non-voting equity
Committee is composed of 20% of the total LTI securities and/or shares for which an individual award
(based on the already existing individual target value has been granted). They will be vested to the recipient
of the total LTI for Corporate Executive Committee for the Corporate Executive Committee after four
members of 133.33% of a base pay measured on years only. Thereafter, resulting non-voting equity
1 January of a year). RSU awards are allocated securities and/or shares may remain blocked for up
individually for the Corporate Executive Committee to ten years.
at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion.
For 2019, Daniel O’Day and Dr Michael Heuer
RSUs contain rights to receive non-voting equity received no RSUs.
securities and/or shares after a (since 2019 newly
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
2019
Number Value at grant in CHF Value in CHF
B. Anderson 1,767 271.65 480,006
A. Hippe 1,571 271.65 238,300 *
G. A. Keller 1,472 271.65 223,283 *
T. Schinecker 994 271.65 213,880 **
C. A. Wilbur 933 271.65 253,449
Total 6,737 271.65 1,408,918
n.a. – not applicable
* Calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 10 years, reduced market value: 55.839%
** C alculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 4 years, reduced market value: 79.209%
5.8 Performance Share Plan (PSP) of the other Since the end of 2018, no new PSP awards have been
members of the Corporate Executive Committee granted. Therefore, in 2019, there were only the two
The PSP was established in 2002 for periods of three overlapping performance cycles PSP 2017–2019 and
years each and based on a three-year comparison of PSP 2018–2020, of which PSP 2017–2019 closed on
the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) with 15 peer 31 December 2019. The Board of Directors, acting
companies (see footnote 1). In a respective year, the upon recommendations from the Remuneration
PSP consisted of three overlapping performance Committee, must determine the payment of the
cycles, with a new cycle starting at the beginning of ongoing PSP 2018–2020 at the end of 2020 using
each year and a cycle finishing at the end of each year. complete discretion.
The plan’s key performance metric for an award, the
TSR, was calculated as a three-month moving average Under the provisions of this plan, a number of
rate before the start of and before the end of the non-voting equity securities (NES) or shares have
performance cycle. been reserved for the participants in each cycle.142
DETIDUA
The number of securities actually awarded will award has been granted) and requires that Roche
depend on whether and to what extent an investment securities perform as well as or better than those of
in Roche securities (shares and NES) outperforms the 75% of the peer set. In the event that an investment
average return on an investment in securities issued in Roche securities underperforms the average return
by a set of peer companies.26 Comparisons are based delivered by the peer companies, fewer or no NES or
on the securities’ market prices and dividend yields, shares will be awarded.
ie, on Total Shareholder Return (TSR). To reduce the
effect of short-term market fluctuations, security At the end of the PSP 2017–2019 cycle (based on a
prices are averaged over the three months (October to three-month average) with distributed dividends
December) prior to the start of a performance cycle totalling CHF 21.736 billion (2019: CHF 7.504 billion;
and over the three months (October to December) 2018: CHF 7.159 billion; 2017: CHF 7.073 billion),
at the end of the cycle. according to the terms of the plan, the participants
received 100% of the originally targeted NES awarded.
If Roche securities perform better than the average At the end of the PSP 2017–2019 cycle, 25,201 NES
of the peer set, the Board of Directors can elect to of the 33,682 originally targeted NES (incl. NES of
increase the NES or shares award. The maximum the Group CEO) as outlined on pages 141 and 138 in
award is double the original-level reserved target the Annual Report 2018 taking into account retired
number of NES or shares according to the PSP (plus members of the Corporate Executive Committee
a value adjustment being the amount equivalent were awarded.
to the sum of the dividend paid during the vesting
period attributable to the number of non-voting Bill Anderson, Dr Thomas Schinecker and Dr Michael
equity securities or shares for which an individual Heuer were not participating in the PSP programme.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
2019 2018
Fair value at grant per
non-voting equity security
(NES), NES prices averaged
over the three months
(October to December 2017)
Target number of non-voting prior to the start of Fair value of target number of
equity securities (NES) the performance cycle non-voting equity securities
for PSP 2018–2020 PSP 2018–2020 (NES) for PSP 2018–2020
(number) (value in CHF) (value in CHF)
A. Hippe 4,430 240.74 595,511 *
G.A. Keller In 2019, no shares or 4,153 240.74 558,274 *
C. A. Wilbur NES were reserved 2,353 240.74 566,461
Total under the PSP. 10,936 240.74 1,720,246
* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market value: 55.839%)
26 S ee footnote 1, page 123.Remuneration Report | Roche
143
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Indirect benefits (employer contributions) (in CHF)
2019 2018
Payments Pension Payments
Pension Annual for tax/tax funds/ Annual for tax/tax
funds/ expense Roche consulting MGB 27/ expense Roche consulting
insurances * allowances Connect services insurances * allowances Connect services
B. Anderson 330,843 30,000 – 127,525 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
A. Hippe 330,843 30,000 39,996 11,142 335,418 30,000 39,996 13,378
G. A. Keller 96,270 30,000 37,500 – 122,226 30,000 37,500 –
T. Schinecker 141,796 12,500 3,000 32,967 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
C. A. Wilbur 330,843 30,000 18,744 100,153 335,418 30,000 18,744 75,299
Total 1,230,595 132,500 99,240 271,787 793,062 90,000 96,240 88,677
n.a. – not applicable
* Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
27 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits), dissolved in 2019.
5.10 Other remuneration and loans of members In 2019, there were no loans or credits granted to the
of the Corporate Executive Committee members of the Corporate Executive Committee.
Based on legal and contractual obligations, in 2019,
Roche paid to individual members of the Corporate The maximum regular period of notice for members
Executive Committee costs with respect to temporary of the Corporate Executive Committee is 12 months.
relocation and housing, for family, children and There are no change-of-control clauses in the
education allowance and for their children’s schooling employment contracts.
costs totalling CHF 123,884.
All aforementioned additional payments are
included in the total remuneration to members of
the Corporate Executive Committee.
DETIDUA
5.9 Indirect benefits of the other members of In addition, members of the Corporate Executive
the Corporate Executive Committee Committee received annual expense allowances and
Employer contributions made in 2019 to social security some members payments for foreign tax obligations
schemes, pension plans and a Group-wide employee and tax consulting services as shown in the table
stock purchase plan (Roche Connect) in respect of below.
members of the Corporate Executive Committee are
shown in the ‘Indirect benefits (employer contributions)’ Payments (employer contibutions) of indirect benefits
table below and in the table on page 138. to Daniel O’Day and Dr Michael Heuer until their
retirement from Roche at the end of February and
Roche Connect is a voluntary stock purchase plan July 2019, respectively, are included and aggregated in
offering employees the opportunity to buy Roche the total remuneration of the Corporate Executive
non-voting equity securities (NES) up to an amount Committee (see 5.12).
equal to 10% of their annual salary at a 20% discount.
NES purchased under this plan are subject to a
holding period, which is four years in Switzerland.144
5.11 Remuneration to former members of the CHF 1,628,429 (2018: CHF 1,792,838) that does not
Corporate Executive Committee form part of remuneration.
In 2019, pensions totalling CHF 2,057,784 (2018:
CHF 2,057,784) were paid to former Corporate No additional remuneration other than the above
Executive Committee members. These pension mentioned payments was paid to current or former
benefits, which were guaranteed for various former members of the Corporate Executive Committee.
members of the Executive Committee or their widows
outside the Pension Fund and were pledged before 5.13 Executive remuneration subject to approval
2003 (due to gaps in pension provision resulting from at the Annual General Meeting
postings abroad, for instance), were transferred to
the Roche Pension Fund, which required a one-off 5.13.1 Submission of Executive total aggregate
transfer of CHF 10,561,961 to the Pension Fund. bonuses for a binding vote at the Annual
General Meeting
5.12 Total remuneration paid to the members The Board of Directors proposes awarding the members
of the Corporate Executive Committee of the Corporate Executive Committee bonuses (for
For the 2019 calendar year, the members of the Dr Severin Schwan in form of Roche shares which
Corporate Executive Committee received remuneration are blocked for ten years, for all other members of the
(including bonuses and employer contribution of Corporate Executive Committee as a 100% cash
social securities’ beneficial parts and all payments to payment, see 5.5) totalling CHF 11,141,950 in respect
Dr Michael Heuer, CEO Roche Diagnostics a. i. until of the 2019 financial year (2018: CHF 9,291,950),
his retirement at the end of July 2019 and payments excluding legally required employer’s contributions
until Daniel O’Day’s retirement from Roche at the to AHV/IV/ALV, and will submit this proposed total
end of February 2019) totalling CHF 37,952,012 amount to the ordinary Annual General Meeting
(2018: 39,272,132), excluding additional employer’s (AGM) 2020 for a binding vote.
contribution paid to AHV/IV/ALV totalling
Retrospective approvals of the members of the Executive Committee’s total aggregate bonuses (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2020 AGM 2019 AGM 2018
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2019 financial year 2018 financial year 2017
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 11,141,950 9,291,950 11,591,950
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
DETIDUARemuneration Report | Roche
145
5.13.2 Submission of Executive total future aggregate incentives S-SARs (calculated at grant value without
remuneration for a binding shareholder vote considering reductions of value due to blocking
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2020 periods if applicable) and RSUs (see 3.1.4, calculated at
ordinary AGM approves remuneration for the the time of reservation of non-voting equity securities
Corporate Executive Committee totalling not more or shares, without considering reductions of value due
than CHF 37,000,000 (excluding legally required to blocking periods), contributions to pension benefits
employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and (excluding legally required employer’s contributions
excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the 2021 to AHV/IV/ALV) as well as contributions for expenses,
ordinary AGM. payments for foreign tax obligations, tax consulting
services and Roche Connect.
The amount of Executive total future aggregate
remuneration is composed of base pay, long-term
Prospective approvals of the members of the Executive Committee’s total future aggregate remuneration (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2020 AGM 2019 AGM 2018
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
the period the period the period
AGM 2020–AGM 2021 AGM 2019–AGM 2020 AGM 2018–AGM 2019
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 37,000,000 38,000,000 41,000,000
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
5.13.3 Reconciliation of the reported remuneration excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the 2019
with the shareholders’ prospectively approved ordinary AGM.
remuneration for the members of the Corporate
Executive Committee For comparison, from the 2018 ordinary AGM to the
The 2018 ordinary AGM approved remuneration for 2019 ordinary AGM remuneration amounted to
the Corporate Executive Committee totalling not CHF 33,139,195 (excluding legally required employer’s
more than CHF 41,000,000 (excluding legally required contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses.
employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and PSP: assumption of maximum value).146
Prospectively approved total remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee in comparison to actual total
remuneration effected (in CHF) *
Amount for the period Amount for the period Amount for the period
AGM 2019–AGM 2020 AGM 2018–AGM 2019 AGM 2017–AGM 2018
Maximum of total remuneration prospectively
approved by the AGM 38,000,000 41,000,000 ** 41,000,000 **
Total remuneration calculated at end of Calculation at the end of
corresponding AGM–AGM period period AGM 2019–AGM 2020 33,139,195 ** 38,215,056 **
Actual total remuneration realised
(for corresponding AGM–AGM period based on
the actual amount calculated restrospectively Calculation at the
after the end of the corresponding PSP cycle/ Calculation at the end of end of 2020 (after the end 26,826,781 ***
as of 2019 grant value of RSUs) period AGM 2019–AGM 2020 of the PSP cycle 2018–2020)
Within the approved limit Calculation at end of period Calculation at end of period Yes
Additional amount paid for new members of the
Corporate Executive Committee after approval by
the AGM and not within the approved total amount No No No
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
** I ncluding assumption amount of 200% (maximum possible award) of shares/non-voting equity securities of the corresponding PSP cycle
*** D ue to the 100% award of NES under the PSP 2017–2019 cycle and their originally included calculation of 200% (maximum possible award), the amount
of the total remuneration for the period AGM 2017–AGM 2018 is reduced to CHF 26,826,781
5.14 Clawback • activity leading to serious disciplinary action
In addition to applicable statutory provisions, Roche’s • repeated or willful failure to perform such duties as
long-term incentive plans include the option to have been reasonably assigned by Roche
partially reclaim distributed compensation as a result • violation of any law or public regulation
of special circumstances (clawback). • commission of a crime
• gross negligence or willful misconduct in
If the employee voluntarily serves notice of employment
termination of employment, S-SARs (see 5.16.2) and • engaging in conduct bringing disgrace or disrepute
RSUs (see 3.1.4) which are unvested at the date of to Roche and/or any of its subsidiaries
termination of employment lapse immediately • violation of any of Roche’s directives and guidelines
without any compensation. relating to business conduct
Upon termination of employment as a result of According to the regulations of the PSP programme,
serious misconduct, all S-SARs and RSUs granted and the originally targeted but not awarded NES or shares
outstanding, whether vested or unvested, shall lapse shall lapse without any compensation upon notice of
immediately without any compensation. According termination of employment being given for any reason
to the S-SARs plan rules, serious misconduct by the other than redundancy, disability or retirement.
participant may include (inter alia):Remuneration Report | Roche
147
5.15 Guidelines for security holdings long as they serve on the Corporate Executive
In 2012, the Board of Directors decided that the CEO Committee. With the exception of Bill Anderson and
Roche Group and other members of the Corporate Dr Thomas Schinecker, who joined the Corporate
Executive Committee must acquire shares and/or Executive Committee in 2019 and who must fulfil the
NES equivalent to two annual base salaries (CEO requirement by the end of 2024, all other members
Roche Group since 2018 equivalent to five annual base of the Corporate Executive Committee fulfil this
salaries) and one annual base salary, respectively, requirement.
by the end of 2016 and retain these holdings for as
Type of security Value to be acquired
CEO Roche Group Shares and/or NES 5 × annual base salary
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee Shares and/or NES 1 × annual base salary
5.16 Security holdings
As at 31 December 2019 (as at 31 December 2018,
respectively) the members of the Corporate Executive
Committee and persons closely associated with them
held securities as shown in the following tables ‘Shares
and non-voting equity securities (NES)’ and ‘S-SARs’.
5.16.1 Shares and non-voting equity securities (NES)
(as at 31 December 2019) (as at 31 December 2018)
Close relatives’ Close relatives’
Shares NES security holdings Shares NES security holdings
(number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number/type)
Corporate Executive Committee Shares NES Shares NES
S. Schwan 191,595 35,273 – – 175,890 35,270 – –
B. Anderson – 1,986 – – n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
A. Hippe 6,970 20,830 – – 6,970 19,956 – –
G.A. Keller 19,441 27,271 1,100 – 19,191 21,462 1,100 –
T. Schinecker – 155 – – n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
C. A. Wilbur – 4,315 – – – 3,955 – –
Total 218,006 89,830 1,100 – 202,051 80,643 1,100 –
n.a. – not applicable148
5.16.2 S-SARs
Number of S-SARs held on 31 December 2019
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Corporate Executive Committee
S. Schwan 122,322 100,677 85,476 89,517 59,997 54,453 –
B. Anderson 55,045 43,929 35,925 30,993 21,297 17,397 –
A. Hippe 48,930 40,275 34,191 35,811 – – –
G. A. Keller 45,872 37,758 32,052 – 20,000 10,000 –
T. Schinecker 7,744 6,288 1,608 – – – –
C.A. Wilbur 29,052 21,402 16,032 15,339 4,164 5,754 4,594
Total 308,965 250,329 205,284 171,660 105,458 87,604 4,594
Price (CHF) 271.65 220.80 251.90 251.50 256.10 263.20 214.00
Market price per NES on 314.00
31 December 2019 (CHF)
Expiry date 15.3.2029 15.3.2025 16.3.2024 3.3.2023 5.3.2022 6.3.2021 7.3.2020
Grant value per S-SAR (CHF) 34.88 26.49 * 31.20 * 29.79 * 43.34 * 47.75 * 36.38 *
Since 1.1.2012:
– Trinomial model for American
call options
* V alues according to
corresponding annual reports
5.16.3 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
Number of RSUs held on 31 December 2019
2019 2018 2017
Corporate Executive Committee
S. Schwan 3,927 n.a. n.a.
B. Anderson 1,767 5,270 4,449
A. Hippe 1,571 n.a. n.a.
G. A. Keller 1,472 n.a. n.a.
T. Schinecker 994 1,131 596
C. A. Wilbur 933 n.a. n.a.
Total 10,664 6,401 5,045
Grant value per RSU CHF 271.65 CHF 220.80 CHF 251.90
(NES closing price at grant (NES closing price at grant (NES closing price at grant
date on 15 March 2019) date on 15 March 2018) date on 16 March 2017)Statutory Auditor’s Report | Roche
149
To the General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
We have audited the accompanying Remuneration An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit
Report of Roche Holding Ltd for the year ended evidence on the disclosures made in the Remuneration
31 December 2019. The audit was limited to the Report with regard to compensation, loans and credits
information according to articles 14–16 of the in accordance with articles 14–16 of the Ordinance.
Ordinance against excessive compensation at listed The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s
joint-stock companies (the Ordinance) contained in the judgement, including the assessment of the risks of
sections marked as ‘audited’ with a grey line, including material misstatements in the Remuneration Report,
the respective footnotes, on pages 120 to 148 of the whether due to fraud or error. This audit also includes
Remuneration Report. evaluating the reasonableness of the methods applied
to value components of remuneration, as well as
assessing the overall presentation of the Remuneration
Responsibility of the Board of Directors
Report.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the
preparation and overall fair presentation of the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained
Remuneration Report in accordance with Swiss law is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
and the Ordinance. The Board of Directors is also opinion.
responsible for designing the remuneration system
and defining individual remuneration packages.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Remuneration Report for the year
Auditor’s Responsibility
ended 31 December 2019 of Roche Holding Ltd
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the
accompanying Remuneration Report. We conducted Ordinance.
our audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the Remuneration
Report complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of
the Ordinance.
KPMG AG
Mark Baillache Marc Ziegler
Licensed Audit Expert Licensed Audit Expert
Auditor in Charge
Basel, 27 January 2020
KPMG AG, Viaduktstrasse 42, PO Box 3456, CH-4002 Basel
KPMG AG is a subsidiary of KPMG Holding AG, which is a member of the KPMG network of independent firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’),
a Swiss legal entity. All rights reserved.150
Independent Assurance Report
on the 2019 non-financial reporting to the Corporate Governance and Sustainability
Committee of Roche Holding AG, Basel
We have been engaged to perform assurance procedures to provide • the Roche Group internal non-financial reporting guidelines based
assurance on the aspects of the 2019 non-financial reporting of on the ‘Responsible Care Health, Safety and Environmental
Roche Holding AG, Basel and its consolidated subsidiaries Protection reporting guidelines’ published by the European
(‘Roche’) included in the Annual Report 2019 (‘Report’). Chemical Industry Council CEFIC and the ‘GRI Standards’
published in October 2016 by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI);
Scope and Subject matter • the Roche Group internal Corporate Reporting Manual
Our assurance engagement on reasonable or limited levels of ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidance—Economic Performance’
assurance focused on the data and information for the year ended issued 28 June 2018;
31 December 2019 disclosed in the Report of Roche. • the Roche materiality determination process at Group level based
on the ‘GRI Standards’ published in October 2016 by the Global
We have not carried out any work on data reported for prior Reporting Initiative (GRI); and
reporting periods and in respect of projections and targets. • the defined guidelines, by which SHE, payments and donations,
people and contributions key figures, and sustainability risks and
Reasonable assurance opportunities are internally gathered, collated and aggregated.
The following data and information published in the Report is within
the scope of our reasonable assurance engagement: Inherent limitations
• the key figures related to grants and donations to patient The accuracy and completeness of non-financial indicators are
organisations, grants and donations to healthcare organisations, subject to inherent limitations given their nature and methods for
and sponsorships to healthcare and patient organisations, in all determining, calculating and estimating such data. Our assurance
material aspects, disclosed on the page 97 of the Report (together report should therefore be read in connection with Roche’s
the ‘contributions key figures’); and guidelines, definitions and procedures on its non-financial reporting
• the management of reporting processes with respect to the performance.
contributions key figures as well as the related control environment
in relation to the data aggregation of these contributions key Roche’s responsibility
figures. The Roche Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee is
responsible for both the subject matter and the criteria as well as for
Limited assurance selection, preparation and presentation of the selected information
The following data and information published in the Report is in accordance with the criteria. This responsibility includes the
within the scope of our limited assurance engagement: design, implementation and maintenance of related internal control
• the materiality determination process of Roche at Group level relevant to this reporting process that is free from material
according to the requirements of the ‘GRI Standards’ and as misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
disclosed on page 14 of the Report;
• the design of the sustainability risks and opportunities Our responsibility
determination process based on Roche Group level activities, Our responsibility is to perform a limited or reasonable assurance
disclosed on page 12 in the paragraph ‘Risk management’ of engagement and to express conclusions on the aspects of the
the Report; 2019 non-financial reporting of Roche. We planned and performed
• the people key figures disclosed on pages 70 to 75 of the Report our procedures in accordance with the International Standard on
and the Safety, Security, Health and Environmental protection Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) (Revised) ‘Assurance
(‘SHE’) key figures (including greenhouse gas emissions for engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial
scope 1 & 2 and scope 3 resulting from business flights) in the information’ and, in respect of greenhouse gas emissions, with the
tables and graphs on pages 78 to 85 and page 96 of the Report; International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3410)
• the figures on the Roche Group level in relation to the payments ‘Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements’, issued
and donations, disclosed on page 99 of the Report; and by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
• the management of reporting processes with respect to people, These standards require that we plan and perform the assurance
SHE, payments and donations key figures as well as the related engagement to obtain limited or reasonable assurance on the
control environment in relation to the data aggregation of these identified non-financial information prepared, in all material aspects,
key figures. in accordance with Roche’s policies and procedures, as well as the
management and reporting processes together with the related
Criteria control environment in relation to the data aggregation exist as
The management reporting processes with respect to the non- designed and form an appropriate basis for reporting as well as
financial reporting and key figures were prepared by Roche based give a fair picture of the non-financial performance of Roche.
on the policies and procedures as set forth in the following:
• the Roche Group guideline ‘Grants donations and sponsorship A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope
(GSD) data collection process’ disclosed on the website; than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zurich
Telephone: +41 58 792 44 00, Telefax: +41 58 792 44 10, www.pwc.ch
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity.Independent Assurance Report | Roche
151
risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal of key organisational values and objectives and report prioritisation
control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed of material aspects;
risks. Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures Inspecting the integration of the sustainability risks and
for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately limited opportunities in the Group Risk Management Process and its
relative to a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less adherence to the internal guidelines;
assurance is obtained with a limited assurance engagement than • Assessment of the processes and data consolidation
for a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected Reviewing the management and non-financial reporting processes
depend on the assurance practitioner’s judgement. for SHE, payments and donations, contributions and people key
figures; and
Our independence and quality controls Assessing the aggregation process of data at Roche Group level.
We have complied with the independence and other ethical
requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants We have not conducted any work on data other than outlined in
issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, the subject matter as defined above. We believe that the evidence
which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
professional competence and due care, confidentiality and for our assurance conclusions.
professional behaviour.
Reasonable assurance conclusion
Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and Based on our work performed in our opinion the following applies
accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control in all material aspects:
including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance a) the contributions key figures as described in the scope and
with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable subject matter section are, in all material aspects, stated in
legal and regulatory requirements. accordance with the reporting criteria;
b) the management and reporting processes with respect to the
Summary of the work performed contributions key figures as well as the control environment
Our assurance procedures included, amongst others, the following in relation to the data aggregation of these contributions key
work: figures are working as designed and provide an appropriate
• Review of the application of Roche Group guidelines basis for the reporting; and
Reviewing the application of the Roche Group non-financial c) the contributions key figures give a fair picture of the non-
reporting and contributions guidelines; financial performance of Roche.
• Site visits and management inquiry
Visiting selected sites of Roche’s Pharmaceuticals and Limited assurance conclusion
Diagnostics divisions in the USA, Norway, China and Hong Kong. Based on our work performed nothing has come to our attention
The selection was based on quantitative and qualitative criteria; causing us to believe that in all material aspects:
Interviewing personnel responsible for internal non-financial • the Roche materiality determination process at Group level
reporting and data collection at the sites we visited and at the as disclosed does not adhere to the principles and guiding
Roche Group level to determine the understanding and application factors (e.g. soundness, stakeholder determination, peer
of Roche’s non-financial and contributions guidelines; review, relevance of regulatory environment, integration of
• Assessment of the key figures key organisational values and objectives) defined with the
Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence supporting ‘GRI Standards’;
selected SHE, payments and donations, contributions, and people • the design of the sustainability risks and opportunities
key figures (e.g. Roche accident rate, energy consumption, determination process at Group level as disclosed does not
emissions to air, water usage and discharge, grants and donations function as designed;
to patient organisations, employee engagement rate, women in • the key figures mentioned in the scope and subject matter
key leadership roles) concerning completeness, accuracy, section and disclosed within the non-financial reporting in the
adequacy and consistency; Roche Annual Report 2019 are not stated in accordance with
• Review of documentation and analysis of relevant policies and the reporting criteria; and
principles • The management and reporting processes to collect and
Reviewing relevant documentation on a sample basis, including aggregate the SHE, payments and donations, people key
Roche Group non-financial reporting policies, management of figures as well as the control environment in relation to the
reporting structures and documentation; data aggregation work do not exist as designed.
Reviewing the principles of the Roche materiality process
providing the definition for the development of its adherence to PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
GRI’s environmental, social and economic reporting requirements
addressing the soundness of the identification process, Christophe Bourgoin Fabienne Fricker
determination of impacted stakeholders, peer and competition
review, integration of relevant regulatory requirements, integration Zurich, 29 January 2020152
Key dates for 2020 Published by
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
Annual General Meeting Group Communications
17 March 2020 4070 Basel, Switzerland
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 11 11
First-quarter sales www.roche.com
22 April 2020
To order/download publications
Half-year results Internet: roche.com/publications
23 July 2020 E-mail: basel.warehouse-services@roche.com
Fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
Nine-month sales
15 October 2020 Media Relations
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 88
E-mail: media.relations@roche.com
Investor Relations
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
E-mail: investor.relations@roche.com
Corporate Sustainability Committee
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 40 18
E-mail: corporate.sustainability@roche.comImprint | Roche
153
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking The statement regarding earnings per share growth
statements is not a profit forecast and should not be interpreted
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking to mean that Roche’s earnings or earnings per share
statements. These forward-looking statements may for 2020 or any subsequent period will necessarily
be identified by words such as ‘believes’, ‘expects’, match or exceed the historical published earnings
‘anticipates’, ‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘should’, ‘seeks’, or earnings per share of Roche.
‘estimates’, ‘future’ or similar expressions or by
discussion of, among other things, strategy, goals, All trademarks are legally protected.
plans or intentions. Various factors may cause actual
results to differ materially in the future from those Links to third-party pages are provided for convenience
reflected in forward-looking statements contained in only. We do not express any opinion on the content
this Annual Report, such as: (1) pricing and product of any third-party pages and expressly disclaim any
initiatives of competitors; (2) legislative and regulatory liability for all third-party information and the use
developments and economic conditions; (3) delay or thereof.
inability in obtaining regulatory approvals or bringing
products to market; (4) fluctuations in currency The Roche Annual Report is published in German
exchange rates and general financial market and English.
conditions; (5) uncertainties in the discovery,
development or marketing of new products or new Our reporting consists of the actual Annual Report
uses of existing products, including without limitation and of the Finance Report and contains the annual
negative results of clinical trials or research projects, financial statements and the consolidated financial
unexpected side effects of pipeline or marketed statements. With regards to content, the Management
products; (6) increased government pricing pressures; Report as per the Articles of Incorporation consists
(7) interruptions in production; (8) loss of or inability of both aforementioned reports with the exception
to obtain adequate protection for intellectual property of the Remuneration Report.
rights; (9) litigation; (10) loss of key executives or
other employees; and (11) adverse publicity and Printed on non-chlorine bleached, FSC-certified paper.
news coverage.Our images are now videos.
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
4070 Basel, Switzerland We would like you to immediately experience
patient stories through their own words.
© 2020
Get the free Xtend app:
All trademarks are legally protected. Open the ‘scan’ option in the app, look for
the icon and watch the videos.
www.roche.com
7 001 024
iOS Android