Annual Report 2022Why is access
to healthcare
so important?
Life-changing innovation is only meaningful if it reaches
those who need it. We put access at the core of our
business and consider it a key part of our commitment
to improving patient outcomes. Our combined strengths
in diagnostics and pharmaceuticals position us to play
a decisive role along the patient’s journey. We partner
with stakeholders to address the root causes at global,
country and community levels that prevent access to
innovative healthcare, no matter where people live.
roche.com/accessContents
Shareholder letters 4
Business performance 18
Reporting and strategy 28
Diagnostics 38
Pharmaceuticals 54
Personalised healthcare 70
Access to healthcare 84
People and culture 98
Environment 114
Community engagement 130
Business ethics 144
Corporate Governance 158
Remuneration Report 182
roche.com/reporting4Letters to
shareholders
For more than 125 years, Roche has worked to improve
the health of countless people all over the world.
With the trust of our shareholders and guided by
scientific progress, we will continue to identify and
seize opportunities well into the future.Dr Christoph
Franz
Chairman
Basel, Switzerland
In his final letter to shareholders, Christoph Franz reflects
on the company’s performance in 2022 and the countless
collaborations we have with partners around the world
to increase access to healthcare for everyone.Letters to shareholders | Roche 7
Dr Severin
Schwan
CEO Roche Group
Basel, Switzerland
For the last time as CEO, Severin Schwan shares
his thoughts on the progress we have made
for patients and society and our advances in
digital healthcare.8
Dr Christoph FranzChairman’s shareholder letter | Roche 9
Dear Shareholders
Your company achieved good results even in world to improve access to our medicines and
last year’s challenging environment. Sales diagnostics, and thereby improve people’s lives.
increased by 2%* and net income amounted to
13.5 billion Swiss francs. The Board of Directors An example of this is our partnership with Project
proposes at the Annual General Meeting that ECHO, a non-profit organisation which uses video
the dividend be increased by 2% to 9.50 Swiss telementoring for medical education and care
francs per share and non-voting equity security, management. The project connects national
the 36th increase in succession. centres of excellence to remote and underserved
areas, giving patients access to specialised care
The challenges of the past year have been that they otherwise wouldn’t receive.
manifold. In particular, the war in Ukraine has
brought unimaginable suffering to millions of Good healthcare can be life-saving for patients
people. It is having a massive impact on the and creates enormous value for society as a whole.
economy. At the same time, people around the Imagine what it means when a person with cancer
world are still preoccupied with the consequences is cured thanks to a timely, accurate diagnosis
of the COVID-19 pandemic. and effective treatment, and can continue to be
around for their family as well as contributing to
In connection with the war in Ukraine, I was able to society and the economy. Early diagnosis can even
experience in a particularly impressive way how our prevent illness altogether and thus avoid costly
employees are fully committed to providing patients hospital stays.
with medicines and diagnostic tests. I am deeply
grateful for the incredible helpfulness and initiative I hope that access to modern and effective
of our employees across borders. healthcare will one day be possible everywhere
in the world. Roche is making a significant
Currently, Roche has a total number of 87 new contribution here.
compounds and 65 additional indications in clinical
development or registration. And our Diagnostics This is my final letter to you, esteemed shareholders
Division is also flourishing thanks to the continuous of Roche. After twelve years on the Board of
development of new, innovative instruments and Directors, including nine as Chairman, I have
tests. That is why I am very confident about the decided not to stand for re-election at the next
future of Roche. General Meeting in 2023. With Severin Schwan
as the designated new Chairman of the Board of
For our innovations to reach people, we need Directors and Thomas Schinecker as the new CEO,
to work with our healthcare partners within Roche is being led into the future by a strong and
each country. Roche is engaged in hundreds highly experienced team.
of partnerships and collaborations around the
* Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates and comparisons to the previous year are at constant exchange rates (CER; average rates 2021) and all total figures
quoted are reported in CHF.10
“With Severin Schwan and Thomas Schinecker,
Roche is being led into the future by a strong
and highly experienced team.”
I would like to thank Severin Schwan most It has been a great honour for me to work for this
sincerely for his outstanding achievements as unique and excellent company. Roche’s success is
CEO of Roche over the last 15 years, as well as for due in particular to the fact that the company has
our always trusting and respectful cooperation. been owned by the founder’s descendants for over
Severin Schwan has contributed decisively to the 125 years. The owner families’ long-term orientation
major success of your company. I would particularly enables the leadership of Roche to make the right
like to highlight the integration of Genentech, a decisions, so that the company can continue to
milestone in the development of Roche. Equally make major contributions to people’s health for
noteworthy is the fact that our pharmaceuticals many years ahead. I therefore thank the owner
business has more than compensated for the loss families for their great support.
of patent protection for our top-selling medicines
thanks to the introduction of new, innovative I would also like in particular to thank all Roche
products in recent years. employees for the significant medical advances we
have achieved together. And thank you very much,
Finally, I am delighted that we are able to further dear shareholders, for your trust.
strengthen the Board of Directors of Roche with
two key personalities: the Board of Directors
will propose Mark Schneider, CEO of Nestlé,
and Akiko Iwasaki, Professor of Immunobiology
and Molecular, Cellular and Developmental
Biology at Yale University and a researcher at
the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, at the
2023 Annual General Meeting for election as Dr Christoph Franz
new Board members. ChairmanChairman’s shareholder letter | Roche 11
Roche Board of Directors on 31 December 2022
Bernard Poussot (1952), C, E, G
Dr Jörg Duschmalé (1984), representative of the shareholder group with
pooled voting rights, B, E, G
Dr Christoph Franz (1960), Chairman, C, D*, E, G
André Hoffmann (1958), Vice-Chairman, representative of the shareholder
group with pooled voting rights, A*, C*, D, E, G
Dr Severin Schwan (1967), F
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967), A, B, E, G
Dr Patrick Frost (1968), B*, C, E, G
Anita Hauser (1969), A, E, G
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953), C, E, G
Dr Jemilah Mahmood (1959), A, E, G
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee | B Audit Committee | C Remuneration Committee | D Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
E Non-executive director | F Executive director | G Independent member of the Board of Directors | * Committee chairperson12
Thank you very much, Christoph Franz!
At this year’s General Meeting, Christoph Franz’s Giving people worldwide access to our medicines
many years of work at the head of our company will and diagnostics has always been one of
come to an end. After twelve years on the Board of Christoph Franz’s particular concerns. During
Directors and nine years as its Chairman, Christoph his travels to Roche subsidiaries in Africa, Asia
Franz has decided not to stand for re-election. and South America, he therefore always took the
time to visit local hospitals and to talk to doctors,
There is no doubt that, throughout his tenure, our local nursing staff and patients. Together with
outgoing Chairman has strongly influenced Roche’s local government representatives, he effected
strategic development. He has made a considerable a remarkable number of agreements between
personal contribution to the success of our Roche and governments around the world, with
company. Although he joined Roche from elsewhere the aim of working together to improve local
in 2011, Christoph Franz was able to make valuable healthcare systems.
contributions to the Board of Directors from the
outset. This was undoubtedly a result of his many I have personally always appreciated that
years of experience in international companies. Christoph Franz, with his wealth of entrepreneurial
Together with the Board of Directors and the experience and wide-ranging knowledge, has
Executive Committee, he did not simply manage advocated not only obvious solutions but also –
problems, but tackled them promptly and provided and in particular – some challenging choices
constructive solutions. In so doing, he confidently that were, and still are, key to safeguarding
and successfully steered our company through Roche’s future.
challenging times with great dedication. Examples
I would like to mention here include Roche’s On behalf of the entire Board of Directors, the
contribution during the pandemic and handling Oeri, Hoffmann and Duschmalé families, and myself,
the patent expiry of our three most widely used I would like to sincerely thank our Chairman for all
cancer medicines. of this.
In addition, Christoph Franz made an important
contribution to expanding Roche’s strategic
flexibility by repurchasing the Roche shares held
by Novartis. Since he took on the top role at Roche,
digitalisation in the healthcare sector has also
accelerated – and alongside it, a far-reaching
transformation of our company. Roche today is André Hoffmann
clearly different from Roche a decade ago. Vice-Chairman of the Board of DirectorsLetter of the Vice-Chairman | Roche 13
André Hoffmann14
Dr Severin SchwanShareholder letter CEO Roche Group | Roche 15
Dear Shareholders
Overall, we achieved good results last year. This Another highlight: our cancer immunotherapy
is primarily due to the continued strong demand Tecentriq has now also been approved in Europe
for routine diagnostics and our newer medicines and other countries for the treatment of early-
to treat serious diseases such as multiple sclerosis, stage lung cancer. For many people this raises
haemophilia, severe eye diseases, spinal muscular the prospect of a cure.
atrophy and cancer.
Innovative research and development does not
The development and delivery of pioneering only carry opportunities, but also risks. In addition
medicines and diagnostics is at the heart of our to many successes, we also experienced setbacks
mission. Innovations from Roche improve the lives last year – first and foremost the disappointing
of people worldwide: in 2022, 29 billion tests were study data on gantenerumab in the treatment
performed with our diagnostic products, delivering of Alzheimer’s disease. Such setbacks are not
crucial information on disease prevention, diagnosis a reason to give up, but part of the often long,
and treatment. And millions of patients were treated iterative research and development processes
with Roche medicines. in our industry. We learn from the study data
and implement these lessons in the next study.
I am particularly pleased with our recent successes Roche has other molecules against Alzheimer’s
in ophthalmology: Vabysmo is a novel treatment in development. We will continue to have the
for certain severe eye diseases. Launched at the entrepreneurial courage to invest in particularly
beginning of 2022, a large number of patients high-risk research areas such as Alzheimer’s and
already have access to this innovative eye medicine. hope that we will ultimately achieve a breakthrough
Vabysmo became one of our most important growth for patients.
drivers in just a few months.
Innovative diagnostic solutions enable early and
Last year, we were also able to provide patients reliable decision-making, whether in infectious
with two important medicines for blood cancer. diseases, cancer or other diseases. With the PCR
Lunsumio gives hope to people with a certain form test kits developed in record time for the detection
of follicular lymphoma. This blood cancer develops of the mpox virus, we have proven once again – after
slowly, but has been incurable up to now. Our new COVID-19 – that we are able to respond quickly to
immunotherapy activates the body’s own immune new public health threats.
system – a promising new approach to blood cancer.
Polivy significantly improves the chances of curing Certain human papillomaviruses (HPV) may
a particularly aggressive form of blood cancer. cause cervical cancer. Our new HPV self-sampling
For two decades, research in this area made little solution offers women the possibility to take
progress, so this is a real medical breakthrough. the cervical samples needed for HPV testing16
Roche Corporate Executive Committee on 31 December 2022
Dr Alan Hippe (1967), Chief Financial and Information Officer
Claudia Böckstiegel* (1964), General Counsel
Dr Aviv Regev* (1971), Head Genentech Research and Early Development (gRED)
Prof. Dr Hans Clevers* (1957), Head Roche Pharma Research and Early Development (pRED)
Dr Severin Schwan (1967), CEO Roche Group
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967), Chief People Officer
Bill Anderson (1966), CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals
Barbara Schädler* (1962), Head Group Communications
Dr James H. Sabry* (1958), Global Head Pharma Partnering
Dr Thomas Schinecker (1975), CEO Roche Diagnostics
* Member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive CommitteeShareholder letter CEO Roche Group | Roche 17
“I am particularly pleased that we brought
two new medicines to patients: Vabysmo for
certain severe eye diseases and Lunsumio for
a currently incurable form of blood cancer.”
themselves while at a healthcare facility. This diagnostics and digital solutions under one roof,
solution can help break down barriers to screening Roche is very well positioned to perform pioneering
for cervical cancer. The new HCV Duo assay can work in this field – and not for the first time in our
also help prevent cancer, as well as other diseases more than 125-year history.
caused by hepatitis C. The assay provides both
antigen and antibody results in one test, thus I would like to thank all our employees for their
helping diagnose hepatitis C faster. tireless commitment in this challenging year.
We have also further expanded our digital And I would like to thank our Chairman, Christoph
health business. For example, our new digital Franz, for his many years of confidence-inspiring
solution for pathology now delivers high-resolution work. He has always been passionate about ensuring
digital images of tissue samples even faster. The that our products and solutions reach the people who
evaluation is not carried out using a microscope, desperately need them – no matter where they live.
but electronically. Artificial intelligence now often
sees more than the human eye. This makes it easier Thomas Schinecker will take over my role as CEO
to diagnose cancer and enables more targeted from mid-March. I would like to thank him for his
and effective treatment for the patient concerned. outstanding work as Head of the Diagnostics
Division and look forward to continue working
In fragmented healthcare systems, medical with him.
knowledge is often untapped today because
of inadequate digitalisation. That’s where our Thank you, dear shareholders, for your trust in
cloud-based platform cobas infinity edge comes our company.
into play. It enables nursing staff and doctors to
securely share patient data from multiple sources
and brings together a range of health data, such
as electronic patient records, third-party apps,
and point-of-care services.
The digital transformation is bringing about huge Dr Severin Schwan
advances for patients. With pharmaceuticals, CEO Roche Group18Business performance | Roche 19
Business
performance
We achieved good results in 2022. As expected, the
demand for COVID-19 products declined. The diagnostics
base business and our newer medicines continued their
strong growth.
UN SDGs Material topic
· Long-term mindset20
Key figures 2022
CHF millions
Group sales
2022 63,281 +2.2%*
2021 62,801 +9.3%
Pharmaceuticals sales
2022 45,551 +2.1%
2021 45,041 +3.1%
Diagnostics sales
2022 17,730 +2.5%
2021 17,760 +29.5%
Core operating profit
2022 22,173 +3.4%
2021 21,897 +4.1%
R&D core investments
2022 14,053 +2.7%
2021 13,708 +14.3%
CHF
Dividend
2022 9.50
2021 9.30
* Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates and comparisons to the previous year are at constant exchange rates (CER; average rates 2021) and all
total figures quoted are reported in CHF.Business performance | Roche 21
Diagnostics
Pharmaceuticals
39,961
46,793
Employees**
by Operating
Divisional Group
Corporate and other
Chugai 9,037
7,822
33 20
research and development sites in Pharmaceuticals manufacturing sites in Pharmaceuticals
and Diagnostics worldwide and Diagnostics worldwide
14.2 million patients 32 Roche medicines
treated with Roche medicines on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines
** Number of employees expressed in full-time equivalents, on 31.12.202222
Roche Group
In 2022, Roche sales rose 2%* (+1% in CHF) to As expected, the impact of biosimilars on the
CHF 63.3 billion. Core operating profit increased sales of the cancer medicines MabThera/Rituxan,
by 3% (+1% in CHF), reflecting the good underlying Herceptin and Avastin continued to slow down,
business performance. which resulted in a combined CHF 1.9 billion
reduction in sales.
IFRS net income1 was CHF 13.5 billion, decreasing
by 6% compared to 2021. This was due to higher The Diagnostics Division increased its sales by 3%
impairments of intangible assets and higher interest to CHF 17.7 billion. The division’s base business –
costs and income taxes. up 7% – achieved good results over the year and
across all regions, with growth mainly driven by
Core earnings per share grew 5% (+2% in CHF). This immunodiagnostic products.
includes the positive impact of the repurchase of
Roche shares held by Novartis. Our broad portfolio of COVID-19 tests generated
sales totalling CHF 4.1 billion in 2022 compared
Pharmaceuticals Division sales increased by 2% to to CHF 4.7 billion in 2021.
CHF 45.6 billion. Newer medicines to treat severe
diseases continued their strong growth. Vabysmo, Outlook for 2023
an eye medicine launched at the beginning of 2022, Due to the sharp decline in sales of COVID-19
is already one of the top five growth drivers. This products of roughly CHF 5 billion, Roche expects
medicine, together with Ocrevus (multiple sclerosis), a decrease in Group sales in the low single digit
Hemlibra (haemophilia), Evrysdi (spinal muscular range (at constant exchange rates). Excluding this
atrophy) and Tecentriq (cancer), generated COVID-19 sales decline, Roche anticipates solid
additional sales totalling CHF 3.2 billion. underlying sales growth in both divisions.
Sales of COVID-19 medicines were generally Core earnings per share are targeted to develop
lower, with a decline of roughly CHF 0.5 billion. broadly in line with sales decline (at constant
The decrease in sales of Actemra/RoActemra for exchange rates). Roche expects to further increase
severe COVID-19 pneumonia was only partially its dividend in Swiss francs.
made up by the sales growth of Ronapreve for
high-risk patients in Japan.
* Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates and comparisons to the previous year are at constant exchange rates (CER; average rates 2021) and all total
figures quoted are reported in CHF.
1 The IFRS result includes non-core items such as global restructuring plans and amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets.Business performance | Roche 23
Roche Group
63,281 +2%
Pharmaceuticals Division
45,551 +2%
Sales in 2022
(CHF millions)
Diagnostics Division
17,730 +3%24
Diagnostics
Diagnostics Division sales grew by 3% to emergency rooms, medical practices and directly
CHF 17.7 billion. The division’s base business – with patients; it includes SARS-CoV-2 rapid tests
up 7% – achieved good results over the year and and blood gas and electrolyte tests.
across all regions. Growth was mainly driven by
immunodiagnostic products. Molecular Lab sales decreased by 15% due to
lower COVID-19-related sales in the North America
Our broad portfolio of COVID-19 tests generated and EMEA regions. This was partly offset by
sales totalling CHF 4.1 billion in 2022 compared growth in the base business across the portfolio.
to CHF 4.7 billion in 2021.
This customer area focuses on molecular labs
Sales in the Asia-Pacific and North America regions and provides diagnostics solutions for pathogen
increased by 23% and 13%, respectively. The 16% detection and monitoring, donor screening, sexual
drop in sales in the Europe, Middle East and Africa health and genomics.
(EMEA) region is primarily due to the reduced
demand for COVID-19 testing. Diabetes Care sales decreased by 2% due to the
base effect of the resolution of a rebate dispute in
Core Lab sales increased by 6%. Immunoassays, 2021. Excluding this effect, sales remained stable.
such as cardiac and oncology tests, and clinical The continued contraction of the blood glucose
chemistry products were the main growth drivers. monitoring market, in particular in the United States
Sales grew across all regions, most strongly in and Europe, was offset by a higher demand in
Asia-Pacific, EMEA and Latin America. emerging markets.
This customer area focuses on central labs This customer area focuses on integrated
and provides diagnostics solutions in the personalised diabetes management for people
areas of immunoassays, clinical chemistry with diabetes and healthcare professionals.
and custom biotech.
Pathology Lab sales increased by 11% due
Point of Care sales grew by 17%. The SARS-CoV-2 to growth in the advanced staining and the
Rapid Antigen test continued to be the main companion diagnostics businesses. Sales
growth driver. Demand for the cobas SARS-CoV-2 grew across all regions.
& Influenza A/B assays also increased. The largest
contribution came from the Asia-Pacific and This customer area focuses on pathology labs
North America regions. and provides diagnostics solutions for tissue
biopsies and companion diagnostics. These
This customer area provides diagnostics solutions targeted diagnostics support the specific
immediately at the point of care such as in therapy decisions for each patient.Business performance | Roche 25
Sales by customer area in 2022
CHF millions
Core Lab 7,775 +6%
Point of Care 3,589 +17%
Molecular Lab 3,450 –15%
Diabetes Care 1,598 –2%
Pathology Lab 1,318 +11%26
Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals Division sales increased by 2% to in both indications remained strong in the United
CHF 45.6 billion. Newer medicines to treat severe States. In Europe and in the International region,
diseases continued their strong growth. the medicine continued to show a high uptake.
Sales in the United States decreased slightly Perjeta (CHF 4.1 billion, +5%). HER2-positive
by 1%. The sales growth of the newer medicines breast cancer. Sales increased mostly due to the
Ocrevus, Vabysmo, Hemlibra and Tecentriq partially continuing high demand in the International region,
compensated for the sales decline of Actemra/ mainly in China.
RoActemra for COVID-19 and medicines whose
patents have expired. Hemlibra (CHF 3.8 billion, +27%). Haemophilia A
with and without factor VIII inhibitors; only
In Europe, sales were also slightly down by 2%, prophylactic treatment that can be administered
mainly due to lower sales of the COVID-19 medicine subcutaneously once weekly, every two or every
Ronapreve. Excluding this base effect, sales in four weeks. Sales continued to show an impressive
Europe increased by 6%, as the newer medicines uptake, especially in the United States and Europe.
more than offset the impact of biosimilars. Sales in the International region grew across all
major markets.
Sales in Japan increased by a substantial 26%.
The key factors were supplies of Ronapreve to the Tecentriq (CHF 3.7 billion, +14%). Cancer
government, followed by sales growth of Evrysdi, immunotherapy (either alone or in combinations)
Polivy, Hemlibra and Enspryng, which more than for various types of cancer, e.g. lung, bladder,
offset the impact of biosimilars and government breast and liver cancer. Sales increased mostly
price cuts. due to the higher demand in the United States and
Europe. Sales in Japan decreased, primarily due to
Sales in the International region grew by 1%. In governmental price cuts.
China, sales decreased by 7% due to biosimilars,
lower sales of Rocephin and local COVID-19 Actemra/RoActemra (CHF 2.7 billion, –22%).
measures. Excluding China, sales in the region Rheumatoid arthritis, forms of juvenile idiopathic
increased by 6%, mainly as a result of a higher arthritis, giant cell arteritis, CAR T-cell-induced
demand for Perjeta, Hemlibra, Ocrevus and Kadcyla. severe or life-threatening cytokine release
syndrome and COVID-19. Sales decreased, mainly
Ocrevus (CHF 6.0 billion, +17%). Relapsing and in the United States and the International region,
primary progressive forms of multiple sclerosis; driven by lower demand for patients with severe
two-hour-only infusion. The demand for Ocrevus COVID-19 pneumonia.Business performance | Roche 27
Top-selling pharmaceuticals in 2022
CHF millions
Ocrevus 6,036 +17%
Neuroscience
Perjeta 4,087 +5%
Oncology
Hemlibra 3,823 +27%
Haemophilia
Tecentriq 3,717 +14%
Oncology
Actemra/RoActemra 2,701 –22%
Immunology
Xolair 2,208 +9%
Immunology
Herceptin 2,142 –19%
Oncology
Avastin 2,122 –28%
Oncology
Kadcyla 2,080 +7%
Oncology
MabThera/Rituxan 2,075 –20%
Oncology/Immunology28Reporting and strategy | Roche 29
Reporting and
strategy
Roche is committed to transparent reporting and we
endeavour to drive our economic, social and environmental
performance with the same diligence as our financial
performance. It is why sustainability is built into our business
strategy and part of everyone’s job at Roche. We focus on
finding new medicines and diagnostics and on establishing
data-based insights that evolve the practice of medicine
and help patients live longer, better lives.30
Our reporting approach
Roche is committed to transparent reporting and and reviewed externally when appropriate.
we endeavour to drive our economic, social and Risk management is embedded at all levels of the
environmental performance with the same diligence Roche Group. Our Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
as our financial performance. Divisions and global functions conduct a formal
risk and opportunity assessment at least once a
Reporting scope and boundaries year and must develop response plans for their
Our financial and non-financial reporting consists most material risks and opportunities.
of the Annual Report, the Finance Report and
the online report. It contains the annual financial Read more in ‘Corporate Governance’ on page 158.
statements, consolidated financial statements and
non-financial performance indicators. It covers We also identify long-term business sustainability
all regions and divisions of the Roche Group from trends with associated risks and opportunities on
1 January to 31 December 2022. The financial an annual basis and integrate these into our existing
reporting scope is defined and outlined in our Group Risk Management Process. Each year, ten
Finance Report, and there have been no significant emerging trends (including associated risks and
changes in scope in 2022 compared to 2021. opportunities) are identified from internal and
external sources.
GRI Standards and materiality
We have been a member of the Global Reporting Based on these findings, the Sustainability Steering
Initiative (GRI) community since 2007, have Committee prioritises and selects the top business
followed the GRI G4 guidelines since 2014 and sustainability trends. The two most important
have transitioned to reporting with reference to the business sustainability trends for 2022 are the
2016 GRI Standards. By using the GRI Standards, we following: i) Future of work and ii) Mistrust and
disclose the most critical impacts of our activities scepticism in science. These two trends, as well
on the environment, society and the economy. as one of their associated opportunities and risks,
are described on page 31.
Risk management
Our Risk Management Policy sets out Roche’s UN Sustainable Development Goals
approach to identifying, analysing, managing We support the United Nations Sustainable
and reporting internal and external risks and Development Goals (SDGs) within the sphere of our
opportunities. A consolidated Group Risk Report, corporate business strategy. We contribute to a
which covers all material risks and opportunities, is number of the SDGs, but our greatest contribution is
discussed annually with the Corporate Executive to SDG 3, Good Health and Well-Being. This goal is
Committee and reviewed by the Board of Directors. closely connected with the achievement of universal
health coverage, which goes hand in hand with
The effectiveness of the Group Risk Management better access to quality essential medicines and
Process is regularly monitored by the Group Risk diagnostics. This is fully aligned with our vision to
Advisory team and the overall process reviewed improve and save lives. Since 2016, the SDGs have
by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, been an integral part of our annual reporting.
Report 2022: ar22.roche.com | roche.com/ar22e.pdf | roche.com/fb22e.pdf
Risk management: roche.com/risk-management | Key Performance Indicators: roche.com/performanceOur reporting approach | Roche 31
Business sustainability trends
Examples of our contribution to the UN goals
are listed on our UN SDG webpage (see link on Future of work
page 32) and are mapped to our material topics Trend descriptor: New, diverse and complex working models (remote,
as featured on page 33. As a signatory of the UN hybrid) lead to an increasingly fluid workspace and workforce, which
Global Compact (UNGC), we commit to integrate requires an agile workforce management to avoid negative impacts as
the universal principles in the areas of human well as to leverage positive impacts on talent attraction, retention and
rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption engagement, especially in a highly innovation-dependent sector.
into our business strategy, culture and daily
operations and to report on the results achieved Opportunity: Roche can be positioned as an attractive employer
each year. We published our first Communication through our flexible ways of working.
on Progress (CoP) in the first quarter of 2022 and
will submit our second CoP in the first quarter Risk: Disconnection within the company and increased silo thinking
of 2023. can reduce innovation and drive duplication.
External assurance
Some selected key figures of our non-financial Mistrust and scepticism in science
reporting for the year ended 31 December 2022 Trend descriptor: A growing educational gap and populism with
have been subject to limited assurance procedures increasing spread of fake news (intended or unintended) are leading to
performed by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG (PwC), mistrust and scepticism in science, medical therapies, pharmaceutical
an independent third-party assurance provider. industry and institutions.
PwC provides limited assurance on selected key
figures in the areas of: i) safety, security, health and Opportunity: A competitive advantage can be created for Roche
environmental protection, ii) people and culture and through the strengthening of relationships with governments, patient
iii) grants, donations, and sponsorships. These key organisations, payers and doctors (e.g. sharing information, providing
figures are disclosed in the Annual report and/or education).
on the non-financial reporting webpage, together
with the related PwC limited assurance report, and Risk: Patients and society are not benefitting from scientific
are defined in our Non-Financial Reporting Metrics advancements and resulting medicines due to lack of awareness or
Guidelines – Basis for Preparation. saturation with false information.
See ‘Independent Assurance Report’ on page 210. The full list of business sustainability trends and their associated risks
and opportunities can be found on our risk management website (link on
the previous page).32
Materiality and impact
Our purpose is Doing now what patients need next. Environment
How we identify and meet those needs – what we do The respect for a healthy planet and for the
every day – must be sustainable if we are to succeed. environment has always been a priority of our
It is why sustainability is built into our business founding families and the company. We are
strategy and part of everyone’s job at Roche. committed to halving the environmental impact
of our operations and products from 2019 to
Our approach is holistic and integrates the three 2029. And we aim to reduce our own greenhouse
dimensions of sustainability: gas emissions to absolute zero by 2050, while
• Society – how we contribute to a better partnering with our suppliers to reduce their
tomorrow for all emissions for our mutual benefit.
• Environment – how we minimise our impact
on nature Economy
• Economy – how we invest in medical advances, Our business must meet the needs of patients
create jobs and ensure livelihoods and continue creating quality jobs that provide
people and their families with secure livelihoods,
What does this mean for each of us at Roche, while earning competitive returns for our investors.
every day? We do this by promoting innovation and by
translating science into pioneering medicines
Society and diagnostics that help patients live longer,
We contribute to a better society by enabling the better and more productive lives – enabling them
right treatment for the right patient at the right to support themselves and contribute to their
time for the right value. We do this by developing local economies.
new medicines and ways of diagnosing disease
and gaining insights from data. Our commitment to As described in our strategy, our set-up is
expand access to these innovations will help more designed for innovation. Our autonomous research
patients live longer, better lives. And with this comes and development centres and alliances with more
a deep respect for the human rights of everyone than 250 external partners foster a diversity
we reach, especially patients, business partners, of scientific approaches and agility. Roche
suppliers, local communities and, of course, our operates in over 150 countries where our local
colleagues around the world. It is why we emphasise teams implement our strategy. We measure our
employee safety, health and development while performance and report to all our stakeholders
promoting diversity and inclusion, integrity, mutual the progress towards the goals we have set
respect and equal opportunities for all. ourselves.
Sustainability: roche.com/sustainability | Materiality: roche.com/materiality | Stakeholder engagement: roche.com/stakeholder_engagement |
Key performance indicators: roche.com/performance | Our contribution to the UN SDGs: roche.com/un-sdgsMateriality and impact | Roche 33
Society Environment
Sustainability
Economy
Our 19 material topics
Access to healthcare Ethics and compliance
Affordability of healthcare Compliance
Availability of healthcare Ethics and transparency
Sustainable healthcare systems Human rights
Digitalisation Employee engagement
Cybersecurity Organisational agility
Data privacy Preparedness for ageing society
Personalised healthcare Talent attraction and retention
Real-world data
Energy efficiency
Science and innovation Energy efficiency
Patient centricity
Preparedness for ageing society Long-term mindset
R&D efficiency Long-term mindset
Product quality and safety
Product safety
Product quality34
Materiality assessment and Impact-driven sustainability initiatives
stakeholder engagement In order to maximise our impact within and
Engaging with our stakeholders is essential to build beyond the healthcare industry, we have joined
trust and an understanding of their expectations. two notable sustainability initiatives, namely
By embedding their feedback in our strategy and the Sustainable Market Initiative and the Value
our daily business, we are able to jointly address our Balancing Alliance.
common issues and develop long-term solutions.
The Sustainable Market Initiative (SMI) is a
In order to identify the topics that are particularly multi-stakeholder initiative which aims to lead the
relevant to Roche, our stakeholders and society transition to a sustainable future by convening
at large and to deliver lasting shared value, we public- and private-sector leaders to align
conducted an in-depth materiality assessment economic value with social and environmental
at corporate level among our key stakeholders sustainability. Part of the SMI commitments
in 2018/2019. Our approach to materiality are the climate actions in line with the Science
assessment is integrated – building on our Group Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). The Value
Risk Management Process – and inclusive, being Balancing Alliance (VBA) is an initiative in
designed collaboratively with colleagues across which an alliance of multinational corporations
multiple functions. We gathered insights from a develop and pilot, alongside leading academic
broad range of internal and external stakeholders to institutions, a standardised methodology to
identify the most important and pressing issues that ensure greater sustainability and transparency.
Roche should address in the next three to five years. This is done through greater disclosure of
We identified 19 material topics, clustered in eight environmental, social and economic impact. We
main categories, that stood out as highly relevant to also support the #MakeItMandatory campaign,
us and to our key stakeholders. To properly address which is calling for mandatory requirements for
these topics, we have then aligned them with our all large businesses and financial institutions
current goals and are measuring performance to assess and disclose their impacts and
through our defined set of indicators. Additionally, dependencies on biodiversity by 2030.
we are currently conducting an in-depth materiality
assessment at Group level in order to update the
list of material topics we identified in 2018/2019.Materiality and impact | Roche 35
Our impact
Our impact Our 2022 performance Our material topics* Supporting UN SDGs
Society • 1 4.2 million patients treated with Roche medicines • Access to healthcare
How we contribute • 2 9 billion tests conducted with Roche • Product quality
to a better tomorrow Diagnostics products and safety
for all
• 8 7 new molecular entities in clinical development • Digitalisation
• 3 7% of women in executive positions • Science and innovation
• Ethics and compliance
• Employee engagement
Environment • 3 2% decrease in our environmental impact • Energy efficiency
per employee since 2019
How we minimise our
impact on nature • 8 1% of our electricity coming from
sustainable sources
• 2 9% decrease in greenhouse gas emissions
since 2019
Economy • 2 2.21% of sales invested in R&D • Long-term mindset
How we invest in medical • 1 03,613 employees
advances, create jobs
and ensure livelihoods
* Clustered material topics – for details see: roche.com/materiality36
Our strategy
We focus on finding new medicines and diagnostics many different stakeholders in the healthcare
and on establishing data-based insights that evolve ecosystem to broaden access to our offerings
the practice of medicine and that help patients live for people who need them and, ultimately,
longer, better lives. to provide a seamless patient journey. We
will continue to concentrate our energies on
Our business environment is undergoing prescription medicines, in vitro diagnostics
tremendous change. We are facing new challenges and increasingly data and insights, rather
due to the complexity of care and increasing than diversify into other sectors like generics,
pressure on healthcare budgets. At the same biosimilars or over-the-counter medicines.
time, we see new opportunities arising from major
advances in life sciences and from digitalisation Our delivery is to create value for all our
in healthcare. stakeholders: being a partner of choice; bringing
significant medical benefit for patients, doctors
In these turbulent times, we are guided by our and payers; offering a great place to work for
common purpose: Doing now what patients employees; delivering a sustainable positive
need next. Our company has been bringing contribution to society; and earning competitive
novel diagnostics and treatments to patients returns for our investors.
for 125 years. Patients are and will remain at
the core of what we do. They are the reason How we do it
we come to work every day. Ultimately, delivering on our commitments takes
people with integrity, courage and a passion
What we do for making a difference for patients. Our people
We focus on our vision of fitting treatments to are proud to say: We are Roche.
patients: providing the right therapy for the right
patient to ensure the best response at the right Our leadership inspires outcomes that matter
time for the right value. Our approach combines our by embracing diversity and inclusion. Different
rich expertise in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics backgrounds, perspectives and experiences,
with expanded data science capabilities to drive across the entire organisation, foster innovative
more effective and efficient research and to solutions for the benefit of patients. Our ways of
enable better therapeutic decisions for patients. working enable agile and networked responses to
the ever-increasing pace of change by balancing
Our pursuit of excellence in science rests on four the needs for stability, speed and flexibility.
key elements: an exceptionally broad and deep
understanding of disease biology; the seamless Our set-up is designed for innovation. Our
integration of our capabilities in pharmaceuticals autonomous research and development centres
and diagnostics; a diversity of approaches to and alliances with more than 250 external partners
maximise innovation; and a long-term orientation. foster a diversity of scientific approaches and
agility. Our global geographical scale and reach
Working in partnership with third parties, we enables us to attract talent in the leading global
offer integrated solutions with improved medical, science clusters and to quickly bring our solutions
health and economic benefits. We work with to people who need them.Our strategy | Roche 37
What we do How we do it
Our focus Our leadership
Fitting treatments to patients Inspiring outcomes that matter
Our distinctiveness Our ways of working
Excellence in science Agile and networked
Our delivery Our set-up
Value for all stakeholders Built for innovation38Diagnostics
We are committed to advancing diagnostic solutions that
can support healthcare professionals in making critical
decisions for their patients’ health and also improving
the way these essential tools are integrated into health
systems around the world.Hiro
Nitta
Senior Scientific Fellow
Tucson, USA
Hiro’s work at Roche enables him to follow his passion of
developing diagnostics to address unmet patient needs.
His many scientific breakthroughs have already impacted
the lives of millions of patients around the world.Diagnostics | Roche 41
Dr Bushra
Jamil
Professor of Medicine and Infectious Diseases
Karachi, Pakistan
Dr Jamil partners with stakeholders across the
healthcare system to increase access to care and
diagnostics in Pakistan. Her efforts have led to
the provision of patient-centric integrated care.42
Hiro NittaDiagnostics | Roche 43
A steadfast commitment to improving access
to vital diagnostics
Hiro Nitta’s dedication to continually improve accurately diagnose HER2-positive patients,
access for patients began when he was just a anywhere in the world. He succeeded.
teenager. As an 18-year-old college student in
Japan, Hiro developed a passion for all aspects of Just the beginning
histology – the study of tissues. He spent his days After the new diagnostic was launched, Hiro’s
dissecting samples, analysing data and eventually commitment only deepened. “Missing one patient
publishing the findings that now serve as the who could be receiving life-saving therapy is one
foundation for scientists involved in developing too many,” Hiro says. His new goal was to develop
state-of-the-art tissue-based diagnostics. even more precise diagnostics.
Those early academic days were only the beginning Hiro’s work at Roche enabled him to follow his
of Hiro’s decades-long commitment to developing passion of developing diagnostics to address unmet
even more precise diagnostics for HER2-positive patient needs. He has created a next-generation
breast cancer patients. It’s a journey Hiro considers HER2 test that can determine which specific type of
to be his life’s work. In 2000, Hiro began working cells are present in a tumour. That valuable insight
for Ventana Medical Systems, which was acquired is used to inform new therapy protocols and could
by Roche in 2008. Today, he is a Senior Scientific eventually enable more HER2-positive patients to
Fellow in Clinical Development and Medical Affairs experience better outcomes.
at the Roche Diagnostics Solutions campus in
Tucson, Arizona. And he has no plans of slowing Hiro has also discovered a previously unknown type
down any time soon. As Hiro explains, “We have of tumour cell structure and is working with other
so much more to do for patients. There’s no time breast cancer researchers to investigate how this
to waste.” type of tumour responds to targeted therapy.
What is HER2? At the same time, he is developing tests that will
As many as 20% of the 2.3 million cases of breast provide valuable information that cannot be
cancer diagnosed globally each year are fuelled obtained through the diagnostics currently
by the HER2 gene.1,2 Many HER2-positive patients available. In 2022, Hiro’s research on the novel
can benefit from a specific targeted therapy. But assay which evaluates both the HER2 gene and
determining which patients should receive the HER2 protein with a single tissue sample was
treatments initially required highly specialised presented at meetings of the United States and
technology. “Some women didn’t get the right Canadian Academy of Pathology as well as the
treatment because of challenges with testing,” European Society for Medical Oncology.
Hiro says. “I wasn’t okay with that.”
Access has multiple elements
While working at Ventana, Hiro dedicated For Hiro, improving access means that all cancer
himself to developing a simpler test that could patients have the opportunity to be tested with
be conducted in any lab and could quickly and the most innovative and accurate methods, and
1 Breast cancer fact sheet 2021, World Health Organization
2 Recommendations for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 testing in breast cancer: American Society of Clinical Oncology/College of American Pathologists
clinical practice guideline update Journal of Clinical Oncology44
“Everyone deserves access to the best cancer
diagnostic tools and therapies, so they can
have more time with the people they love.”
those results can then be used to select the point, he was not expected to survive. He considers
treatment protocol that can most effectively his eventual recovery to be an invaluable second
save or extend their lives. Hiro describes his chance to continue his work and to do even more
commitment this way: for patients. Here is how Hiro explains the impact
of his experience:
“It shouldn’t matter where someone lives or how
much money they have. Everyone deserves “I understand now, more than ever, the fear and hope
access to the best cancer diagnostic tools and patients feel, and their worry over limited treatment
therapies, so they can have more time with the options. I got a second chance to live. I believe I
people they love. To help make that goal a reality survived so I could work harder than ever to give
I will continue working on developing better and cancer patients their second chance. That is what
more precise tissue-based cancer diagnostics this experience has left me with, and what drives
for as long as I can.” me to make a greater difference.”
Inspiration, everywhere Hiro still needs to manage his life due to symptoms
While Hiro’s accomplishments begin in his of long COVID. This further reminds him of the
laboratory, he knows the impact of his work need for better testing and treatment choices for
happens outside those doors. Hiro can be found all patients.
in cancer treatment facilities around the world,
meeting with research collaborators. These visits A life in full
provide the invaluable opportunity to connect As committed as Hiro is to his work, he does have
with cancer patients and their family members. interests outside of the lab. He is an award-winning
Even a casual conversation in the lobby of a magician and performs for children in hospital
hospital helps Hiro maintain his focus on the paediatric units. He also raises standard poodles,
ultimate beneficiaries of his work. and shows them in competition. Add to that a love
of Disney and a talent for baking, and Hiro looks to
By getting to know patients as people, he can be the very definition of a well-rounded individual
better understand their individual journeys, the with a passion-filled life.
challenges they face and their hopes for the
future. “When we focus on patients,” Hiro explains, Hiro’s many scientific breakthroughs have already
“we know what we must do.” impacted the lives of millions of patients around
the world. His commitment to reaching even more
Hiro has another unique perspective that inspires people with the highly precise diagnostics that
his work. In March of 2021, he experienced a can lead to more effective treatments continues
dangerously severe COVID-19 infection. At one to drive him, every day.Diagnostics | Roche 45
In his quest to continuously improve breast cancer diagnosis,
Hiro Nitta spends his days investigating cancer cells. He is
dedicated to ensuring patients have access to appropriate
treatment options through improved understanding of
cancer biology.46
Enabling access to quality care and critical
diagnostics in Pakistan
Growing up with a father as a physician, Dr Bushra A move towards patient-centred care
Jamil was exposed to the practice of medicine from The lack of a patient-centred system is also a
a young age. Reading his medical books as a child significant challenge that Dr Jamil sees as a critical
instilled a love of science and a drive to follow in gap. “If a patient requires a number of different
her father’s footsteps. Despite being a female in tests, they are often sent to different clinics in
a predominantly male-dominated field, Dr Jamil different areas rather than having basic diagnostics
studied various areas of medicine in both Pakistan available under one roof. This is incredibly
and the United Kingdom, and is now a Professor inconvenient for patients and is something we
of Medicine and Infectious Diseases at Aga Khan need to address.”
University Hospital (AKU) in Karachi, Pakistan, and
also the President of the Medical Microbiology & In 2021, Dr Jamil served as National Coordinator
Infectious Diseases Society of Pakistan (MMIDSP). for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis
and Malaria grants with the Ministry of Health in
Diagnostics infrastructure is key Islamabad. She procured the COVID-19 mitigation
A great deal of Dr Jamil’s work at both AKU and grant with a focus on strengthening health systems
MMIDSP is focused on increasing access to quality and ensuring provision of integrated care and
healthcare in Pakistan. “The lack of an effective critical diagnostics all under one roof. “This is
healthcare delivery system is a huge challenge in the type of clinical service which is needed across
Pakistan,” says Dr Jamil. “Although it varies from the country,” says Dr Jamil. “While COVID-19
province to province, the system is extremely served as a catalyst for funding, we now have
fragmented and of poor quality. There is an urgent the ability to diagnose other infectious diseases
need to invest to close the gaps, particularly as using the same equipment. This is the model
it relates to accessing diagnostics services and that will truly move the needle when it comes to
adequately training healthcare professionals.” patient care.”
Unfortunately, the COVID-19 pandemic exacerbated Roche has been working with Dr Jamil to ensure
these issues and brought about the realisation that that district level secondary care hospitals are
a robust diagnostics infrastructure, for COVID-19 equipped with the diagnostics systems needed to
and other infectious diseases, is absolutely provide this one-stop-shop approach. “If we have
essential. “Diseases are not being diagnosed at the right equipment, we need to use it in the most
an early stage and when patients are eventually effective and efficient way possible,” says Dr Jamil.
diagnosed, there is not always a defined path for “This will have a huge impact on case detection as
them to take, especially if they live in a rural area. well as follow-up treatment, not to mention the
Some patients will have to go to a private clinic if fact that if it’s done easily and conveniently, the
they need urgent treatment.” patient will greatly benefit.”Diagnostics | Roche 47
Dr Bushra Jamil48
As an infectious disease expert, Dr Jamil knows the important
role diagnostics play in the detection and treatment of diseases
such as tuberculosis, HIV and malaria. Once critical diagnostics
infrastructures are in place, they can dramatically change the
quality and timeliness of care patients receive.Diagnostics | Roche 49
“We need to be able to bring diagnostics
that are available, affordable, simple and
fast into the public healthcare system in
an economical manner.”
Education is key medical education opportunities for healthcare
Another important component of increasing professionals and execute disease awareness and
quality of care for patients in Pakistan is properly education campaigns to emphasise the significance
training healthcare professionals on the principles of timely diagnosis and treatment for prevention
of effective diagnostics and management of and management across a variety of disease areas.
diseases. “When a workforce is inadequately trained,
they tend to bypass essential steps and patients are A look to the future
treated based on previous experience rather than When asked what the future could look like
on accurate diagnostics,” says Dr Jamil. “This can for healthcare in Pakistan, Dr Jamil’s answer is
be harmful to the patient because the treatment is clear: “Public-private partnerships are critical.
not based on accurate and timely diagnostics. This We need to be able to bring diagnostics that are
also has negative implications for the community available, affordable, simple and fast into the
and the country as a whole.” public healthcare system in an economical manner.
We can then work together to train the workforce
In 2022, Roche Diagnostics Pakistan partnered and build these diagnostics capabilities into our
with Dr Jamil and the MMIDSP to increase advocacy procedures for improved patient journeys. I am
around diagnostics and enable improved patient confident that implementing these changes can
access in order to minimise the country’s disease truly make a difference in the lives of the people
impact. This partnership will deliver continuing of Pakistan.”50
Integrated solutions to improve
outcomes
For our Diagnostics Division, 2022 was marked Through our Digital Pathology portfolio, we are
by three key trends. First, global awareness of transforming pathology. The VENTANA DP 600
the value of diagnostics across every aspect high-capacity slide scanner creates high-resolution
of healthcare grew significantly. Our COVID-19 digital images of stained tissue samples to help
portfolio continued to expand to meet demands diagnose cancer and determine a patient’s
related to the disease’s evolution. Second, we treatment. The Digital Pathology Open Environment
also saw measurable growth in our base business, allows software developers to easily integrate
such as tests for cancer, cardiovascular disease, their image analysis tools for tumour tissue with
infectious diseases – and more. Third, we advanced our uPath enterprise software.
our efforts to build a sustainable digital health
business that will set us up for success in a more Open digital ecosystems connect innovators,
digitalised market. from start-ups to technology leaders, to give
lab professionals, clinicians, researchers and
From preventative screening to follow-up care patients faster access to a wider range of
Diagnostics play an increasingly critical role across innovation. This further advances our personalised
the entire patient journey. With early diagnosis, healthcare solutions. Over time, the thousands
disease progression may be slowed or even stopped. of data points patients create throughout their
Diagnostic testing can provide patients, families and journey will help identify changes in their health
healthcare professionals with information that may and enable tracking of similar patient groups across
lead to the best possible outcome. For healthcare institutions and geographies. Through artificial
systems, access to diagnostic information for intelligence (AI) and machine learning, this will
managing diseases helps avoid unnecessary service eventually allow for comparison of outcomes as
delivery, reduces overall cost of care, improves its well as predictive measures.
effectiveness and, most importantly, contributes
to saving lives. Moreover, we are carefully assessing the diversity
of patient populations in all our diagnostics clinical
As demonstrated by the COVID-19 pandemic, trials, demonstrating our commitment to developing
diagnostics and information solutions can make a solutions that help to improve outcomes for patients
major difference in a country’s ability to cope with around the world. For example, our Diagnostics
infectious disease outbreaks and maintain health Division is contributing in a very meaningful way to
systems. Advanced diagnostic solutions support the Roche-wide Africa Genomics Program (AGP).
earlier decision-making, help reduce hospitalisation,
enable targeted treatment strategies and improve In Diabetes Care, we are advancing our integrated
patient management. Personalised Diabetes Management (iPDM)
strategy. We successfully deployed the Customer
Driving innovation through digitalisation Population Insights Dashboard to streamline the
We have been building our division-wide digital data management process and enable healthcare
foundation, strategy and portfolio, further professionals, administrators and payers to view
advancing our ambition to establish a sustainable population level trends. In time for the 10th
digital health business. In 2022, we unified anniversary of mySugr, the patient-centric interface
our digital health portfolio under the navify at the core of our open ecosystem, we introduced
brand, providing a range of next-generation extended functionalities and expanded smartphone
software solutions. compatibility for the mySugr Pump Control.Diagnostics | Roche 51
Tests conducted with Roche Diagnostics products
29 billion
cobas 6800/8800 systems installed
2079 (since inception)
Active in-licensing agreements
300
Active out-licensing agreements
190
Diagnostics
facts
2022 COVID-19 tests
enabled per month
>67 million
COVID-19 key launches in 2022
Name Launch date Approval Indication/Disease, etc. System/Platform
COVID-19 variant tests 16 March Research use only SARS-CoV-2 B.1.1.529 variant, Omicron subvariants cobas 6800/8800
BA.1, BA.1.1, BA.2, BA.2.2, BA.3 and Delta LightCycler
cobas z 480
(depending on test)
cobas SARS-CoV-2 Duo test 15 June FDA Emergency SARS-CoV-2 RNA in nasal and nasopharyngeal cobas 6800/8800
Use Authorization swab specimens
Elecsys IGRA SARS-CoV-2 test 15 August CE Mark Supports understanding of immune response cobas e 411, e 601/602,
to SARS-CoV-2 infection and vaccination e 402 and e 801 analysers
SARS-CoV-2 Rapid Antigen Test 2.01 12 October CE Mark SARS-CoV-2 tests delivering reliable results in No instrument needed
as few as 15 minutes
SARS-CoV-2 Rapid Antigen Test 2.0 Nasal2
SARS-CoV-2 Antigen Self Test Nasal3
cobas SARS-CoV-2 Qualitative test 24 October FDA COVID-19 PCR test performed on cobas 6800/8800
high-throughput platform52
7 24 9
new platforms tests digital solutions
Pathology Lab Roche Information Solutions
1 new platform 4 new digital solutions
9 new tests
3 new digital solutions
1 other
Diagnostics
Point of Care
key launches
Molecular Lab 1 new test
2022
2 new platforms
2 new tests
1 other
Diabetes Care Core Lab
1 new digital solution 4 new platforms
12 new tests
1 new digital solution
Cancer key launches in 2022
Name Launch date Approval Indication/Disease, etc. System/Platform
cobas HPV test with 16 June CE Mark Self-sampling for human papillomavirus (HPV) screening cobas molecular
self-s ampling solution to prevent cervical cancer instruments
VENTANA DP 600 28 June CE Mark Creates high-resolution digital images of stained tissue Slide scanner as part of
samples to help diagnose cancer Digital Pathology portfolio
BenchMark ULTRA PLUS 28 June CE Mark and global Fully automated tissue-staining process New system
VENTANA MMR RxDx Panel 11 August FDA label Companion diagnostic for solid tumours treated with BenchMark ULTRA
expansion Merck’s immunotherapy Keytruda
Digital LightCycler System 23 August 15 countries worldwide, Next-generation digital PCR system to help clinical New system
CE-marked with FDA researchers better understand the nature of a patient’s
510(k) exempt status cancer, genetic disease or infection
PATHWAY anti-HER2 4 October FDA Companion diagnostic for the assessment of HER2 BenchMark ULTRA IHC/ISH
(4B5) test low status in metastatic breast cancer patients slide-staining instrument
PRAME (EPR20330) Antibody 11 October n/a Evaluates PRAME protein expression from patients BenchMark ULTRA IHC/ISH
with suspected melanoma instruments
VENTANA FOLR1 (FOLR1-2.1) 14 November FDA First immunohistochemistry companion diagnostic to aid BenchMark ULTRA
RxDx Assay in identifying epithelial ovarian cancer patients eligible
for targeted treatment with Elahere (ImmunoGen)Diagnostics | Roche 53
Other key launches in 2022
Name Launch date Approval Indication/Disease, etc. System/Platform
cobas infinity edge 11 January Rolling launches in Cloud-based platform connecting patient test results, Three modules: unite,
selected markets medical records and third-party applications scribe and smart
cobas pulse 12 January CE Mark Blood glucose management solution with mobile Handheld blood glucose
digital health capabilities management device
Floodlight 12 January MDR certification A smartphone app that enables data-driven Smartphone
decision-making for patients with multiple sclerosis
mySugr Pump Control 25 April Launched in Allows diabetes patients to import temporary basal Accu-Chek Insight
selected markets rates from their Accu-Chek Insight insulin pump to insulin pump
the mySugr app
Three LightMix Modular virus 25 May Available for research Mpox virus detection LightCycler 480 II
kits (quantitative PCR tests) use in majority of instrument or
countries worldwide cobas z 480 analyzer
Elecsys HCV Duo immunoassay 18 July CE Mark Simultaneous and independent determination of the cobas e 801 and cobas
hepatitis C virus antigen and antibody status from a e 402 immunoassay
single human plasma or serum sample analysers
Elecsys Amyloid Plasma Panel 19 July FDA Breakthrough Device Detects and measures Alzheimer’s disease biomarkers Elecsys technology
Designation in blood plasma
cobas pure integrated solutions 19 September FDA Next generation of innovation in the cobas family cobas pure
of Serum Work Area solutions
cobas MPXV 16 November FDA Emergency PCR test for qualitative detection of DNA from cobas 6800/8800
Use Authorization mpox virus
Elecsys AD CSF assays 8 December FDA Cerebrospinal fluid assays supporting more accurate cobas fully automated
and timely diagnosis immunoassay analysers54Pharmaceuticals
We are proof that scientific innovation leads to
products that truly save and improve patients’ lives.
Focusing on oncology, immunology, ophthalmology,
infectious diseases, neuroscience, metabolic and
rare diseases, we translate excellence in science
into effective medicines for patients.Frankline
Akinyi Otieno
Breast cancer patient
Kenya, East Africa
Frankline received treatment for her breast cancer
through the first national access programme in Kenya.
The programme is an important step for Kenyan women
with breast cancer to access standard-of-care treatment.Pharmaceuticals | Roche 57
Ricky
Alas
Global Value Stream Strategy Lead
Basel, Switzerland
Ricky is part of the team working to improve how patients
receive healthcare and access medicine. His work has
resulted in a new and transformative way to provide direct-
to-patient treatment delivery and home care services.58
Frankline Akinyi OtienoPharmaceuticals | Roche 59
Overcoming challenges to accessing breast
cancer treatment in Kenya
As a peer educator at the Centre for Health on her well-being. She also faced stigma from
Solutions facility in Ukwala town, Kenya, Frankline family, friends and colleagues, which amplified her
Akinyi Otieno works with women to educate and concerns. “They told me that cancer is expensive
support them on a range of health issues. For and that people don’t survive chemotherapy.”
the past six years she has been visiting women in
the community to speak about reproductive and Her family had a difficult time accepting the
sexual health, including topics such as sexually cancer diagnosis and they were also concerned
transmitted infections and family planning. Frankline about the medical treatment, insisting that she
also educates women on how to perform breast first try herbal medicine. Although Frankline had
self-examinations and encourages them to go for reservations, she tried this option for two months.
cervical cancer screenings. Ultimately the herbal medicine didn’t work, so
Frankline returned to JOOTRH to proceed with the
While her role requires extensive knowledge on recommended treatment plan from the doctors.
these topics, Frankline had already learned long
ago the importance of self-examinations and Confronted by access challenges
screening from observing posters at the hospital Frankline underwent a mastectomy, followed by
that she used to visit frequently for her asthma. eight cycles of chemotherapy. The impact on her
Routinely performing breast self-examinations life was indeed significant. “It was not an easy
proved to be a critically important practice in her journey for me,” she says. “I had never had surgery
own life when she found a lump herself. before and I really wasn’t comfortable. I got quite
sick from the chemotherapy and my arm became
Frankline immediately consulted her doctor and constrained after the surgery. I couldn’t lift heavy
was referred to a specialist at Jaramogi Oginga objects, hang clothes to dry on the line, or sleep on
Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital (JOOTRH) my right side. People started seeing me differently
for further investigation. Following an ultrasound, and my self-esteem suffered as a result.”
mammogram and biopsy, in May 2021 Frankline
was told that she had breast cancer. Following the surgery and chemotherapy,
Frankline was to continue with hormonal
Exploring alternative treatment options treatment. Her treatments had been covered by
“It was a huge shock hearing that I had breast the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) up until
cancer,” she recalls. “I really wasn’t expecting it this point, but now she was faced with a difficult
because I was breastfeeding at the time, and prior decision. “The NHIF covered the mastectomy and
to this, the tests I had done indicated that the lump chemotherapy, as well as the first four hormonal
was normal. I was told it would subside with time.” treatments, but after that I needed to pay for
the remaining 14 treatments,” Frankline explains.
Upon hearing her diagnosis, Frankline was hesitant “I couldn’t afford it and I didn’t know what to do
to follow the recommended hospital treatment next. I was stuck, so I had to stop my treatment
because she was afraid of the potential effects for two months while I weighed my options.”60
“I want to advocate for all women to get
screened; the earlier the better so you can
get the right diagnosis and treatment.”
Soon Frankline had her answer. In June 2022, the A bright future
Ministry of Health in Kenya, the NHIF and Roche While Frankline is thankful that she was able to
announced a partnership to make breast cancer access her treatment, she also recognises the
treatment available to all NHIF members in Kenya. importance of her own knowledge and the impact
This was the first national access programme for of screening. “The self-examination saved my life,”
cancer medicines in Kenya, and an important step she says. “I want to advocate for all women to get
to ease the financial burden of Kenyan women with screened; the earlier the better so you can get
breast cancer and ensure they have access to the right diagnosis and treatment. Cancer doesn’t
standard-of-care treatment. have to be a death sentence as long as you get
the diagnosis early enough.”
Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed
cancer in Kenya, with 6,000 cases diagnosed Today, Frankline is responding well to the
each year and 2,500 breast cancer-related treatment and she is optimistic about what her
deaths.1 Through this partnership, Roche is future holds. “I believe that all my dreams for
helping strengthen the diagnostic ecosystem for the future will go as planned and that I will live a
breast cancer screening and early diagnosis of normal life,” she says.
patients, as well as improve the referral pathways
to treatment centres so that women can get the A big part of that future is helping her son
treatment they need in a timely manner. realise his own dreams. “My son is my comfort;
when I am sick, he tells me all will be well. So
For Frankline, this welcome news meant that she I want the very best for him,” says Frankline.
did not have to worry about paying out of pocket “He wants to be a pilot when he grows up, and I
and that she could continue with her treatment. hope to help him with his education. I know I will
“This made it easier for me because I could now live and see that happen, and he can fly me all
get my full treatment covered.” around the world.”
1 Cancer on the Global Stage: Incidence and Cancer-Related Mortality in Kenya. World Health Organization Region: Africa, The ASCO PostPharmaceuticals | Roche 61
Like many women with breast cancer in Kenya, Frankline faced
financial challenges that prevented her from getting the medicine
she needed. A new collaboration between the Ministry of Health
in Kenya, the NHIF and Roche has made breast cancer treatment
available, making it easier and more accessible for women like
Frankline to receive standard-of-care treatment. Now Frankline
is doing well and looks forward to a bright future with her son.62
Improving access to treatment for patients
from the comfort of their own home
When Ricky Alas worked as a consultant in digital delivery of specialty medicine is still uncommon.
innovation and corporate venture building in And yet it can make a significant improvement
San Francisco, he was exposed to a number of in a patient’s quality of life while also having the
industries, ranging from financial services to potential to save healthcare costs through more
consumer packaged goods. But after ten years, efficient processes and delivery of treatment.
Ricky was ready for a change. Of all the industries
he’d worked in, he was most drawn to healthcare. Ricky and the global ID2P team were initially
He wanted to be part of an organisation that had tasked with finding a way to make home delivery
a direct and tangible impact on improving people’s of Evrysdi, an oral treatment for spinal muscular
lives, so in 2019 he joined Genentech as a Digital atrophy (SMA), a reality – no small feat considering
Transformation Lead in Global Supply Chain. nothing like this existed for a medicine that would
typically have to be picked up from a specialty
Shortly after settling in, Ricky was given the treatment centre, which could be hours from a
opportunity to work on a project called Integrated patient’s home. They set out to create a solution
Direct Delivery to Patients, or ID2P, where the that was “desirable to patients and the ecosystem,
value for patients was clear. ID2P stemmed from feasible and viable,” according to Ricky. “It felt
an exercise to answer the question: “What would almost like a start-up. There are very few times
the healthcare system look like if it was designed you get to build a new business in an established
around what patients and their family members company, and for Roche to give us that opportunity
needed and wanted so they could make the most was amazing.”
of their life?”
“If you think about Roche’s ambition to provide more
The initial thinking was to improve some of the benefit to patients at less cost to society, ID2P does
processes in healthcare delivery to better support exactly that,” says Ricky. “I’m proud to work for an
patients and caregivers, and simplify how they organisation that not only has such ambitious goals,
get treatments. The key solution pointed to direct- but also comes up with new and creative ideas to
to-patient delivery and home care services, and achieve them. We don’t always know what will work
thus ID2P was born. If successful, the project but we are always trying to find ways to improve
would improve the quality of healthcare service to people’s lives.”
patients and family members, alleviate hospital and
clinic burden by reducing the number of in-person When the programme was launched in 2020, the
patient visits, and improve outcomes for patients interest from offices around the world to participate
through greater convenience and potentially better was overwhelmingly positive. However, the road
treatment adherence. ahead was challenging as the team forged new
paths in every direction – from legal and regulatory
Meeting patients where they are requirements to supply and logistics solutions –
While home delivery of consumer goods – from pizza while also taking into account stakeholder needs
to appliances – is part of our everyday life, home and preferences. “It was such an unknown andPharmaceuticals | Roche 63
Ricky Alas64
Ricky and the ID2P team work with colleagues around the globe to
design, develop and implement tailored programmes that enable
delivery of treatments directly to patients in their own homes.
This convenient solution can save countless hours of travel time
to specialty hospitals which, for patients with rare and chronic
conditions like SMA or haemophilia and their caregivers, can be
life-changing.Pharmaceuticals | Roche 65
“I believe that the evolution of healthcare
is going to continue towards a much more
patient-centric realm.”
unconstrained space,” recalls Ricky. “There was had a significant impact on improving patients’
no road map or industry barometer for success. lives, what Ricky enjoys most about the project
We were figuring it out as we went and when we hit is the relationships he’s formed. “I feel like I’ve
roadblocks, they were amplified because we only genuinely made friends, even though I’ve met very
had ourselves to look at.” Despite the challenges, few of them in person. I think that comes from
ID2P has seen significant growth, increasing from getting to do meaningful work in a cool way with
an initial launch of nine pilot programmes in its dedicated people.”
first year to more than 40 programmes in Roche
affiliates across the globe in 2022. Trailblazing new paths to access
ID2P shows no sign of slowing down, as more
What has made ID2P so successful? “The people,” affiliates continue joining the project and creating
Ricky says without hesitation. “Those who lead their own fit-for-purpose direct-to-patient and
the project in their respective countries and were out-of-hospital solutions. In fact, Ricky is hopeful
involved in the day-to-day work, who overcame that it could serve as a future capability for
constraints every step of the way. This project several of Roche’s pipeline products. “I don’t
wouldn’t be possible without their passion, initiative see a world in which we can talk about ID2P as a
and drive towards a single goal: addressing the project for much longer. It will just be our way of
unmet needs of our patients.” demonstrating the full value of our medicines for
patients and ecosystems.”
Collaboration without borders
The local teams came together to design and Ricky thinks Roche can play a role in helping
deploy solutions in collaboration with ecosystem ecosystems adapt and establish the necessary
partners, with the power and resources of the full capabilities to enhance access and firmly place
ID2P network behind them. Ricky feels fortunate patients at the heart of it all. “I believe that the
that he gets to work with colleagues in almost every evolution of healthcare is going to continue towards
country. “You have all these diverse perspectives a much more patient-centric realm,” he says. “ID2P
and cross-functional backgrounds at every level is just the beginning, and there’s so much more we
of the project working together and trying to help can do to trigger that transformation.”
each other find solutions to these challenges,”
he explains. Having recently relocated to Basel with his wife
and two young children, Ricky is excited to continue
While it’s clear that Ricky is passionate about playing his part in ID2P – and is excited to meet
making a difference for people and that ID2P has some of the friends he’s made along the way.66
A clear commitment to innovation
Our commitment to innovation has never been clinical decline in people with early Alzheimer’s
clearer and in the past year we made major disease, Roche remains committed to this disease,
investments in both research and development. one of the most complex neurological disorders
Our unique combination of autonomous and and major public health challenges. We are
independent research organisations together continuing to develop and deliver tests to enable
with our investment in a strong network of more early and accurate diagnosis, and have a pipeline
than 250 external partner organisations globally of investigational medicines for different targets,
drives pioneering scientific and technological types and stages of the disease.
breakthroughs across healthcare.
The power of partnerships
In 2022, we launched Vabysmo, the first bispecific Facilitating patient access to quality medicines is at
antibody approved for the eye. It targets and the heart of our business. To meet the rising global
inhibits two signalling pathways linked to a demand for high-quality and accessible healthcare
number of vision-threatening retinal conditions by services, we have further integrated comprehensive
neutralising angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2) and vascular and actionable plans into our work and enhanced
endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A). Vabysmo our patient partnerships worldwide.
is approved in more than 50 countries around
the world, including the United States, Japan, In 2022, we entered a first partnership with a
the United Kingdom and the European Union for holistic approach to improving population health
people living with neovascular or ‘wet’ age-related with the International Federation of Red Cross and
macular degeneration and diabetic macular Red Crescent Societies (IFRC). This collaboration will
oedema. Review by other regulatory authorities help us to unlock access to previously underserved
is ongoing. We continue to pioneer new ways populations worldwide and will strengthen our
to treat vision-threatening eye diseases. commitment to meet the needs of patients no
matter who they are or where they live.
The European Commission approved a Polivy
combination in previously untreated diffuse large Advancing inclusive research
B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and our first-in-class We are deeply committed to addressing barriers to
bispecific antibody Lunsumio for the treatment clinical trial participation and advancing inclusive
of relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma. research. We believe that improving health outcomes
Lunsumio represents a new type of immunotherapy for all patients is core to our mission, and we are
that is a chemotherapy-free and fixed-duration committed to being industry leaders in offering
treatment option with the potential to provide patients with serious and life-threatening diseases
durable remissions and offer a significant period of a chance to receive investigational medicines.
time without treatment, following initial therapy. The
Polivy combination is the first treatment option in We are aiming to continuously evolve our processes
more than 20 years to show a clinically meaningful to improve accessibility, convenience and ultimately
improvement in progression-free survival that is adherence, leading to better outcomes for patients
now approved in the EU for patients with previously and a reduced burden for caregivers. In order to
untreated DLBCL. meet the unique requirements in each country,
global and country colleagues are working closely
Although the phase III GRADUATE I and II trials together with external stakeholders to go the extra
did not meet their primary endpoints of slowing mile for patients.Pharmaceuticals | Roche 67
Pharmaceuticals clinical pipeline
Phase I Phase II Phase III Registration
32 5 5 1
Oncology
7 2
Inflammation/Immunology
7 11 2
Neuroscience
2 3
Infectious diseases
6 1 1
Ophthalmology
1
Metabolics
1
Others
Our pipeline of 87 new molecular entities covers a broad range of diseases, and highly innovative technologies are applied to create and produce the
active molecules.68
62
new partnerships
Product out-licensing
agreements and divestments Acquisition
5 1
PHC agreements
13
Product, technology or discovery Number of new
licence agreements partnerships
16 in 2022
Research and discovery
collaborations
11
Agreements derived from
existing alliances
16Pharmaceuticals | Roche 69
27
major approvals
China Europe
4 5
A ctemra/RoActemra L unsumio
Rheumatoid arthritis, subcutaneous Follicular lymphoma, third-line treatment
Rozlytrek Polivy
NTRK-positive solid tumours Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, first-line
treatment
Rozlytrek Major approvals
ROS1-positive non-small cell lung cancer Tecentriq
in 2022
Non-small cell lung cancer, adjuvant therapy
Tecentriq
Non-small cell lung cancer, adjuvant therapy V abysmo
Diabetic macular oedema
V abysmo
Neovascular or ‘wet’ age-related macular
Japan – Chugai
degeneration
9 US
A ctemra/RoActemra
9
COVID-19 pneumonia
A ctemra/RoActemra
G azyva/Gazyvaro COVID-19 pneumonia
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, first-line treatment
A ctemra/RoActemra
H emlibra Giant cell arteritis, intravenous
Acquired haemophilia A
C otellic
Perjeta + Herceptin Histiocytosis
HER2-positive colorectal cancer
L unsumio
P olivy Follicular lymphoma, third-line treatment
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, first-line treatment
Tecentriq
Tecentriq Alveolar soft part sarcoma
Non-small cell lung cancer, adjuvant therapy
Evrysdi
M abThera/Rituxan Spinal muscular atrophy, presymptomatic paediatric <2 months
Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder
V abysmo
V abysmo Diabetic macular oedema
Diabetic macular oedema
V abysmo
V abysmo Neovascular or ‘wet’ age-related macular degeneration
Neovascular or ‘wet’ age-related macular degeneration
Xofluza
Influenza, paediatric
Oncology/Haematology Inflammation/Immunology Neuroscience Infectious diseases Ophthalmology70Personalised
healthcare
For more than 20 years, we have helped lay the scientific
groundwork for personalised healthcare with treatments
that target the underlying biology of cancer and other
diseases. Now we are working on taking personalised
healthcare toward a future in which care is tailored to an
individual’s needs and unique genetic profile.
UN SDGs Material topics
· Patient centricity
· R&D efficiency
· Personalised healthcare
· Real-world data
· Preparedness for ageing societySusanne
Fürst-Michna
Cancer of unknown primary (CUP) patient
Sinntal, Germany
Susanne was diagnosed with cancer of
unknown primary (CUP) in early 2020 and
had the opportunity to receive a tailored
treatment plan, informed by comprehensive
genomic profiling (CGP).Personalised healthcare | Roche 73
Dr Konstantinos
Balaskas
Medical Ophthalmologist
London, United Kingdom
Dr Balaskas and the team at Moorfields Eye Hospital
are utilising remote vision monitoring for patients
with retinal disease, with the ambition of
empowering them to assume greater ownership
of the management of their health.74
Susanne Fürst-MichnaPersonalised healthcare | Roche 75
Comprehensive genomic profiling brings new
hope in the fight against rare cancers
In March 2020, as she was driving home from her example, in the lungs or breast. Therefore, most
job in Frankfurt, Germany, Susanne Fürst-Michna patients with CUP are treated with standard
casually touched her neck and found several chemotherapy. Unfortunately, prognosis is poor
lumps on one side. When she returned home that and the median survival following diagnosis is
evening, she contacted some physician friends and just 6 to 12 months.2
they recommended she consult with specialists.
Thus began a journey she never imagined she Susanne was concerned about next steps since
would face. there were so many unknowns. “All I could think was
‘how are we going to deal with this?’” Unfortunately,
After a number of visits to different specialists, because this was happening during the height
Susanne was told there was something wrong of the COVID-19 pandemic, Susanne was often
with her kidney function. A subsequent CT scan alone attending appointments at a clinic near her
revealed a large number of swollen lymph nodes home. “It was hard to not have my husband there
which was suspected to be lymphoma. “I will always with me for support. He was only allowed to pick me
remember the day I had that scan as it was my son’s up afterwards,” Susanne recalls. “But on my final
12th birthday,” Susanne recalls. “A day that should consultation with the doctor, he was allowed to
have been about celebrating him took a turn for be there with me. We asked what the options were
the worst when the urologist called me at 8.30 that moving forward. That moment, once again, I will
evening which made me very anxious. The next day, never forget.”
my family doctor told me I had cancer. Needless to
say, I was stunned.” A path forward
Susanne’s doctor recommended that she move
An elusive diagnosis her care to specialists in Heidelberg. “We
After some further testing on her lymph nodes, the drove to Heidelberg with heavy hearts, but we
results did not reveal where the cancer originated. returned as completely different people,” she
“I asked what that meant and the oncologist said says. “We got in the car and headed home with
I had cancer of unknown primary (CUP),” says our confidence restored.”
Susanne. “As soon as I got home, I started
researching online like everyone does these days. During her appointment, Susanne was told that
What I learned was scary – this is a type of cancer she had the option of potentially receiving a
where the original tumour cannot be found so personalised treatment plan by using technology
doctors are only able to find secondary tumours that analyses the DNA of the patient’s metastases.
that have spread as a result of the primary one.” This technology, called comprehensive genomic
profiling (CGP), is a way of finding the unique
About 3–5% of all cancer diagnoses are CUP1 and ‘fingerprint’ of a cancer tumour and can help
the absence of a primary tumour causes practical determine if there are specific genomic alterations
problems because traditional treatment approaches that can be targeted with molecularly guided
rely on knowing the site of the cancer’s origin, for therapy or cancer immunotherapy. The approach
1 Understanding cancer’s secret syndrome, New Scientist
2 Genomic Testing, Foundation Medicine, Inc.76
“That call, yet again, changed everything.
My doctor said that there are targeted
drugs to treat that specific alteration and
that we’d be able to get it under control.”
represents a shift from treating cancer based on very dedicated. Plus, my husband and I have that
its site, or likely site, of origin, to treating a patient, time together to talk and laugh and think about
like Susanne, based on the clinically relevant the future,” Susanne says. Throughout, Susanne
genomic changes suspected in driving the cancer’s has been able to continue working, and she and
growth. By providing a more complete picture her husband have found a new passion in mountain-
of Susanne’s cancer, CGP could help inform a biking around the scenic roads near their home.
tailored treatment plan and potentially remove the “We take a different route every day and we end up
need to determine the cancer’s original location in places around here that we’ve never been before.
in her body. “The team of doctors described this It’s just wonderful,” she says with excitement in
as an opportunity and I knew I had to seize that her voice.
opportunity,” recalls Susanne.
A positive outlook
A personalised treatment plan Susanne feels incredibly lucky to have had the
Susanne underwent CGP tests that evaluated opportunity to receive a personalised treatment
genes known to be associated with cancer growth. plan informed by CGP. The impact of CGP is
The answers would provide essential first steps constantly evolving as diagnostics tools and
in developing informed treatment strategies. In solutions improve, more targeted therapies
August 2020, Susanne was thrilled when she was are developed and more data are generated to
told that her CGP revealed a genomic alteration improve our understanding of cancer biology.
that was driving her cancer’s growth. “That call, Susanne and her husband, along with their son
yet again, changed everything. My CUP doctors and daughter, are already planning holidays
said that there are targeted drugs to treat that together in the United States to spend time
specific alteration and that we’d be able to get travelling and enjoying each other’s company.
it under control. That was the best gift anybody “I’m living my life just like I always used to. We travel,
could have given me at that point,” says Susanne. we’re a close-knit family, and I didn’t really allow
anything to change in my life. There were negative
As soon as Susanne’s cancer alteration was things of course having to deal with my illness
identified, her personalised treatments began. but thinking positively has always been one of my
She now travels to Heidelberg every four weeks basic principles,” says Susanne. “I’ve been given
to receive her therapy at the clinic and is grateful a gift of seeing my kids grow into adulthood, I can
for her husband’s company in the car ride each still spend time with my husband, and I can and
time. “The team there has been wonderful and will continue to enjoy my life.”Personalised healthcare | Roche 77
When she was first diagnosed with cancer of unknown primary,
Susanne was unsure what the future would hold. After utilising
comprehensive genomic profiling to determine her personalised
treatment plan, she is hopeful for the future. She and her family
continue to enjoy time together exploring the scenic landscape
near their home in Sinntal, Germany.78
Digital health solutions transforming care
for those living with progressive eye diseases
As an ophthalmologist, Dr Konstantinos Balaskas This urgent need for remote vision monitoring,
is a firm believer in the old adage that the eyes in conjunction with regular office visits, quickly
are the windows to the soul. His interest in ocular resulted in Moorfields and Roche partnering to
medicine began during his medical studies in pilot a programme to address the problem.
Athens, Greece, and has led him to his current role
as a retinal specialist and principal investigator “Our collaboration with Roche began out of
for research into artificial intelligence and digital necessity and, within four weeks, we deployed a
technologies at Moorfields Eye Hospital in programme that we are continuing to develop as
London, United Kingdom. part of our offering at Moorfields’ medical retina
clinics,” says Dr Balaskas.
Dr Balaskas credits his keen interest in the field
of ophthalmology to the fact that it is constantly Our proposed solution was an app called Home
evolving. “I’ve always liked ophthalmology Vision Monitor that patients with chronic eye
instinctively. Dramatic and rapid technology disease could download to their smartphone or
transformation has revolutionised the way we tablet and monitor their vision from the comfort
provide care for patients,” he says. “Year after of their own home. Patients used the app to
year, the area is constantly reinventing itself perform visual function tests and the test results
and we are now able to treat diseases of the eye were instantly available for their clinicians to view.
that used to be incurable.” If there was a change in a patient’s test results,
their practitioners were notified and could follow
“Our goal is to prevent vision loss, especially for up with the patient directly.
retinal disease,” says Dr Balaskas. “Not so long ago,
a diagnosis of chronic retinal disease would have “We registered approximately 500 patients into
been devastating for the patient in the absence of the home monitoring service with the ambition of
effective treatments. Most recently, we are also empowering them to assume greater ownership of
hoping to improve the quality of life for our patients the management of their health,” reflects Dr Balaskas.
using digital technologies that may give greater
access to care in the future, potentially allowing Changing the landscape of care
them to be monitored away from the hospital and While it could be assumed that this type of remote
closer to their home.” monitoring would create a greater distance
between clinicians and their patients, Dr Balaskas
An urgent need and a rapid solution says the opposite is true. In fact, the data generated
In April 2020, during the early stages of the COVID-19 by Home Vision Monitor can help to inform and
pandemic, Dr Balaskas and his colleagues knew enrich the discussions between the physician and
they needed an urgent solution. Many patients with the patient. “This experience has greatly impacted
retinal disease fall into the high-risk population the relationship I have with my patients in a positive
for developing serious illness due to COVID-19 way. It has actually brought us closer and has
and as such were avoiding hospital attendances. infused a sense of reassurance that they’re beingPersonalised healthcare | Roche 79
Dr Konstantinos Balaskas80
Thanks to technological advancements in the treatment of retinal
diseases, it is hoped that quality of life of patients can be improved
with the potential of allowing them to be monitored away from
hospital and closer to their home.Personalised healthcare | Roche 81
“We hope this programme enables us to provide
care to the right patients, at the right place
and at the right time.”
monitored regularly,” he says. Patients also still Medical Association. The possibility that this can
maintain their regular appointments. be scaled has instigated discussions around the
potential of home vision monitoring in the future
In conjunction with regular office visits, the remote and, as such, the Roche team is planning a limited
monitoring programme has the potential to reduce product release in the United States and expanding
the burden of hospital visits on patients and also the pilot in the UK.
on the healthcare system itself. “We hope this
programme enables us to provide care to the For Dr Balaskas, the possibilities of this technology,
right patients, at the right place and at the right along with others such as artificial intelligence,
time,” says Dr Balaskas. “Chronic retinal disease decision support systems, telemedicine and
has better prognosis the earlier it is diagnosed virtual clinics, really are the way of the future.
and treatment is started, with long-term benefits “My aspiration and hope is that we will be able to
for the healthcare system and the delivery of more have an integrated approach to these innovative
sustainable care.” While Home Vision Monitor does solutions because integration is key to materialising
not currently aid in the diagnosis of retinal disease, the benefits of these technologies,” he says.
it can help to identify changes in vision over time, “Putting all of this together will enable better
which can be used to aid the physician’s clinical access to quality care for patients in the future.”
decision-making.
In the meantime, Dr Balaskas and the team are
Learning for the future celebrating their recent win at the 2022 Health
Because this was the first initiative of its kind Service Journal’s Patient Safety Awards. The Home
in ophthalmology, it has attracted a significant Vision Monitor app was awarded best Virtual or
amount of attention amongst the international Remote Care Initiative of 2022. “This was a great
retinal community. Learnings about the barriers and moment – it is a true testament to innovation,
enablers to deploying home vision monitoring were collaboration and a patient-centric approach,”
recently published in the Journal of the American Dr Balaskas says proudly.82
Tailoring care is personal
Today’s convergence of pioneering science, delivery so it enables long-term access,
advanced technologies, and data and analytics sustainability and resiliency.
is shifting healthcare from a one-size-fits-all
approach to the delivery of more patient-centred We aim to be a catalyst and contributor to the
care. These tailored care solutions – commonly holistic thinking, cross-sector collaboration and
what we call personalised healthcare – are enabling collective effort necessary to turn personalised
Roche to truly integrate a holistic care experience care into a reality for people and societies.
that spans prevention, detection, diagnosis,
treatment and the ongoing monitoring and care Partnering across the healthcare ecosystem is
of individual people. essential to designing, testing and implementing
new personalised solutions that improve health
Insights and personalised care for individuals, enable healthcare professionals
High-quality data and analytics are the engines to make confident healthcare decisions, all
that drive personalised healthcare. Today, while reducing cost and burden to society. Today,
healthcare systems produce a wealth of untapped Roche’s partnering efforts span other pharma and
information fed by the diverse health data that biotech companies, start-ups, non-governmental
individuals generate throughout their lives. This organisations, healthcare providers, governments,
data can yield valuable insights allowing for regulatory authorities, patient communities,
early prevention, identifying patterns and trends academia and technology companies.
in population health and managing disease in a
more personalised way. Finding a tumour’s ‘fingerprint’
Cancer is a disease of the genome, driven by
Roche’s wide range of diagnostic and information genomic alterations. Comprehensive genomic
solutions generate and manage billions of data profiling (CGP) is a type of cancer genomic testing
points each year. All of them contain high-quality that helps to find the unique ‘fingerprint’ of a
information that has the potential to trigger patient’s cancer tumour to help determine how
advances in personalised healthcare. Taken it behaves and grows.
together, they contribute significantly to longitudinal
data and provide a more comprehensive picture of Together, Roche and Foundation Medicine are
patients to help support healthcare professionals working to advance cancer care and research by
in their decision-making through clinical decision embedding CGP throughout the care continuum.
support tools. At the point of care, CGP can inform easier, faster
and better clinical decisions. CGP also drives
Partnerships and collaborations faster, more efficient R&D, with the insights
As personalised healthcare aims to transform generated helping to optimise clinical trial design
care into a seamless and individualised experience and supporting the development of more effective,
for patients, we also need to transform care targeted treatments.Personalised healthcare | Roche 83
23 Flatiron-authored publications
Twenty-three Flatiron-authored papers were
accepted and published in peer-reviewed
>100,000 patient profiles
journals
More than 100,000 linked patient profiles
in the Foundation Medicine and Flatiron
Health Clinico-Genomic Database (CGDB)
New molecular profiling
Flatiron Health
New molecular profiling integration
milestones with Caris Life Sciences and
2022 Foundation Medicine
International expansion
14 Flatiron-authored poster discussions
International expansion focused on transforming
global oncology research and care with subsidiaries Fourteen accepted Flatiron-authored poster
in Japan, Germany and the United Kingdom discussions and presentations showcasing Flatiron’s
scientific leadership at key industry conferences
1 million clinical reports 1 breakthrough device designation
One million reports delivered from the Breakthrough device designation received
FoundationOne portfolio of comprehensive for FoundationOne Tracker, a circulating
genomic profiling (CGP) tests tumour DNA (ctDNA) detection and molecular
monitoring assay
Foundation Medicine
milestones
2022
Partnership with Epic >100,000 patient profiles
First customer as part of partnership with More than 100,000 linked patient profiles in
Epic’s electronic medical record (EMR) the Foundation Medicine and Flatiron Health
system went live Clinico-Genomic Database (CGDB)84Access to
healthcare
Working in collaboration with global and local
stakeholders, we support governments’ efforts to build
strong and resilient healthcare systems, particularly for
people in low- and lower-middle-income countries. Every
country’s healthcare system is unique, so we work closely
with partners to develop and deliver tailored solutions.
UN SDGs Material topics
· Long-term mindset
· Availability of healthcareDr Eric
Ngyedu
Chief Executive Officer, Cape Coast Teaching Hospital
Cape Coast, Ghana
At a newly opened cancer treatment centre in Ghana,
Dr Ngyedu is focused on addressing the challenges
cancer patients face during their journey.
He is grateful for the power of partnerships
that directly benefit patients.Access to healthcare | Roche 87
Dr Roberto
Altamirano
Gynaecologic Oncologist
Santiago, Chile
Dr Altamirano has played a key role in advising the
Ministry of Health in Chile in its evolution towards HPV
testing for cervical cancer screening – a critical
prevention strategy and important step towards
eradicating the disease in the country.88
Dr Eric NgyeduAccess to healthcare | Roche 89
Breaking down barriers to cancer care in Ghana
Throughout Dr Eric Ngyedu’s career, he has spent across the country through this partnership. It is
a great deal of his time and effort on improving already starting to address geographic access
the health of people in Ghana. After training to barriers to quality cancer care, support capacity
become an oral and maxillofacial surgeon in Santa building and training for healthcare workers, and
Clara, Cuba, Dr Ngyedu returned home to Ghana support awareness creation in communities around
in 2007 and soon found that he could make the the country.
biggest impact on the community by delivering and
improving care for all Ghanaians. “Before our cancer centre opened in 2021, only
two public hospitals in Ghana were mandated to
Today, Dr Ngyedu is the Chief Executive Officer provide cancer services and facilities and were
of the Cape Coast Teaching Hospital (CCTH) on often overburdened, leading to delays in patient
the west coast of Ghana. The hospital is a world- access to specialised care,” says Dr Ngyedu. “This
class leader in tertiary healthcare as well as does not bode well for managing outcomes and
medical research and serves as a training ground worsens patients’ prognosis. The financial hardships
for undergraduate and postgraduate training presented by long travels also worsen the plight
for medical and other health professionals. As of of patients. We knew it was crucial to curb these
2021, the hospital is also the site of a new cancer challenges by establishing this new centre to
treatment centre. Cancer is one of the most service patients within and outside the region.”
significant public health challenges in Ghana, with
more than 24,000 new cases diagnosed in 2020 and The centre provides not only the infrastructure and
more than 15,800 people dying from the disease.1 space for oncology patients to be treated, but also
the treatments themselves. An oncology pharmacy
“Ghanaians face numerous challenges during and ‘cold room’ were established as well to support
their patient journey, including health, mental, the provision of quality medicines and reagents
social and financial hurdles,” explains Dr Ngyedu. used for diagnosis and treatment.
“We have limited infrastructure, limited access
to comprehensive treatment centres and limited A unique partnership
access to affordable cancer medicines. All of Roche has long been working to improve oncology
those challenges put together mean patients are care in Ghana, and Dr Ngyedu is grateful for
experiencing a harrowing journey.” partnerships like this one that directly benefits
patients. “Our partnership with Roche is a unique
Addressing a significant public health one. It is 100% patient-centred. It’s not about
challenge products; it’s about supporting patient care and
Thanks to a partnership between Roche and the breaking down barriers that cancer patients face,”
government of Ghana, work has begun to develop he says. “The private sector has a critical role to
infrastructure to deliver cancer care at key play in increasing access to care for the people of
hospitals across the country. CCTH is one of three Ghana. We need partnerships like this to move the
new treatment centres that have been opened needle and make meaningful change.”
1 International Agency for Research on Cancer, World Health Organization, Ghana Fact Sheet90
“Our partnership with Roche is a unique one.
It is 100% patient-centred. It’s not about
products; it’s about supporting patient care
and breaking down barriers.”
One meaningful change that this partnership has “Because a large portion of the population lives
brought about is the increased screening and in remote areas, we need to find a way to provide
treatment for breast cancer patients. “This year care through telemedicine. It is absolutely possible
for breast cancer awareness month in October, we to care for cancer patients from a distance but we
were able to screen over 4,000 people for breast need the technology in place to do so. Partnerships
cancer. Because of the support we have received with the private sector have helped us get where
from Roche in providing the infrastructure, we were we are today and they will continue to do so
able to do this at no cost to the patients,” says in the future as we look to the role technology
Dr Ngyedu. “Additionally, Roche has been working can play.”
with the government to enable public funding of
key cancer treatments. This is a testament to the Roche has made a long-term commitment to
impact these partnerships can have.” Ghana and the African continent, and will continue
to invest in strengthening health systems and
A sustainable future collaborating with partners to implement innovative
Although the tides are beginning to turn for patients solutions that are tailored to the specific needs of
in Ghana, there are still many opportunities to patients in the region. For Dr Ngyedu, this brings
pave the way for increased access to care in the hope for the future of healthcare in Ghana. “When
future. “Leveraging technology to provide care we all have the patient at the centre of what we do,
for cancer patients is critical,” reflects Dr Ngyedu. we will always do the right thing.”Access to healthcare | Roche 91
Cape Coast Teaching Hospital is home to a new cancer treatment
centre that has increased access to screening and treatment for
patients in Ghana. Dr Ngyedu believes cancer care will continue
to evolve thanks to new technologies and partnerships with the
private sector.92
Leading a critical evolution for cervical cancer
prevention in Chile
Throughout his life, Dr Roberto Altamirano An evolution towards improved prevention
understood the importance of good health and The cervical cancer guidelines have evolved
was passionate about helping people and making over the years and a critical milestone was
a difference. It was this passion that led him to achieved in 2019. The Ministry of Health in Chile
medicine, and specifically gynaecologic oncology. introduced a pilot project to implement HPV
“I wanted to be a surgeon but, more than that, testing in 14 of its 26 health services. “We have
I wanted to see and treat each patient as a whole a good health system but we needed to make an
person. My main goal is to help others and have upgrade because the Pap test has its limitations,”
an impact on the community.” says Dr Altamirano.
Recently Dr Altamirano has made significant As an advisor to the Ministry, he has been
progress towards this goal by playing a role advocating for HPV testing for many years. “I’ve
in changing the health system and improving been putting this forward since 2015,” he explains.
cervical cancer screening in Chile. “I started working with my mentors on how to improve
the health system because we had a shared vision
A long-standing process in screening to help as many people as possible. The best way
Since 1987, Chile has had a national cervical to do that was to change how we conduct screening
cancer screening programme where the Pap to enable better prevention, so I was persistent in
test is used as the standard to identify women at the need for HPV testing.”
risk. While the programme has reduced mortality
rates over time, women continue to be diagnosed Chile, among other countries, is moving towards
with this preventable disease, suggesting that a screening programme where HPV is the primary
it hasn’t been as effective with early detection test for eligible women,3 in line with World Health
as it could be. “In almost 50% of cervical cancer Organization (WHO) recommendations.4 This
cases, women haven’t done any kind of screening strategy aims to better identify those who are at
test. This is a missed opportunity for prevention,” risk for disease in order to prevent invasive cancer
explains Dr Altamirano. from developing.
Despite being almost 100% preventable with Overcoming barriers to adoption
vaccination, screening and treatment, cervical When the programme was first introduced,
cancer claims the lives of more than 34,000 women several barriers prevented some women from
every year, making it one of the leading causes of being screened. Says Dr Altamirano: “Our biggest
cancer deaths in women.1 Human papillomavirus (HPV) problem is that a lot of women don’t get tested
is the known cause of nearly all cases of cervical because they think they don’t need it, don’t
cancer, so finding and treating pre-cancerous have time or think that it’s going to hurt, so the
disease before cancer develops is an important opportunity for screening is often missed.”
prevention strategy.2
1 Cervical cancer fact sheet, World Health Organization | 2 Cervical cancer screening for individuals at average risk: 2020 guideline update, American
Cancer Society | 3 Implementación del diagnóstico molecular del VPH: experiencia chilena en curso. Revista Médica de Chile | 4 Global strategy to
accelerate the elimination of cervical cancer as a public health problem, World Health OrganizationAccess to healthcare | Roche 93
Dr Roberto Altamirano94
Dr Roberto Altamirano was a key advocate for a pilot programme
in Chile that emphasises HPV testing as the primary screening
method for eligible women – an important strategy to prevent
cervical cancer. He continues on his mission to raise awareness
and education about HPV and the importance of cervical cancer
screening so women have the power of knowledge to take care
of themselves.Access to healthcare | Roche 95
“I believe I can do the best by giving people
the power of knowledge to take care
of themselves.”
“We needed to increase awareness about HPV and have to keep screening the same women every year.
teach patients about the importance of prevention,” We can be relatively confident that a woman with
he says. “Education was critical not only for patients, a negative HPV test has a low risk of developing
but also for healthcare professionals because they cervical cancer, so we can focus on ensuring other
weren’t comfortable talking about HPV and were so women are screened to identify those who are at
accustomed to the Pap test.” a higher risk.”
In addition to providing the HPV test to the health He also believes the programme is a critical
services in the pilot programme, Roche worked step to help the country meet the WHO’s goal of
with partners to train the primary healthcare eradicating cervical cancer within the next century.
providers who collect samples, and supported “I’m a dreamer and I try to stay positive because I
education programmes to increase awareness think it’s going to work,” he says. “As with any other
about HPV and the importance of screening and change, we need time. But if we keep insisting
prevention. Dr Altamirano believes this was crucial every day that this is the right thing to do, we can
to help bring healthcare professionals on board achieve this goal and eliminate the disease.”
with the new screening method, explaining that
“those who went through the teaching programme An ongoing thirst for knowledge
and learned how to perform the HPV test adapted Today, Dr Altamirano is entrenched in the Chilean
really well to the change.” health system. As a self-proclaimed multi-tasker,
he is a practising gynaecologic oncologist in public
He has also seen the impact among patients. “With and private healthcare, he is a member of the
all the education we’re doing, women have now Chilean Society of Obstetrics and Gynaecology,
started asking for the test. People are becoming and an advisor to the Ministry of Health, recently
more involved, seeking information and starting expanding his knowledge in this area by earning
to know about HPV.” a master’s in health administration. He is also an
Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology
Chile’s national ambition at the University of Chile.
Today, around 250,000 women have been screened
through the programme, and the Ministry of Health But above all, he remains committed to his goal
plans to expand HPV testing to all health services of helping others. “Through the years and with
in Chile with the ultimate goal to achieve national my experience, I am most passionate about
access for all eligible women. educating patients and the next generation of
gynaecologic oncologists. I believe I can do the
Dr Altamirano thinks that with HPV testing in place, best by giving people the power of knowledge
more women can be reached. “The HPV test can to take care of themselves.”
be done every five years, which means we don’t96
The power of partnerships
At Roche we know that our diagnostics and Nordisk and other global and local partners. The
medicines can only positively impact lives public-private partnership has reached more than
if they reach the people who need them. Every 38,000 children in over 25 countries since 2009,
country has its own unique challenges when with Tunisia and Vietnam joining the project in 2022.
it comes to accessing healthcare, something
which varies dramatically from country to country. Initiatives to increase access to medicines
Funding, infrastructure, healthcare capacity and in low- and lower-middle-income countries
disease awareness all play a role, which is why In 2022, we were also delighted to renew our long-
we firmly believe in the need to take a holistic standing partnership with the World Federation of
and collaborative approach to address potential Hemophilia. Through this partnership more than
barriers. These challenges are simply too complex 1,000 patients with haemophilia A in low- and
for any single party to solve alone. lower-middle-income countries are being reached
through aid programmes. In addition, hundreds of
Increasing access to diagnostics around healthcare professionals are being trained, and
the world testing capacity has been enabled and expanded.
Over the past decade our public-private
partnerships have strengthened laboratory Additionally, we were proud to become a
systems in African nations highly impacted by member of the Access to Oncology Medicines
HIV/AIDS, built the institutional capacity of (ATOM) Coalition, a new global partnership led
regional and national partners and improved by the Union for International Cancer Control,
quality in diagnostic services across the continent. to increase access to quality-assured essential
Together our efforts have improved millions of cancer medicines in low- and lower-middle-income
lives. For example, we have worked in partnership countries and to help countries develop the
with the US President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS capacity for their proper use, including training
Relief (PEPFAR) to scale up HIV viral load testing and diagnostics. This partnership will complement
and early infant diagnosis. In May 2022, we our existing goal to double the number of patients
entered a new partnership with the Global Fund receiving our innovative therapies in low- and
to build local capacity to tackle fundamental lower-middle-income countries by the end of 2026.
infrastructure challenges for generating and The goal aims to overcome the many barriers
delivering diagnostic results and managing patients face in low-income countries, such as
healthcare waste. a lack of infrastructure as well as economic
pressures and regulatory challenges.
Addressing diabetes access barriers and
disparities worldwide This is just a small summary of the initiatives that
Public-private partnerships are critical to developing we are working on to expand access to healthcare
sustainable access initiatives and this is something around the world. Partnerships sit at the very
that we have seen with diabetes. Together with heart of our access work, and in 2023 we will
our partners, Roche plays its part in addressing continue to work closely with public, private and
diabetes access barriers and disparities worldwide, non-governmental organisations to broaden
such as through the Changing Diabetes in Children access to healthcare and to our diagnostics
programme run by Roche Diabetes Care, Novo and medicines.Access to healthcare | Roche 97
Over 8 million HIV-positive patients More than 38,000 children
were able to have their viral load monitored in over 25 countries were reached through the
through the Global Access Program to check Changing Diabetes in Children programme, a
for treatment efficacy partnership with Novo Nordisk, since its launch in 2009
100,000 people 52% more patients
will be screened for diabetes over the next in low- and lower-middle-income countries
two years in Meru, Kenya, through the Mwanga accessed our core medicines – from 27,430
access project to 41,747
Access projects
29 billion tests Roche ranked 10th
around the world
conducted with Roche worldwide in the Access
Diagnostics products to Medicine Index
Around 360,000 women More than 271,000 people
in low- and lower-middle-income countries were were helped last year by Genentech to access
screened for cervical cancer in 2022 with the the medicines they need, and free medicine
support of Roche’s Global Access Program, more was provided to more than 54,000 people
than double compared to 2021
13 cities Over 3.2 million people
We continue to work with City Cancer Challenge, on Roche patient support programmes,
who are active in 13 cities worldwide reaching an a 14% increase from 2021
estimated 59.6 million people98People
and culture
We believe that personalised approaches achieve the
best outcomes for our patients. The same is true for our
employees. We strive to identify and create opportunities
that are as unique as they are, and cultivate an environment
that enables all people to bring their unique selves to
Roche and achieve their best work on behalf of patients.
UN SDGs Material topics
· Talent attraction and retention
· Organisational agility
· Patient centricityCris
Wilbur
Chief People Officer
Basel, Switzerland
Cris believes that if employees are aligned towards a
shared purpose, feel comfortable sharing their views
and have the support and resources they need, they
can truly make a difference in the lives of patients.People and culture | Roche 101
Lorice
Scalise
General Manager, Roche Pharmaceuticals
Buenos Aires, Argentina
As a leader, Lorice understands that increasing access
to healthcare begins with understanding and valuing
the diversity of individuals, and also requires that Roche
leadership and workforce reflect that diversity.102
Cris WilburPeople and culture | Roche 103
Helping teams to keep patients at the centre
of everything
Cris Wilbur, Roche’s Chief People Officer, is a effectively together, we’re going to be able to
firm believer that all Roche employees play a bring solutions faster to patients and customers.”
critical role in shaping and fostering the right culture
in order to meet our commitments to patients and With that end goal in mind, the very first
to each other. Roche may have different divisions Operating Principle is solely about patients and
and operate in different geographies, but there doing what is best for them. “This really spotlights
has always been a clear sense of a shared vision our commitment to making patients the focal
and purpose. point of everything we do,” Cris explains.
At the same time, the Corporate Executive “To have an Operating Principle that says
Committee realised there was an important ‘Put patients first’, makes it very clear what we
opportunity to develop aligned principles that expect of every single person in the company,”
reflect the unique Roche culture, while also she says. “When we keep patients top of mind,
empowering the entire company to remain focused it manifests in all of the things we do and we
on innovation – and on making even more of a focus on understanding what they need from
difference for patients and society. And this is the very beginning.”
how the Roche Group Operating Principles were
born in 2022. Integrating with the company culture
During the process of creating the principles,
A worthwhile journey there was a clear focus on ensuring they would
Our Operating Principles are eight seemingly simple have a positive impact on the larger culture at
statements with the goal of guiding how we work Roche. “We are a ‘nice’ company,” Cris explains.
together in different parts of the organisation. But “And that’s important. We do incredible things
there is a lot of meaning and thought behind each together and we really like each other. The
individual principle as well as the set of principles. Operating Principles enable us to be supportive
Bringing this all together required input from of each other, while also feeling comfortable
colleagues across the organisation to ensure the bringing different views to debate. And that
principles not only resonated with people, but also fosters innovation much more quickly.”
inspired and challenged them to think and work in
new ways. Cris adds: “They also help us hold each other
accountable and become better teammates,
“It was a privilege to be a part of this process,” says colleagues and partners. If you enable people
Cris. “Our organisation has been transforming to to bring their full selves to the conversation and
become more agile. Because we are now working to be celebrated for that, and you make it okay
differently, we needed to come together around to both agree and disagree with colleagues, you
a single set of principles in what that looks like in are truly embracing each other’s differences.
practice. Ultimately, if we’re able to work more That is an integral part of our culture.”104
“When we keep patients top of mind, it
manifests in all of the things we do and we
focus on understanding what they need
from the very beginning.”
Aligning with our future ambitions ask another colleague: “How can we simplify
Roche’s long-term ambitions drive its work each radically on this project?” or “Are we thinking
and every day. The Operating Principles serve about the long-term?”. “We are seeing that these
as a critical tool to make those goals a reality principles are truly helping us prioritise, set clear
and help different parts of the organisation work areas of focus and work towards our shared
together more effectively to make a bigger and purpose,” says Cris. “And that is tremendously
more sustainable impact. “The principles help us inspiring to me.”
become an even more innovative, collaborative
company without losing sight of our biggest goals,” A surprise passion
Cris says. Even outside of work, Cris’s interests, which
include quantum computing, reinforce her belief in
The principles were put in place with longevity continuous improvement and a focus on the future.
in mind. “You don’t want the way you work to be “I find the potential fascinating and I try to keep
constantly changing,” says Cris. That sense of up with new developments,” Cris says. “Quantum
permanence will enable people across the company computing could help us solve some of our biggest
to develop approaches to their work firmly rooted problems, from improving supply chain logistics
in a shared purpose and shared ways of working, to accurately forecasting weather. It may even be
confident they will be on track for a long time able to help us greatly reduce the time and costs
to come. needed to develop new drugs.”
In the months following the roll-out of the Operating Whatever that future may look like, Cris is
Principles, it was clear that people were beginning confident that in an increasingly complex world,
to live them. It is common now to hear a colleague Roche remains focused on the right things.People and culture | Roche 105
The culture at Roche is centred on a shared purpose of making
a meaningful difference for patients and society. Our new
Operating Principles unite our employees in how we work
together to achieve this goal while embracing the uniqueness
of each individual.106
A leader as unique as the patients she serves
Spend just a few minutes with Lorice Scalise, overcome all biases. He explained that if we are
General Manager of Roche Pharmaceuticals able to do that, then we can really see everyone’s
Argentina, and you will immediately sense her achievements clearly.” For Lorice, that conversation
passion for people. That passion is part of what was a turning point.
makes Lorice an exceptional leader and an effective
advocate for improving access to healthcare. The new focus on diversity and inclusion enabled
Lorice understands that success in expanding Lorice to stop putting energy into being the
access begins with understanding and valuing person she thought others expected her to be,
the diversity of individuals, and also requires and to become comfortable simply being herself.
that Roche leadership reflects that diversity. That new-found freedom made her more effective
in her job. She explains further, “I realised I can
Across more than 20 years at Roche, Lorice trust myself and connect with my emotions and
has witnessed a substantial increase in the intuition at work. When I did that, I saw how much
company’s commitment to building a diverse of my potential I had been blocking, and took steps
and inclusive leadership culture. She has also to remove obstacles I had put in my own way.”
seen how that commitment can better equip the
company to meet the diverse needs of a vast Since then, the company’s approach to diversity
world of patients. and inclusion has evolved significantly. “Today,
we talk about it at a new level,” Lorice says.
This evolution has impacted Lorice’s own leadership “We know that if we don’t consider the different
style. “When Roche decided to focus on being perspectives of the people involved in our work,
more diverse and inclusive, we were empowered including cultural, economic and religious aspects,
to bring our true selves to work. That changed the we cannot effectively serve our purpose of helping
way those of us in leadership positions viewed our all patients.”
missions at work and how we lived each day.”
An important seat at the table
An initial hesitancy Lorice has a genuine passion for listening and
In 2008, when Roche first announced commitments is truly interested in what others have to say –
to increase the number of women in leadership, qualities that are critical as a member of the
Lorice was shocked. As she emphatically explains, Roche Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Council. “Being
“I didn’t want to be part of a quota. I wanted to be part of the D&I Council is a great achievement,”
valued for my achievements, not my gender!” she explains. “Not just for me, but for the Latin
American region, and all under-represented
As those initial efforts were being put in place, people, really.”
Roche CEO Severin Schwan visited Brazil and
Lorice shared her concerns. “Severin said that he In 2022, the D&I Council focused on a range of
understood my feelings, but that we needed to initiatives, including increasing the talent pipeline
make this change so the company could begin to in under-represented countries, making clinicalPeople and culture | Roche 107
Lorice Scalise108
As a leader, Lorice understands that increasing access to
healthcare begins with understanding and valuing the diversity
of individuals, and also requires that Roche leadership and
workforce reflect that diversity.People and culture | Roche 109
“It’s not enough to have the latest innovations
and regulatory approvals. We have to remove
all the barriers – including social, cultural,
economic and more.”
trials more inclusive, and increasing health equity Screening for HPV, the virus that can cause
for women. “I took this seat committed to giving a cervical cancer, is a clear example. “We know
voice to under-represented countries and people,” that, for many reasons, women in many places
Lorice says. “I’m here to share my thoughts and are unable or unwilling to see a physician,” Lorice
help to challenge the status quo and broaden the says. “So we determined that to help protect
company’s perspective.” more women from cancer, we needed to develop
a self-administered HPV test. We have to pay
Still more to be done attention to the unique aspects of the cultures we
Of course, Lorice understands that obstacles to serve. Only then can we understand the specific
fully diverse and inclusive leadership still exist. She types of innovations that are needed.” Lorice
cautions against a belief that, because the goals believes that Roche has a responsibility to lead the
and declarations are in place, the company has mission to expand healthcare access to people in
done all of the necessary groundwork or knows all parts of the world, with the understanding that
everything about the subject. “This is a situation they have different needs, biologies, cultures and
that is always changing. There are always new reactions to treatments.
things to learn and understand,” Lorice explains.
Leading by example
Finally, Lorice seeks to dispel the belief that Lorice’s commitment to improving diversity and
diversity and inclusion are simply two different inclusion at Roche is deeply rooted in her own
words for the same thing. She explains the personal beliefs. “I walk the walk,” she explains.
distinction: “You can have a diverse group of “I’m a single mom of two boys and a girI, I took my
people, from various places, cultures and with first English class at age 35, I asked for feedback
different beliefs. But if you don’t value and accept and worked hard on my own development with
their ideas, or if you discount what they say because the help of my mentors. I am living proof you can
they don’t speak perfect English, for example, or always overcome barriers.”
you have other biases, you are not being inclusive.
Diversity is the first step and inclusion is the vital Lorice is equally passionate about life outside of
second step.” the office. “I wake up every morning excited for
what the day will bring,” she says. “My family and
Connecting access and diversity friends ground me and give me confidence. I can
Lorice firmly believes that science and innovation fight any battle if they are cheering for me.” When
can only achieve their purpose if they reach she’s not leading the charge for a more diverse
everyone. “It’s not enough to have the latest and inclusive workforce at the office, you can
innovations and regulatory approvals,” she explains. find her on an adventure with her three kids, or
“We have to remove all the barriers – including social, lost in a book, exploring yet another new world
cultural, economic and more.” of unique individuals.110
Supporting and engaging our people
The year 2022 left its mark in multiple ways. Our global Live Well team knows more than ever
Finally, we had overcome the pandemic and moved that it’s important to take care of ourselves
to a more endemic state. This allowed us to start so we can care for others. In 2022, the global
returning to and spending more time in the office Live Well programme focused on mental health
wherever possible. At the same time, new challenges as the guiding theme. Throughout the year,
were revealed in the form of political tensions and dedicated Well-Being Days were offered covering
conflicts in different parts of the world, as well as different aspects of mental health including
inflation and a potential energy shortage in Europe. ‘Boost your energy’, ‘Mindfulness and resilience’,
‘Mental health awareness and neurodiversity’
Since 2010, we have run our bi-yearly Global and ‘Gratefulness’.
Employee Opinion Survey (GEOS) measuring how
engaged and happy our employees are at work. After Leading and learning
the last cycle in 2021, we continued to check in with Our networked ways of working require everyone
our workforce to sense if our engagement efforts to build the capability to lead and learn. This
are moving in the right direction. During 2022, includes first and foremost self-leadership and a
approximately 20 small and large affiliates across learning mindset. During 2022, Roche employees
Roche conducted regular GEOS Pulse Surveys. We globally completed 3,430,401 hours of learning and
were pleased to see that our continued engagement training through our internal learning platform.
activities are paying off and that our people are
happy working at Roche, despite the many challenges In addition, this implies a safe environment and a
they have faced over the last several years. culture based on a shared set of values, leadership
commitments and a collaboration framework
In 2022, we carried out a living-wage analysis in that all underpin our purpose. In February 2022,
63 of the countries where Roche operates. The we launched our new global set of Operating
analysis showed that in all countries Roche pays Principles, which define how we work together to
its employees above the living wage. We will achieve our long-term ambitions. This single set
continue to regularly monitor this in the future. of principles, which was extremely well received
by our employees, replaced all divisional and
Our ongoing focus on the safety and well-being functional principles previously developed.
of our people
While our purpose is centred on serving patients During 2022, we continued to support our
and society, as an employer we care about our leaders and employees to enhance and advance
people and their safety and well-being – especially their leadership skills through our various
in times of escalating political threats and conflicts. dedicated leadership programmes. We also
Therefore, we have put employee assistance invested in the curriculum of our senior leadership
programmes in place with a special focus on programme and prepared for the launch of
managing mental stress and health, and offered Symbiosis, the sequel of Kinesis and Synergy,
financial support to employees in conflict regions. early in 2023.People and culture | Roche 111
103,613
employees*
by region
North America Asia
29,640 23,174
Part-time
11.5%
Africa
Australia/New Zealand
1,133
Full-time
635
88.5%
Latin America Europe
4,972 44,060
46,793 Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals 1,625,579
39,961 Diagnostics Diagnostics 1,450,176
9,037 Corporate Group functions 253,745
and other and other
7,822 Chugai Chugai 100,901
Employees* by Division/ODG** Training hours by supervisory organisation***
Employee health and safety
346
334
277 270
238
0.391 0.375 0.297 0.285 0.251
Total number of lost time incidents
Lost time incidents frequency rate
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
* Number of employees expressed in full-time equivalents, on 31.12.2022
** Operating Divisional Group
*** A business unit or department112
Diversity and inclusion are personal
Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) is at the heart of ourselves the target of achieving +2% share of
Roche’s strategy to deliver personalised care women in executive positions and +1% of under-
for patients across the world. It starts with us – represented nationalities in executive positions.
together, we embrace the unique power of each
person to transform the lives of patients and Ensuring everyone can be themselves, do
society. Every individual at Roche has a role to play. their best work and thrive
Roche is a place where people are accepted
Addressing the unmet needs of diverse patients without having to compromise their true selves.
and communities We embrace different ways of working and styles
The focus of our D&I patient pillar in 2022 was on of leadership as a driver of innovation. In 2022, we
the expansion of advancing inclusive research provided a wide range of learning opportunities in
(AIR) practices and principles across our company. D&I that were accessible to all employees across
To support our public position statement on the world where more than 40,000 employees
AIR, we have expanded our inclusive research participated.
site alliance, strengthened partnerships with
healthcare providers across communities and are In addition to our other external pledges in 2022,
embedding inclusive research at the heart of our Roche has signalled further commitment to an
development and life cycle teams. Improving health inclusive culture by signing the Valuable 500 pledge
outcomes for all patients is core to our purpose. In supporting disability inclusion in the workplace. The
the increasingly diverse world around us, the time commitment to different dimensions of diversity and
is now for research and clinical development to the strength of our inclusive culture are empowered
ensure greater inclusion across racial and ethnic by the collective efforts of more than 80 diversity
groups in support of optimising health outcomes networks at Roche coming together to drive our D&I
for all patients worldwide. vision forward.
Building a workforce that reflects the societies Advancing positive change in society
we serve We believe our ability to advance positive change
Achieving our purpose requires our ability to be in society goes far beyond our own business.
sustainably creative, leveraging a broad spectrum By enabling equitable access to science,
of ideas that bring meaningful solutions to technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM)
patients and the healthcare ecosystem. That is opportunities and real-world science and biotech
why our efforts in our people pillar are focused on skills, we hope to help grow the next generation
achieving representation of global society, while of innovators. By investing and partnering with
our employees are representing the communities diverse companies that share our commitment to
we are part of. D&I, we foster greater equity in society at scale.
The positive change that these topics can have on
D&I is essential to achieving all of our long-term society go far beyond Roche, and even healthcare,
ambitions, including diversity in leadership, which in building a more equitable, diverse and inclusive
mirrors our workforce. Globally, we have set future for all.People and culture | Roche 113
Global D&I corporate goals
We have set the target of achieving +2% share of women in executive positions and +1% of under-represented nationalities* in executive positions (as per
our Q4 2021 baseline). Additionally, we invite leaders across Roche to make an additional commitment which is relevant in the local culture and context.**
37.9%
35.4% 36.1% 35.9% 35.9% 35.6% 35.8% 36.7%
34.3%
13.6% 13.6% 13.9% 14.2% 15.8% 16.2% 15.6% 15.5% 15.2%
Women
Under-represented nationalities
Q1 2021 Q2 2021 Q3 2021 Q4 2021 Q1 2022 Q2 2022 Q3 2022 Q4 2022 Goal
>80 diversity networks and chapters around the globe
Age/generation
Race/ethnicity
Disability
Gender
LGBTQ+
D&I
Veterans
Intersectional
Diversity networks are grassroots, self-organised groups of employees coming together to contribute to the D&I mission of our organisation and are
specifically aimed at embracing the unique power of each person to transform the lives of patients and society.
* Includes individuals from countries in Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa
** E xcludes Chugai and Workday Lite companies (these companies do not use Roche Workday system as their leading HR system) due to our arm’s length alliance and
merger/acquisition agreements114Environment
We know that climate change is one of the largest
global challenges and we must address it with a matter
of urgency. For more than 20 years, our teams have
been implementing programmes to help us reduce our
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to zero by 2050.
UN SDGs Material topics
· Energy efficiency
· Long-term mindsetThomas
Wolf
Chief Environmental Sustainability Officer
Basel, Switzerland
Thomas’s love of nature and his passion for environmental
protection led him down his career path. Thirty years later,
this passion fuels his work in developing Roche’s
climate change mitigation strategy.Environment | Roche 117
Nerina
Itin
Environmental Specialist
Rotkreuz, Switzerland
Nerina’s work allows her not only to contribute to the
development of local environmental strategies but also
to engage with her colleagues about how they can
contribute individually to the site’s environmental goals.118
Thomas WolfEnvironment | Roche 119
Steering towards a sustainable energy future
Growing up in a small town in the rural Nahe valley issues and climate change, we have been working
in West Germany, Thomas Wolf spent much of his towards a sustainable energy future for many years.
childhood outdoors exploring nature. The area is “Delaying or waiting for others to find meaningful
home to vast rolling hills, forests and vineyards, solutions could result in more dramatic, more
all of which were the backdrop for many of his disruptive, more expensive changes in the future,”
adventures as a young boy. “I had a very typical Thomas explains. “I am proud that Roche did not
childhood experience of going to school, playing delay taking action in the past and because of that,
sports with friends and spending much of my spare we are well on our way to achieving this goal.”
time outdoors,” he explains. “This really was the
beginning of my love of nature and my passion for From 2004 to 2022, we have implemented carbon
environmental protection.” dioxide reduction measures that have led to a
64% decrease in carbon dioxide generated within
Along with this childhood passion for the outdoors, our operations, while world emissions rose by 31%
Thomas credits his chemistry teacher as being a during the same period. Our goal is to achieve
driving force behind his other interests — science a reduction of 82% by 2025 and 92% by 2029
and engineering. After learning that there were compared to 2004. When asked how we have been
many good career prospects in this area, he able to achieve these targets and how we will
attended the University of Karlsruhe (today the continue to ensure we are moving towards them,
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology) and graduated Thomas’s answer is a simple one – with a clear and
with a degree in chemical engineering. It was not well thought-out strategy together with enthusiastic
long after he graduated that Thomas’s career at and engaged teams that develop and implement
Roche began in the global engineering department plans to make it happen.
of our former Vitamins Division – and now, more
than 30 years later, he is putting these passions It takes a village
to good use in his role as Chief Environmental “In order to develop and implement a strategy
Sustainability Officer. “I’m very fortunate to have that will result in meaningful change, we must
a career where I can help fight climate change. For collaborate with our internal as well as external
shaping Roche’s climate change mitigation strategy, stakeholders and partners,” says Thomas. Through
my technical background is definitely a huge asset knowledge sharing, the impact of our efforts is
in the work we’re doing here,” says Thomas. amplified across our network of Group functions
and local sites. Our Global Energy Summit, which
Towards a sustainable energy future has taken place annually for the past 16 years,
Our environmental goal is ambitious – reduce has been a critical element in fostering a close
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to zero by community of subject matter experts who share a
2050. Like any company, Roche requires energy passion for meeting Roche’s environmental goals
to operate. In order to address energy-related in a conscientious and sustainable way.120
“Each site has different considerations,
capabilities and priorities, so we must
maintain open lines of communication
and collaboration along the way.”
With more than 150 Roche sites around the world, goal requires diligent planning today. If we keep
working closely as a community is imperative, up this momentum, we will continue to see the
especially because not all sites are focused on the tangible results of our efforts.”
same things. Although we have developed a global
strategy and overarching targets that we are moving “We all have a duty to contribute to the work we
towards, our sites must develop their own roadmaps are doing in this area. As long as we have a great
towards a sustainable energy future. “Each site has community of enthusiastic experts who are actively
different considerations, capabilities and priorities, contributing and the support of our leadership to
so we must maintain open lines of communication do so, we will make our mark,” he says.
and collaboration along the way,” says Thomas.
“While optimising vehicle fleet performance may be When asked what is the one thing each of us can
most important to one site, for example, optimising do collectively to make a difference, Thomas has
energy use in manufacturing may be more important a swift and clear answer – mindful consumption.
and feasible to another.” “Whether it’s reducing the consumption of
materials and resources like energy and water, or
The future is sustainable reusing or recycling materials, all of these things
According to Thomas, the future can indeed be a have a positive impact along the entire value
bright one. Our organisation has worked tirelessly chain. We are already experiencing the dramatic
over the past two decades to establish the consequences of climate change and realise that
governance and strategy for our environmental climate change is one of the biggest risks for our
initiatives, stipulate guidelines and directives, planet. The consequences of failing to mitigate
set ambitious targets, implement monitoring will be enormous for our social, environmental
mechanisms and put together teams of passionate and financial systems. If we all appreciate the
people who are all dedicated to making an impact. role we play in this and the actions we can take
to help mitigate it, we will see a better future for
“Goals without a plan are just a wish,” says generations to come.”
Thomas. “Meeting our long-term zero-emissionEnvironment | Roche 121
Thomas’s passion for sustainability has been the driving force
behind his 30-year tenure at Roche. He helps ensure that our
climate mitigation strategy is driving us towards our goal of
reducing our greenhouse gas emissions to zero by 2050.122
Environmental protection – challenging
but achievable
After completing their bachelor’s degrees in clear and measurable goals, but sometimes
environmental engineering in 2018, many of Nerina there are no technical measures that can be put
Itin’s classmates went on to pursue careers working in place, so by engaging our employees in other
for non-governmental organisations. Although areas, such as reducing business flights, we can
this seemed like a logical choice given the many all make a difference.”
environmental groups active around the world,
Nerina took a different approach. “For me, I felt Ambitious goals
I could contribute more to a company where The specific goals and roadmap that the team
the environment is not the main business. I was at Rotkreuz has developed are indeed ambitious.
impressed with the work Roche was already doing One that stands out in particular is the reduction
in the area of environmental protection and felt of fossil fuels for heating and warm water to zero
that I could put my knowledge and skills to good by 2030. “Yes, this is a very ambitious goal,
use. It was an easy decision for me, so I applied but it’s definitely achievable,” explains Nerina.
for an internship and was thrilled to be offered the “We have already been able to ensure that
role,” says Nerina. 100% of our electricity comes from sustainable
sources – so why not reach even higher?”
Making an impact
Over the past four years, Nerina has indeed been Another area of focus at the site is business flight
making an impact by developing and implementing reduction and the promotion of alternative forms
various programmes as an Environmental Specialist of collaboration and transportation. With around
at our Diagnostics site in Rotkreuz, Switzerland. 3,000 employees at the site, their contribution is a
The site is home to our central Diagnostics customer clear and impactful way to help achieve the goals
areas and functions including research and Nerina and her team are driving towards. “It all adds
development, production and logistics. Nerina’s up no matter how small it may seem,” says Nerina.
work allows her not only to contribute to the “That’s why employee engagement is so important
development of local environmental strategies to us. We know the impact we can make when we
and roadmaps but also to engage with Rotkreuz all contribute.”
employees about how they can contribute
individually to the site’s environmental goals. Collaborating with other sites and with the global
Safety, Security, Health and Environment Protection
“It’s not only one person or one department team is also an instrumental component of Nerina’s
that makes a difference. Site services lay the work. By sharing knowledge and best practices, the
groundwork but everyone is empowered and entire community can learn from and challenge
encouraged to take action and that really is one each other to work in new ways and try new things,
of our main strategies – implement sustainability all with the goal of incremental improvements
in everything we do,” Nerina explains. “We have year over year.Environment | Roche 123
Nerina Itin124
At our Diagnostics site in Rotkreuz, Nerina helps engage employees
on how they can help us achieve our sustainability goals. With
around 3,000 people working at the site, their contributions can
make a significant impact in our efforts towards a sustainable
energy future.Environment | Roche 125
“Sustainability is something people genuinely
care about and I can only see this increasing
over time as people become more aware.”
A look into the future commitment came from, she doesn’t hesitate
When considering what the future holds when it to explain:
comes to environmental protection and Roche’s
work in this area, Nerina is hopeful. “My mother was an environmental teacher so
when I was growing up she greatly influenced
“Sustainability is something people genuinely my interest in this area. I also spent much of my
care about and I can only see this increasing over childhood involved in the Scouts, so my love for
time as people become more aware,” Nerina says. nature and the outdoors was almost destined
“I think a sustainable energy future is absolutely from the beginning.”
possible – it’s just a matter of when we can get
there. Roche has achieved a lot and we need to Nerina looks forward to the challenging work
keep going!” ahead, both in her studies and her work at Roche.
“So far I enjoy working in this field and as long as I
As for her own future, Nerina is following her feel I am still contributing, I will do so for as long as
passion and continuing to study in this area. She I possibly can. I’m constantly learning and looking
is currently working towards a master’s degree for solutions to complex problems. It will take
in environment and natural resources and hopes mindset and behavioural changes for society to
that by further developing her knowledge and bring about meaningful change. If I can play a role
skills, it will be valuable to her work at Roche. in that, big or small, this is what I will continue to
When asked where this lifelong passion and do long into the future.”126
Embracing our environmental
responsibilities
Environmental protection is an intrinsic part of Our total environmental impact per employee
Roche’s business. We approach it with the same decreased by approximately 3.2% in 2022. Our
sense of responsibility, and just as methodically, as continued reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG)
we approach issues concerning quality, productivity emissions and a decrease in the amount of waste
and cost-efficiency. We continuously monitor our had a positive effect on our environmental impact.
environmental performance, and aim to collect data
on at least 95% of each key performance indicator. A responsible approach to energy usage
By doing so, we ensure compliance with our high Using natural resources in a sustainable manner is
standards and objectives, and guarantee that our fundamental to Roche’s environmental strategy. A
processes and equipment are state of the art. large proportion of the energy we use still comes
from fossil fuels. As a result, we produce GHG,
Environmental risks are mitigated via a system of mainly carbon dioxide, and other waste products
prevention and a successful environmental risk that contribute to climate change and air pollution.
management system. The company’s environmental Minimising our negative impact involves actively
programme has operational strategies covering contributing to a sustainable energy future. This
climate change mitigation, reducing emissions and includes reducing energy consumption, increasing
increasing resource efficiency, the environmental efficiency, implementing innovative technologies
aspects of procurement, and water and waste and increasing the use of sustainable energy. In
management. We complement the strategies by 2022, our scope 1 and 2 energy consumption per
setting tangible and quantitative medium-term employee decreased by 0.8%. This reduction was
(2025) and long-term (2050) goals. achieved by implementing energy-saving measures
and reducing the amount of fuel we use to heat,
Eco-balance cool and operate our sites.
Roche measures its environmental impact using
the eco-balance metric, for which we have Greenhouse gas emissions and climate change
established a Group-wide goal (36% reduction from Environmental sustainability and climate change
2019 levels by 2025). Eco-balance refers to the mitigation go hand in hand and both are critical
consumption of energy and resources, and to the global issues. We understand the business
emissions and waste from our business activities. challenges related to climate change and are
It describes the total environmental impact of our managing the risks as part of our environmental
operations. By allocating environmental impact risk management programme. Our long-term
points to ecologically relevant parameters, such goal is to reduce GHG emissions to net zero no
as the consumption of natural resources and the later than 2050, and we will validate new targets
emissions to air, water and soil, we obtain a view with the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
of the environmental pressure we place on the A significant part of our GHG emissions originate
earth’s ecosystems. These points are added up from the transformation and use of energy.
and then related to the total number of employees, Our energy reduction achievements in 2022
which enables us to monitor our ecological impact were paralleled with a 15.4% reduction in scope 1
per employee. and 2 GHG emissions per employee.Environment | Roche 127
Water consumption
1.9%
Noise pollution
1.3%
Landfilled waste
1.2%
Energy consumption
9.2%
Emissions to water
5.9%
Roche
Emissions to air
eco-balance
80.5%
2022
By 2030, all vehicles will operate using
Electricity energy from sustainable sources.
Company vehicles
26.3%
4.8%
We look for ways to reduce energy
consumption, improve energy efficiency Energy use by
and we aim to be using 100% renewable
selected types
electricity by 2025. Business air travelling
2022
7.5%
Video and teleconferencing facilities
Natural gas
have been established at all sites and are
26.3% widely used. Employees are encouraged
to use trains and to consolidate several
business trips into one.128
Scope 3 Scope 2 (market based) Capital goods4
4,550,518 114,519 352,810
92.6% 31.4% 7.8%
Scope 11, 22, 33 Scope 11, 22 Scope 33
GHG emissions GHG emissions GHG emissions
(t CO ) (t CO ) (t CO )
2 2 2
Purchased goods
Scope 1 Scope 1 and services4
249,961 249,961 3,644,616
5.1% 68.6% 80.1%
Scope 2 (market based)
114,519
2.3% Fuel- and energy-related activities
84,429
1.8%
Upstream transportation
201,446
4.4%
Waste generated in operations
36,774
0.8%
Business travel
71,508
1.6%
Use of sold products
158,935
3.5%
1 Direct emissions from within operations | 2 Indirect emissions from purchased energy | 3 Emissions resulting from activities within our supply chain |
4 The calculation methodology is based on the GHG Protocol following a hybrid activity-based approach. This approach is a refinement and numbers are not
comparable to those published in the 2021 Annual Report.Environment | Roche 129
Energy consumption in terajoules
2022 2021 2020 2019
Total (scope 1 and scope 2, marked based) 8,396 8,306 8,420 8,983
Energy (scope 1 and scope 2, marked based) consumption (GJ/employee) 78 79 81 89
GJ = gigajoule
Halogenated hydrocarbons in tonnes*
2022 2021 2020 2019
Inventory 85.1** 88.6** 92.0 90.8
Releases 3.5 1.5 1.5 2.2
* Global inventory including Chugai, Genentech and Ventana
** Includes data from additional Roche sites as well as a wider scope of halogenated hydrocarbons than in previous years.
Emissions into the air in tonnes
2022 2021 2020 2019
VOCs* 80 86 73 85
Particulates 16 18 16 13
Nitrogen oxides 113 118 113 133
Sulphur dioxide 2 4 3 4
* Volatile organic compounds
Water usage and discharge
2022 2021 2020 2019
Water withdrawn (million m3) 14.9 15.4 14.9 15.9
Water consumed (million m3) 2.9 2.7 2.8 3.1
Organic matter discharged to waterways after treatment (t) 80 76 76 127
Heavy metals discharged to waterways after treatment (kg) 137 131 174 228
Landfilled and incinerated waste in tonnes
2022 2021 2020 2019
Non-hazardous 9,087 10,357 11,139 10,500
Hazardous 14,587 15,110** 13,332 17,422
Contaminated soil (hazardous)* 26* 61,230 38* 91,951
Construction waste (non-hazardous) 4,378 8,470 5,919 14,360
* High remediation activities in Kesslergrube, Germany in 2019 and 2021, while there were limited activities in 2020 and 2022.
** The increase in hazardous waste is due to the reallocation of electronic waste to hazardous waste.
Environmental data from Spark Therapeutics, Flatiron Health and Foundation Medicine are not included in the Roche environmental results.130Community
engagement
A tradition of philanthropy has existed at Roche for more
than a century. Our philanthropic efforts are united by
a common purpose to make a lasting impact by building
stronger and healthier communities. We are global citizens
supporting local efforts.
UN SDGs Material topics
· Long-term mindset
· Availability of healthcareLucia
Erniawati
Access, Communications and Health System Value Strategy Lead
Jakarta, Indonesia
In her role at Roche Indonesia, Lucia saw the potential
to improve outcomes for patients living with cancer by
helping oncology nurses further their education and
gain recognition as a key partner in patient care.Community engagement | Roche 133
Margareth
Lasut
Oncology Nurse
North Sulawesi, Indonesia
Margareth was one of the first nurses enrolled in
Indonesia’s new oncology nurse specialist training
programme. She is already looking forward to the
difference her new expertise can make for cancer patients.134
Lucia ErniawatiCommunity engagement | Roche 135
Bold vision for a big impact
“Whenever we are thinking about a new initiative, the another, making it difficult to develop the specialist
biggest question for us is always ‘what impact could knowledge required to provide the most effective
we have for society?’ Once we find that answer and care. We saw the opportunity to make a real and
all partners agree, then it makes finding common long-lasting impact.”
ground for how to get there much easier.”
The nursing workforce is also challenged by the
Lucia Erniawati, the Chapter Lead for Access, imbalanced distribution across regions, meaning
Communications and Health System Value Strategy many regions of the country are underserved by
at Roche Indonesia, is talking about the importance healthcare professionals. And there was a significant
of identifying a bold vision to unite partners with lack of nurses with specific oncology expertise.
different goals and perspectives.
Lucia and her team saw the potential of a
In a country like Indonesia – which has hugely special focus on cancer care nursing and decided
complex health infrastructure needs to support to catalyse the launch of the first specialised
274 million people across 17,000 islands, spanning oncology training for nurses in Indonesia.
three time zones – the potential impact of bold
partnerships can be significant. Partnerships mean progress
With the bold vision in place, the team needed to
Take an ongoing project to train specialist oncology gain buy-in from other stakeholders. These included
nurses, for example. the Indonesian Ministry of Health, Indonesia
University, the Dharmais National Cancer Center,
Cancer survival rates in Indonesia are significantly and the Oncology Nursing Association.
lower than those in developed countries due to
low awareness, poor diagnostic capabilities and Although each partner had its own perspectives
lack of specialised care facilities. When exploring and goals, all agreed that the potential benefit of
the pain points along the patient continuum of training oncology nurses could be significant, and
care, Lucia and her team realised that the scale of together began working to implement a plan. At its
these problems are compounded by the absence core is a scholarship programme – supported by
of specialised nurses who provide care to patients the Roche Corporate Donations and Philanthropy
with cancer. Emerging Market Scholarships Programme – to train
oncology nurses at Indonesia University and help
“Oncology nurses play such an important role in develop country-specific cancer care.
helping patients throughout their entire journey,
but our research suggested that the majority of The progress has already been significant. In 2022,
nurses learn to deal with the complexities of cancer the basic oncology nursing training curriculum was
treatment and palliative care on the job,” she says. accredited by the Ministry of Health, 30 programme
“In addition, due to competing healthcare priorities, trainers were certified, 50 nurses were certified in
they are often rotated from one position to basic oncology nursing training and 31 students136
“That’s when corporate donations and
philanthropy work best – not just as a
stand-alone grant, but as a starting point;
a catalyst to real, meaningful change.”
were enrolled in the three-year oncology nurse These programmes were also supported by our
specialist training programme. global Corporate Donations and Philanthropy team.
Ultimately, the goal is always that the donation,
Future goals include placing an oncology nurse through partnership and collaboration, becomes
specialist in every one of the archipelago’s self-sustaining. It’s one of the core values when
38 provinces, opening five new training centres it comes to Roche philanthropic initiatives.
and establishing oncology nurse specialist
programmes at more universities. And the “We established a centre of excellence in one
momentum is really starting to build. of the worst affected areas for stunting in the
country, but that also served as a proof of concept
“The significance of this initiative is that our partners for other regions,” she says. “Another regional
have fully invested in the vision of oncology nurses government quickly committed to adopting the
as a long-term solution, and now they are spreading project in their area because they could clearly
the word and the project is growing and almost see the benefit of the programme. Again, we
taking on a life of its own,” says Lucia. “It’s not just were able to act as an instigator, catalyst and
as a stand-alone grant, but as a starting point; ongoing partner. We established the centre,
a catalyst to real, meaningful change.” but then linked them with key policymaker and
potential partners so that access to care could
A personal passion grow throughout the country and the centre could
In her 27 years at Roche, Lucia is proud to have ensure its own ongoing long-term sustainability.”
been involved in several catalysts for change
throughout Indonesia. These include an effort Lucia’s passion to make an impact extends to
to rebuild healthcare centres after a large fundraising activities, including cooking to
earthquake in 2018, and a programme to reduce raise funds for the annual Roche Children’s
the percentage of children affected by childhood Walk, the company’s largest employee-driven
stunting (a significant issue in Indonesia and many philanthropic event.
low- and lower-middle-income countries) from
38% to 14% by 2024. Lucia highlights how the “Whether at work or at home, I just want to make a
latter programme is another great example of difference,” she says. “And when like-minded people
how projects can quickly build in momentum. come together, we can achieve amazing things.”Community engagement | Roche 137
Lucia has always been passionate about uniting our partners
around a meaningful goal. From helping to establish an oncology
nursing scholarship in Indonesia to helping to set up a centre
of excellence to reduce childhood stunting, Lucia knows that
collaborating with others can truly make a difference.138
Bringing specialised oncology nursing home
Margareth Lasut was, quite literally, born into the The journey begins
medical profession. Throughout her childhood in Margareth applied to the programme and was
Indonesia’s North Sulawesi province, she saw her quickly accepted. She and her fellow scholarship
mother, a dedicated nurse, make a difference in recipients travelled from around the country to
the lives of countless patients. Even as a young Jakarta to begin their studies in September 2022.
girl, Margareth knew she wanted to follow in
those footsteps. “The programme is very interactive and interesting,”
she says. “There are no limits for us to express
What she didn’t know in those early days was how ourselves and learn how to impact as many people
large and important the impact she could have on as possible by continually working to improve our
her community could really be. knowledge and skills.”
Seeing a need, seeking a solution Of the many new concepts Margareth has been
Margareth became a registered nurse in 2018 and studying, she cites the ‘care continuum’ as one of
quickly realised she wanted to do more to help the most interesting and helpful. “I’ve learned that,
patients access the highest levels of care. She was as a cancer nurse, we don’t just treat a patient once
well aware that care for cancer patients in North they’ve arrived at the hospital after a diagnosis,”
Sulawesi needed improvement. The hospital in which she explains. “We have to start even before the
Margareth worked, the largest in the region, was in cancer treatments begin (through prevention and
the early stages of developing its first cancer unit. detection) and provide specialised care all the way
through the rehabilitation stage, or the end-of-life
In early 2022, Margareth’s supervisor told her experience, if that is the outcome.”
about a first-of-its-kind programme to provide
scholarships in specialised oncology nursing. “Another aspect that I love about this programme
She learned that the programme, which was is that I have the opportunity to visit hospitals in
developed by the University of Indonesia and Jakarta and see with my own eyes what advanced
supported by Roche, was accepting applications. cancer care looks like. There is so much I can do
Margareth immediately knew she had found a way to improve care back home,” she says.
to improve the quality of care for the people in
her community. Bringing the benefits home
When Margareth returns to North Sulawesi after
“For me, this programme was an answered prayer,” her training is complete, she will be among the
Margareth explains. “It gave me the opportunity first oncology nursing specialists in the province,
to expand my nursing knowledge at one of the which has a population of 2.5 million people.
best educational institutions in Indonesia. And I She is already looking forward to the difference
can bring that knowledge back to my colleagues her new expertise can make for cancer patients.
and ultimately help patients, their families and She explains: “Every year, the number of cancer
my entire community.” patients in our region is increasing. I hope to beCommunity engagement | Roche 139
Margareth Lasut140
As one of the first students enrolled in the oncology nurse specialist
training programme, Margareth knows she plays a role in helping
educate other nurses on how to care for those living with cancer.
She believes that education is a key component in helping alleviate
an overburdened healthcare system in Indonesia.Community engagement | Roche 141
“At first, I thought my patients would learn
from me. But then I realised that I was the
one who would be learning from them.”
able to give as many of them as I can access to She believes the scholarship programme, combined
quality care.” with an understanding of the many benefits
oncology nursing specialists provide, will lead to a
“Also, I want to share my new knowledge with continued increase in nursing specialists in hospitals
other nurses and encourage them to continue across Indonesia. When asked about her hopes for
their education as well, so cancer treatment in the future, Margareth says, “I think we all hope to
North Sulawesi can continue to improve, far into use our knowledge to change people’s lives.”
the future.”
But first, Margareth is looking forward to completing
Increasing the number of oncology nursing her studies, returning home to her husband and
specialists throughout Indonesia will hopefully family and spending quiet evenings at home. When
help to alleviate an overburdened state healthcare asked what has most surprised her about working
system. As Margareth explains, “We know that with cancer patients, she replies, “At first, I thought
adding even one oncology nursing specialist to a my patients would learn from me. But then I realised
hospital staff can lower the overall cost of treating that I was the one who would be learning from them.
cancer patients. And that nurse can help to educate They’ve taught me about the importance of family,
colleagues, which in turn can increase access to and they have shown me how to maintain hope in
care for more patients.” difficult times.”142
Focused on community impact
When philanthropy is done well, it is a catalyst to years ahead. We are supporting a wide range
meaningful and sustainable change. This mindset of scholarships in emerging markets (see table
is at the core of our philanthropic strategy, which on page 143), opening paths to new possibilities
is organised around four key pillars: humanitarian through the education of new nurses, health
support, community projects, education workers, lab technicians and many more.
programmes and cultural collaborations.
Bolstered by employee engagement
We take a multi-stakeholder approach with trusted We believe that the long-term sustainability of
partners on the ground to make our philanthropic societal change relies upon engagement with
ambitions a reality. Along the way, we ensure that local communities, and that mantra extends to
all of the projects and initiatives we support meet our employees. In fact, our largest employee
quality, innovation and sustainability criteria. engagement and philanthropic event began in
2003 as an employee-driven pilot across three
Contributing to healthier communities sites – the Roche Children’s Walk. In 2022,
Many of our philanthropic initiatives help to build 145 sites participated in the campaign, across
stronger, healthier communities where we live, 60 countries, garnering the support of over
work and beyond. For example, we have been 20,000 employees. Together, we supported
supporting the International Committee of the 70 local projects and 9 global projects through
Red Cross (ICRC) for over 100 years. It’s our the Roche Employee Action and Charity Trust
longest-standing partnership – spanning nearly (Re&Act).
as long as the founding of the company – and has
continued to evolve ever since. A major focus in Every year, a group of the most engaged
recent years has been helping to improve access employees from around the world are selected as
to water in Mali, where lack of access to this vital the Children’s Walk Ambassadors to witness the
resource has been acute due to protracted conflict, impact of employee fundraising activities first-hand.
drought and limited resources. In 2022, over Following a three-year pause due to the COVID-19
250,000 people benefitted from this initiative. pandemic, 18 Ambassadors visited several
Re&Act projects.
We also help to bolster community access to
basic primary healthcare services. We have been These included Child’s Dream in Cambodia, a
supporting the Transnet Phelophepa healthcare foundation dedicated to improving children’s
trains since 1994, providing services that have education where our support is helping to build
evolved to meet the most pressing health needs 35 schools, outfit 10 computer labs and provide
in rural communities in South Africa. In 2022, 350 scholarships; Selam Children’s Village in
Phelophepa provided healthcare services to over Ethiopia, where we are supporting five orphan
335,000 patients, training to over 5,000 community homes for children who have had the most difficult
healthcare volunteers, and 28 food gardens to start to life; Mothers to Mothers in Malawi, where
enable more food security in the region. our support helps to improve the health and
well-being of adolescent girls who are HIV-positive
There is perhaps no better example of sustainable or HIV-exposed; and UNICEF in Malawi, where
change than providing people with the training we are helping to keep girls in school through a
needed to build healthier communities for menstrual health hygiene campaign.Community engagement | Roche 143
1,694 philanthropic contributions by the Roche Group around the world*
Corporate Donations and Philanthropy (CDP)
Fondation Roche Recherche en Afrique (FRRA)
Roche Employee Action and Charity Trust (Re&Act)
Local philanthropic projects
Global Emerging Market Scholarships Programme in 2022 CDP – Corporate Donations and Philantropy
FRRA – FoPnhildanathtrioopicn Roche Recherche en Afrique
Country Recipient organisation Discipline #Scholars
Re&Act – Roche Employee Action and Charity Trust
Cambodia Child’s Dream Re&Act High school 80
Local Philantrophy
Université Atlantique FRRA Lab technicians 14
Unité de Formation et de Recherche
Côte d’Ivoire Sciences Médicales d’Abidjan FRRA Pathologists 7
Ethiopia Selam Re&Act Vocational 84
AO Alliance FRRA Trauma and orthopaedic 20
Ghana College of Nurses and Midwives FRRA Oncology nursing 20
Ghana ETH Zürich Foundation FRRA Mechatronics engineering 26
India Kiran CDP University 20
Indonesia Universitas Indonesia CDP Oncology nursing 100
Amref FRRA Community health workers 26
Kenya Beyond Zero CDP Nursing 124
Christel House CDP Middle school 10
South Africa Maharishi Institute CDP Business 50
Peru, Colombia, El Salvador, Guatemala Fundación Educación CDP Business 27
Total 608
>335,000 patients received healthcare services on Phelophepa in South Africa
>250,000 people benefitted from ICRC’s access to water initiative in Mali
>20,000 employees supported the Roche Children’s Walk
* Illustrative map of recipient countries; not exhaustive144Business ethics
We believe that integrity is the basis of a sustainable
and successful business. Every employee has the
responsibility to behave with integrity and in accordance
with our shared values and compliance guidelines.
We also expect the partners we work with to meet our
integrity standards.
UN SDGs Material topics
· Human rights
· Ethics and transparency
· Patient centricity
· Availability of healthcare
· ComplianceLi
Bao
Regional Sales Lead
Beijing, China
Li knows that for critical diagnostics to be accessible
to more people in more places, he has a responsibility
to keep up on the latest developments in diagnostic
technology and the regulations that govern them.Business ethics | Roche 147
Matteo
Alaria
Head of Product Sustainability, Sartorius
Torino, Italy
Matteo is responsible for driving Sartorius’s sustainability
efforts and ensuring clients, like Roche, look for
opportunities to reduce resources and energy use
and implement sustainable solutions.148
Li BaoBusiness ethics | Roche 149
Transforming a business model to better
serve patients
In his role as Regional Sales Lead at Roche In this arrangement, Roche was responsible
Diagnostics China, Li Bao knows well that keeping for ensuring the instruments were in working
up with advancements in diagnostics and the order, and for repairing or replacing machines
instruments that process them is an ongoing task. as needed. In return, the reagent portion of
He also understands the importance of expanding the contracts provided the company with a
access to those advancement to as many people as predictable source of revenue. At the time, this
possible. That’s why he works hard to stay current industry-standard model supported the growing
on the latest developments in diagnostic technology, healthcare industry.
and to do whatever is necessary to ensure they are
available to more people in more places. As the healthcare market, and particularly the
diagnostic sector, underwent rapid growth in
The task of connecting more people with Roche China, the Chinese government began to question
diagnostic tools also entails keeping up with whether this particular model was actually the
changes to the regulations that govern them. best for patients. In 2017, the National Medical
When an impending regulatory change in China Products Administration (NMPA) determined
necessitated a complete transformation in the way that separating the financial arrangement for
a large portion of the company did business, Li knew diagnostic instruments from the financial
the entire team faced a particularly difficult test. arrangement for reagents would increase agility,
allowing hospitals to quickly adopt new instruments
With 14 years of experience at Roche Diagnostics, and technologies, and a better experience for
and responsibility for a core line of business, Li patients. The new regulations were to take effect
was comfortable with professional challenges. But beginning in 2018, with a transition period of
this regulatory change was a major transformation several years.
to a critical business process. There was no room
for error. Li and his team quickly saw that, while it Understanding the challenge
was likely to be a demanding journey, it was more While the regulatory change might have
than the necessary thing to do. It was also the right seemed simple on its surface, it was actually a
thing to do. substantial modification to the way Roche – and
its competitors – did business. Li and his team
Shifting needs in a growing market were tasked with ensuring that compliance with
Before the regulatory change, hospitals and other the new regulations was as smooth as possible.
healthcare facilities would typically lease diagnostic
instruments. As part of those agreements, the “The first reaction, both at Roche and within
facility would commit to purchasing a specific the larger industry, was confusion,” explains Li.
amount of reagent – the substance used to conduct “Nobody understood the rationale.” To gain clarity,
a diagnostic test and produce a result – in order the Roche team began to talk with regulators, ask
to have the instrument provided for the period of questions and work to develop a clearer idea of
the contract. what would be required.150
“Making these changes was part of our
investment in the country, and part of our
commitment to providing access to quality
healthcare to more people.”
The benefits to patients, which included increased instruments, review thousands of existing
transparency and access to new technologies, contracts to find potential issues and problems,
soon became apparent. The impact on Roche and began to develop solutions. One by one, new
became evident, as well. Li saw that “because arrangements were made with customers that
Roche offered high-quality instruments and aligned with the new regulations.
reagents, and an exceptional level of service, the
new business model was unlikely to negatively “It has been a long journey,” says Li. “We were able
impact our operations.” As he explains, “We to complete about 80% of the transition in the first
came to see that making these changes was two years. But, speaking honestly, the last 20%
part of our investment in the country, and part of has been the most difficult part and a great deal
our commitment to providing access to quality of work for everyone involved.”
healthcare to more people while transparently
complying with the local regulation.” Keeping compliance at the centre
Conducting business ethically and in compliance
Now, the task was to make it happen. with regulations – especially as they change – is
a core principle at Roche. Li elaborates on the
Gathering the team value Roche places on compliance this way: “It
While Li was not immediately sure what the path is everywhere. We have a monthly meeting that
to compliance would be, he did know it would is focused on compliance. We even call that day
be a truly cross-functional undertaking. The ‘Compliance Day’. That’s when we update everyone
team he assembled to develop a strategy for on compliance news, discuss any challenges we’re
the transformation included representatives facing and determine what needs to be done to
from finance, legal, compliance, sales and other ensure we are always where we need to be.”
departments. The group began to connect
with external stakeholders, including hospitals Ready for what’s next
and device distributors, to determine the best Even with this massive undertaking nearly complete,
ways to transition to the new regulations, while Li is not likely to sit still for long. His lifelong
minimising disruptions. commitment to staying healthy and active involves
swimming, jogging, basketball, badminton and more.
A large portion of the work fell to the sales Now, his sons are following in his footsteps, showing
team. They worked closely with their customers great promise in swimming. It’s all part of a family-
in hospital labs to inventory all of the current wide commitment to keeping up with the pace of life.Business ethics | Roche 151
As the healthcare system in China evolves, Li and his colleagues
are ensuring that Roche continues to provide access to quality
healthcare for more people. By working with partners across
the healthcare system, we are ensuring compliance with new
regulations while minimising disruptions to patients and their
healthcare providers.152
Demonstrating the value of sustainability
Sartorius is a global supplier of innovative “We are constantly pushing ourselves and our own
technologies and services that enable Roche and suppliers to find opportunities to do more with
other biotechnology companies to simplify and less, to reduce resources and energy use and
accelerate progress in biomanufacturing. Matteo to look for sustainable solutions in every aspect
Alaria, Sartorius’s Head of Product Sustainability, of our business,” says Matteo. “At the end of the
lives and breathes sustainability. An environmental day, everyone will benefit from this approach.
engineer by training, he has combined two of his Our clients, our suppliers, the environment and,
passions throughout his career – a love of the ultimately, patients.”
environment and a thirst for all things data-related.
The value of collaboration
“From my first job as a consultant working in a The biomanufacturing industry is extremely complex
variety of industries to joining Sartorius in 2022, and could see faster progress and more benefits
my most rewarding experiences have been helping for companies and patients through increased
organisations think and act sustainably,” reflects collaboration and simplification. “There are so many
Matteo. “Climate change is one of the biggest opportunities. We have to speed up sustainability
challenges we face as a society today and we efforts across the industry. We all need to ask
must act now to see changes in the future.” ourselves questions like ‘can we do better?’, ‘are
there new innovations in single-use technologies
Faster access for patients that we could explore?’, ‘can we package this
Sustainability is one of Sartorius’s three corporate product more efficiently?’”
values, along with openness and enjoyment. The
company takes a holistic view to finding resource- Matteo believes Roche, as a leader in the
efficient and innovative technology solutions biotechnology industry, has a great opportunity
that can help their clients translate new scientific to pave the way when it comes to industry
discoveries more quickly into effective patient collaboration. Through open dialogue with suppliers
care, while progressing towards their sustainability and partners, we can find common ground as an
goals. Sartorius looks at the entire value chain, industry and really embed sustainability across
from research and development and manufacturing the board. “Roche is a data-driven company,” he
through to storage and transportation of medicines says. “The only way to connect sustainability with
and vaccines, to speed up the time it takes for business is to find solutions through data and that
patients to benefit from them. Matteo’s role is is exactly how Roche operates its business. This
to ensure all of this happens with sustainability mindset is critical to the future of the industry
at its core. “We have an ethical responsibility to and we are grateful to collaborate with Roche on
support more access to innovative medicines for making meaningful change.”
more people, and do it in the most sustainable
way possible,” Matteo says.Business ethics | Roche 153
Matteo Alaria154
Matteo’s lifelong passion for sustainability has propelled him to
explore new and innovative ways to help clients reduce resources
and energy use. He believes that companies like Roche can lead
the way for the biotechnology industry and help set the standard
for how companies can move towards a sustainable future.Business ethics | Roche 155
“The only way to connect sustainability with
business is to find solutions through data
and that is exactly how Roche operates
its business.”
Knowledge is power Sartorius had taken this approach across many
Matteo and the team at Sartorius know that in-depth functions prior to the pandemic. “I am very
knowledge of a client’s processes and operations appreciative of the work-life balance I have in my
is an integral part of providing what they need. “It’s role. It allows me to spend more time with my family
our job to learn about our clients and how they while still collaborating with colleagues and clients
operate so we can identify the right solutions that around the world,” reflects Matteo. “Not to mention
will have the best possible performance,” says the fact that this is a truly sustainable approach
Matteo. “Having that 360-degree view helps us to working.”
capture opportunities to improve sustainability
across the value chain.” When considering what the future holds, Matteo
speaks about his three-month-old daughter. “Her
Living the values future is what’s important to me; that’s what drives
Although Sartorius is headquartered in Göttingen, me to make a difference in whatever way I can. I look
Germany, Matteo works from his home office in forward to continuing to work with our clients to
Torino, Italy, where he grew up. While the COVID-19 demonstrate value – which is always there when
pandemic sped up remote working approaches, sustainability is at the heart of what we do.”156
Embedding ethics and integrity
in everything we do
Compliance organisations. Through a centralised monitoring
While maintaining a strong ethical culture system, we are now able to free up the capacity
remains the main focus of our comprehensive of our compliance professionals to better support
compliance programme, in 2022 we also the business on more complex matters.
focused on digitalisation and simplification of
compliance processes and controls and ensured • We developed a Business Partner Management
our compliance experts are involved earlier in Checklist that provides a harmonised approach
new business models. to the management of external business partners
and promotes our integrity standards globally.
Several initiatives were concluded and successfully
implemented in 2022, not only leading to early Human rights
involvement of Compliance Officers but also Roche respects and proactively protects human
driving line management ownership of our rights. We are leveraging our current human rights
culture of integrity and compliance in times programme and moving towards a more holistic
of transformation: approach in the value chain to include our external
suppliers’ human rights programmes. In 2022,
• A harmonised compliance risk and opportunity a cross-functional team further developed our
assessment and management framework was Directive on Human Rights Due Diligence for Third
rolled out. This framework allows us to focus Parties, as well as updated the Roche Supplier Code
on the most relevant and biggest risks and of Conduct with a go-live date of 1 January 2023.
opportunities, as well as identify potential gaps These initiatives will increase transparency and
and trends. enhance our human rights programme beyond
Roche’s own operations.
• Our new Business Ethics Incident Management
System (BEIMS) was successfully implemented, One of the ways we ensure compliance with
which allows us to capture key data in order to our Supplier Code of Conduct is through our
better understand root causes of non-compliant Supplier Sustainability Assurance Visit (SSAV)
behaviours and trends, and act upon them. programme. We have a formal, risk-based
method of identifying the suppliers most at risk
• In an effort to drive awareness and engagement for sustainability-related violations, including
across the organisation, we revised and launched human rights violations. These suppliers are
a simplified version of our Behaviour in Business subject to recurring audits through the SSAV
directive. Through simpler language and easier programme. In 2022, we conducted 51 SSAVs
navigation, we can ensure our employees have (16 in EMEA, 26 in APAC, 3 in North America and
a clear understanding of key topics including 6 in LATAM). There were 154 human rights-related
conflict of interest and corruption. observations. Audited suppliers commit to a
documented corrective action plan to address any
• We began implementing an improved and audit findings. Follow-up audits are conducted
standardised process for all interactions with to verify that corrective actions are taken and
healthcare professionals and healthcare adequately address root causes.Business ethics | Roche 157
Active pharmaceutical ingredients and chemicals
Contract research organisations
18
18
Laboratory supplies
14
Logistics and transportation
Human rights-related
50
findings per
industry 2022
Waste management and cleaning
19
IT and telecommunication
Temporary labour
3
32
The most common critical or major findings categories: excessive overtime, incorrect overtime compensation (12%); not granted enough numbers of days off or
annual leave (6%); delayed payment of wages (4%).
Compliance
In 2022, 193 employees used the Roche Group SpeakUp Line, operated by
an external provider, which is available in 53 languages in 103 countries.
The Chief Compliance Officer received 723 reports of alleged violations
of the Code of Conduct via the Business Ethics Incident Management
System. Of these, 247 were unfounded, 278 were founded, and 198 are
still under investigation. As a result, 112 employment contracts and
6 agreements with business partners were terminated on grounds of
unethical behaviour.
Compared to last year, the higher number of reported alleged violations
are due to a broadening of the scope of the definition of a Business Ethics
Incident, with the removal of the materiality criteria as of 1 March 2022.158Corporate Governance | Roche 159
Corporate
Governance
Our corporate governance principles put the focus of
our business activities on sustainable value creation
and innovation and prescribe a management culture
conforming to recognised standards of good corporate
governance and a policy of transparent communication.
Material topic
· Compliance160
Principles
Business activities with a focus on sustainable relevant corporate governance requirements, in
value creation and innovation, a management particular with all applicable laws, the Swiss Stock
culture conforming to recognised standards Exchange (SIX Swiss Exchange) directives and
of good corporate governance and a policy of the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate
transparent communication embody Roche’s Governance promulgated by the Swiss business
corporate governance principles, which build the federation ‘economiesuisse’. The company’s internal
basis for the successful implementation of Roche’s governance framework, particularly its Articles
commitment to serving all its stakeholders. of Incorporation and Bylaws, embodies all the
principles needed to ensure that the company’s
A strong Board of Directors which represents businesses are managed and supervised in a
the interests of the shareholders and all other manner consistent with good corporate governance,
stakeholders, and highly skilled managers who including the necessary checks and balances.1
act with integrity are extremely important.
The printed Annual Report contains selected links
Roche ranked as one of the top three most to the Roche website (https://www.roche.com).
sustainable healthcare companies in the Readers are thus provided not only with a ‘snapshot’
Pharmaceuticals index of the Dow Jones of our company at the reporting date but are also
Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the 14th year directed to sources which they can consult at any
running. This recognition is based on an in-depth time for up-to-date information about corporate
analysis of economic, social and environmental governance at Roche. Whereas each Annual Report
performance. Sustainability is at the core of our covers a single financial year ending 31 December,
business practices and this award reflects our our website contains information of a more
commitment to running our business in a way that permanent nature, as well as the latest Roche news.
is ethical, responsible and creates long-term The company’s Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and
value for stakeholders. the curricula vitae of current and former members of
the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive
This Corporate Governance Report sets out the Committee are published on our website (status
structures, processes and rules which Roche as per end of term and as at the reporting date
takes as the basis for well-functioning corporate on 31 December of each year, at least of the last
governance. In doing so, Roche complies with all five years).
1 https://www.roche.com/about/governanceCorporate Governance | Roche 161
Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
and Board Committees Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
CEO Roche CEO Roche CEO Roche Chief Financial and Chief People
Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Information Officer Officer
Enlarged Corporate Executive Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Committee gRED pRED Pharma Partnering Communications General Counsel162
Board of Directors
Review AGM 2022 Review on reporting year
In accordance with Art. 8 of the Federal Act As announced in July 2022, Roche Chairman
on the Statutory Principles for Federal Council Dr Christoph Franz has decided not to stand for
Ordinances on Combating the COVID-19 Epidemic re-election as a member and Chairman of the
(COVID-19 Act) and Art. 27 of the Ordinance 3 on Board of Directors at the AGM in March 2023.
Measures to Combat the Coronavirus (COVID-19) Dr Franz was elected to the Roche Board of
(COVID-19 Ordinance 3), the 104th Annual General Directors in 2011 and has served as its Chairman
Meeting (AGM) of Roche Holding Ltd was held on since 2014.
15 March 2022 without shareholders attending
in person. Shareholders had been requested to On 26 September 2022, Julie Brown stepped
exercise their rights via the independent proxy, down as a member of the Roche Board of Directors
Testaris AG, and to address their questions to the with immediate effect, as she has accepted a
company in writing. management role at another pharmaceutical
company. Julie Brown was elected to the Board
At the AGM of Roche Holding Ltd on 15 March 2022, of Directors in March 2016 and subsequently
shareholders re-elected Dr Christoph Franz as chaired the Audit Committee. Dr Patrick Frost
Chairman of the Board of Directors for a term of one took on as the Chairman of the Audit Committee
year as provided by the Articles of Incorporation. on an interim basis until the AGM 2023 of Roche
Holding Ltd.
Furthermore, the AGM re-elected André Hoffmann,
Julie Brown, Dr Jörg Duschmalé, Dr Patrick Frost, Outlook AGM 2023
Anita Hauser, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, Bernard On 14 March 2023, at the forthcoming AGM the
Poussot, Dr Severin Schwan and Dr Claudia Board of Directors nominates Dr Severin Schwan
Suessmuth Dyckerhoff as members of the Board as its new Chairman for election. Dr Schwan has
of Directors for a term of one year as provided by served as a member of the Roche Board of Directors
the Articles of Incorporation. since 2013. At the same time, Dr Schwan will resign
as a member of the Corporate Executive Committee
Dr Jemilah Mahmood was elected as a new member (since 2006) and as the CEO Roche Group
of the Board of Directors for a term of one year. (since 2008).
In addition, the AGM elected Dr Christoph Franz, The Board of Directors further nominates all other
André Hoffmann, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, remaining members of the Board of Directors for
Bernard Poussot and Dr Patrick Frost as members of re-election and recommends the following new
the Remuneration Committee for a term of one year. members for election to the Board of Directors
at the AGM 2023: Prof. Dr Akiko Iwasaki, Sterling
At its organising meeting immediately following Professor of Immunobiology and Molecular,
the AGM, the Board of Directors determined Cellular and Developmental Biology at Yale
the structure and composition of its remaining University and an Investigator of the Howard
committees as shown on page 165 (see also Hughes Medical Institute, and Dr Mark Schneider,
page 11 and page 171 ‘Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Nestlé.
Corporate Executive Committee’).Corporate Governance | Roche 163
Moreover, the Board of Directors nominates Board of Directors from Dr Annette Luther, who will
Dr Jörg Duschmalé and Anita Hauser (both new), be appointed as Head of International Government
André Hoffmann, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton and Relations in April 2023.
Bernard Poussot as current members for election to
the Remuneration Committee at the AGM in 2023. The Board of Directors nominates Testaris AG for
election as independent proxy by the AGM in 2023
Per-Olof Attinger, currently Head of the CEO for the period from 2023 until the conclusion of
Office and Secretary to the Corporate Executive the 2024 ordinary AGM of shareholders.
Committee, will take over as Secretary to the
Board of Directors
Board Committees
Board of Directors
Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
and Board Committees
Remuneration Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Audit Committee164
10
Board of Directors members
Nationality*
Malaysia
France 1
1
Austria
female
1
30% Switzerland
male 6
70%
US
2
Germany
3
3 <55 years 5 years 3
5 55–65 years 6–10 years 5
2 >65 years >10 years 2
Age Tenure**
Average tenure incl. CEO: 8.50
(years) excl. CEO: 8.33
* incl. 2× dual citizen and 1× triple citizen | ** Calculated: year of first election – 2023Corporate Governance | Roche 165
Composition as at 31.12.2022 Name (year of birth) First elected
Board of Directors Dr Christoph Franz (1960) C, D *, E, G Chairman 2011
André Hoffmann (1958) A*, C *, D, E, G Vice-Chairman 1996
(representative of the shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Dr Jörg Duschmalé (1984) B, E, G 2020
(representative of the shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Dr Patrick Frost (1968) B*, C, E, G 2020
Anita Hauser (1969) A, E, G 2017
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953) C, E, G 2015
Dr Jemilah Mahmood (1959) A, E, G 2022
Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E, G 2015
Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F 2013
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967) A, B, E, G 2016
Secretary to the Dr Annette Luther (1970)
Board of Directors
Curricula vitae (CVs) of members of the Board of Directors:
a) current members: https://www.roche.com/about/governance/board-of-directors
b) former members (at least of the last five years): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/ec_bod_former
c) information of CVs at the reporting date on 31 December of each year (at least of the last five years): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/archiv_former_cvs
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee B Audit Committee C Remuneration Committee
D Chairman’s/Nomination Committee E Non-executive director F Executive director
G Independent member of the Board of Directors * Committee chairperson
Board of Directors A B C D
Committees
André Hoffmann (Chair) Dr Patrick Frost (Chair) André Hoffmann (Chair) Dr Christoph Franz (Chair)
Anita Hauser Dr Jörg Duschmalé Dr Christoph Franz André Hoffmann
Dr Jemilah Mahmood Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff Dr Patrick Frost
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton
Bernard Poussot166
Corporate Executive Committee
All memberships of the Corporate Executive in 2003, he worked in different countries and
Committee remained unchanged in 2022. leadership functions before he became CEO of
the Diagnostics Division and a member of the
William Pao, Head of Roche Pharma Research Corporate Executive Committee in August 2019.
and Early Development (pRED) and member of the
Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee, left As announced on 3 October 2022, effective
Roche on 18 March 2022 for a new opportunity 1 January 2023, Matt Sause, former Head of
in the United States. Roche Diagnostics’ North America region, became
CEO Roche Diagnostics and a member of the
Prof. Dr Hans Clevers, who joined the Board of Corporate Executive Committee. Matt Sause began
Directors in 2019, stepped down from this position his career with Roche in Indianapolis, United States,
and was appointed as the new Head of Roche pRED in 2002 and progressed in numerous leadership
effective 18 March 2022 and became a member roles in multiple countries, including Japan, Taiwan,
of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee Ireland, Peru and South Korea. In 2018, he joined
reporting directly to Roche’s Group CEO. Genentech before assuming the role as regional
Head of Roche Diagnostics North America.
As announced in July 2022, the Board of Directors He holds a bachelor’s degree in microbiology.
has decided to propose Roche’s Group CEO
Dr Severin Schwan as its new Chairman at the AGM Bill Anderson, CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals and
in March 2023. At the same time, Dr Schwan will member of the Corporate Executive Committee, has
resign as a member of the Corporate Executive decided to pursue opportunities outside of Roche
Committee (since 2006) and as the CEO Roche effective 31 December 2022. Dr Thomas Schinecker
Group (since 2008). became the ad interim CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals
starting 1 January 2023.
Effective 14 March 2023, the Board of Directors
has appointed Dr Thomas Schinecker, currently Information on each member of the Corporate
CEO of the Diagnostics Division, as Dr Schwan’s Executive Committee and of the Enlarged Corporate
successor as the CEO Roche Group. Dr Schinecker Executive Committee is listed on page 167 (see also
grew up in Asia and earned his PhD in Molecular page 16 and page 171 ‘Board of Directors and
Biology in the United States. Since joining Roche Corporate Executive Committee’).
Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
CEO Roche CEO Roche CEO Roche Chief Financial and Chief People
Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Information Officer Officer
Enlarged Corporate Executive Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Committee gRED pRED Pharma Partnering Communications General CounselCorporate Governance | Roche 167
Composition as at 31.12.2022 Name (year of birth) Position Since
Corporate Executive Committee Dr Severin Schwan (1967) CEO Roche Group 2008
Bill Anderson (1966) CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals 2019
Dr Thomas Schinecker (1975) CEO Roche Diagnostics 2019
Dr Alan Hippe (1967) Chief Financial and Information Officer 2011
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967) Chief People Officer 2016
Enlarged Corporate Dr Aviv Regev (1971) Head Genentech Research and 2020
Executive Committee Early Development (gRED)
Prof. Dr Hans Clevers (1957) Head Roche Pharma Research and 2022
Early Development (pRED)
Dr James H. Sabry (1958) Global Head Pharma Partnering 2018
Barbara Schädler (1962) Head Group Communications 2019
Claudia Böckstiegel (1964) General Counsel 2020
Secretary to the Corporate Per-Olof Attinger (1960) 2010
Executive Committee
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (reporting years 2004–2008)
of Roche Holding Ltd KPMG AG (since 2009)
Auditor in charge: John A. Morris (2004–2010)
Ian Starkey (2011–2017)
Mark Baillache (2018–2021)
François Rouiller (since 2022)
Chief Compliance Officer Pascale Schmidt (1973) 2020
Curricula vitae (CVs) of the members of the Corporate Executive Committee and the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee:
a) current members: https://www.roche.com/about/governance/executive-committee
b) former members (at least five years back): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/ec_bod_former
c) information of CVs at the reporting date on 31 December of each year (at least of the last five years):
https://www.roche.com/about/governance/archiv_former_cvs168
Group structure and shareholders
Roche’s operating businesses are organised into information on Roche Holding Ltd and on significant
two divisions: Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. subsidiaries and associated companies (including
company name, listing information, domicile, share
The Pharmaceuticals Division comprises the capital and equity interest) is listed in the Finance
two business segments Roche Pharmaceuticals Report, Note 33 to the Roche Group Consolidated
(including Genentech in the United States) Financial Statements (‘List of subsidiaries and
and Chugai. associates’, page 137).
In 2021, the Diagnostics Division replaced Major shareholders are listed in the Finance
the previous business area structure of its four Report, Notes 22 and 32 to the Roche Group
business areas with new customer areas. Sales Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity
are presented by the following customer areas: attributable to Roche shareholders’ and ‘Related
Core Lab, Molecular Lab, Point of Care, Pathology parties’, pages 94 and 134), and in Note 4 to
Lab, Diabetes Care (for details see Finance Report, the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd
page 25). (‘Significant shareholders’, page 181). In addition,
significant shareholders are published on
Business activities are carried out through Group the relevant webpage (see link below*) of the
subsidiaries and associated companies. Detailed disclosure office of SIX Exchange Regulation.
Roche Pharmaceuticals (incl. Genentech)
Pharmaceuticals
Chugai
Core Lab
Molecular Lab
Diagnostics
Point of Care
Pathology Lab
Diabetes Care
Composition as at 31.12.2022
* SIX Exchange Regulation: https://www.ser-ag.com/en/resources/notifications-market-participants/significant-shareholders.html#/Corporate Governance | Roche 169
André Hoffmann (above), Chairman of the Corporate Governance
and Sustainability Committee and of the Remuneration Committee,
and Dr Jörg Duschmalé (below), member of the Audit Committee.
André Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman of the Board of
Directors, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
and of the Board’s Corporate Governance and
Sustainability Committee and member of the
Board’s Chairman’s/Nomination Committee, and
Dr Jörg Duschmalé, member of the Board of
Directors and of the Board’s Audit Committee, serve
in their respective capacities on the Board and its
committees as representatives of the shareholder
group with pooled voting rights and receive the
remuneration set forth in the Remuneration Report
on page 194 and in the Finance Report, Note 32
to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial
Statements (‘Related parties’, page 134). No other
relationships exist with the shareholders with
pooled voting rights.
There are no cross-shareholdings.170
Capital structure
Information on Roche’s capital structure is provided earnings and in any liquidation proceeds following
in the Finance Report, Notes to the Financial repayment of the share capital. Roche’s NES and the
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (page 178). rights pertaining thereto (including the provisions
Additional details are contained in the Articles of protecting the interests of NES holders) are
Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.2 described in §4 of the Articles of Incorporation of
Roche Holding Ltd.
Movement in recognised amounts during the last
three financial years are detailed in the Finance Information on debt instruments which have been
Report, Notes to the Financial Statements of issued and on outstanding bonds is provided in
Roche Holding Ltd (page 180). the Finance Report, Note 21 to the Roche Group
Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Debt’, page 89).
At an extraordinary General Meeting held on
26 November 2021, the shareholders agreed Information on employee stock options is provided
to reduce the company’s share capital from in the Finance Report, Note 27 to the Roche
CHF 160,000,000 to CHF 106,691,000 through Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity
the cancellation of 53,309,000 shares which had compensation plans’, page 108), including detailed
been repurchased by the company from Novartis information on the Stock-settled Stock Appreciation
Holding AG pursuant to the repurchase agreement Rights (S-SARs) Plan, the Restricted Stock Units
dated 3 November 2021. The share capital is (RSUs) Plan, Roche Connect and the Roche
divided into 106,691,000 fully paid bearer shares Option Plan.
with a nominal value of CHF 1 each. There are no
restrictions on the exercise of the voting rights Roche has issued no options apart from employee
of these bearer shares. stock options as described in the Finance Report,
Note 27 to the Roche Group Consolidated
There is no authorised or conditional capital. Financial Statements (‘Equity compensation plans’,
page 108) and options issued in connection with
In addition, 702,562,700 non-voting equity debt instruments.
securities (NES) have been issued in bearer form.
They do not form part of the share capital and Neither the options awarded to employees nor the
confer no voting rights. Each NES confers the debt instruments which have been issued have any
same rights as one share to participate in available effect on Roche’s share capital.
2 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporationCorporate Governance | Roche 171
Board of Directors
and Corporate Executive Committee
Information on each member of the Board of Directors’ independence definition is based on the
Directors and on each member of the Corporate definition in the Swiss Code of Best Practice for
Executive Committee is listed on pages 165 and 167. Corporate Governance of ‘economiesuisse’ and
Members of the Board of Directors have no age limit is complemented by specific preceding criteria
or restriction on their term of office. (see https://www.roche.com/about/governance/
board-of-directors).
Curricula vitae (CVs) of all current and former members
(of at least the last five years) of both bodies and The Principles of Governance (principles of
other information (including information on the delegation and competence, reservation of powers
years of their first election, Board memberships, and management of a group of companies) of
additional positions, memberships and activities) are the executive bodies of the company include
available and continuously updated on the Internet. economic, environmental and social topics. The
In addition, the status of the CVs of both bodies at principles together with the internal organisation
the relevant reporting date on 31 December (of at of the Board of Directors, the division of authority
least the last five years) is separately available too.3 and responsibilities between the Board and
management, the remits of the Board Committees,
Rules pursuant to article 12 para. 1 point 1 VegüV and the information and control mechanisms
on the number of permitted activities of the Board of available to the Board in its dealings with corporate
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee management, are governed by the Bylaws.6
members are outlined in §22.4 of the Articles of
Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.4 The Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd is
organised so as to ensure that the Group conducts
Since 2014, the Annual General Meeting has elected its businesses responsibly and with a focus on
all members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman long-term value creation. To this end, the Roche
of the Board of Directors and the members of Board has delegated certain responsibilities
the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis to several committees.7 Their composition and
in elections in which each nominee is voted on chairpersons as at 31 December 2022 are described
separately (see §18 of the Articles of Incorporation on pages 11 and 165. Each committee’s authorities
of Roche Holding Ltd4 and the minutes of the and responsibilities are defined in detail in the
104th ordinary Annual General Meeting of Roche Bylaws of the Board of Directors.8
Holding Ltd, held on 15 March 20225).
All the committees are chaired by independent
With the exception of Dr Severin Schwan none of directors.
the members of the Board of Directors in office
at the end of 2022 was a member of Roche’s According to the Bylaws of the Board of Directors,
Corporate Executive Committee or served in an a Board meeting may be convened without the
executive capacity at any Group subsidiary during Chairman present at the request of any of its
the five financial years preceding the current members. The Roche Board meets once a year to
reporting period and they are for lack of existing assess the Chairman’s performance. This meeting,
business connections with the Group or any which is not attended by the Chairman, is chaired
Group subsidiary independent. Roche’s Board of by the Vice-Chairman.
3 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/board-of-directors and https://www.roche.com/about/governance/executive-committee
4 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporation
5 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/annual-general-meetings
6 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporation
7 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/committees
8 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporation172
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
and Board Committees Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
CEO Roche CEO Roche CEO Roche Chief Financial and Chief People
Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Information Officer Officer
As part of the Management Information dialogues. The consolidated Group Risk Report
System (MIS), the Board has access to an including target risk profile is discussed by the
electronic information platform which provides Corporate Executive Committee and approved
timely information to the Board of Directors and together with the Group Business Plan. All material
the Board Committees as does the system of risks are reviewed by the Board on a yearly basis.
controls as set forth below. The effectiveness of the risk management process
is monitored by the Group Risk Advisory team
The Board of Directors has established a system and the overall process is regularly reviewed by
of controls which is continuously monitored by the external auditors, with findings presented to the
Audit Committee, by the Corporate Governance Audit Committee and the full Board. For details on
and Sustainability Committee and by the Board of risk management and the Risk Management Policy,
Directors and consists of the following elements: see ‘Risk management’ on our website.9 Financial
• Report on operating and financial risks (risk risk management is specifically described in the
management system) Finance Report.10
The Roche Group has established a risk • System of internal controls over financial reporting
management process covering the entire company (see page 153 of the Finance Report)
with a system in place to identify and manage • Internal audit
all types of risks and opportunities potentially Group Audit reports administrativelyto the General
affecting its business (including economic, Counsel, has direct access and gives regular
environmental and social impacts). The Board of briefings to the Audit Committee, to the Corporate
Directors is the highest governance body involved. Governance and Sustainability Committee and
Roche’s Risk Management Policy sets out the to the Chairman of the Board of Directors about
approach and accompanying responsibilities. ongoing activities and audit reports. The Chief
Roche’s Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Audit & Risk Advisory Executive attends the Audit
Divisions and global functions conduct a formal Committee and partly the Corporate Governance
assessment process at least once a year and and Sustainability Committee meetings, as do the
must develop risk plans for their most material external auditors. Group Audit is an independent
risks and opportunities. These are monitored appraisal function which evaluates and reviews
and deviations reviewed in regular performance the Group’s activities as a service to the Board
9 https://www.roche.com/about/sustainability/approach/risk-management
10 Additional information is provided in the Finance Report, Note 31 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements, ‘Risk management’, page 119.Corporate Governance | Roche 173
of Directors and to management. The annual The following black-out periods are/were in effect
audit plan with yearly defined focus areas (e.g. for 2023 and 2022, respectively:
commercial activities, distributor management,
healthcare compliance) is validated by senior Black-out periods
management and approved by the Audit 2023 2022
Committee. The Roche Group is committed to
26 December 2022 to 26 December 2021 to
maintaining a high standard of internal control
2 February 2023 3 February 2022
throughout its worldwide operations. Management
1 April to 26 April 2023 1 April to 25 April 2022
is responsible for assessing the business risks in
26 June to 27 July 2023 26 June to 21 July 2022
all aspects of its operation and for implementing
1 October to 1 October to
effective and efficient processes and controls
19 October 2023 18 October 2022
whilst ensuring compliance with internal and
external rules and regulations. By conducting
operational audits, Group Audit determines Black-out periods can be changed by the Chairman
management’s response to the risks surrounding of the Board of Directors if circumstances warrant.
business processes and systems, and evaluates
the appropriateness, completeness and efficiency Roche employees involved in the preparation
of the processes and controls. Action plans to of regular publicity events (in particular annual
implement necessary changes and enhancements and half-year reports and media conferences,
are developed together with the business/auditee quarterly sales releases) or having otherwise
and are tracked to completion. access to such potentially share price sensitive
• Statutory auditors, see page 178 information of Roche are subject to these black-
• Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance out periods. Irrespective of whether the relevant
Officers in subsidiaries, see page 181 information is share price sensitive for Roche or
• Safety, Security, Health and Environmental not, during the black-out periods these persons
Protection department11 shall keep the relevant information confidential
• Corporate Sustainability Steering Committee12 and must not (i) disclose it to any non-insider within
• Science and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG)13 or outside Roche (including family members),
(ii) buy, sell or otherwise trade in equity securities
The members of the Corporate Executive Committee of Roche (shares, non-voting equity securities
are invited to attend meetings of the Board of [NES]) as well as options or similar instruments
Directors for, and report in person on, those and derivatives based thereon, or (iii) provide
agenda items concerning them. When the situation trading recommendations thereon. The automatic
warrants, members of the Enlarged Corporate execution of predefined periodic purchase orders
Executive Committee may also be invited to attend. under the Roche Connect programme is not
The Board Committees invite the Chairman of subject to these black-out periods.
the Board and Corporate Executive Committee
members to deliver reports at committee meetings For addressees, scope and exceptions with
and may elect to commission independent expert regard to the black-out periods please refer to
reports and call on the services of consultants. the Roche Group Insider Directive (https://assets.
cwp.roche.com/f/126832/x/3e96b30141/group-
Each year several black-out periods are imposed insider-policy.pdf).
during which members of the Board of Directors
and senior managers and certain other employees
are prohibited from trading in company stock.
11 https://www.roche.com/about/sustainability/environment
12 https://www.roche.com/about/sustainability
13 https://www.roche.com/innovation/ethical-standards/advisory174
Dr Patrick Frost, Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In 2022, the Board of Directors met for 8 meetings:
meetings from 1 to 8 hours in length, including a
full-day meeting. In addition, the Board went on
a 4-day trip to a European affiliate.*
The Board Committees met as follows in 2022:
• Chairman’s/Nomination Committee:
8 meetings (approx. 2 hours each*)
• Remuneration Committee:
3 meetings14 (approx. 2 hours each*)
• Audit Committee:
5 meetings (approx. 3 to 4 hours each*)
• Corporate Governance and Sustainability
Committee:
3 meetings (approx. 2 to 3 hours each*)
The Board of Directors regularly conducts an
assessment (self-assessment / assessment by
third parties via electronic survey and personal
interviews) of its performance. After an assessment
by a third party in 2021, a Board assessment was
performed in 2022 whereby the designated new
Chairman of the Board of Directors conducted
personal interviews with all members of the
Board of Directors.
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee
have a maximum ordinary notice period of twelve
months. There are no change-of-control clauses
in the employment contracts.
There are no management contracts which
fall within the scope of subsection 4.4 (annex)
of the SIX Directive on Information relating to
Corporate Governance.
14 Remuneration Committee members recuse themselves from deliberations and decisions on matters that affect their interests.
* These figures indicate the actual length of meetings and do not include the directors’ extensive pre-meeting preparations and post-meeting follow-up activities.Corporate Governance | Roche 175
Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings in 2022
Corporate
Governance
Chairman’s/ and
Nomination Remuneration Audit Sustainability
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 8 8 3 5 3
C. Franz 8 8 3 – –
A. Hoffmann 8 8 3 – 3
J. Duschmalé 8 – – 5 –
P. Frost 8 – 2 * 5 –
A. Hauser 8 – – – 3
R. P. Lifton 8 – 3 – –
J. Mahmood (member of the Board since March 2022) 6 * – – – 2 *
B. Poussot 8 – 3 – –
S. Schwan 8 – – – –
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 8 – – 4 * 3
P. Bulcke (member of the Board until March 2022) 0 ** – – 1 ** –
H. Clevers (member of the Board until March 2022) 1 ** – – – 1 **
J. Brown (member of the Board until September 2022) 5 *** – – 3 *** –
– Not a member of that committee
* Member since March 2022
** Member until March 2022
*** Member until 26 September 2022176
Remuneration, shareholdings
and loans
All details regarding remuneration, shareholdings Rules in AoI 15 for
and loans (content and method of determining the Content Board CEC
compensation and the shareholding programmes, Rules on the principles §25.1–6 §25.1–6
basic principles and elements of compensation and applicable to performance-
shareholding programmes for serving and former related pay
members of the Board of Directors and Corporate Rules on the principles to the §25.7 §25.7
Executive Committee, together with a description of allocation of equity securities,
the authorities and procedure for determining such) convertible rights and options
are set forth in the separate Remuneration Report Additional amount for – §24.5
on pages 182 to 207 and in the Finance Report, payments to members of
Notes 22 and 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated the Executive Committee
Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche appointed after the vote on
shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pages 94 pay at the Annual General
and 134), and are listed in Note 6 to the Financial Meeting of shareholders
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Rules on loans, credit facilities §25.1 and 3 §25.2 and 3
Executive shareholdings’, page 182). and post-employment benefits
Rules on the vote on pay at §24 §24
The following rules on remuneration, shareholdings the AGM
and loans for the Board of Directors (Board) and
the Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) are set
forth in the Articles of Incorporation (AoI):15
15 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporationCorporate Governance | Roche 177
Participatory rights of shareholders
The participatory rights of shareholders are Under §10.2 of the Articles of Incorporation,
defined in Roche’s Articles of Incorporation.16 shareholders representing shares with a nominal
As Roche shares are issued to bearer, there are value of at least CHF 1 million can request the
no restrictions on admission to Annual General placement of items on the agenda of an Annual
Meetings, with the exception that shares must be General Meeting. This must be done no later than
deposited within a specified period before the 28 days before the date of the meeting.
date of a meeting and an admittance card must be
issued in the shareholder’s name, as provided in The rules on the issue of instructions to the
§12 of the Articles of Incorporation. Any shareholder independent proxy and rules on the electronic
can elect to be represented by a third party at an participation in the Annual General Meeting are
Annual General Meeting. laid down in the corresponding invitation to the
Annual General Meeting and are not regulated in
The Articles of Incorporation contain no restrictions the Articles of Incorporation.
on the exercise of voting rights, and the only
quorum requirements are those stipulated in §16,
in conformity with the Swiss Code of Obligations.
Change of control
and defensive measures
The Articles of Incorporation contain no provisions non-voting equity securities would be terminated
on the mandatory bid rule. Swiss law applies. in the event of an acquisition, and vesting period
restrictions on pre-existing awards would be
There are no change-of-control clauses. Those removed, so that all such options could be
components of remuneration based on Roche exercised immediately.
16 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporation178
Relationship to statutory auditors
At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd The auditors have direct access to the Audit
on 15 March 2022, the shareholders voted to Committee and its chair as well as the Head of
appoint KPMG AG (KPMG) as statutory auditors. Group Audit to discuss relevant issues.
Based on the existing legal requirements of the Swiss The reports of the statutory auditor on the
Code of Obligations (Article 730a) concerning the Consolidated Financial Statements and on the
maximum term of office of seven years of the auditor Financial Statements can be found on pages 154
in charge, François Rouiller has been the auditor in and 185, respectively, of the Finance Report.
charge since the business year 2022 (information
on how long the auditor in charge has been serving KPMG received the following remuneration for their
in this capacity is provided on page 167). services as statutory auditors of Roche Holding Ltd
and as the auditors of other Roche companies
The statutory auditors participate in Audit (including Chugai):
Committee meetings. They prepare written and
oral reports on the results of their audits. The Audit 2022 2021
Committee oversees and assesses the auditors (millions of CHF)
and makes recommendations to the Board (for Auditing services 21.4 19.9
information on the authorities and responsibilities Audit-related services
of the Audit Committee, see Article 8.1 of the – Assurance 0.7 0.6
Bylaws17). The statutory auditors participated in – Non-statutory audits – –
all five meetings of the Audit Committee in 2022. Tax services 2.8 2.8
Other services 0.4 0.4
The performance of KPMG is assessed based on Total 25.3 23.7
different elements such as affiliate surveys (to
evaluate the service level at the country level),
interviews with Roche key stakeholders and the The audit fee is reviewed by the Head of Group Audit
self-evaluation of the KPMG internal processes to and approved by the Audit Committee every year
ensure compliance with the Federal Audit Oversight and takes into consideration changes in Roche’s
Authority (FAOA) Audit Committee Guide. business, as well as changes in financial reporting
and audit standards and regulations.
KPMG’s independence is ensured by limiting
KPMG from providing certain non-audit services. The statutory auditors are elected each year by the
Furthermore, permitted services cannot exceed in Annual General Meeting.
total 20% of the audit fee unless they are explicitly
rewieved and approved by the Audit Committee. Auditing services are provided as legally required.
The company has a formal policy governing the
engagement of the statutory auditor for non-audit Audit-related services include assurance and
services of which limits for certain permitted other accounting services provided by auditors but
services are agreed by the Audit Committee. which are not necessarily provided by the statutory
Each potential non-audit service engagement is auditor. These services, which go beyond the legal
reviewed against this policy before any authority requirements, could include other attestation
to proceed is given. services, comfort letters, and consultations.
17 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporationCorporate Governance | Roche 179
Tax services include services with respect to The RFI culminated in a shortlisting of two audit
compliance, tax returns and tax advice except firms that were invited to the Request for Proposal
those services related to the audit of tax. (RFP) phase. The RFP phase was completed in 2022.
Other services include advice relating to process Both phases of the audit tender were conducted
improvements, regulations and trainings. with the involvement of all key stakeholders and
a thorough, independent process in line with
External audit services tender predefined evaluation criteria. All audit firms were
Upon the initiative of the Roche Audit Committee, provided appropriate access to Roche management,
four audit firms were invited to participate in a and all relevant financial and non-financial
tender for the external auditing services starting information relevant for their respective proposals.
with the 2024 financial year.
Based on the assessment of the audit firms as
A project team managed the tender process in part of the tender process, the Board of Directors
two phases, the Request for Information (RFI) phase proposes to the shareholders to reappoint KPMG
was conducted throughout the course of 2021. as the external auditor for the 2024 financial year.180
Relationship to the independent
proxy
Since 2019, Testaris AG has served as the General Meeting 2023 for the period from 2023
independent proxy and at the Annual General until the conclusion of the 2024 ordinary Annual
Meeting on 15 March 2022, shareholders elected General Meeting of shareholders.
Testaris AG as the independent proxy for the period
from 2022 until the conclusion of the 2023 ordinary The rules on the issue of instructions to the
Annual General Meeting of shareholders. Testaris AG independent proxy and rules on the electronic
was paid for its services for the Annual General participation in the Annual General Meeting are
Meeting 2022 according to expenditure totalling laid down in the corresponding invitation to the
CHF 15,974 (2021: CHF 28,288 [for the ordinary Annual General Meeting and are not regulated
and an extraordinary Annual General Meeting]). in the Articles of Incorporation.
The Board of Directors nominates Testaris AG
for election as independent proxy by the Annual
Information policy
As provided by §34 of the Articles of Incorporation,18 presentations to analyst and investor conferences
corporate notices are published in the Swiss are available on the Internet. Further publications
Official Gazette of Commerce and in other daily are available on
newspapers designated by the Board of Directors https://www.roche.com/publications
(‘Basler Zeitung’, ‘Finanz und Wirtschaft’, ‘L’Agefi’, or can be ordered by e-mail:
‘Le Temps’, ‘Neue Zürcher Zeitung’). materials.management.mm1@roche.com
or fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
Roche reports its half-year and full-year results in
business reports (published in print and/or online The contact address for Investor Relations is:
formats) and at media events. In addition, detailed F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations,
first-quarter and nine months sales figures are Group Finance, 4070 Basel, Switzerland
published each year in April and October. The Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
most current list of publication dates is available Fax: +41 (0)61 691 00 14
on the Internet.19
Additional information, including details on
All relevant information and documents, including specific contact persons, is available on
all media releases, investor updates20 and the Internet.21
18 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporation
19 https://www.roche.com/media
20 https://www.roche.com/investors
21 https://www.roche.com/contact/investor-contactsCorporate Governance | Roche 181
Chief Compliance Officer
and Compliance Officers network
The Chief Compliance Officer with the Compliance may reach out to their line managers, the local
Officers network is committed to ensuring that the Compliance Officer or the Chief Compliance Officer,
Roche Group Code of Conduct22 is consistently or contact the Roche Group Code of Conduct
complied with throughout the Roche Group. The Help & Advice Line. This compliance tool also serves
Chief Compliance Officer also serves as a contact as a platform for ideas and suggestions concerning
person for shareholders, employees, business those documents.
partners, customers, suppliers and the general
public on issues relating to the implementation of In addition, Roche has established a Business
and compliance with this Code. Ethics Incident Management System (BEIMS) which
enables the line management, the Compliance
Employees and other parties who become aware Officers and the Chief Compliance Officer to
of violations of the Roche Group Code of Conduct capture, track and monitor alleged violations, from
can bring them to the attention of their managers initial reports through to resolution.
or supervisors, to the local Compliance Officer
or report them to the Chief Compliance Officer23 Business ethics incidents are recorded in the
(Ms Pascale Schmidt, system when the internal investigations team or the
e-mail: pascale.schmidt@roche.com, regional/local management receives specific and
tel.: +41 (0)61 688 48 90). Such disclosures will be concrete information about an alleged violation
treated confidentially. In addition, employees and of the Roche Group Code of Conduct in one of
third parties may anonymously report irregularities certain predefined categories.24 The Corporate
or complaints in their mother tongue via the Roche Governance and Sustainability Committee and
Group SpeakUp Line. As part of the continuous the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors are
enhancement of Roche’s human rights programme regularly informed of substantial violations and
and in compliance with applicable laws and management’s corrective actions taken.
regulations, any interested party can report its
allegations through the same channel if they believe The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the
in good faith that an actual or potential human right General Counsel and also submits regular reports
violation has occurred in Roche or in Roche’s value to the Corporate Governance and Sustainability
chain. In case of questions or uncertainties about Committee and as needed to the Audit Committee
the interpretation of the Roche Group Code of of the Board of Directors.
Conduct and its reference documents, employees
Non-applicability/negative disclosure
It is expressly noted that any information not as a negative declaration (as provided in the
contained or mentioned herein is either SIX Swiss Exchange Corporate Governance
non-applicable or its omission is to be construed Directive and the Commentary thereto).
22 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conduct
23 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conduct/compliance-officer
24 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conduct182Remuneration Report | Roche 183
Remuneration
Report
All employees should be compensated fairly, transparently
and competitively and participate appropriately in the
company’s success. Optimal conditions enable employees
to make their best possible contribution to improving
healthcare for patients.184
1. Principles
Motivation, expertise and performance of transparent compensation structure. To ensure
employees are key for the success of Roche as that compensation packages are competitive,
an innovative and agile company. This conviction both the structure and individual components
forms the basis of our compensation policy. are regularly benchmarked based on the relevant
Swiss, European and international market criteria.
Roche aims to remunerate all employees fairly, Our remuneration guidelines and their underlying
transparently and in line with market conditions, principles are also subject to regular outside
to enable them to participate appropriately in comparisons.
the company’s success. We pursue this goal by
providing equitable, competitive, performance- However, compensation policy is only one
based and results-oriented compensation. factor in safeguarding Roche’s future success.
The key element is a corporate culture that
We strive for a balanced mix of fixed and variable offers employees conditions in which they can
compensation components geared to each make their best possible contribution to the
employee’s position and management responsibility. shared corporate goal of improving healthcare
for patients. This includes a sound and a
Firstly, the variable components are intended to sustainability-oriented value system that is
create additional financial incentives to achieve based on integrity, courage and passion. At
corporate goals and to keep innovation at a the same time, our decentralised management
consistently high level while increasing the value approach plays a major role with its wide scope
that the company creates for all stakeholder for individual decision-making, respectful
groups. Secondly, in order to allow employees interactions, openness to diversity, wide-ranging
and managers to participate in the company’s training and development opportunities and an
business success, adequate compensation attractive working environment. A unidimensional
measures are key. Both objectives are incentivised diminishment to questions on remuneration would
by annual bonus payments and long-term fall by far too short.
securities-based programmes.
Roche is committed to a fair, performance-based
For a global company like Roche, market- and results-oriented compensation policy that
competitive remuneration plays a key role links employees’ interests with those of various
along with a performance- and success-based, other stakeholder groups.
Roche, the place to work: https://careers.roche.com/global/enRemuneration Report | Roche 185
2. Remuneration decision process
and approval framework
2.1 Overview not be present when the Remuneration Committee
Each year the Remuneration Committee of Roche’s decides their corresponding compensation and
Board of Directors decides the remuneration of have no right to a say in decisions. The decision
Board members and the members of the Group’s right is reserved to Remuneration Committee
Corporate Executive Committee. members only.
Chairman, Group CEO and all other members of
the Group’s Corporate Executive Committee must
Remuneration decision process and approval framework as of 2022
Beneficiary
Remuneration Board of Directors (BoD) Corporate Executive Decision by Approval by
components Chairman (C) Committee (CEC) incl.
CEO Roche Group
Base pay / remuneration √ √
Bonus √ (C only) √
Stock-settled Stock – √
Remuneration Committee Annual General Meeting
Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) – √
Pension √ (C only) √
The Remuneration Committee tracks market data Since 2014, total aggregate amounts that are
on salaries at other leading global pharmaceutical based on these decisions have been submitted to
companies1 and at major Swiss companies2 and the General Meeting for approval implementing
reports its findings to the full Board. The external the ‘Ordinance against excessive compensation at
consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers AG (PwC) listed joint-stock companies’ (Verordnung gegen
assists the Remuneration Committee of Roche in übermässige Vergütungen bei börsenkotierten
performing market comparisons and in advising. Aktiengesellschaften [VegüV]). The General Meeting
PwC has been awarded additional mandates in the shall vote annually and with binding effect on the
Roche Group. Information on the Remuneration approval of the remuneration (that the Board of
Committee’s remit, powers and procedures for Directors has resolved) of the Board of Directors
making remuneration decisions can be found in the and the Corporate Executive Committee (for details
Bylaws of the Roche Board of Directors3 and in the see 4. and 5.).
Articles of Incorporation.4 They are also outlined
in the sections below on the principles governing
specific remuneration components (see 3.).
1 Peer set 2022: Abbott Laboratories, AbbVie, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Danaher, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Medtronic, Merck & Co., Novartis,
Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, Sanofi
2 Peer set 2022: ABB, Alcon, Credit Suisse, Holcim, Lonza, Nestlé, Richemont, UBS, Zurich
3 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporation
4 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporation186
Abbott Laboratories Peer set for 2022
AbbVie
Amgen ABB
AstraZeneca Alcon
Bristol-Myers Squibb Credit Suisse
Danaher Holcim
Eli Lilly Lonza
GlaxoSmithKline Nestlé
Johnson & Johnson Roche Richemont
Medtronic UBS
Merck & Co. Zurich
Novartis
Novo Nordisk
Pfizer
Sanofi
Peer set for 2022
Market comparison companies for salary assessment
Pharma peer set Major Swiss companies
2.2 Procedure for submitting total Board Retrospective approval
and Executive remuneration for shareholder Total aggregate bonus amounts for the Corporate
approval at the Annual General Meeting Executive Committee and the Chairman of the
Each year at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) Board of Directors for the financial year just ended
shareholders approve the total remuneration will be submitted retrospectively at each ordinary
for the Board of Directors and for the Corporate AGM for separate and binding approval.
Executive Committee as decided by the Board
of Directors’ Remuneration Committee and the Prospective approval
Board of Directors, respectively. All other Board and Executive aggregate
remuneration will be submitted prospectively
According to the approval at the AGM 2014, to the AGM for separate and binding approval
Roche has committed itself to obtaining separate for the period between two ordinary AGMs.
and binding shareholder approvals of the total
remuneration paid to the Board of Directors and This Remuneration Report shall be submitted to an
to the Corporate Executive Committee as follows: advisory vote by the shareholders at the AGM 2023.Remuneration Report | Roche 187
André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Approval of total remuneration at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 2023 Financial year 2022 Financial year 2023
Approval of total remuneration
Retrospective:
C
Bonus
Chairman (C) of the Board of Directors (BoD):
• Bonus for financial year 2022 (total amount)
CEC
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including CEO Roche Group: Bonus
• Bonus for financial year 2022 (total amount)
Prospective:
BoD
Base pay / remuneration
Board of Directors (BoD) including Chairman (C):
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2023–AGM 2024)
• Base pay / remuneration
CEC
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including CEO Roche Group: Base pay
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2023–AGM 2024) S-SARs
• Base pay RSUs
• Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) Indirect benefits
• Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
• Indirect benefits
Advisory vote
Retrospective:
Remuneration Report
2022
• Advisory vote on the 2022 Remuneration Report at the AGM 2023
AGM 2022 AGM 2023 AGM 2024
1.1.2022 1.1.2023 1.1.2024188
3. Remuneration components
3.1 Overview of remuneration elements performance and non-financial success5 and thus
The remuneration to the members of the Board of align the interests of Roche and its employees with
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee those of shareholders. Societal and environmental
is composed of the following elements: objectives6 are also taken into account.
The fixed base salary is complemented with the The LTI remuneration components are intended
annual variable bonus as Short-Term Incentive to sustainably, homogenously and in a long-term-
(STI) and with perennial remuneration elements oriented perspective align management’s interest
(S-SARs, RSUs) as Long-Term Incentive (LTI). with those of shareholders and holders of non-
voting equity securities and to give participating
The remuneration components are linked to the managers an additional incentive to achieve
employees’ performance, the company’s financial sustainable shareholder value growth.
Composition of remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
Board of Directors Corporate Executive Committee
Annual
remuneration elements Description C BoD CEO Roche Group CEC
Base pay / Monthly payment √ √ Quarterly √ √
remuneration (see 3.1.1 below) payments
Bonus Annual payment √ For 10 years – √ For 10 years √ Cash
(see 3.1.2 below) blocked non-voting blocked non-voting
equity securities equity securities
and/or shares and/or shares
Pensions, etc. (see 3.1.5 below) √ – √ √
Perennial
remuneration elements
Stock-settled Stock (see 3.1.3 below) – – √ For 4 years √
Appreciation Rights additionally
(S-SARs) blocked non-voting
equity securities
after exercise
Restricted Stock (see 3.1.4 below) – – √ For 10 years √
Units (RSUs) blocked non-voting
equity securities
5 https://www.roche.com/investors/reports/performance
6 https://www.roche.com/about/sustainability/environment/goals-performanceRemuneration Report | Roche 189
The LTI of the Corporate Executive Committee expiration periods are aligned for any newly
and the Enlarged Corporate Executive issued S-SARs and RSUs (see below). Unlike all other
Committee is composed of 80% S-SARs and participants of the two programmes, members
20% RSUs (based on the already existing individual of the Corporate Executive Committee have no
target value of the total LTI for Corporate Executive choice in determining the mix of RSUs and S-SARs,
Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay which as of 2019 have a four-year cliff vesting.
measured on 1 January of a year). Vesting and
Corporate Executive Committee LTI
Mix (S-SARs/RSUs) fixed Base for calculation Vesting period Cliff vesting Expiration period
Based on the individual target
80% S-SARs value of the total LTI for 4 years 4 years 10 years
Corporate Executive
Committee members of
133.33% of a base pay
20% RSUs measured on 1 January of 4 years 4 years –
a year
The remaining participants of the S-SARs and Offering this level of choice empowers participants
RSUs programmes are offered on a yearly basis a to engage more fully in their total rewards, enables
choice of three combinations to determine the mix them to better understand a critical element of
of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock-settled their compensation and increases the value of
Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs, options are used the programme.
instead of S-SARs in some countries). The following
options are available: This attractively designed Roche Long-Term
Incentive programme enables Roche to attract,
Choice 1 Choice 2 Choice 3 motivate and retain the best talent and keep it
80% S-SARs 50% S-SARs 20% S-SARs aligned with the company’s long-term success.
20% RSUs 50% RSUs 80% RSUs190
Fixed
Base salary
Indirect benefits (employer contribution):
Roche
• Pensions and insurance contributions
STI: remuneration • Roche Connect
• Bonus • Tax consulting services
components
LTI: Expense allowances
• Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
• Restricted Stock Units Others:
• Children’s schooling costs
• Foreign tax obligation
Variable, long-term • AHV/IV/ALV*
* Employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
3.1.1 Base pay (fixed) 3.1.2 Bonuses (variable)
Base pay (cash payment) is determined for each Bonuses are annually awarded for individual
position based on salary market data of other contributions of value creation in a business year
leading global pharmaceutical companies (see and are meant to be an incentive to strive for
footnote 1) and of other major Swiss companies outstanding results and to create new business
(see footnote 2) and reflects individuals’ abilities, opportunities. Bonus amounts are linked to Group
experience and performance over time. Pay and divisional core profits, sales growth at constant
adjustments are likewise linked to individual exchange rates, Operating Profit After Capital
performance and take into account prevailing Charge (OPAC) based on core operating profit, core
market conditions and the company’s overall earnings per share and non-voting equity security
financial situation. (NES) growth at constant exchange rates, product
development pipeline, diversity of employees and
The Remuneration Committee makes and reviews managers7 and environmental goals.8 Additionally,
the final decision on the individual base pay paid they are linked to the achievement of measurable
to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and and qualitative individual or functional performance
members of the Corporate Executive Committee objectives. For competitive reasons, Roche does
and on the remuneration of the other members not disclose the individual performance objectives
of the Board. of members of its Corporate Executive Committee
and of its Chairman.
7 https://careers.roche.com/global/en/diversity-and-inclusion
8 https://www.roche.com/about/sustainability/environment/goals-performance and SHE goals 2020–2025 for the Roche Group:
https://assets.cwp.roche.com/f/126832/x/70206811f5/20200331-she-goals-2020-2025-communication.pdfRemuneration Report | Roche 191
In December at the end of a reporting year 3.1.4 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) (long-term)
or in January following a reporting year, the The proportion of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) of
Remuneration Committee decides on the bonuses the members of the Corporate Executive Committee
and their amounts payable to the Chairman of the is 20% of the total LTI (based on the individual
Board and the members of the Corporate Executive target value of the total LTI for Corporate Executive
Committee in respect of the relevant reporting year, Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay
based on performance against the aforementioned measured on 1 January of a year).
objectives. At the same time, the Remuneration
Committee also decides in what form bonuses will RSUs contain rights to receive non-voting equity
be awarded, i.e. cash payments and/or blocked securities and/or shares after a four-year vesting
(if applicable) non-voting equity securities and/ period plus a value adjustment (being the amount
or shares. equivalent to the sum of the dividend paid during
the vesting period attributable to the number
The Remuneration Committee uses its discretion of non-voting equity securities and/or shares
appropriately in the weighting of each criteria and for which an individual award has been granted).
in the bonus allocation. They will all be vested to the recipient for the
Corporate Executive Committee after four years
In 2022 in total, 80,095 employees were eligible only. Thereafter, resulting non-voting equity
for a bonus under the Roche Bonus Program. securities and/or shares may remain blocked for
up to ten years.
3.1.3 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
(S-SARs) (long-term) RSU awards are allocated individually for
The S-SARs proportion of the LTI of the Corporate the Corporate Executive Committee at the
Executive Committee is 80% (based on the Remuneration Committee’s discretion.
individual target value of the total LTI for Corporate
Executive Committee members of 133.33% of a In 2022, RSUs served as a remuneration component
base pay measured on 1 January of a year). for 23,811 eligible Roche employees.
S-SARs entitle holders to benefit financially from 3.1.5 Indirect benefits
any increase in the value of Roche’s non-voting As shown in 5.8 (5.3 [for the CEO Roche Group] and
equity securities between the grant date and the 4.3 [for the Chairman], respectively), members of
exercise date. S-SARs granted all vest together the Corporate Executive Committee additionally
after four years and then have to be exercised within received indirect benefits (pension funds / insurance
ten years of the grant date. Unexercised S-SARs contributions, Roche Connect, payments for foreign
lapse without compensation. Since 2012, the fair tax obligation and tax consulting services and
value of S-SARs has been calculated at the grant annual expense allowances). As shown under 5.9,
date using the trinomial model for American call individual members of the Corporate Executive
options (for details see page 201). Committee received payments for family, children
and education allowances and for schooling costs
S-SARs to the Corporate Executive Committee for their children.
are allocated individually at the Remuneration
Committee’s discretion.
In 2022 in total, 23,643 employees received S-SARs.192
3.2 Weighting (fixed / variable, long-term) of 2022 remuneration components (at target
and as percentage of total remuneration in 2022)
70% 30%
Chairman
100%
Board of Directors
Corporate Executive Committee 41% 59%
(including CEO Roche Group)
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
fixed variable, long-term
The variable, long-term remuneration paid out to the members of the Corporate Executive Committee ranged from 50% to 69% of the
total compensation.
3.3 Ratio of variable remuneration components relative to fixed base pay of the Corporate
Executive Committee 2022
Ratio of variable remuneration components (bonuses, S-SARs and RSUs) relative to % of value of fixed base pay
LTI (long-term)
STI (variable) (total: 133,33%**)
Criteria Bonus S-SARs (80% of total LTI) RSUs (20% of total LTI)
Individual target value * 100% 106.66% ** 26.66% **
Minimum 0% 0% 0%
Maximum 200% 106.66% 26.66%
Performance criteria Group objectives (Group and divisional business Value development Value development
performance) and individual objectives; considering determined by determined by
core profits, sales growth at constant exchange rates, performance of performance (plus
Operating Profit After Capital Charge (OPAC) based NES after grant a value adjustment
on core operating profit, core earnings per share and for dividends) of
non-voting equity security (NES) growth at constant NES after grant
exchange rates, product development pipeline, diversity
of employees and managers, environmental goals
Split in %
a) Group objectives 70% n/a n/a
b) Individual objectives 30% n/a n/a
Weighting criteria / At the Remuneration Committee’s discretion
Decision on objectives
n/a – not applicable
* Assessed in consideration of the performance of competitors and the macroeconomic development
** Based on the already existing individual target value of the total LTI for Corporate Executive Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay measured on 1 January of a year
For all further details please refer to the following
sections of this Remuneration Report.9
9 See also in the Finance Report Note 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related parties’, page 134) and Note 6 to the Financial
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, page 182).4. Remuneration of the Board of Directors
4.1 Resolution and approval in the form of quarterly fixed cash payments
Remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of as shown in the ‘Remuneration of members
Directors and of members of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors 2022’ table on
was decided at the Remuneration Committee’s page 194 for their Board activities. Roche paid
discretion, taking into account market comparisons. employer’s contributions totalling CHF 201,074
(2021: CHF 358,574) to social security agencies
The remuneration is in form of cash payments and is for the members of the Board of Directors beside
annually tracked against market data on directors’ the legally required contributions separately
pay at other leading global pharmaceutical stated for the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
companies (see footnote 1) and other major Swiss
companies (see footnote 2), and is assisted by the The basic remuneration of the Board of Directors
consultancy of PwC. (excluding the Chairman) has remained unchanged
since 2001.
As in the previous years, in 2023 the Board of
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate With the exception of the Chairman of the Board
bonus of the Chairman of the Board of Directors for of Directors (bonus in form of blocked shares) and
the 2022 financial year to the General Meeting for Dr Severin Schwan as an executive member of the
retrospective binding approval. Board, members of the Board of Directors were not
awarded any shares, non-voting equity securities
The maximum amounts of the total other aggregate or S-SARs.
remuneration of the Board of Directors for the
period between the ordinary General Meeting There are no loans or credits granted to the
2023 and the ordinary General Meeting 2024 will members of the Board of Directors.
be tabled separately in 2023 as in the previous
years for the General Meeting’s prospective binding In 2022, for his advisory service on the Genentech
approval (see 2.2). Scientific Resource Board, Prof. Dr Richard
P. Lifton received honoraria amounting to a total
4.2 Amount of remuneration to the members of USD 17,500 (CHF 16,709).
of the Board of Directors
In 2022, the members of the Board of Directors10
received remuneration and additional compensation
10 For a list of members, their positions and their committee memberships and chairmanships see page 165.
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 193Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2022 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration for Additional special Additional
Basic remuneration committee members/chairs 11 remuneration BVG costs * Total remuneration
C. Franz, Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 12 – – 6,734 406,734
J. Duschmalé 300,000 30,000 – 4,475 334,475
P. Frost 300,000 60,000 – – 360,000
A. Hauser 300,000 30,000 – 6,159 336,159
R. P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 16,709 – 346,709
see page 193
J. Mahmood (since March 202213) 250,000 22,500 – – 272,500
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – – 330,000
S. Schwan (see ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group is reflected in total remuneration
for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 300,000 60,000 – 7,019 367,019
Members until March/
September 2022 14
P. Bulcke (until March 2022) 75,000 7,500 – – 82,500
H. Clevers (until March 2022) 75,000 7,500 – – 82,500
J. Brown (until September 2022) 225,000 45,000 – – 270,000
Total 15 2,825,000 322,500 16,709 24,387 3,188,596
* Costs under the provisions of the Swiss Federal Occupational Old Age, Survivors’ and Invalidity Pension Act (BVG). In accordance with the minimum requirements for insurance
benefits under BVG, half of the costs for four members of the Board of Directors who are subject to compulsory insurance are borne by the company.
11 With the exception of members of the Chairman’s Committee (Chairman, Vice-Chairman), Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve on and
CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
12 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board
13 P rorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2022
14 Prorated remuneration for the period from January to March 2022 and from January to September 2022, respectively
15 A dditionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 461,365 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUA
194Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2021 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration for Additional special Additional
Basic remuneration committee members/chairs 16 remuneration BVG costs * Total remuneration
C. Franz, Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 17 – 18,277 6,904 425,181
J. Brown 300,000 60,000 – – 360,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – – 330,000
H. Clevers 300,000 30,000 20,105 – 350,105
J. Duschmalé 300,000 30,000 – 4,499 334,499
P. Frost 300,000 30,000 – – 330,000
A. Hauser 300,000 30,000 – 6,221 336,221
R. P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 20,105 – 350,105
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – – 330,000
S. Schwan (see ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group is reflected in total remuneration
for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 300,000 30,000 – 6,176 336,176
Total 18 3,100,000 300,000 58,487 23,800 3,482,287
* Costs under the provisions of the Swiss Federal Occupational Old Age, Survivors’ and Invalidity Pension Act (BVG). In accordance with the minimum requirements for insurance
benefits under BVG, half of the costs for four members of the Board of Directors who are subject to compulsory insurance are borne by the company.
16 W ith the exception of members of the Chairman’s Committee (Chairman, Vice-Chairman), Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve on and
CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
17 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board
18 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 997,150 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman ten years, payable in March 2023) will be put for
of the Board of Directors shareholder binding vote at the 2023 ordinary
As Chairman, Dr Christoph Franz received total Annual General Meeting (AGM).
remuneration for 2022 as shown on page 196.
The Remuneration Committee’s bonus proposal The Chairman’s total remuneration is contained in
(adopted in late 2022) in respect of the 2022 the total remuneration of the Board of Directors
financial year (in form of shares blocked for in 4.4.
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 1954.4 Total remuneration paid to the Board 4.6 Board remuneration subject to approval
of Directors at the Annual General Meeting
For the 2022 calendar year the members of the
Board of Directors received remuneration including 4.6.1 Submission of the Chairman’s total
bonuses and employer contribution of social aggregate bonus for a binding vote at the
securities’ beneficial parts totalling CHF 9,150,679 Annual General Meeting
(2021: CHF 8,724,738), excluding additional Remuneration to the Chairman of the Board of
employer’s contribution paid to social securities Directors includes a bonus award of CHF 1,750,000
totalling CHF 461,365 (2021: CHF 997,150). in form of shares blocked for ten years as shown
in the table in section ‘4.3 Total remuneration
4.5 Remuneration paid to former members paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’. The
of the Board of Directors Board of Directors will submit the Remuneration
No remuneration was paid. Committee’s bonus proposal (adopted in late 2022)
for the Chairman of the Board, Dr Christoph Franz,
in respect of the 2022 financial year (payable in
March 2023, excluding legally required employer’s
contributions to AHV/IV/ALV) for the shareholder
binding vote to the 2023 ordinary Annual
General Meeting.
DETIDUA
Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors (in CHF)
2022 2021
Base salary (in cash) 3,500,000 3,500,000
Tax equalisation for pension fund corrections n/a 71,534
Bonus (subject to approval of the Annual General Meeting) 1,750,000 * 949,263 *
Pension funds / insurances / annual expense allowances / tax / social security 669,777 676,975
(including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts)
Total 19 5,919,777 5,197,772
n/a – not applicable
* In form of shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the price at the date of transfer in March 2023 and 2022, respectively, after approval at the
AGM 2023 / AGM 2022, respectively; calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years [reduced market value: 55.839%]) to be submitted
for shareholder approval at the AGM 2023 / as approved at the AGM 2022, respectively
19 A dditionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 260,291 (2021: CHF 638,576) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUA
196Remuneration Report | Roche 197
Retrospective approvals of the Chairman’s total aggregate bonus (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2023 AGM 2022 AGM 2021
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2022 financial year 2021 financial year 2020
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval /
approved by the AGM 1,750,000 ** 949,263 ** 837,585 **
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
** Bonus award in form of shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the price at the date of transfer in March 2023 / March 2022 / March 2021,
respectively, after approval at the AGM 2023 / AGM 2022 / AGM 2021, respectively; calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years
[reduced market value: 55.839%]) to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2023 / as approved at the AGM 2022 and AGM 2021, respectively
4.6.2 Submission of the Board’s total not more than CHF 10,000,000 (excluding legally
aggregate future remuneration for a binding required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
shareholder vote and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2023 the 2024 ordinary AGM.
ordinary AGM approve Board remuneration totalling
Prospective approvals of the Board’s total aggregate future remuneration (in CHF)*
Proposal AGM 2023 AGM 2022 AGM 2021
Aggregate amount Aggregate amount Aggregate amount
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2023–AGM 2024 AGM 2022–AGM 2023 AGM 2021–AGM 2022
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval /
approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
4.6.3 Reconciliation of the reported excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the
remuneration with the shareholders’ 2022 ordinary AGM.
approved remuneration for the members
of the Board of Directors For comparison, from the 2021 ordinary AGM
The 2021 ordinary AGM approved Board to the 2022 ordinary AGM actual remuneration
remuneration totalling not more than amounted to CHF 7,729,596 (excluding legally
CHF 10,000,000 (excluding legally required required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and and excluding bonuses).198
Prospectively approved total remuneration for the members of the Board of Directors in comparison to the actual total
payments made (in CHF) *
Total remuneration Total remuneration Total remuneration
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2022–AGM 2023 AGM 2021–AGM 2022 AGM 2020–AGM 2021
Maximum of total remuneration approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000
Actual total remuneration paid Calculation at end of period 7,729,596 7,631,377
Within the approved limit Calculation at end of period Yes Yes
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
4.7 Security holdings Statements (‘Related parties’, page 134)
Directors André Hoffmann and Dr Jörg Duschmalé and in Note 4 to the Financial Statements of
and members of the founder’s families who Roche Holding Ltd (‘Significant shareholders’,
are closely associated with them belong to a page 181). In addition, as at 31 December 2022
contractually bound shareholder group with (as at 31 December 2021, respectively) the
pooled voting rights. At the end of 2022 this members of the Board of Directors and persons
group held 72,018,000 shares (67.50% of issued closely associated with them held Roche shares,
shares). Detailed information about this group non-voting equity securities (NES) and American
can be found in the Finance Report, Note 32 Depositary Receipts (ADRs***) as shown in the
to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial table ‘Security holdings’ below.
Security holdings (shares and NES)
(as at 31 December 2022) (as at 31 December 2021)
Non-voting Close Non-voting Close
equity relatives’ equity relatives’
securities Others security securities Others security
Shares (NES) (number/ holdings Shares (NES) (number/ holdings
(number) (number) type) (number/type) (number) (number) type) (number/type)
Board of Directors
C. Franz 32,155 4,810 – – 27,951 4,810 – –
A. Hoffmann – * 200 – – – * 200 – –
J. Duschmalé – * – – – – * – – –
P. Frost 2,000 – – – 2,000 – – –
A. Hauser 3,000 150 – 20 NES 3,000 150 – 20 NES
R. P. Lifton – – 300 ADRs*** – – – 300 ADRs*** –
J. Mahmood – – – – n/a n/a n/a n/a
B. Poussot 500 500 – – 500 500 – –
S. Schwan (see ‘5.15 Security holdings’ (see ‘5.15 Security holdings’
Corporate Executive Committee on page 206) Corporate Executive Committee on page 206)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff – 2,710 ** – – – 2,100 ** – –
Total 37,655 8,370 300 ADRs*** 20 NES 33,451 7,760 300 ADRs*** 20 NES
n/a – not applicable
* Shares held by the shareholder group with pooled voting rights not listed
** Jointly held with close relative
*** R oche’s ADR (American Depositary Receipt) listed on OTCQX (https://www.otcmarkets.com/stock/RHHBY/quote) International Premier under the symbol RHHBY, ISIN US771195104.
Traded in USD, eight (8) ADRs represent one (1) underlying NES.Remuneration Report | Roche 199
5. Remuneration of the Corporate
Executive Committee
5.1 Resolution and approval 5.2 Amount of remuneration to members
Remuneration of the members of the Corporate of the Corporate Executive Committee
Executive Committee was decided at the The general provisions assigning authority for
Remuneration Committee’s discretion, taking decisions on Corporate Executive Committee
into account market comparisons. remuneration to the Remuneration Committee
and to the Board of Directors are outlined on
As in the previous years, in 2023, the Board of page 185, ‘2. Remuneration decision process
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate and approval framework’.
bonuses of the Corporate Executive Committee for
the 2022 financial year to the General Meeting for In 2022, members of the Corporate Executive
retrospective binding approval. Committee received remuneration for their work
as shown in 5.3–5.11. The amount of remuneration
The maximum amounts of the total other aggregate for the CEO Roche Group, Dr Severin Schwan, is
remuneration of the Corporate Executive explained in 5.3 in detail.
Committee for the period between the ordinary
General Meeting 2023 and the ordinary General
Meeting 2024 will be tabled separately in 2023
as in the previous years for the General Meeting’s
prospective binding approval (see 2.2).5.3 Highest total remuneration paid reflected as the highest total remuneration paid to
to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of a member of the Corporate Executive Committee
the Corporate Executive Committee (see below) and included in the total amount
Dr Severin Schwan, executive member of the paid to the Corporate Executive Committee (see
Board of Directors, received his remuneration in ‘5.11 Total remuneration paid to the members of
his primary function as CEO Roche Group. It is the Corporate Executive Committee’, page 203).
Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive Committee (in CHF)
2022 2021 20
Base salary 3,900,000 4,000,000
Bonus (subject to approval of the total aggregate bonuses for the Corporate Executive
Committee by the Annual General Meeting) 2,791,950 21* 2,791,950 *
S-SARs 22 3,379,508 3,379,526
RSUs 23 595,529* 595,664*
Roche Connect 99,999 100,008
Pension funds / insurances 675,494 ** 583,789 **
Other payments incl. expense allowance / for tax consulting services 41,864 43,969
Total 24 11,484,344 11,494,906
* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities / shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market value: 55.839%)
** I ncluding employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
20 For detailed calculation of the remuneration for 2021 and 2020 see Annual Report 2021, page 180
21 Shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in March 2023 after approval at the AGM 2023)
22 S -SARs 2022: Number: 75,635, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 56.41. Trinomial model for American call options value as described in
‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’, page 201. S-SARs 2022 are blocked for 4 years and may
thereafter be exercised only, whilst exercising resulting NES are automatically blocked for additional 4 years (calculation of value of non-voting equity securities in consideration
of reduction of value due to additional blocking period of 4 years, reduced market value: 79.209%).
S-SARs 2021: Number: 100,746, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 42.35. Trinomial model for American call options value as described in
‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’, page 201. S-SARs 2021 are blocked for 4 years and may
thereafter be exercised only, whilst exercising resulting NES are automatically blocked for additional 4 years (calculation of value of non-voting equity securities in consideration
of reduction of value due to additional blocking period of 4 years, reduced market value: 79.209%).
23 Calculation of RSUs value 2022: number of RSUs (2,965) multiplied by grant value of CHF 359.70 (NES closing price at grant date on 17 March 2022) per RSU
Calculation of RSUs value 2021: number of RSUs (3,481) multiplied by grant value of CHF 306.45 (NES closing price at grant date on 18 March 2021) per RSU
24 Includes an annual expense allowance (CHF 30,000), payments for tax consulting services (CHF 1,724; 2021: CHF 3,554), family, children and education allowance (CHF 10,140;
2021: CHF 10,415). Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 833,902 (2021: CHF 886,295) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
5.4 Base pay of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Base pay (in CHF)
2022 2021
B. Anderson 2,350,074 2,245,918
A. Hippe 1,600,000 1,600,000
T. Schinecker 1,250,000 1,053,165
C. A. Wilbur 1,006,167 1,015,203
Total 6,206,241 5,914,286
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
2005.5 Bonuses of the other members of bonuses will be brought forward for a binding
of the Corporate Executive Committee vote by the Annual General Meeting 2023.
The Remuneration Committee of the Board of
Directors determined the Corporate Executive Except for Dr Severin Schwan, all members of the
Committee members’ bonuses based on the 2022 Corporate Executive Committee will receive the
performance against the agreed objectives. The bonus 2022 as a 100% cash payment. Dr Severin
Remuneration Committee uses its discretion Schwan will receive the bonus in form of Roche
appropriately in the weighting of each criteria and shares which are blocked for ten years (see
in the bonus allocation. The total aggregate amount page 200). Bonus payment is due in March 2023.
Bonus (in CHF)
2022 2021
(Subject to approval of the total
aggregate bonuses of the Corporate
Executive Committee by the
Annual General Meeting 2023)
B. Anderson 2,400,000 2,600,000
A. Hippe 2,000,000 2,300,000
T. Schinecker 2,200,000 1,500,000
C. A. Wilbur 1,300,000 1,300,000
Total 7,900,000 7,700,000
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 201
5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation the already existing individual target value of
Rights (S-SARs) of the other members the total LTI for Corporate Executive Committee
of the Corporate Executive Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay measured on
S-SARs to the members of the Corporate Executive 1 January of a year).
Committee are allocated individually at the
Remuneration Committee’s discretion. The S-SARs The fair value of the S-SARs is calculated at the
shown in the 5.15.2 ‘S-SARs’ table on page 207 grant date using the trinomial model for American
entitle holders to benefit financially from any call options. The trinomial model is an effective
increase in the value of Roche’s non-voting equity method for valuation of American call options, as
securities (NES) between the grant date and the it considers the possibility of exercising the option
exercise date. The strike price for S-SARs under the any time prior to maturity (called ‘American’ option,
terms of this multi-year plan is the closing price for as compared to a ‘European’ option, which only
Roche NES at grant date. All S-SARs since 2019 vest allows exercise at its maturity date).25
four (previously granted S-SARs three) years after
the grant date. Vested S-SARs can be exercised The numbers of S-SARs, the strike prices, expiry
(converted into NES) within ten (previously granted dates and grant values for S-SARs are shown
S-SARs within seven) years of the grant date. on page 202 and in the 5.15.2 ‘S-SARs’ table on
Unexercised S-SARs lapse without compensation. page 207. The numbers of S-SARs as calculated
at the time of issue have been entered as values
Since 2019, the S-SARs proportion of the LTI of the in the tables on page 200 and on page 202.
Corporate Executive Committee is 80% (based on
25 For further information on the trinomial model for American call options: Please refer to Boyle, Phelim P.: ‘A lattice framework for option pricing with two state
variables’, The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Volume 23, Issue 1 (Mar 1988), 1–12, https://assets.cwp.roche.com/f/126832/x/e1222fd9e5/
trinomial_model.pdf5.7 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) RSUs contain rights to receive non-voting equity
of the other members of the Corporate securities and/or shares after a since 2019 newly
Executive Committee defined four-year vesting period plus a value
Since 2019, the proportion of Restricted Stock Units adjustment (being the amount equivalent to the
(RSUs) of the members of the Corporate Executive sum of the dividend paid during the vesting period
Committee is 20% of the total LTI (based on the attributable to the number of non-voting equity
already existing individual target value of the total securities and/or shares for which an individual
LTI for Corporate Executive Committee members award has been granted). They will be vested to the
of 133.33% of a base pay measured on 1 January recipient for the Corporate Executive Committee
of a year). RSU awards are allocated individually after four years only. Thereafter, resulting
for the Corporate Executive Committee at the non-voting equity securities and/or shares may
Remuneration Committee’s discretion. remain blocked for up to ten years.
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
202
Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
2022 2021
Grant value per Grant value per
Number S-SAR in CHF Value in CHF Number S-SAR in CHF Value in CHF
B. Anderson 37,819 56.41 2,133,370 50,374 42.35 2,133,339
A. Hippe 30,255 56.41 1,706,685 40,300 42.35 1,706,705
T. Schinecker 20,801 56.41 1,173,384 22,669 42.35 960,032
C. A. Wilbur 18,910 56.41 1,066,713 25,187 42.35 1,066,669
Total 107,785 56.41 6,080,152 138,530 42.35 5,866,745
Price: CHF 359.70, expiry date: 17.3.2032 Price: CHF 306.45, expiry date: 18.3.2031
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
2022 2021
Value at grant Value at grant
Number in CHF Value in CHF Number in CHF Value in CHF
B. Anderson 1,483 359.70 533,435 1,740 306.45 533,223
A. Hippe 1,186 359.70 238,212 * 1,392 306.45 238,197 *
T. Schinecker 815 359.70 293,156 783 306.45 239,950
C. A. Wilbur 741 359.70 266,538 870 306.45 266,612
Total 4,225 359.70 1,331,341 4,785 306.45 1,277,982
* Calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 10 years (reduced market value: 55.839%)5.8 Indirect benefits of the other members Roche non-voting equity securities (NES) up to
of the Corporate Executive Committee an amount equal to 10% of their annual salary at
Employer contributions made in 2022 to social a 20% discount. NES purchased under this plan
security schemes, pension plans and a Group-wide are subject to a holding period, which is four years
employee stock purchase plan (Roche Connect) in Switzerland.
in respect of members of the Corporate Executive
Committee are shown in the ‘Indirect benefits In addition, members of the Corporate Executive
(employer contributions)’ table below and in the Committee received annual expense allowances
table on page 200. and some members payments for foreign tax
obligations and tax consulting services as shown
Roche Connect is a voluntary stock purchase in the table below.
plan offering employees the opportunity to buy
DETIDUA
Indirect benefits (employer contributions) (in CHF)
2022 2021
Payments Payments
Annual for tax / tax Annual for tax / tax
Pension funds / expense Roche consulting Pension funds / expense Roche consulting
insurances * allowances Connect services insurances * allowances Connect services
B. Anderson 425,494 30,000 – 2,170,496 425,852 30,000 – 1,190,848
A. Hippe 425,494 30,000 39,996 10,884 333,789 30,000 39,996 7,241
T. Schinecker 333,431 30,000 30,415 25,206 333,789 30,000 17,291 20,128
C. A. Wilbur 425,494 30,000 18,744 141,119 333,789 30,000 18,744 388,067
Total 1,609,913 120,000 89,155 2,347,705 1,427,219 120,000 76,031 1,606,284
* Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 203
5.9 Other remuneration and loans of members 5.10 Remuneration to former members
of the Corporate Executive Committee of the Corporate Executive Committee
(excl. CEO Roche Group) In 2022, no payments were made.
To meet legal and contractual obligations,
in 2022 Roche paid a total of CHF 12,725 5.11 Total remuneration paid to the members
(2021: CHF 12,451) to individual members of of the Corporate Executive Committee
the Corporate Executive Committee for family, For the 2022 calendar year, the members of
child and education allowances. the Corporate Executive Committee received
remuneration (including bonuses, employer
All aforementioned additional payments are contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts)
included in the total remuneration to members totalling CHF 37,181,576 (2021: CHF 35,495,906),
of the Corporate Executive Committee. excluding additional employer’s contribution
paid to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 1,819,906
In 2022, there were no loans or credits granted (2021: CHF 2,637,751) that does not form part
to the members of the Corporate Executive of remuneration.
Committee.
No additional remuneration other than the
The maximum regular period of notice for members above-mentioned payments was paid to
of the Corporate Executive Committee is 12 months. current or former members of the Corporate
There are no change-of-control clauses in the Executive Committee.
employment contracts.204
5.12 The Corporate Executive Committee’s shares which are blocked for ten years, for all
remuneration subject to approval at the other members of the Corporate Executive
Annual General Meeting Committee as a 100% cash payment, see 5.5)
totalling CHF 10,691,950 in respect of the 2022
5.12.1 Submission of the Corporate Executive financial year (2021: CHF 10,491,950), excluding
Committee’s total aggregate bonuses for a legally required employer’s contributions to
binding vote at the Annual General Meeting social security agencies, and will submit this
The Board of Directors proposes awarding the proposed total amount to the ordinary Annual
members of the Corporate Executive Committee General Meeting (AGM) 2023 for a binding vote.
bonuses (for Dr Severin Schwan in form of Roche
Retrospective approvals of the members of the Corporate Executive Committee’s total aggregate bonuses (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2023 AGM 2022 AGM 2021
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2022 financial year 2021 financial year 2020
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval /
approved by the AGM 10,691,950 10,491,950 10,041,950
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
5.12.2 Submission of the Corporate Executive is composed of base pay, long-term incentives
Committee’s total future aggregate S-SARs (calculated at grant value without
remuneration for a binding shareholder vote considering reductions of value due to blocking
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2023 periods if applicable) and RSUs (see 3.1.4,
ordinary AGM approve remuneration for the calculated at the time of reservation of non-voting
Corporate Executive Committee totalling not equity securities or shares, without considering
more than CHF 38,000,000 (excluding legally reductions of value due to blocking periods),
required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV pension benefits (excluding legally required
and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV) as well
the 2024 ordinary AGM. as contributions for expenses, payments for
foreign tax obligations, tax consulting services
The amount of the Corporate Executive and Roche Connect.
Committee’s total future aggregate remuneration
Prospective approvals of the members of the Corporate Executive Committee’s total future aggregate remuneration (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2023 AGM 2022 AGM 2021
Aggregate amount Aggregate amount Aggregate amount
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2023–AGM 2024 AGM 2022–AGM 2023 AGM 2021–AGM 2022
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval /
approved by the AGM 38,000,000 38,000,000 36,000,000
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonusesRemuneration Report | Roche 205
5.12.3 Reconciliation of the reported and excluding bonuses) for the period ending
remuneration with the shareholders’ at the 2022 ordinary AGM.
prospectively approved remuneration for
the members of the Corporate Executive For comparison, from the 2021 ordinary AGM to
Committee the 2022 ordinary AGM remuneration amounted
The 2021 ordinary AGM approved remuneration to CHF 26,498,349 (excluding legally required
for the Corporate Executive Committee totalling employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and
not more than CHF 36,000,000 (excluding legally excluding bonuses).
required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
Prospectively approved total remuneration of the members of the Corporate Executive Committee in comparison to actual
total remuneration effected (in CHF) *
Amount for the period Amount for the period Amount for the period
AGM 2022–AGM 2023 AGM 2021–AGM 2022 AGM 2020–AGM 2021
Maximum of total remuneration prospectively
approved by the AGM 38,000,000 36,000,000 37,000,000
Actual total remuneration realised
(Total remuneration calculated at end of Calculation at the end of
corresponding AGM–AGM period) period AGM 2022–AGM 2023 26,498,349 24,635,559
Within the approved limit Calculation at the end of
period AGM 2022–AGM 2023 Yes Yes
Additional amount paid for new members of the
Corporate Executive Committee after approval by
the AGM and not within the approved total amount No No No
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
5.13 Clawback According to the S-SARs plan rules, serious
In addition to applicable statutory provisions, misconduct by the participant may include
Roche’s long-term incentive plans include the (inter alia):
option to partially reclaim distributed compensation
as a result of special circumstances (clawback). • activity leading to serious disciplinary action
• repeated or willful failure to perform such duties
If the employee voluntarily serves notice of as have been reasonably assigned by Roche
termination of employment, S-SARs (see 5.15.2) and • violation of any law or public regulation
RSUs (see 5.15.3) which are unvested at the date • commission of a crime
of termination of employment lapse immediately • gross negligence or willful misconduct in
without any compensation. employment
• engaging in conduct bringing disgrace or
Upon termination of employment as a result of disrepute to Roche and/or any of its subsidiaries
serious misconduct, all S-SARs and RSUs granted • violation of any of Roche’s directives and
and outstanding, whether vested or unvested, guidelines relating to business conduct
shall lapse immediately without any compensation.206
5.14 Guidelines for security holdings annual base salary. This requirement must be
According to the guidelines for security holdings, fulfilled within five years from 15 March 2022 or,
since 2012 members of the Corporate Executive in the case of new members, within five years from
Committee are required to hold Roche securities. the start of employment.
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee are The requirement of Roche security holdings for the
now required to hold Roche securities equivalent in CEO Roche Group remains unchanged at 500% of
value to 200% (previously 100%) of their respective his annual base salary.
Type of security Value to be acquired
(within five years from 15 March 2022 or,
in the case of new members, within
five years from the start of employment)
CEO Roche Group Shares and/or NES 500% of annual base salary
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee Shares and/or NES 200% of annual base salary
5.15 Security holdings associated with them held securities as shown in
As at 31 December 2022 (as at 31 December 2021, the following tables ‘Shares and non-voting equity
respectively) the members of the Corporate securities (NES)’, ‘S-SARs’ and ‘Restricted Stock
Executive Committee and persons closely Units (RSUs)’.
5.15.1 Shares and non-voting equity securities (NES)
(as at 31 December 2022) (as at 31 December 2021)
Shares NES Close relatives’ security holdings Shares NES Close relatives’ security holdings
(number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number/type)
Corporate
Executive
Committee Shares NES Shares NES
S. Schwan 215,956 91,966 – – 203,592 90,342 – –
B. Anderson – 7,745 – – – 7,745 – –
A. Hippe 6,970 40,390 – 21 6,970 37,937 – –
T. Schinecker – 2,752 – – – 2,093 – –
C. A. Wilbur – 14,640 – – – 14,324 – –
Total 222,926 157,493 – 21 210,562 152,441 – –Remuneration Report | Roche 207
5.15.2 S-SARs
Number of S-SARs held on 31 December 2022
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Corporate Executive Committee
S. Schwan 75,635 100,746 103,260 122,322 100,677 85,476 59,517
B. Anderson 37,819 50,374 46,467 55,045 19,854 – –
A. Hippe 30,255 40,300 41,304 48,930 40,275 2,191 –
T. Schinecker 20,801 22,669 20,652 3,872 – – –
C. A. Wilbur 18,910 25,187 25,815 29,052 21,402 16,032 –
Total 183,420 239,276 237,498 259,221 182,208 103,699 59,517
Price (CHF) 359.70 306.45 308.05 271.65 220.80 251.90 251.50
Market price per NES on
31 December 2022 (CHF) 290.50
Expiry date 17.3.2032 18.3.2031 19.3.2030 15.3.2029 15.3.2025 16.3.2024 3.3.2023
Grant value per S-SAR (CHF) 56.41 42.35 * 41.32 * 34.88 * 26.49 * 31.20 * 29.79 *
Since 1.1.2012:
– Trinomial model for American
call options
* Values according to corresponding
annual reports
5.15.3 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
Number of RSUs held on 31 December 2022
2022 2021 2020 2019
Corporate Executive Committee
S. Schwan 2,965 3,481 3,463 3,927
B. Anderson 1,483 1,740 1,558 1,767
A. Hippe 1,186 1,392 1,385 1,571
T. Schinecker 815 783 693 248
C. A. Wilbur 741 870 866 933
Total 7,190 8,266 7,965 8,446
Grant value per RSU CHF 359.70 CHF 306.45 CHF 308.05 CHF 271.65
(NES closing price at (NES closing price at (NES closing price at (NES closing price at
grant date on grant date on grant date on grant date on
17 March 2022) 18 March 2021) 19 March 2020) 15 March 2019)208
To the General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
Report on the Audit of the Remuneration Report
Opinion statements, the financial statements and our
We have audited the Remuneration Report of auditor’s reports thereon.
Roche Holding Ltd (the Company) for the year
ended 31 December 2022. The audit was limited Our opinion on the Remuneration Report does not
to the information on remuneration, loans and cover the other information and we do not express
advances pursuant to Art. 14–16 of the Ordinance any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
against Excessive Remuneration in Listed
Companies Limited by Shares (Verordnung gegen In connection with our audit of the Remuneration
übermässige Vergütungen bei börsenkotierten Report, our responsibility is to read the other
Aktiengesellschaften, VegüV) in the sections information and, in doing so, consider whether the
marked with a grey line and ‘audited’, including other information is materially inconsistent with the
the respective footnotes, on pages 182 to 207 audited financial information in the Remuneration
of the Remuneration Report. Report or our knowledge obtained in the audit or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
In our opinion, the information on remuneration,
loans and advances in the Remuneration Report If, based on the work we have performed, we
complies with Swiss law and Art. 14–16 VegüV. conclude that there is a material misstatement of
this other information, we are required to report
Basis for Opinion that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss
law and Swiss Standards on Auditing (SA-CH). Board of Directors’ Responsibilities
Our responsibilities under those provisions and for the Remuneration Report
standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s The Board of Directors is responsible for
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Remuneration the preparation of a Remuneration Report in
Report’ section of our report. We are independent accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and
of the Company in accordance with the provisions the Company’s articles of incorporation, and for
of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss such internal control as the Board of Directors
audit profession, and we have fulfilled our other determines is necessary to enable the preparation
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these of a Remuneration Report that is free from material
requirements. misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The
Board of Directors is also responsible for designing
We believe that the audit evidence we have the remuneration system and defining individual
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide remuneration packages.
a basis for our opinion.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit
Other Information of the Remuneration Report
The Board of Directors is responsible for the other Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance
information. The other information comprises the about whether the information on remuneration,
information included in the annual report, but does loans and advances pursuant to Art. 14–16 VegüV
not include the sections marked ‘audited’ in the is free from material misstatement, whether due
Remuneration Report, the consolidated financial to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s reportStatutory Auditor’s Report | Roche 209
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance • O btain an understanding of internal control
is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee relevant to the audit in order to design audit
that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss procedures that are appropriate in the
law and SA-CH will always detect a material circumstances, but not for the purpose of
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
arise from fraud or error and are considered of the Company’s internal control.
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they • E valuate the appropriateness of accounting
could reasonably be expected to influence the policies used and the reasonableness
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of accounting estimates and related
of this Remuneration Report. disclosures made.
As part of an audit in accordance with Swiss law We communicate with the Board of Directors
and SA-CH, we exercise professional judgement or its relevant committee regarding, among
and maintain professional scepticism throughout other matters, the planned scope and timing of
the audit. We also: the audit and significant audit findings, including
• I dentify and assess the risks of material any significant deficiencies in internal control
misstatement in the Remuneration Report, that we identify during our audit.
whether due to fraud or error, design and
perform audit procedures responsive to We also provide the Board of Directors or its
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is relevant committee with a statement that we
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis have complied with relevant ethical requirements
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a regarding independence, and to communicate
material misstatement resulting from fraud with them all relationships and other matters
is higher than for one resulting from error, as that may reasonably be thought to bear on our
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional independence, and where applicable, actions
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
of internal control.
KPMG AG
François Rouiller Paul Nichols
Licensed Audit Expert
Auditor in Charge
Basel, 31 January 2023
KPMG AG, Grosspeteranlage 5, CH-4002 Basel
© 2023 KPMG AG, a Swiss corporation, is a subsidiary of KPMG Holding AG, which is a member of the KPMG global organization of independent member firms affiliated
with KPMG International Limited, a private English company limited by guarantee. All rights reserved.210
Independent practitioner’s limited
assurance report
on selected 2022 non-financial information to the Corporate Governance and
Sustainability Committee of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
We have been engaged by the Corporate • Roche eco-balance and Energy use by
Governance and Sustainability Committee to selected types in the graphs on page 127
perform assurance procedures to provide limited of the Report;
assurance on selected non-financial information • All key figures in the tables and graphs
(including the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions) on pages 128 and 129 (except Scope 3:
of Roche Holding Ltd and its consolidated Capital goods, Purchased goods and
subsidiaries (‘Roche Group’) for the period from services, Fuel- and energy-related activities,
1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022 disclosed Upstream transportation, Waste generated
in the Annual Report 2022 (‘Report’). in operations, Use of sold products).
Scope and subject matter Criteria
Our assurance engagement relates to limited The selected 2022 non-financial information
level of assurance on the selected non-financial (including the GHG emissions) was prepared by
information (including the GHG emissions) from the Corporate Governance and Sustainability
1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022 disclosed Committee of Roche Holding Ltd based on the
in the Report 2022. document “Basis for Preparation of Non-financial
Information 2022” (the “suitable Criteria”) which
The following selected non-financial information is available on the Roche website
(including the GHG emissions) published in https://a.storyblok.com/f/126832/x/c7efa7430e/
the Report is within the scope of our limited nonfinancialreportingmetricsguidelines-
assurance engagement: basisforpreparation.pdf.
• the following people key figures, in all material Inherent limitations
aspects, disclosed in the Report: The accuracy and completeness of the selected
• Employees (FTE) and Employees by Division/ 2022 non-financial information (including the
Operating Divisional Group (ODG) in the GHG emissions) are subject to inherent limitations
graphs on page 111 of the Report; given their nature and methods for determining,
• Share of women in executive positions in calculating and estimating such data. In addition,
the table on page 113 of the Report; and the greenhouse gas quantification is subject
to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete
• the following Safety, Security, Health and scientific knowledge used to determine factors
Environmental protection (‘SHE’) key figures related to the values needed to combine emissions
(including GHG emissions for scope 1 & 2 and of different gases. Our assurance report will
scope 3 resulting from business travel), in all therefore have to be read in connection with the
material aspects, disclosed in the Report: document “Basis for Preparation of Non-financial
• Employee health and safety table on Information 2022” used by Roche Group, its
page 111 of the Report; definitions and procedures as well as on the
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zurich
Telephone: +41 58 792 44 00, www.pwc.ch
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity.Independent practitioner’s limited assurance report | Roche 211
related third-party guidelines used to present ethical requirements, professional standards and
the selected 2022 non-financial information. applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Practitioner’s responsibility
Committee’s responsibility Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance
The Corporate Governance and Sustainability engagement and to express a conclusion on the
Committee of Roche Holding Ltd is responsible selected 2022 non-financial information (including
for the preparation and presentation of the the GHG emissions) of Roche Group disclosed
non-financial information (including the GHG in the Report. We conducted our engagement in
emissions) in accordance with the document accordance with the International Standard on
“Basis for Preparation of Non-financial Information Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised)
2022”. This responsibility includes the design, ‘Assurance engagements other than audits or
implementation and maintenance of the internal reviews of historical financial information’ and the
control system related to the preparation of the International Standard on Assurance Engagements
selected non-financial information that are free 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse
of material misstatement, whether due to fraud Gas Statements (‘ISAE 3410’), issued by the
or error. Furthermore, the Corporate Governance International Auditing and Assurance Standards
and Sustainability Committee is responsible for Board. Those standards require that we plan and
the selection and application of the document perform our procedures to obtain limited assurance
“Basis for Preparation of Non-financial Information whether anything has come to our attention
2022” and adequate record keeping. that causes us to believe that the selected 2022
non-financial information (including the GHG
Independence and quality management emissions) was prepared, in all material aspects,
We are independent of Roche Holding Ltd in accordance with the document “Basis for
in accordance with the International Code of Preparation of Non-financial Information 2022”.
Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
International Independence Standards) issued Based on risk and materiality considerations, we
by the International Ethics Standards Board for performed our procedures to obtain sufficient
Accountants (IESBA Code). We have fulfilled our and appropriate assurance evidence. The
ethical responsibilities in accordance with the procedures selected depend on the assurance
IESBA Code, which is founded on fundamental practitioner’s judgement. A limited assurance
principles of integrity, objectivity, professional engagement under ISAE 3000 (Revised) and
competence and due care, confidentiality and ISAE 3410 is substantially less in scope than a
professional behaviour. reasonable assurance engagement in relation to
both the risk assessment procedures, including
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG applies International an understanding of internal control, and the
Standard on Quality Management 1, which procedures performed in response to the assessed
requires the firm to design, implement and risks. Consequently, the nature, timing and extent
operate a system of quality management including of procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate
policies or procedures regarding compliance with evidence are deliberately limited relative to a212
reasonable assurance engagement and therefore • A ssessment of the processes and data
less assurance is obtained with a limited assurance consolidation
engagement than for a reasonable assurance Reviewing the management and non-financial
engagement. reporting processes for people and SHE key
figures; and
We performed the following assurance procedures, Assessing the aggregation process of data at
among others: Roche Group level.
• R eview of the application of Roche Group
guidelines We believe that the evidence we have obtained
Reviewing the application of the Roche Group is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
selected non-financial reporting guidelines our conclusion.
as per the document “Basis for Preparation of
Non-financial Information 2022”; Conclusion
Based on the work we performed, nothing has
• S ite visits and management inquiry come to our attention that causes us to believe
Visiting selected Pharmaceuticals and that the selected 2022 non-financial information
Diagnostics sites in Costa Rica, Spain, (including the GHG emissions) of Roche
Switzerland and the USA. The selection was Group for the period from 1 January 2022 to
based on quantitative and qualitative criteria; 31 December 2022 disclosed in the Report is not
Interviewing personnel responsible for internal prepared, in all material respects, in accordance
non-financial reporting and data collection at with the document “Basis for Preparation of
the sites we visited and at the Group level to Non-financial Information 2022”.
determine the understanding and application of
Roche Group’s non-financial reporting guidelines Intended users and purpose of the report
as per the document “Basis for Preparation of This report is prepared for, and only for, the
Non-financial Information 2022”; Corporate Governance and Sustainability
Committee of Roche Holding Ltd, and solely for
• A ssessment of the key figures the purpose of reporting to them on selected 2022
Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence non-financial information (including the GHG
supporting selected people and SHE key figures emissions) disclosed in the Report and no other
(e.g. energy consumption, emissions into the air, purpose. We do not, in giving our conclusion,
water usage and discharge, and share of women accept or assume responsibility (legal or otherwise)
in executive positions) concerning completeness, or accept liability for, or in connection with, any
accuracy, adequacy and consistency; other purpose for which our report including the
conclusion may be used, or to any other person
• R eview of documentation and analysis of relevant to whom our report is shown or into whose hands
policies and principles it may come, and no other persons shall be
Reviewing relevant documentation on a sample entitled to rely on our conclusion.
basis, including Roche Group non-financial
reporting policies, management of reporting
structures and documentation;Independent practitioner’s limited assurance report | Roche 213
We permit the disclosure of our report, in
full only and in combination with the suitable
Criteria, to enable the Corporate Governance
and Sustainability Committee to demonstrate
that they have discharged their governance
responsibilities by commissioning an independent
assurance report over the selected 2022
non-financial information (including the GHG
emissions), without assuming or accepting any
responsibility or liability to any third parties on
our part. To the fullest extent permitted by law,
we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the Corporate Governance and
Sustainability Committee of Roche Holding Ltd for
our work or this report.
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
Christophe Bourgoin Annina Binder
Zurich, 2 February 2023
The maintenance and integrity of Roche Holding Ltd’s
website and its content are the responsibility of the
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee;
the work carried out by the assurance provider does
not involve consideration of the maintenance and
integrity of Roche Holding Ltd’s website, accordingly,
the assurance provider accepts no responsibility for
any changes that may have occurred to the specified
non-financial information or suitable Criteria since
they were initially presented on the website.Imprint
Cautionary statement regarding The statement regarding earnings per share growth
forward-looking statements is not a profit forecast and should not be interpreted
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking to mean that Roche’s earnings or earnings per share
statements. These forward-looking statements may for 2022 or any subsequent period will necessarily
be identified by words such as ‘believes’, ‘expects’, match or exceed the historical published earnings
‘anticipates’, ‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘should’, ‘seeks’, or earnings per share of Roche.
‘estimates’, ‘future’ or similar expressions or by
discussion of, among other things, strategy, goals, plans All trademarks are legally protected.
or intentions. Various factors may cause actual results
to differ materially in the future from those reflected Links to third-party pages are provided for convenience
in forward-looking statements contained in this Annual only. We do not express any opinion on the content
Report, such as: (1) pricing and product initiatives of of any third-party pages and expressly disclaim any
competitors; (2) legislative and regulatory developments liability for all third-party information and the use
and economic conditions; (3) delay or inability in thereof.
obtaining regulatory approvals or bringing products to
market; (4) fluctuations in currency exchange rates and The Roche Annual Report is published in German
general financial market conditions; (5) uncertainties and English.
in the discovery, development or marketing of new
products or new uses of existing products, including Our reporting consists of the actual Annual Report
without limitation negative results of clinical trials or and of the Finance Report and contains the annual
research projects, unexpected side effects of pipeline financial statements and the consolidated financial
or marketed products; (6) increased government pricing statements. With regard to content, the Management
pressures; (7) interruptions in production; (8) loss of or Report as per the Articles of Incorporation consists
inability to obtain adequate protection for intellectual of both aforementioned reports with the exception
property rights; (9) litigation; (10) loss of key executives of the Remuneration Report.
or other employees; and (11) adverse publicity and
news coverage. Printed on non-chlorine bleached, FSC-certified paper.Key dates for 2023
Annual General Meeting
14 March 2023
First-quarter sales
26 April 2023
Half-year results
27 July 2023
Nine-month sales
19 October 2023
Published by
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
Group Communications
4070 Basel, Switzerland
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 11 11
www.roche.com
To order/download publications
Internet: www.roche.com/publications
E-mail: materials.management.mm1@roche.com
Fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
Media Relations
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 88
E-mail: media.relations@roche.com
Investor Relations
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
E-mail: investor.relations@roche.com
Corporate Sustainability Committee
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 48 90
E-mail: corporate.sustainability@roche.comDoing now what patients need next
We believe it is urgent to deliver medical solutions
right now – even as we develop innovations for the
future. We are passionate about transforming
patients’ lives. We are courageous in both decision
and action. And we believe that good business
means a better world.
That is why we come to work each day. We commit
ourselves to scientific rigour, unassailable ethics,
and access to medical innovations for all. We do this
today to build a better tomorrow.
We are proud of who we are, what we do, and how we
do it. We are many, working as one across functions,
across companies, and across the world.
We are Roche.F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
4070 Basel, Switzerland
© 2023
All trademarks are legally protected.
www.roche.com
7 001 052