Key figures in millions of CHF
Figures reported in Figures reported
the financial statements on an adjusted basisa)
2000 1999 % change 2000 1999 % change
Sales 28,672 27,567 +4 27,543 25,496 +8
EBITDAb) 11,126 8,874 +25 7,068 6,647 +6
Operating profit 7,131 6,421 +11 4,301 4,094 +5
Net income 8,647 5,764 +50 5,014 4,401 +14
Research and development 3,950 3,782 +4 3,919 3,732 +5
Additions to property,
plant and equipment 2,183 2,150 +2 2,115 1,984 +7
Personnel
Number of employees
at 31 December 64,758 67,695 –4 64,758 62,788 +3
Ratios
EBITDA as % of sales 39 32 26 26
Operating profit as % of sales 25 23 16 16
Net income as % of sales 30 21 18 17
Research and development
as % of sales 14 14 14 15
Data on shares and
non-voting equity securities in CHF
Earnings per share and
non-voting equity security (diluted) 1,024 668 596 510
Dividend per share and
non-voting equity securityc) 115 100 +15 115 100 +15
a) The adjusted figures are presented to improve the comparability of current and future consolidated results. They show
the recurring accounting effects of the new and revised International Accounting Standards, which became effective
on 1 January 2000, and of the acquisition of the remaining outstanding shares of Genentech in June 1999 as if they
had already taken place at the beginning of 1999. Furthermore, they exclude special items (impairment charge, gain
from sales of Genentech and LabCorp shares, vitamin case, Genentech legal settlements and credit for changes in
accounting policy) and include only the continuing businesses, i.e. excluding Fragrances and Flavours.
b) EBITDA: Earnings before interest (and other financial income), tax, depreciation and amortisation (including impair-
ment). This corresponds to operating profit excluding depreciation, amortisation and impairment.
c) Dividend 2000 as proposed by the Board of Directors. The 1999 figure does not include the special dividend relating
to the spin-off of the Fragrances and Flavours Division.Letter from the Chairman 2
Letter from the CEO 6
Board of Directors and Executive Committee 10
Group Performance at a Glance 14
Divisions
Pharmaceuticals 16
Diagnostics 28
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals 36
Roche Group
Human Resources 42
Annual Report and Group Accounts 2000
Safety and Environmental Protection 44
Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
Annual Accounts 2000
Table of Contents
Finance 46
Financial Review 47
Consolidated Financial Statements 56
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 60
Report of the Group Auditors 91
Multi-Year Overview 92
Consolidated Income Statement on an Adjusted Basis 95
Holding and Finance Companies 96
Roche Securities 97
Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
Financial Statements 102
Notes to the Financial Statements 104
Appropriation of Available Earnings 106
Report of the Statutory Auditors 107
Roche – a Global Market Presence 108
Operating Subsidiaries and Associated Companies 110
Table of Contents 1Letter from the Chairman
Our Group’s overall results for 2000 were good. Net income, operating
profit, EBITDA and sales all reached record highs. However, the figures
for last year also show lower than expected growth for our Pharmaceu-
ticals Division’s prescription medicines. The Diagnostics Division, by
contrast, not only held, but topped, its previous high market share in its
core businesses. Similarly, the Vitamins and Fine Chemicals Division
reinforced its global market leadership position while continuing to face
fierce competition.
2 Letter from the ChairmanNet income increased 50% for the year, and organisational measures to deal
reaching the remarkable total of8.6 bil- with it,particularly in the key US mar-
lion Swiss francs.A further increase ket.We expect sales growth in the
inoperating profit and a very strong Pharmaceuticals Division to improve
financial result were major contribu- in the second half of 2001.
tors to this impressive performance.
Gains on special items,particularly the 2000 saw a number of other positive
successful sale of Genentech shares, developments.Today we can note with
also had a major impact on the Group’s satisfaction,for example,that the
financial statements for 2000.
Net income, operating profit, gross cash flow and sales
On an adjusted basis,consolidated
sales advanced 8% over the previous all reached record highs.
year to 27.5 billion Swiss francs.
Expressed in local currencies,sales merger of Boehringer Mannheim and
grew 2%. our Diagnostics Division has far
exceeded our expectations and has
At the Annual General Meeting the proven to be a strategically important
Board of Directors will propose a move for the entire Group.The Phar-
dividend increase of 15%,from 100 maceuticals Division also recorded
to115 Swiss francs per share and non- advances in several market segments,
voting equity security.If approved, including consumer healthcare.Our
thiswill be our fourteenth consecutive research and development portfolio
dividend increase. forms a solid basis for the future.The
positive sales growth posted by Genen-
2000 was a challenging year for our
Throughout its history our Group has been guided
employees.Thanks to their profession-
alism and forward-looking,proactive
by a commitment to innovation, and innovation will
focus,they played a pivotal role in our
record performance.I want to express remain the key to our success in the future.
my sincere appreciation to them all
fortheir personal contribution to our tech should be mentioned here as well.
Group’s overall success. Our majority interest in this leading
US biotechnology company will con-
After a long string of successes that are tinue to be of major strategic impor-
impressive by any standards,sales of tance in the future.
our prescription medicines were an
area of special concern in 2000.As I The Vitamins and Fine Chemicals Divi-
noted earlier,prescription drug sales sion continued to meet the challenges
were weaker than expected,lagging of an intensely competitive market-
behind the average market growth rate. place.Sales volumes increased for the
This had a negative impact on the price year,and the division achieved addi-
of Roche securities.We are taking this tional cost savings through the intro-
development very seriously and have duction of improved production
implemented the necessary strategic technologies and processes.
Letter from the Chairman 3Lastly,on 8 June 2000 we spun off our
Fragrances and Flavours Division as an
independent group operating under
the Givaudan name.Givaudan’s shares
were distributed as a special dividend
to holders of Roche shares and non-
Thank you, Fritz Gerber! voting equity securities.
Fritz Gerber will be retiring as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd Over the past two decades we have
at the Annual General Meeting on 3 April 2001. We would therefore like to pay tribute made major progress towards our goal
here to a man who, in his many years at Roche, has made such a major contribution to of ranking among the industry leaders
the Group. in each of our businesses.But this is no
guarantee of future success.We cannot
Fritz Gerber became Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer afford to stand still,for we will be left
in1978. We have much to thank him for. For over twenty years he has been instrumental behind if we do.We have the necessary
in building Roche into a global leader. His farsighted and timely actions on so many resources but must make the most
occasions have helped Roche achieve extraordinary success and prepared it very well for of them.This will involve questioning
the challenges of the future. Time and again his ability to welcome change as an oppor- established ways of doing things and
tunity and his openness to new ideas have proven to be decisive strengths. Fritz Gerber having the courage to strike out in new
realised well before many others that it was essential for the Group to focus on its core directions.These are challenges requir-
competencies, and he took the steps necessary to achieve that focus with skill and ing a great deal of personal initiative
breadth of vision. A great believer in people, he has always been keenly interested in and flexibility on everyone’s part.
staff development. The unwavering commitment to innovation he has shown throughout
his chairmanship has set an example for the entire Group. One of the first to recognise Throughout its history our Group
the great potential of biotechnology, it was he who secured Roche a majority holding in hasbeen guided by a commitment to
the US company Genentech. innovation,and I am firmly convinced
that innovation will remain the key
The Board of Directors, Executive Committee and employees of Roche would like to toour success in the future.We will
express their deep appreciation to Fritz Gerber. In recognition of his outstanding service, devote our full energies to continuing
the Board of Directors has decided to appoint him Honorary Chairman of Roche. He will on this path.In the years ahead we aim
also remain a member of the Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd. We are delighted to achieve dynamic organic growth
that Mr Gerber will be retaining these close ties with our company. fuelled by an innovative product port-
folio.And,as in the past,we will
remain open to opportunities to
Andres F. Leuenberger Franz B. Humer strengthen our position further
Vice-chairman of the Board of Directors Delegate of the Board of Directors through acquisitions and a diverse
network of alliances.
4 Letter from the ChairmanWorking together,Franz B.Humer,
whom the Board of Directors has
elected to succeed me as Chairman,
theExecutive Committee and our
employees will build our Group’s
future with entrepreneurial courage,
vision and energy.
Fritz Gerber
Letter from the Chairman 5Letter from the CEO
Roche can look back on a profitable 2000. Net income rose to 8.6 billion
Swiss francs, a robust gain of 50% over the previous year. Adjusted sales
increased 8% to 27.5 billion Swiss francs. Operating profit, including
gains from the sale of Genentech stock, was up 11% to 7.1 billion Swiss
francs, and gross cash flow (EBITDA) for the divisions showed even
stronger growth, advancing 25% to 11.1 billion Swiss francs. Financial
income, which once again was a significant contributor to Group
profitability, increased 106% to a strong 2.3 billion Swiss francs.
6 Letter from the CEOOur impressive earnings growth had a showed a gain of 6% to 3.2 billion
very positive impact on the Group’s Swiss francs,grew at roughly the same
financial position.The ratio of equity rate as sales.
and minority interests to assets
increased to 46%;at year’s end hold- We expect our pharmaceuticals sales to
ings of cash and marketable securities accelerate in the second half of 2001.
totalled nearly 21 billion Swiss francs; Our portfolio includes innovative
and after reporting a net debt of 3 bil- products for major therapeutic areas
lion Swiss francs at the end of 1999,
wehave become a net creditor with a
Our impressive earnings growth had a very positive impact
net liquidity position of 3 billion Swiss
francs.We will use our strong cash flow on the Group’s financial condition. Just three years after
for further investments in growing our
the Boehringer Mannheim acquisition, we have a high net
businesses and to strategically reinforce
Roche’s presence as a leading health- liquidity position and a very solid balance sheet.
care company.
Net income also increased for the year such as oncology,virology and trans-
on an adjusted basis,rising 14% to plantation medicine.Last year we also
5billion Swiss francs (to facilitate com- acquired the global rights to Kytril,a
parisons,these figures exclude special medicine used in oncology.In connec-
items and include only continuing tion with this move,we sold the North
operations).Another very good per- American marketing rights for Coreg
formance by the Diagnostics Division, (cardiovascular).We will be taking a
which recorded double-digit gains step-by-step approach to developing
insales and operating profit,and an the market for Xenical further.
exceptionally strong financial result
were major growth drivers.Adjusted In 2000 we received six approvals in
financial income increased 39% to the European Union,four in the
1.7billion Swiss francs. United States and three in Japan for
new products and indications.Addi-
While sales by the Pharmaceuticals tionally,we filed over ten regulatory
Division rose 7% in Swiss franc terms applications in key markets,including
to 17.7 billion,they were up only 1% an application for Pegasys in hepati-
inlocal currencies.This slowdown in tisC.Other new drugs,such as iban-
growth resulted in a loss of market dronate for osteoporosis and the HIV
share.Sales were affected by the expiry fusion inhibitor T-20,are in advanced-
ofpatent coverage for Versed/Dormicum stage development.In terms of both
(anesthesia) and Ticlid (stroke) in the quantity and quality,our clinical
United States.Other factors included pipeline looks very promising,with a
seasonally weak sales of Rocephin (bac- total of 63 projects and 40 different
terial infections) and flattening sales of molecules in development.Addition-
Xenical (obesity) following extremely ally,we have improved our position
successful launches in major markets. forfuture growth by pursuing an active
Adjusted operating profit,which licensing policy.In February 2001,
Letter from the CEO 7forexample,we acquired an innovative achieving cost-effective treatment out- ment.Development work on our novel
anticancer medicine in late-stage devel- comes that address the causes of dis- TaqMan analyser is also well advanced.
opment from OSI Pharmaceuticals. ease.All four Roche Diagnostics units The first of a new generation of labora-
produced pioneering research for new tory systems designed to make routine
We also anticipate sustained growth in or next-generation products that will PCR-based testing significantly faster
our consumer health business.After make us an even stronger competitor. and easier,TaqMan automates every
declining in 1999,sales of our OTC We expect double-digit sales growth to step of the testing process,from sample
products rebounded last year,growing continue. preparation to detection.We will also
continue steadily expanding our range
of PCR-based test kits.
Another very good performance by the Diagnostics Division,
which recorded double-digit gains in sales and operating profit, At Roche Molecular Biochemicals,the
fourth of our diagnostics businesses,
was a major growth driver.
the focus is increasingly on supplying
innovative system technologies for use
by 7% (4% in local currencies) to The Accu-Chek blood glucose meter in the pioneering fields of genomics
1.7billion Swiss francs.A tight focus marketed by Roche Patient Care is and proteomics,now areas of intense
on eight global brands was one factor already Roche’s top-selling product, research activity.The latest example is
contributing to the turnaround. with annual sales totalling over RTS 500,the world’s first commercially
2 billion Swiss francs.Following the available system for automated cell-free
The Diagnostics Division posted successful integration ofAVL Medical protein synthesis.Launched in 2000,
another very good result against a Instruments,we are now also the RTS 500 will play a major role in the
background of sluggish overall market leaderin the fast-growing point-of-care fast-growing proteomics market.
growth,with sales advancing 18% to segment in hospital diagnostics.
6.3 billion Swiss francs.Expressed in The Vitamins and Fine Chemicals
local currencies,this was equivalent to Despite fierce market competition,we Division recorded volume increases in
an increase of 12%.As a result,we anticipate a positive future for Roche all major product segments,gaining
gained additional market share and Laboratory Systems,as it continues to market share against a background of
strengthened our global leadership benefit from the launch of additional, intense competition.However,price
position.Divisional operating profit, user-friendly analysers and new test erosion and the sale of the medicinal
up 30% to 822 million Swiss francs, reagents and pursues efforts to cut feed additives business in early May
rose even more sharply,boosting the costs and raise productivity. 2000 caused sales revenue to decline
division’s profit margin by one per- 3% (9% in local currencies) to 3.6 bil-
centage point to 13%. Roche Molecular Diagnostics – with lion Swiss francs.As a result,operating
amarket share of just over 50% the profit was down 15% to 494 million
An uncompromising focus on cus- undisputed leader – continued to Swiss francs,despite improved produc-
tomer needs and above-average sales record dynamic growth.Our tests are tivity.With new products coming to
gains in each of the division’s business considered the gold standard for diag- market,leading-edge competencies in
units contributed to this record result. nosing infectious diseases.During the research and production and an
And the prospects for the current year year we signed a licensing agreement expanding global presence,particularly
are excellent.At every stage of health- with Chiron Corporation relating to in the emerging markets ofAsia and
care delivery – from identifying disease tests for hepatitis C;the agreement, Latin America,we are ideally equipped
predispositions to monitoring treat- which marks the end of protracted liti- to maintain our leadership in a com-
ment responses – diagnostic tools are gation,has opened the way for inten- petitive global market.We expect to see
an increasingly important factor in sive development of this attractive seg- positive sales growth in 2001.
8 Letter from the CEOAdditional lawsuits relating to the Roche employees around the globe
price-fixing agreements revealed in remain a key success factor for the
1999 in the vitamins industry were future.I would like to take this addi-
settled with indirect customers in the tional opportunity to thank them all
United States.The formal investigation for their hard work and the valuable
opened in mid-2000 in the European contributions they have made to build-
Union is still in progress.Adequate ing and strengthening our company.
provisions were made in 1999 for the Together,we will tackle the challenges
expenditures expected to arise from ahead and keep Roche on track for
thevitamin case. success.
We have positioned ourselves well to
meet the challenges ahead.Our
strengths include great financial flexi-
bility,a very solid balance sheet,the
Pharmaceuticals Division’s strong pres-
ence in the hospital and specialist seg-
ments,our strategic collaboration with Franz B.Humer
Genentech,a rich research and devel-
opment pipeline,the turnaround of
Roche Consumer Health and our
global leadership in diagnostics and
vitamins.As a global pharmaceutical
company and the world market leader
in diagnostics,we are convinced that
we are ideally equipped to benefit from
the revolution taking place in genetics,
genomics and proteomics.With their
We will use our strong cash flow for further investments in
growing our businesses and to strategically reinforce Roche’s
presence as a leading healthcare company.
broad implications for medical science,
these are the fields where interests in
diagnostics and pharmaceuticals con-
verge – and where groundbreaking
integrated healthcare solutions and
drugs tailored to the needs of specific
patient populations are being born.
Finally,the tremendous professional-
ism and dedication of nearly 65,000
Letter from the CEO 9Board of Directors and
Executive Committee
Board of Directors General Meeting elected Peter Brabeck-
The Board of Directors has elected Letmathe,CEO of Nestlé,to join the
Franz B.Humer as its new Chairman, Board.
subject to his re-election to the Board
at the Annual General Meeting on Former Cantonal Councillor Kurt
3April 2001.Dr Humer will assume Jenny will step down from the Board of
the Chairmanship on 4 April 2001 Directors at the 2001 Annual General
while continuing to serve as Chief Meeting,and Charles Weissmann will
Executive Officer. not be available for another term.In
their many years on the Board both
In recognition of his major contribu- men have contributed greatly to build-
tions to Roche,the Board of Directors ing and strengthening the Group’s
has named long-standing Chairman businesses,and we extend to them our
Fritz Gerber Honorary Chairman of sincere thanks.The Board of Directors
the Board.He will continue to serve on proposes that businessman and National
the Board. Councillor Walter Frey and John Bell,
the Nuffield Professor ofClinical
Werner Stauffacher retired from the Medicine at Oxford University,be
Board of Directors at the 2000 Annual elected as new members ofthe Board.
General Meeting,following his appoint-
ment as President ofthe Swiss Academy Board Committees
of Medical Sciences.We wish to thank Within the scope of its responsibilities,
Prof.Stauffacher for his valuable con- the Board of Directors of Roche
tributions to the Group during his ten Holding Ltd has delegated certain tasks
years on the Board.The Annual for fuller attention to the Chairman
10 Board of Directors and Executive Committeeand Vice-chairmen of the Board,the – accounting systems and procedures Executive Committee
Audit Committee,the Finance & – the organisation and scope of finan- At the end of 2000 Henri B.Meier
Investment Committee and the Com- cial controlling retired as Roche’s Chief Financial Offi-
pensation Committee. – financial planning,budgets and bud- cer,a position he held for 15 years.The
get execution Board of Directors wishes to express its
Chairman and Vice-chairmen – financial reporting to shareholders deep appreciation to Dr Meier,whose
The Chairman and two Vice-chairmen and the general public outstanding achievements have been a
of the Board of Directors serve jointly – financial investments decisive factor in the Group’s success.
as a Nomination Committee.In this He will continue to serve as a member
capacity they prepare proposals to the The committee approves capital expen- of the Board.Anton Affentranger has
Board regarding the appointment of ditures and divestments valued at more been named as the new Chief Financial
new members and are concerned with than 100 million Swiss francs. Officer.
succession planning and the evaluation
of candidates for the Executive Com-
I am confident that, with our new teams on the Board of
mittee.
Directors and Executive Committee, we are ideally equipped
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is composed to keep our Group on track for success.
exclusively of Board members who are
Fritz Gerber, Chairman of the Board of Directors
not members of the Executive Com-
mittee.
Compensation Committee William M.Burns became Head of the
This committee assists the Board in The Compensation Committee is Pharmaceuticals Division on 1 January
overseeing management of the Group’s composed of three Board members 2001.Franz B.Humer,who headed the
businesses,particularly with respect to who are not members of the Executive division until the end of 2000,will now
financial and legal matters and com- Committee.Upon application by the concentrate on overall Group manage-
pliance with internal business and Chairman,the committee approves the ment.
administrative policies,including poli- Group’s compensation policy and the
cies on safety and environmental pro- compensation received by members of Richard Laube,Head of the Pharma-
tection.In particular,the committee the Executive Committee,general ceuticals Division’s global consumer
reviews the scope and extent of exter- managers of major Roche affiliates and health business,has been appointed to
nal and internal audits,the indepen- other high-level employees.In addi- the Executive Committee,effective
dence and objectivity of the auditors tion,it approves employee option pro- 1January 2001.
and the establishment of appropriate grammes and other equity and profit-
organisational structures for safety and sharing devices and defines general
environmental protection. policy on company pension benefits
and other post-employment benefit
Finance & Investment Committee plans.
The Finance & Investment Committee
assists the Board of Directors on issues
relating to finance,investment and
capital assets and in evaluating risks in
these areas.Specifically,the committee
reviews:
Board of Directors and Executive Committee 11Board of Directors as of 1January 2001
(from left):
Andres F. Leuenberger
Kurt Jenny
Rolf Hänggi
André Hoffmann
Fritz Gerber
Henri B. Meier
Franz B. Humer
Peter Brabeck-Letmathe
Charles Weissmann
Andreas Oeri
Name, year of birth Term ends
Board of Directors Dr h.c. Fritz Gerber (1929) Chairman 2004**
Dr Andres F. Leuenberger (1938) (cid:2) Vice-chairman 2006**
Rolf Hänggi (1943) (cid:3) (cid:4) Vice-chairman 2002**
Dr Franz B. Humer (1946) Delegate 2001**
Peter Brabeck-Letmathe (1944) (cid:3) 2002**
André Hoffmann (1958) (cid:3) (cid:4) 2006**
Prof. Kurt Jenny (1931) (cid:2) 2004**
Dr Henri B. Meier (1936) 2006**
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) (cid:2) 2004**
Prof. Charles Weissmann (1931) (cid:4) 2001**
Secretary to the Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
Board of Directors
**Franz B. Humer will stand for another term on the Board of Directors. Fritz Gerber will retire as Chairman (cid:3) Finance & Investment Committee
at the 2001 Annual General Meeting. The Board of Directors has elected Dr Humer as its new Chairman, (cid:2) Audit Committee
subject to his re-election to the Board at the Annual General Meeting. Fritz Gerber will remain a member (cid:4) Compensation Committee
of the Board after retiring as Chairman.
**Kurt Jenny will retire from the Board of Directors, and Charles Weissmann will decline another term on 1 January 2001
the Board at the 2001 Annual General Meeting. The Board will propose that the Annual General Meeting
elect Walter Frey and John Bell.
12 Board of Directors and Executive CommitteeExecutive Committee
from 1January 2001
(from left):
William M. Burns
Jonathan Knowles
Markus Altwegg
Franz B. Humer
Richard Laube
Heino von Prondzynski
Daniel Villiger
Anton Affentranger
Name, year of birth Position
Executive Committee Dr Franz B. Humer (1946) Chief Executive Officer
Anton Affentranger (1956) Chief Financial Officer
William M. Burns (1947) Pharmaceuticals Division
Heino von Prondzynski (1949) Diagnostics Division
Dr Markus Altwegg (1941) Vitamins and Fine Chemicals Division
Richard Laube (1956) Pharma Consumer Health
Prof. Jonathan Knowles (1947) Global Pharmaceutical Research
Dr Daniel Villiger (1955) Corporate Services
Secretary to the Pierre Jaccoud (1955)
Executive Committee
Statutory Auditors of Ernst & Young Ltd
Roche Holding Ltd
Group Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
1 January 2001
Board of Directors and Executive Committee 13Group Performance
at a Glance
Price development of non-voting equity security (Genussschein)in CHF
Roche non-voting equity security (adjusted) Swiss Market Index (rebased)
20,000
16,000
12,000
8,000
4,000
0
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
Helped partly by special gains,Roche Roche’s sales have averaged double- projects and in expanding our market-
has increased its profitability enor- digit growth over the past five years, ing and distribution operations.
mously in recent years,while continu- rising during this period to 27.5 billion
ing to strengthen its consolidated Swiss francs.Net income and gross In 2000 we saw another,impressive
balance sheets.To facilitate compar- cash flow (EBITDA) have both climbed improvement in our balance sheet
isons of medium-term performance steadily,and in 2000 exceeded 5 billion position.Just three years after the
changes,the figures presented here for and 7 billion Swiss francs,respectively, Boehringer Mannheim acquisition,
1999 and 2000 exclude special items for the first time.In order to remain Roche is once again a net creditor,with
and refer solely to ongoing operations astrong innovator and one of the a net liquidity position of 3.2 billion
– the spun-off fragrances and flavours world’s leading healthcare groups in all Swiss francs;the ratio of equity and
business is therefore excluded. major markets,we have consistently minority interests to total assets rose
used our high cash inflows for invest- three percentage points in 2000 to
ments in research and development avery solid 46%.
14 Group Performance at a GlanceSales by divisionin millions of CHF
Pharmaceuticals
Diagnostics
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals
Fragrances and Flavours
Others
Group figures
Net income in millions of CHF Net income per share and EBITDA in millions of CHF
non-voting equity security in CHF
7,000 7,000
6,000 6,000
5,000 5,000
4,000 4,000
3,000 3,000
2,000
1,000
0 0
| 96 | 971)| 98 | 99 | 00 | 96 | 971)| 98 | 99 | 00 | 96 | 97 | 98 | 99 | 00
Operating profit in millions of CHF Research and development in millions of CHF Additions to property,
plant and equipment in millions of CHF
7,000
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
| 96 | 97 | 98 | 99 | 00 | 96 | 97 | 98 | 99 | 00 | 96 | 97 | 98 | 99 | 00
998,3
024,3
772,4
095,3
293,4
053,4
104,4
490,4
926,4 670,5
324,
6
746,6
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
254
644,2
694
309,2
905
804,3
015
237,3
426,1
208,1 388,1 489,1
30,000
25,000
20,000
10,460
15,000
10,000
5,000 757
3,329
1,414
0 6
2,000
1,000
1) Before special charges.
1999/2000 figures on an adjusted basis; figures are not fully comparable to previous years due to Givaudan
spin-off, Genentech transactions and accounting policy changes. Group Performance at a Glance 15
669,51
latoT
12,070
966
3,803
1,928
767,81
latoT
14,376
4,616
3,630
2,040
266,42
latoT
16,487
5,282
3,727
694,52
latoT
17,686
6,252
3,605
345,72
latoT
| 96 | 97 | 98 | 99 | 00 |
410,5
103,4
695
919,3
860,7
511,2Roche develops diagnostic tests to promote more effective, individualised care
in cancer patients. These tests make it possible to predict the probability of clinical
benefit from a particular treatment and to monitor patients’ responses to medicines
like Xeloda and Herceptin.
Elsa K. is being treated for colorectal
cancer with Xeloda, an anticancer drug
that is inactive until it reaches tumour
tissues. The drug’s good tolerability profile
has improved Elsa’s quality of life. And
because she can take Xeloda in tablet
form at home, she also has more time to
spend with her grandchildren.Pharmaceuticals Division in brief
in millions of CHF change
2000 99/00
Sales 17,686 +7%
– Rx 13,910 +4%
– Genentech 2,082 +37%
– OTC 1,694 +7%
EBITDA1) 4,970 +7%
Operating profit1) 3,249 +6%
R&D expenditures 3,201 +5%
Employees 41,409 +3%
1) On an adjusted basis.
Pharmaceuticals
In 2000 our pharmaceuticals business, which accounts for almost two-thirds of Group
sales, once again posted increases in sales revenue and operating profit.
Although sales of our prescription medicines did not grow as fast as the market average,
we achieved significant milestones in a number of major therapeutic areas, particularly
oncology, transplantation and virology. Sales by the US biotechnology company
Genentech, in which we hold a majority interest and with which we have a close
collaborative relationship, continued to outperform the US market. In the non-
prescription medicines sector, Roche Consumer Health recorded a substantial rise in
sales, showing that it is back on the growth track.
Roche submitted more than ten marketing applications for new chemical entities and
supplemental indications in 2000. Late in the year we also acquired the global rights to
Kytril, a drug used in chemotherapy.
Pharmaceuticals 17operating profit reached 3,249 million
Swiss francs,with an operating margin
of18%.The division’s EBITDA totalled
4,970 million Swiss francs,or 28% of
sales.
We are focusing our pharmaceuticals
business on therapeutic areas with
significant unmet medical needs and
where we have special expertise and
experience.In 2000 we achieved fur-
ther significant advances in several
of these areas.
Oncology – leadership built on inno-
vation. We continued to reinforce our
strong presence in oncology.Among
the many factors contributing to the
above average growth potential of this
market are major advances in early
diagnosis,better targeted therapy based
on the identification of cancer sub-
types and rapid acceptance of innova-
tive new products.
Sales of Xeloda,a novel tumour-selec-
I am confident that we have the ability to launch one
tive cancer drug for oral use,grew
bymore than 70% to 150 million
to two major new products or additional indications
Swissfrancs.Xeloda monotherapy is
every year, ensuring continued growth for our approved in over 40 countries for
metastatic breast cancer resistant to
Pharmaceuticals Division in the coming years.
certain standard chemotherapies.This
Franz B. Humer, CEO, Head of the Pharmaceuticals Division until 31 December 2000 product was filed for breast cancer
treatment in Japan in 2000.Study
results published late in the year
Prescription medicines – global showed Xeloda and docetaxel to be the
presence in key therapeutic areas first chemotherapy combination to
reinforced. Sales by the Pharmaceuticals produce superior survival in metastatic
Division rose 7% – 1% in local curren- breast cancer patients compared
cies – to 17,686 million Swiss francs in withmonotherapy.Xeloda was also
2000.Prescription drug sales (including approved for first-line treatment of
Genentech) increased to 15,992 million metastatic colorectal cancer in Europe.
Swiss francs,for a year-on-year growth The US Food and Drug Administration
rate of7% in Swiss francs and 1% in (FDA) has issued a letter of approva-
local currencies.On an adjusted basis, bility for the drug in this indication.
18 PharmaceuticalsA total of eight medicines had sales of half a billion
Swiss francs or more. Among the division’s top ten
products, Roaccutan, Mabthera, CellCept, Neo-
1) Jointly marketed by Roche and Genentech Recormon, Herceptin and Viracept all posted dou-
2) Includes supplemental indications; updated to mid- ble-digit sales growth in local currencies. Xenical
February 2001 consolidated its position as the leading pharmaceu-
3) Jointly developed by Roche and Gilead Sciences tical for weight loss and weight management.
Top-selling prescription products (including Genentech)
Product Generic name Indication Sales in 2000 in millions of CHF
Rocephin ceftriaxone Bacterial infections 1,710
Roaccutan/Accutane isotretinoin Severe recalcitrant nodular acne 1,280
Xenical orlistat Weight loss, weight management 950
Mabthera/Rituxan1) rituximab Low-grade non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma 900
CellCept mycophenolate mofetil Transplantation, prevention of acute
rejection 790
NeoRecormon epoetin beta Anemia 650
Herceptin1) trastuzumab Metastatic breast cancer 540
Viracept nelfinavir mesylate HIV infection 500
Dormicum/Versed midazolam Anesthesia and sedation 470
Nutropin/Protropin1) somatropin/somatrem Growth hormone 390
Furtulon doxifluridine Cancer of the colon, breast and stomach 340
Activase1) alteplase Myocardial infarction 330
Neupogen filgrastim; G-CSF Neutropenia 300
Pulmozyme1) dornase alfa; DNase Cystic fibrosis 300
Lexotan bromazepam Anxiety and tension states 290
Invirase/Fortovase saquinavir HIV infection 280
Rocaltrol calcitriol Osteoporosis 280
Roferon-A interferon alfa-2a Hepatitis B and C, cancer 260
Madopar levodopa + benserazide Parkinson’s disease 250
Dilatrend carvedilol Heart failure, hypertension, angina pectoris 240
Torem torasemide Hypertension 230
Cymevene/Cytovene ganciclovir Cytomegalovirus infection 230
Rivotril clonazepam Epilepsy 210
Major product approvals and launches in 20002)
Product Generic name Indication Country
CellCept mycophenolate mofetil Prevention of acute rejection in pediatric
kidney transplantation USA
Prevention of acute rejection in liver
transplantation EU, Switzerland, USA
Herceptin1) trastuzumab Metastatic breast cancer EU
Roferon-A + ribavirin interferon alfa-2a Chronic hepatitis C EU
Tamiflu3) oseltamivir Treatment of influenza A and B Canada, Japan, Latin America
Prevention of influenza A and B USA
Treatment of influenza A and B
in children aged one year and older USA
Xenical orlistat Weight loss, weight management Australia, China
Xeloda capecitabine Metastatic colorectal cancer Australia, Canada, EU, Switzerland
Pharmaceuticals 19Herceptin sales were also up sharply, facilitate the development of combina-
advancing by more than 70% to tion regimens including Herceptin.
540million Swiss francs.Herceptin is
the first breast cancer drug to selec- Mabthera/Rituxan,the first humanised
tively target the HER2 receptor,thus monoclonal antibody approved for
blocking signal pathways that cause cancer treatment,likewise continued to
uncontrolled cell growth.Roche intro- show strong growth,as sales climbed
duced Herceptin in Europe in 2000, more than 80% to 900 million Swiss
Prescription produtcs (including Genentech)
Metabolic disorders 12%
Japan 6% Others 8% Dermatology 9% Others 2%
Latin America 11% Central nervous system 12%
Oncology 16%
Sales by region Sales by therapeutic area
Infectious diseases,
North America 40% Europe 35% Cardiovascular diseases 10% virology 22%
Inflammatory and autoimmune diseases 17%
francs.This product is indicated for
Total sales of the division 1996–2000 in millions of CHF
certain forms ofnon-Hodgkin’s
17,500 lymphoma (NHL),a cancer ofthe
15,000 lymphatic system.Roche holds world-
12,500 wide marketing rights for Mabthera
10,000 outside the United States and will co-
7,500 market the drug in Japan.Used as
5,000 monotherapy or in combination with
2,500 chemotherapy,Mabthera/Rituxan is
0 highly effective and is well tolerated by
patients.Ourobjective is to register
thedrug for first-line use in low-grade
NHLand inautoimmune diseases –
and a marketing application was also areas inwhich Mabthera/Rituxan has
submitted during the year in Japan. the potential to revolutionise treatment.
Genentech markets this breakthrough
treatment in the United States,while Bondronat,a third-generation bisphos-
Roche holds exclusive marketing rights phonate and the only bisphosphonate
in all other countries.Several large- available in both intravenous and oral
scale studies are currently evaluating formulations for the management of
additional indications.During the year hypercalcemia of malignancy,experi-
we entered into research alliances with enced strong demand.In2001 the oral
Bristol-Myers Squibb and Aventis to form of Bondronat will be submitted
20 Pharmaceuticals
064,01
070,21
673,41
784,61
686,71
| 96 | 97 | 98 | 99 | 00for approval for metastatic bone disease medicine.After a strong start sales in duration and severity of the flu and
in breast cancer patients. 2000 levelled offand plans have been decreasing the risk of complications.
developed to return to growth.Key activ- The product is available for influenza
Sales of NeoRecormon also rose ities include programmes to inform treatment in the United States,Japan,
strongly in 2000,mainly due to the patients about the health benefits oflos- Canada,Switzerland and many coun-
development of new market segments ing weight,educate them on the right tries in the southern hemisphere.The
in oncology and dialysis.A marketing way to use Xenical to achieve long-term additional data requested for our filing
application for use in hematological weight control and provide support and with the EU regulatory authorities
cancers was filed in the European encouragement during therapy.Other were submitted in February 2001 as
Union in July. initiatives are aimed at realising the were applications for additional indica-
drug’s largely untapped potential in vari- tions.In the United States Tamiflu
In December Roche further strength- ous patient populations (for example, wasapproved for influenza prevention
ened its oncology portfolio by acquir- overweight men) and address weight- in adults and adolescents aged 13 years
ing the global rights to the anti-nausea related risk factors in patients with type and older and for the treatment of
drug Kytril from SmithKline Beecham. 2 diabetes,dyslipidemia and hyperten- influenza in children aged one year or
Kytril is given to cancer patients to sion.Recent studies have shown Xenical older.
suppress the severe and debilitating to lead to significant weight loss and
nausea and vomiting associated with improved weight control in patients with
chemotherapy. type 2 diabetes,allowing some patients
to reduce their dose ofglucose-lowering
In early 2001 Roche and Genentech medication.Roche has launched a clinical
signed an agreement with OSI Phar- development programme aimed at
maceuticals of New York for the co- extending the use of Xenical to these
development and commercialisation conditions.Research continues to charac-
of a novel anticancer drug.The drug, terise a second-generation lipase inhibi-
known as OSI-774,is currently in torandotherapproachestowardsobesity.
phase II clinical trials for lung,head
and neck and ovarian cancer. By having our research, development and marketing
teams work even more closely, we are making
Expanding our number 1 position in
weight management.Xenical has estab- sure that our medicines optimally serve doctors’ and
lished itselfas the world’s leading pre-
patients’ needs and that we will be able to fully
scription pharmaceutical for weight loss
and weight management.It is the only realise our products’ potential in the future.
commercially available weight loss
product that acts locally in the gastro- William M. Burns, Head of the Pharmaceuticals Division since 1 January 2001
intestinal tract,where it reduces absorp-
tion ofdietary fat by about 30%.The Virology – major growth opportuni- Roche’s next-generation interferon,
product was rolled out during the year ties. In the virology segment,Roche Pegasys,was submitted for review by
inAustralia and Indonesia and also scored a major success with Tamiflu, the FDA in the United States for the
received marketing authorisation in the only oral neuraminidase inhibitor. treatment of hepatitis C;an EU appli-
China,Korea and Taiwan.Now that In its first full year on the US market it cation was filed in February 2001.
Xenical has been successfully launched became the leading influenza medicine. Twolarge-scale clinical trials compar-
inmajor countries,we want to steadily Tamiflu prevents the influenza virus ing Pegasys with standard interferon
develop the market for this novel from replicating,thus reducing the therapy have shown Pegasys to provide
Pharmaceuticals 21statistically superior efficacy inhepati- schedule ofViracept is also felt to be an
tis C.Pegasys is currently theonly advantage by patients.
pegylated interferon shown tobe safe
and effective in hepatitis C patients Sales of the AIDS medicines Invirase/
who also suffer from liver cirrhosis. Fortovase declined in 2000 as a result
Hepatitis C is increasingly recognised of an increasingly competitive market.
as a major cause of liver disease and Fortovase continues to deliver the full
liver failure.More than 170million therapeutic potential of saquinavir
people world-wide are infected with and,used in combination with ritona-
this life-threatening virus. vir,has maintained its leadership in
pre-treated patients.Very promising
In the HIV area,Viracept sales con- new data supporting the use of Forto-
tinued their solid growth trend.Data vase with once daily,low-dose ritonavir
from clinical trials showed that were presented at the Conference on
patients receiving Viracept remained Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infec-
on therapy significantly longer and tions in February 2001.
experienced 85% fewer side effects
than those taking another protease In the United States we submitted a
inhibitor.The twice daily dosing new drug application for Valcyt for the
treatment of cytomegalovirus retinitis
in patients with AIDS.
Integrated Health Care Solutions – gaining momentum
Our Integrated Health Care Solutions (IHCS) programmes offer opportunities to Further progress was made in develop-
improvehealthcare delivery by combining innovative diagnostic tests and treatments. ing an entirely new class of anti-HIV
Forpatients, this opens the way for more individualised care. Our goal is to develop medicines known as fusion inhibitors,
products and services which will improve treatment outcomes with our medicines by which prevent HIV from penetrating
enabling health professionals to make timely diagnoses, predict the probability of and infecting host cells.The fusion
clinicalbenefitand monitor treatment response. inhibitor T-20 entered phase III clinical
trials in 2000,and phase II testing of
Initial trials with a novel diagnostic test for the early detection of heart failure look very T-1249 will start in 2001.
promising. The test runs on our Elecsys analyser and will be launched in the second half
of 2001. The timely diagnosis of heart problems improves the chances of successful Transplantation medicine – building
treatment with cardiovascular medicines like Dilatrend and Torem. ona position of strength.CellCept,a
potent immunosuppressant used to pre-
In oncology, we scored a major technology breakthrough with the first assay capable vent kidney,heart and liver transplant
ofanalysing paraffin-embedded tissues using the sensitive polymerase chain reaction rejection,continued to show strong
(PCR) method. Tissue samples used to diagnose cancer are normally preserved in growth.The product was approved in
paraffin. In the near future this may lead to new tests for other cancers that overexpress 2000 for use in liver transplantation in
the HER2 protein; our anticancer medicine Herceptin currently offers highly targeted the United States,the European Union
therapy for HER2-positive breast cancer. New possibilities are also opening up for and Switzerland.In December CellCept
measuring enzyme levels in tumours, an important parameter for the effective use of our also received US regulatory clearance
anticancer medicine Xeloda. Clinical trials are currently under way to validate specific foruse in pediatric kidney transplant
biomarkers designed to facilitate patient selection and thus substantially increase the recipients.Additional data have con-
response rate to this drug. We expect this to allow Xeloda therapy to be targeted firmed that low-toxicity immuno-
evenmore effectively in patients with breast and colorectal cancer. suppressive regimens combining
22 PharmaceuticalsCellCept and Zenapax significantly As expected,sales of Dormicum/
improve patients’quality oflife.Our Versed,a drug used in hospitals for
commitment to transplantation medicine anesthesia and sedation,fell nearly
also includes major funding for the 50%,to 470 million Swiss francs,
Roche Organ Transplantation Research dueto patent expiry in the United
Foundation,an organisation that pro- States in mid-2000.
motes clinical transplantation research.
Sales of carvedilol (Dilatrend/Kredex/
Well-established products for anes- Coreg),used to treat hypertension,
thesia, infections, severe acne and angina pectoris and chronic heart
cardiovascular disease. Roaccutan/ failure,rose markedly in 2000,spurred
Accutane posted double-digit sales by new data from a major international
growth,helped particularly by the clinical study showing a significant
positive sales trend in North America. survival benefit in patients with severe
This oral retinoid (vitamin A derivative) chronic heart failure.Exclusive rights
is a highly effective treatment for severe to Coreg in North America were sold to
nodular acne.Marketing applications SmithKline Beecham in December;
for a new formulation were filed dur- SmithKline Beecham and Roche pre-
ing the year in the United States and viously co-promoted the product in the
Canada.In addition,we instituted United States.We remain the supplier
various measures to defend the product of this effective,safe and well-tolerated
against the possible entry of generic medicine in all other countries.
competitors into the US market in the
second half of 2001.The range of Roche Consumer Health – focusing
services we provide to prescribers and on strong brands. Sales by Roche
their patients to optimise treatment Consumer Health,our OTC medicines
with Roaccutan/Accutane has recently business,rose 7% to 1,694 million
been expanded further.In the United
We’ve returned to growth in the OTC sector
States,for example,the comprehensive
pregnancy prevention programme
by concentrating our efforts on building core
forpatients taking the drug has been
strengthened in an effort to prevent global brands.
fetal exposure to this potent retinoid.
Richard Laube, Head of Roche Consumer Health
The antibiotic Rocephin remained our
top-selling medicine,with sales Focus on eight OTC brands in millions of CHF
totalling 1.7 billion Swiss francs in Product Uses Sales
2000.Outpatient parenteral antibiotic Aleve Analgesic 200
therapy with Rocephin continued to Supradyn Multivitamin 175
increase.Use of the drug in outpatient Bepanthen Skin care 140
settings is already well established in Rennie Antacid 135
the United States,Canada,Italy,the Redoxon Vitamin C 130
United Kingdom,Argentina and Mex- Berocca Multivitamin 85
ico,and is now also being introduced Saridon Analgesic 65
in China,Japan and Central America. Elevit Pronatal Multivitamin 25
Pharmaceuticals 23Swiss francs;in local currency terms Sales growth was strongest in North of Clinical Oncology meeting in May
sales were up 4%.This significant America,where Aleve sales rose 2000,Genentech announced encourag-
turnaround after the previous year’s sharply,and in Europe,where Roche ing preliminary findings from several
decline in sales wasdue primarily to Consumer Health ranks second in phase II trials evaluating anti-VEGF,a
restructuring activities commenced theOTC market.In Latin America, monoclonal antibody that can starve
in1999 and our tighter focus on key particularly in Mexico,sales grew tumours of their blood supply,thereby
global brands. fasterthan the market thanks to highly inhibiting tumour growth.Roche has
focused marketing. an option to co-develop and co-market
this compound.Phase III trials are
Consumer self-medication currently under way to assess the safety
and efficacy of anti-VEGF in colo-
rectal,non-small cell lung and breast
cancer.2000 also saw the approval and
Skin and hair care 15% launch of Genentech’s TNKase.The
Analgesics 23% Gastrointestinal products 11% drug is currently under investigation in
Others 3% four clinical trials designed to evaluate
Sales by therapeutic area Cold remedies 3% various heart attack treatment regi-
mens combining TNKase and other
Vitamins 45% agents.
Research productivity enhanced
Boosting productivity and setting new
Eight core brands now account for over Genentech – outperforming the mar- standards. We have recently imple-
half of our total consumer health sales. ket with new cancer therapies. Over mented a variety of strategies – includ-
Sales of these brands increased 17% for the years our close working relation- ing initiatives in drug optimisation and
the year in Swiss francs and 12% in ship with Genentech has become new lead chemistry and the creation of
local currencies.Aleve became our top- increasingly important from both a a global research informatics system –
selling product,thanks to healthy sales scientific and a commercial point of to improve our productivity in the
growth in existing markets,particularly view,and it continues to be extremely search for safe,effective medicines.
the United States,and roll-outs in new successful.Roche has held a majority Flexible,harmonised procedures have
markets.Sales of Supradyn,Roche interest in this California-based been established at all research sites to
Consumer Health’s second strongest biotechnology company since 1990.In reduce the time and resources required
brand,also showed a double-digit gain, 2000 Genentech sales in the United to place compounds with our lifecycle
with entries into new markets,notably States were up 37% – 22% in US dol- teams.In 2000 a number of new
Spain,and a product relaunch in lars – to 2.1 billion Swiss francs. research compounds went through the
theUnited Kingdom driving growth. critical preclinical evaluation process,
Supradyn 50+,a new formulation Genentech focuses its research and with a total of seven new molecular
tailored specifically to the needs of development efforts on heart disease entities being cleared for clinical test-
consumers over 50,was successfully and cancer,the number 1 and number ing.Eighteen new drug compounds are
launched in a number of European 2 killer diseases in the United States. expected to enter preclinical develop-
markets.All other core OTC brands With two marketed anticancer prod- ment by the end of 2001,for indica-
also posted healthy growth,largely as ucts and seven oncology projects in the tions ranging from obesity,depression
aresult of improved marketing activ- pipeline,Genentech is well positioned and Alzheimer’s disease to oncology,
ities – particularly in the area of direct- to play an active part in the fight osteoporosis and HIV.
to-consumer communications. against cancer.At the American Society
24 PharmaceuticalsNew business model – Basilea Phar- pharmaceuticals business,proteomics
maceutica. In 2000 we continued our will lead to an increased number of
strategy of focusing on core disease potential target molecules and provide
areas by spinning off some of our drug an additional stimulus for the discov-
discovery activities into a new biotech ery of new therapeutic compounds.
start-up,called Basilea Pharmaceutica; One of the objectives of Roche’s pro-
this followed earlier spin-outs resulting teomics research in diagnostics is to
in the creation of two other biotech identify proteins that can be used as
start-ups:Novuspharma in Italy and new markers in preclinical and clinical
Actelion in Switzerland.As a result, tests for cancer,metabolic disorders,
Roche’s R&D know-how and decades inflammatory disease and cardiovas-
of accumulated intellectual property
relating to antibiotics,antifungals and
dermatology have been integrated into Metabolic diseases 24
Virology 20
a broadly based biotechnology com-
Vascular diseases 12
pany.Roche will retain a minority Oncology 40
interest in Basilea Pharmaceutica,with 156 research projects Genitourinary diseases 8
in major therapeutic areas
the option to acquire global develop-
Inflammatory diseases 25
ment and marketing rights for selected Central nervous system 27
compounds.
Genomics, genetics and proteomics
forbetter healthcare solutions. Pharmaceutical research centres
Progress in deciphering the human
genome has provided scientists with a Basel, Switzerland Metabolic disorders
wealth ofinformation,but there is stilla Central nervous system
great deal ofwork to be done to identify Vascular diseases
the key genetic variations that make Kamakura, Japan Oncology
some people susceptible to particular Nutley (New Jersey), USA Metabolic disorders
diseases.At Roche we are striving to Oncology
support these efforts,which is why we Vascular diseases
have decided to step up our involvement Palo Alto (California), USA Central nervous system
in genetics and genomics and redirect Inflammation/bone diseases
the focus ofresearch at the Basel Insti- Genitourinary diseases
tute for Immunology.Established Penzberg, Germany Oncology
30years ago,the Institute is being trans- Welwyn Garden City, UK Virology
formed into a centre for medical geno- Roche Center for Medical Genomics,
mics which will be associated with the Basel, Switzerland Basic research in genetics/genomics
Group’s global research organisation.
Over the next few years Roche’s
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
Divisions will invest roughly 100 mil-
lion Swiss francs in strengthening the
Group’s proteomics research.In our
Pharmaceuticals 25We currently have 63 projects with a total of
40 different molecules in clinical development.
Theseprojects will generate the stream of new
products ensuring our future growth.
Balanced product pipeline
Product Indication Phase
Bondronat (oral ibandronate) Treatment of bone metastases in breast cancer patients III
Anti-VEGF1) Several types of solid tumours, in combination
with chemotherapy III
NeoRecormon (epoetin beta) Anemia in hematologic malignancies NDA* filed
Herceptin (trastuzumab)2) Adjuvant therapy in breast cancer III
Mabthera/Rituxan (rituximab)2) Intermediate-/high-grade non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma,
in combination with chemotherapy III
Xeloda (capecitabine) Combination therapy in breast cancer III
Fusion inhibitor T-203) HIV infection III
Viracept
(nelfinavir mesylate; new formulation) HIV infection III
Valcyt (oral valganciclovir) Prevention of cytomegalovirus disease in solid organ
transplantation III
Valcyt (oral valganciclovir) Treatment of cytomegalovirus disease in AIDS NDA filed
Pegasys (pegylated interferon alfa-2a) Chronic hepatitis C NDA filed
Pegasys (pegylated interferon alfa-2a)
combined with ribavirin Chronic hepatitis C III
Pegasys (pegylated interferon alfa-2a) HIV/hepatitis C co-infection III
Oral ibandronate Prevention and treatment of post-menopausal
osteoporosis III
Anti-CD11a monoclonal
antibody (hu1124)4) Moderate/severe psoriasis III
Roaccutan/Accutane
(isotretinoin; new formulation) Severe/nodular acne NDA filed
Xenical (orlistat) Treatment and prevention of type 2 diabetes III
Xenical (orlistat) Weight loss and weight management in children III
Dilatrend (carvedilol) Severe chronic heart failure III
Dilatrend (carvedilol) Post-myocardial infarction III
Activase (alteplase)5) Catheter clearance NDA filed
Xolair (omalizumab)6) Allergic asthma and seasonal allergic rhinitis NDA filed
TNKase (tenecteplase;
IIa/IIIa-combination)7) Acute myocardial infarction III
* NDA = new drug application.
1) Genentech compound (opt-in candidate
forRoche)
2) Genentech compound developed and/or
marketed with Roche
3) Jointly developed by Roche and Trimeris
4) Jointly developed by Genentech and Xoma
5) Genentech project
6) Jointly developed by Genentech, Tanox
andNovartis
7) Studies being conducted with COR Therapeutics,
Schering-Plough, Merck and Aventis
26 PharmaceuticalsBy combining strong in-house R&D focused on seven
With our broad range of marketed
products and well-balanced R&D
key therapeutic areas, successful strategic alliances and
pipeline,we are well equipped to
significant investments in new technologies, we are achieve stronger organic growth in the
years ahead.At the same time we
ensuring a steady stream of new drug candidates for
remain open to opportunities for
the future. licensing agreements,acquisitions and
alliances that will help us reinforce
Jonathan Knowles, Head of Global Pharmaceutical Research ourposition in the pharmaceuticals
industry.
cular disease.Such markers will yield Outlook – well equipped for a
important information on the course successful future. We expect sales As a major global pharmaceutical com-
of these diseases and the efficacy of growth in the Pharmaceuticals Divi- pany and the world leader in in-vitro
thedrugs used to treat them. sion to accelerate again in 2001. diagnostics,we are in a unique position
Recently launched products such as to benefit from the emerging revolu-
Investing in the future. In 2000 Roche Tamiflu,Xenical,Mabthera/Rituxan, tion in medicine by exploiting syner-
invested 3.2 billion Swiss francs in Herceptin and Xeloda will be impor- gies from the application of cutting-
pharmaceutical R&D alone,a 5% tant growth drivers,as will the newly edge science in these complementary
increase over the previous year.Addi- acquired Kytril and well-established businesses.
tional research buildings became products such as CellCept and Neo-
operational during the year at our Recormon.In addition,we have filed
research centres in Penzberg (Germany) for approval of Pegasys in the United
and Basel (Switzerland).Representing States and in Europe,and thedevelop-
an investment of around 150million ment of new drugs such as ibandronate
Swiss francs in each site,these new and the HIV fusion inhibitor T-20,
facilities will further improve the both now in late-stage clinical testing,
efficiency of our research anddevel- is progressing well.
opment efforts.
The United States remains the world’s
Our alliance with deCode Genetics, most important pharmaceutical mar-
Iceland,– the most comprehensive in a ket,which is why we intend to expand
cluster of important collaborations our presence there in future.In 2001
with bioscience companies and univer- we expect to see additional US sales
sities – produced some important generated bythe roll-out of two new
results in 2000.These included the products,Pegasys and Valcyt,and by
identification of a gene linked to the acquisition of Kytril and expanded
schizophrenia,providing the first labelling for Xenical for the manage-
genetic target for the development of ment of type2 diabetes,a major new
new diagnostic and therapeutic indication.Theupcoming launch of
approaches to the disease.In addition, Xeloda in Europe and continued
gene locations were identified for growth for our OTC brands are also
several risk factors causing or contrib- expected to helpstrengthen our
uting to stroke,Alzheimer’s disease, pharmaceuticals business in 2001.
osteoporosis and peripheral arterial
occlusive disease.
Pharmaceuticals 27A growing number of people are infected
with the hepatitis C virus. Our highly
sensitive and extremely reliable Amplicor
HCV tests enable physicians like Dr K.
ofAachen (Germany) to detect infections
with the virus early and monitor patients’
responses to treatment.
A number of international programmes are underway at Roche to develop optimal
diagnostic/therapeutic combinations for viral diseases. For example, we are currently
working on improved diagnostic tools to assist interferon treatment of hepatitis C.Diagnostics Division in brief
in millions of CHF change
2000 99/00
Sales 6,252 +18%
– Patient Care 2,554 +25%
– Laboratory Systems 2,437 +10%
– Molecular Systems 750 +26%
– Molecular Biochemicals 511 +18%
EBITDA1) 1,639 +19%
Operating profit1) 822 +30%
R&D expenditures 558 +8%
Employees 15,631 +8%
1) On an adjusted basis.
Diagnostics
In 2000 the Diagnostics Division maintained the strong growth of previous years,
against a background of sluggish expansion in the global in-vitro diagnostics market.
Market share gains and another year-on-year increase in operating profit margin
enabled us to extend our global market leadership further. Sustained dynamic growth
in molecular diagnostics and another exceptionally good result from our diabetes
monitoring products were the main contributors to this strong performance. The success-
ful integration of AVL Medical Instruments made us the market leader in the rapidly
growing hospital emergency diagnostics market. The explosion of knowledge resulting
from the mapping of the human genome opens up exciting possibilities for new diag-
nostic products and further growth.
Diagnostics 29EBITDA rose 19% to 1,639 million
Swiss francs.A systematic focus on
customer needs and above-average
sales gains in all four business seg-
ments contributed to this record result.
Patient Care – impressive progress in
diabetes monitoring and emergency
diagnostics. Roche Patient Care,sup-
plier of the world’s leading products
for people with diabetes and of innova-
tive point-of-care diagnostic tests,con-
tinued its successful track record of
previous years,particularly in the dia-
betes (blood glucose) monitoring sec-
tor.With sales of some 2 billion Swiss
francs in 2000,the globally marketed
Accu-Chek line of products for blood
glucose monitoring is now the Roche
Group’s top-selling brand.Total sales
by Roche Patient Care were up 19%
inlocal currencies.
Once again,the Accu-Chek Advan-
tage/Comfort Strip blood glucose meter
was a major driver of sales growth in
As the global market and technology leader in human
the diabetes monitoring business.At
the end of 2000 Roche launched Accu-
diagnostics, Roche is superbly placed to translate the
Chek Compact,the world’s first fully
results of genomics and proteomics research into tests automatic blood glucose meter.Much
simpler to use (test strips from an
that meet specific needs.
inserted cartridge are automatically
Heino von Prondzynski, Head of the Diagnostics Division prepared and positioned) and excep-
tionally accurate,itoffers significant
improvements forpatients.
Market leadership extended. In a
slow-growing market Roche consoli- Clinical tests that can be carried out at
dated its leading position in all major the point of care are becoming increas-
segments thanks to innovative business ingly important world-wide as a means
models and efficient marketing.Sales of making healthcare delivery more
by the Diagnostics Division advanced efficient and controlling costs.The
18% – 12% in local currencies – to acquisition ofAustria-based AVL Med-
6,252 million Swiss francs.Operating ical Instruments (now Roche Graz) has
profit was up 30% to 822 million substantially expanded our product
Swissfrancs,and the Division’s portfolio in the high-potential hospital
30 Diagnosticspoint-of-care segment (rapid diagnosis moderate market growth.Increasingly,
in emergency and intensive care hospitals and high-volume clinical
medicine) and at the same time made laboratories are asking for integrated,
Roche the market leader in this area. high-throughput systems that improve
cost-efficiency.By responding to these
Major new product launches in the new requirements with automated
point-of-care segment included Car- pre- and post-analysis processing,an
diac D-dimer and OPTI R.Cardiac expanded range of test menus and
D-dimer is a new assay that allows doc- other innovative developments,we have
tors to rule out pulmonary embolism further enhanced our already strong
or deep vein thrombosis rapidly and market position.
reliably;it is used with Roche’s Cardiac
reader,a proven instrument for In the clinical chemistry segment,
diagnosing damage to heart muscle. thenew Cobas Integra 800 analyser was
OPTI R,a blood gas analyser devel- launched towards the end of 2000.
opedby AVL Medical Instruments, Thanks to its outstanding user-friend-
employs reusable test cassettes to
simplify decentralised testing in oper-
Total sales of the division 1996–2000 in millions of CHF
ating rooms and is also environmen-
tally friendly and economical. 6,000
5,000
Optimal user-friendliness is a key 4,000
objective of our research in the dia- 3,000
betes care segment.Among other 2,000
things,we are developing systems that 1,000
require smaller blood samples and 0
combine sampling and blood glucose
determination in a single step.A long-
term goal is the development of sys-
tems that will enable non-invasive liness and highprecision,the new
blood glucose measurement,without system will establish itself in the
the need for blood-sampling.In the market just as quickly as the smaller
hospital point-of-care segment our Integra 400,demand for which
efforts are focused on developing remained strong in its second year after
highly integrated diagnostic systems launch despite tough competition.
for emergency and intensive care Market response in the high-volume
departments. laboratory segment to Modular
Analytics,an individually configurable
Laboratory Systems – growing trend high-throughput system combining
to cost-effective analysers. Roche clinical chemistry and immunodiag-
Laboratory Systems,the world’s leading nostics,wasvery positive.
supplier of integrated analytical sys-
tems for clinical laboratories,posted Sales of Elecsys analysers,for het-
sales gains of 6% in local currencies erogeneous immunoassays,once again
amid fierce competition and only showed above-average growth.In
Diagnostics 31
757
669
616,4
282,5
252,6
| 96 | 97 | 98 | 99 | 00hematology our cooperation with the puted market leader in gene amplifica-
Japanese company Sysmex was ex- tion-based molecular diagnostics.This
tended to additional markets.Roche is reflected in six years’sustained rapid
held its market share in the coagulation growth,which continued in 2000 with
and automated urinalysis segments. an impressive 18% local currency
increase.These gains are also the result
In work at its own research facilities of strong demand for products based
and in cooperation with its Japanese on the highly sensitive polymerase
partner,Hitachi,Roche Laboratory chain reaction (PCR) technique.PCR
Systems is pursuing projects to consol- enables direct detection of pathogens
Asia–Pacific 11% South America 4% Molecular Biochemicals 8% Molecular Systems 12%
Sales by region Sales by business unit
North America 40% Europe and Africa 45% Patient Care 41% Laboratory Systems 39%
idate a full range of analytical systems or individual genetic variations even in
on a common platform.This involves minute quantities of sample material.
harmonisation and consolidation of
several technologies in a single work- Our tests for the detection ofAIDS,
station and integration of sample han- hepatitis and other infectious diseases –
dling and data management,permitting regarded as the gold standard in
all-in-one solutions that can be indi- molecular diagnostics – continue to
vidually configured in line with cus- rank among our top-selling products.
tomers’needs.We are also working on Despite strong competition,Amplicor
expanded assay menus for the Elecsys HIV-1 Monitor,which measures HIV
line,focusing initially on tests for concentrations in blood,remained by
infectiousdiseases.The main objective far the most frequently used quantita-
of our joint proteomics research initia- tive AIDS test.Tests for sexually trans-
tivewith the Pharmaceuticals Division mitted diseases and for screening blood
(see p.25) is the development of new products,both segments with potential
diagnostic markers for various types of for further development,posted above-
cancer,metabolic and inflammatory average growth.
disorders and cardiovascular diseases.
Marketing applications were filed in the
Molecular Systems – expanding the United States for two PCR-based tests
gold standard into new segments. for monitoring AIDS treatment,both
With a market share of just over 50%, already successfully launched in other
Roche Molecular Systems is the undis- markets;two qualitative hepatitis C
32 DiagnosticsDiagnostics Division – from research lab to patients
Molecular Biochemicals Molecular Systems
Reagents and systems for gene analysis, used in biomedical PCR-based assays and automated analysers for detecting
research to investigate the causes of or predisposition to infectious diseases, cancer and cardiovascular and
disease; specialty biochemicals for industry hereditary disorders; monitoring treatment; and investi-
gating genetic causes of disease
Reagents for molecular and cell biology, LightCycler, Amplicor tests, Cobas Amplicor, AmpliScreen, AmpliPrep
Lumi-Imager, MagNa Pure LC, RTS 500
Patient Care Laboratory Systems
Diagnostic products for point-of-care testing and patient Integrated analytical systems for clinical laboratories;
self-monitoring, such as blood glucose meters with accom- complete solutions for immunodiagnostics work areas;
panying data management software; systems for coagula- laboratory network solutions; reagents for clinical chemistry
tion monitoring, blood gas analysis and electrolyte determi- and immunodiagnostics; products for coagulation testing,
nation; urine test strips and rapid drugs-of-abuse screening hematology and automated urinalysis
tests
Accu-Chek, Softclix, Camit, Cardiac Reader, OPTI, OMNI, Cobas Integra, Roche/Hitachi, Cobas Core, Elecsys, Stago,
Molecular Systems Molecular Systems
Reflotron, Combur-Test, CoaguChek, OnTrak Sysmex, Miditron, Supertron
testswere submitted to the FDA and the PCR market.To secure Roche objective of translating the results of
have been accorded fast-track review Molecular Systems’long-term success, the Human Genome Project into
status. we have decided to invest in new diagnostic products and individually
state-of-the-art production facilities in tailored healthcare solutions.
Licensing agreements concluded with New Jersey for our entire range of
US-based Chiron Corporation covering PCRtests. Molecular Biochemicals – at the fore-
HIV and hepatitis C patent rights front in genomics and proteomics.
marked the end of protracted litigation Cobas TaqMan,a next-generation Sales by Roche Molecular Biochemi-
and have set the stage for additional analyser that will speed up and simplify cals,which manufactures reagents and
future growth.In addition,in mid- routine PCR-based testing in high- systems for industrial and biomedical
2000 we signed an agreement with the throughput environments,is now in research,were up 11% in local curren-
US company Applera which allows advanced development.We are also cies,driven mainly by dynamic growth
Roche and Applera to develop and stepping up R&D activities with the in the German and US markets.Market
market products for all PCR-based aim of significantly expanding our share gains in the United States were
applications.We expect this to further range of PCR tests.Roche Molecular particularly strong.
enhance our potential for growth in Systems is vigorously pursuing its
Diagnostics 33This good result is due primarily to Roche Molecular Biochemicals is thus
sales of Roche’s innovative LightCycler continuing its successful transforma-
system,launched only two years ago, tion from reagent manufacturer to
which have far exceeded expectations. developer and supplier of innovative
LightCycler is employed principally systems for the breakthrough fields of
ingenetic research and diagnostics for genomics and proteomics.Of particu-
the PCR-based amplification of genetic lar significance here is the launch in
material.This product line was ex- 2000 of the RTS 500,the world’s first
panded at the end of 1999 with the automated system for cell-free protein
launch of MagNA Pure LC,a module expression.Until now the expression of
which offers fully automated nucleic proteins coded for by particular genes,
acid isolation from various sample which is important for research into
materials for real-time detection in the the causes of disease and in other
LightCycler. areas,has been difficult;the required
proteins could frequently not be syn-
thesised quickly enough or in sufficient
quantities.The new RTS 500 will there-
fore play a major role in the rapidly
developing proteomics market.
Integrated healthcare benefits patients
Collaboration in virology between our Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions Under an agreement signed in early
continued to produce excellent results in the marketplace. 2001 with Prionics,a Swiss biotech
company,we will handle world-wide
State-of-the-art treatment algorithms are being defined for HIV as part of several distribution of a screening test for the
comprehensive programmes. Viral load monitoring, viral resistance genotyping and cattle disease BSE.The test,which
therapeutic drug level monitoring, combined with the use of RetroGram decision support wasdeveloped by Prionics,is already in
software to analyse results, are already helping physicians to chose the anti-HIV drug use in many European countries.The
combinations with the highest probability of success. This promotes effective use of agreement also provides forcollabora-
Roche’s medicines for HIV, such as Viracept and Invirase/Fortovase. tion in developing tests that can be
used to detect BSE in live animals and
Our influenza programme marks a real breakthrough in the early detection and treatment joint development of diagnostic tests
of this common viral illness. Combined use of our Real-Flu Surveillance system, rapid for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in man.
influenza test and innovative drug Tamiflu ensures targeted, effective influenza therapy.
Additional strategies and tools are being developed to improve the detection and moni- The unit’s research efforts continue to
toring of local influenza outbreaks and make diagnosis and treatment even more effective. focus on developing new applications
for PCR-based diagnostics,especially
In clinical trials of Pegasys in hepatitis C, Amplicor HCV Monitor has been shown to be in the fields of oncology,inflammatory
areliable means of assessing clinical benefit after three months of therapy. This means disease and cytology.Another key
that treatment can be reviewed early in patients whose predicted probability of response areais gene function analysis,a logical
is limited, and continued with the greatest potential for therapeutic benefit in patients extension of the Human Genome
showing a response. Project – an undertaking which would
havebeen unthinkable without the
All major Roche research sites have been equipped with the resources to identify inte- high throughput and automation made
grated healthcare opportunities at the early stages of drug discovery and development possible by PCR technology.Roche
and exploit them in improving treatment outcomes further. Molecular Biochemicals’rapidly evolv-
34 Diagnosticsing strategic role as the engine of which is set to continue its pioneering
innovation in the division reflects its scientific work in this field.One trend
work and contacts at the forefront of expected to stimulate additional sales
new developments in all areas of in this segment is the rising demand
diagnostics. for products to screen donated blood
and its derivatives.Roche’s highly
Optimally positioned for continued accurate PCR tests are already used to
dynamic growth. All of the Diagnostics test a substantial proportion of all
Division’s four business units have an blood and plasma products.Our new
excellent basis for further growth. AmpliPrep system for PCR sample
preparation,scheduled for launch
Roche Patient Care has enormous soon,brings us close to our objective
growth potential,fuelled mainly by the of fully automated PCR testing.
rapidly expanding diabetes market.In
the hospital point-of-care segment our The immensely promising fields of
expanded product portfolio and know- genomics and proteomics will be the
how and the fact that Roche now con- main focus of Roche Molecular Bio-
trols the entire value chain,from R&D chemicals,whose objective will be to
right through to sales and marketing, translate research findings into
give us a significant advantage.Roche products for routine diagnosis.
Patient Care will expand its product
range further in 2001 with the launch Overall,we intend to step up our
of two innovative blood gas and elec- research efforts,with a clear focus on
trolyte analysers. high-growth markets.Our activities
will be directed towards creating new
Launches of additional user-friendly markets and generating additional
instruments,expanded assay menus business with new services – for exam-
and cost-control and productivity ple,developing IT solutions to enable
measures will have a positive impact on networking of data generated at several
Roche Laboratory Systems’perfor- different locations (in the hospital
mance in a highly competitive business laboratory,at the patient’s bedside,
environment.In immunochemistry,the etc.).Our top long-term priority is
launch of the Elecsys E-170 module, thecreation of intelligent,user-friendly
scheduled for early 2001,will con- systems and services.
tribute to sustained above-average
growth.The new module enhances the
existing system platform by combining
preanalytics,clinical chemistry and
immunodiagnostics in a single work-
station – a world-wide first.
The growth of knowledge on the
genetic basis of disease is also opening
up a range of new business opportuni-
ties for Roche Molecular Systems,
Diagnostics 35Vitamins play a crucial role in balanced
nutrition. Any number of factors,
fromphysical exertion to emotional stress,
smoking, illness or pregnancy, can
increase a person’s vitamin requirements.
Roche vitamins are added to a multitude
of food products and beverages.
Vitamins are receiving more attention today than ever before, both
fromthepublic at large and from researchers. Roche Consumer Health,
aunit of the Pharmaceuticals Division, is the leading supplier of vitamin
products, with a broad range of brands thatincludes Supradyn, Berocca,
Redoxon and Elevit.Vitamins and Fine Chemicals Division in brief
in millions of CHF change
2000 99/00
Sales1) 3,605 –3%
– Vitamins 1,791 –3%
– Carotenoids 763 +10%
– Other fine chemicals 1,051 –5%
EBITDA1) 719 –10%
Operating profit1) 494 –15%
R&D expenditures 122 –6%
Employees 7,257 –4%
1) On an adjusted basis.
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals
The Vitamins and Fine Chemicals Division recorded significant volume growth in all
major product segments in 2000. However, the divestment of the medicinal feed additives
business and continued downward pressure on prices led to a decline in the value of sales.
As a result, operating profit was down despite efficiency gains and a rigorous focus on
costs.
We again expanded our leading market position, helped by new product launches, an
uncompromising focus on the needs of key global accounts and investments in modern
manufacturing processes aimed at raising productivity further. An important milestone
was marked by the completion of new production facilities for biotin and vitamin B
2
in Grenzach (Germany) and for the formulation of vitamins and carotenoids in Sisseln
(Switzerland).These capital investments are part of a systematic effort to upgrade
all of the division’s plants to the latest technological standards, optimise manufacturing
capacity and consolidate production of key vitamins at the most suitable sites world-wide.
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals 37medicinal feed additives,sales revenues
advanced 2% in Swiss francs.The
impact of pricing pressures on margins
was only partially offset by increased
sales volumes and improvements in
operational efficiency.As a result,
operating profit and EBITDAdeclined
to 494 million and 719 million Swiss
francs respectively;these figures are
equivalent to 14% and 20% of sales.
Global demand for vitamins,carot-
enoids and citric acid remained on
theincrease in 2000.Once again
ourvolume of sales expanded signifi-
cantly faster than the market,with
double-digit growth recorded for
astaxanthin,vitamin B ,pantothenate,
2
biotin,citric acid,polyunsaturated
fatty acids and feed enzymes.We
scored particularly strong market share
gains in the highly competitive citric
acid market. Production capacity at
our citric acid plants in Tienen (Bel-
gium) and Wuxi (China) was expanded
last year as we moved to reinforce our
Thanks to our economical, high-quality products for
position as one of the world’s leading
suppliers in this segment.
the food, pharmaceutical, cosmetic and feed industries,
we are ideally equipped to continue expanding our Competitive pressures mounted as pro-
ducers continued to consolidate.By
market leadership.
contrast,the prices of several key vita-
Markus Altwegg, Head of the Vitamins and Fine Chemicals Division mins,including vitamins E,C and B 2,
stabilised in the second half of 2000,
after slipping earlier in the year.In the
case of biotin,prices even rose mod-
A good performance in a challenging estly in response to strong market
marketplace. Sales by the Vitamins demand.
and Fine Chemicals Division were down
slightly for the year,declining 3% (9% Following the sale of our medicinal
in local currencies) to 3,605 million feed additives business to Alpharma,
Swiss francs,as a result of price erosion we can now focus our resources on
and the divestment of our medicinal ourcore businesses in vitamins,
feed additives business,completed in carotenoids and other fine chemicals.
early May 2000. Excluding sales of Vitamins today account for roughly
38 Vitamins and Fine Chemicalsone-half of divisional sales.In 2000 promising growth sectors and the countries,and has already contributed
attention centred particularly on the needs of major industrial customers. appreciably to good sales growth in
roll-out of new products such as lutein, Among other things,this involved this product category.To enable us to
a carotenoid that helps maintain eye organisational changes allowing us to serve the animal nutrition industry
health,and highly standardised natural- support customers even more effec- even better in future,construction was
source vitamin E,and phytase,a feed tively in developing tailor-made prod- begun on a vitamin premix plant for
enzyme co-developed with Novozymes, ucts for their markets. pet foods in Deinze (Belgium),and a
which increases the bioavailability decision was made to build additional
of phosphorous in animal feeds,thus Pivotal role in animal nutrition. Sales feed premix facilities in Spain,Hun-
reducing the environmental impact of carotenoids to the animal nutrition gary,Korea and Vietnam.
and costs of animal production.We industry,the division’s largest market
Asia–Pacific 18% Food industry 21% Cosmetics 7%
Pharmaceuticals 20%
Sales by region Sales by customer segment
North and South America 42% Europe and Africa 40% Animal feeds 52%
also launched vitamin B manufactured
2 Total sales of the division 1996–2000 in millions of CHF
by fermentation,which we supply in
significantly improved product forms
6,000
for use in animal feeds,foods and
5,000
pharmaceuticals.
4,000
3,000
Starting in 2001,our growth strategy
2,000
will be augmented by a strategic
1,000
alliance with Novozymes aimed at
developing major new feed enzyme
1) On an adjusted basis.
products with benefits for livestock
health and the environment.In most
markets Roche will sell the products
covered by the alliance. segment,were exceptionally good.This A key supplier to the food and phar-
was due primarily to continued strong maceutical industries. Sales to the
Tailoring products to our customers’ demand for astaxanthin in the aqua- food-processing industry were also up
needs. Roche supplies a broad range of culture sector in Norway and Chile and substantially in volume terms,helped
products that contribute significantly for canthaxanthin in Canada.Biotin by the growing trend to fortify staple
to improved nutrition and health.Our sales were up,fuelled by this nutrient’s foods with vitamins.Demand for
main customers are producers of pro- important role in maintaining health functional foods was stimulated by
cessed foods,animal feeds,pharmaceu- and performance in livestock and pets. increasing consumer awareness of the
ticals and cosmetics.In 2000 there was A new phytase,Ronozyme P,was importance of certain nutrients for
an even tighter operational focus on approved for marketing in a number of health.By contrast,sales to the phar-
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals 39
923,3
308,3 036,3 727,3 506,3
| 96 | 97 | 98 | 991) | 001)maceutical industry fell slightly,largely life expectancies are altering people’s
because of weak demand in the US ideas and attitudes about nutrition,
dietary supplements sector.We have thus opening up significant market
also expanded our global network of opportunities.We have therefore
specialised premix plants serving the stepped up our search for active com-
food and pharmaceutical industries in ponents of natural products which can
order to strengthen our position as the be shown to have a beneficial effect
leading supplier of vitamins in these onhuman health.Our development
segments.A new facility was completed pipeline includes products to help
in El Salto (Mexico),and additional prevent osteoporosis,lower cholesterol,
plants supplying these industries will prevent cardiovascular disease and
be built in South Africa and China. improve cognitive function.Zeaxan-
thin,a close relative of beta-carotene,is
The volume of sales rose in the cosmet- now ready for market and will be
ics segment,thanks particularly to launched as a complement to lutein.
brisk demand for vitamins.The market Zeaxanthin helps to protect vision by
for sunscreens continues to expand as reducing the risk of age-related eye
consumers become increasingly aware disease (macular degeneration).
of the importance of protecting their
skin from ultraviolet A and ultraviolet Supplying the market with an
B light.Sales of the ultraviolet A sun- expanded range of new products for
screen Parsol 1789 were heavily disease prevention is one of the divi-
affected by the loss of patent protec- sion’s prime goals.Here our efforts
tion in Europe. willbenefit from science’s ever deeper
understanding of the role of sound
Research and development — identi- nutrition in health.Advances in this
fying and exploiting new market area are being facilitated by the use of
opportunities. Research and develop- the latest technologies in molecular
ment activities focused on optimising genetics,a field in which Roche is a
our manufacturing processes in terms leader.These technologies are finally
of quality,productivity and environ- making it possible to identify the
mental performance and on developing underlying causes of degenerative
new products for customers in every diseases and develop innovative
segment we serve. approaches for combating them.
Developing innovative product formu- Investments targeted at maintaining
lations is one of the division’s core cost leadership. Investments in prop-
competencies.New,higher-dose vita- erty,plant and equipment totalled
min A formulas,combinations of vita- 372million Swiss francs in 2000 (com-
mins A and D and new beta-carotene pared with 450 million Swiss francs
products were developed to meet our theprevious year) and were part of a
customers’needs even better. systematic effort to optimise capacity
at divisional production facilities
As the trend towards functional foods world-wide and concentrate manufac-
illustrates,lifestyle changes and longer turing at the best locations.The aim
40 Vitamins and Fine Chemicalsisto achieve substantial additional Task Force SIGHT AND LIFE
savings that will reinforce our position For years now Roche has been actively engaged in the fight against vitamin A deficiency
as the lowest-cost supplier of our key among children in the developing world. Founded in 1986, the Task Force SIGHT AND
products. LIFE provides vitamin A free of charge to nutrition intervention programmes, funds
research projects and shares technical know-how. In 2000 SIGHT AND LIFE was
An important milestone in realising involved in nearly 300 projects — large and small — in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
this strategy was the completion of new Activities included the distribution of roughly 4 million free vitamin A capsules and sup-
production facilities for biotin and port for training programmes for health workers. Together with the Vitamins and Fine
vitamin B in Grenzach (Germany), Chemicals Division, SIGHT AND LIFE also supported programmes promoting the for-
2
representing an investment over the tification of staple foods. Since its inception, the Task Force has received 42 million
last three years of roughly 200 million Swissfrancs in funding from Roche.
deutschmarks.In Dalry (Scotland) we
are expanding capacity and upgrading
our vitamin C manufacturing processes customers and new growth opportuni-
at a cost of 150 million pounds ster- ties in our established core businesses:
ling;the first phase of construction will vitamins,carotenoids and fine chemi-
be completed by spring 2001.The cals.We expect to see continued strong
start-up of new facilities for carotenoid demand for our products,particularly
and vitamin powder formulations in in the aquaculture and functional food
Sisseln (Switzerland) has established segments.Newly launched products,
this site as a divisional centre of excel- such as natural-source vitamin E,
lence for powder manufacturing tech- lutein and our new feed enzyme,will
nology.Sisseln will also be the site of a stimulate additional sales growth.
new vitamin E plant with an annual
capacity of 25,000 tonnes;the facility One-half of research and development
will be completed in three years and expenditure is allocated to maintain
cost approximately 170 million Swiss and expand our cost leadership in vita-
francs. min production over the long term.
Within the next ten years we want to
In October 2000 we opened one of the cut the costs of manufacturing our
world’s largest vitamin B factories in main products in half with the help of
6
Shanghai,in line with our strategic aim radically new production technologies.
to further expand the division’s Chi- The programmes introduced last year
nese manufacturing base.Additionally, to make our regional marketing organ-
a new citric acid plant is being built in isations more efficient will also help us
Wuxi;it will begin manufacturing for to achieve our profitability targets.
China’s domestic market and for With our competitive edge in research
export in the second quarter of 2001. and production know-how and an
expanding global presence,particularly
Solid basis for profitable growth. The in the emerging markets ofAsia and
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals Division Latin America,we are ideally equipped
has continued to strengthen its opera- to maintain our leadership in a com-
tional structures.We have streamlined petitive but attractive global market
our product portfolio and concen- with significant potential for growth.
trated our resources even more on key
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals 41Human Resources
of the medicinal feed additives busi-
ness.Verystrong sales growth and the
acquisition ofAustria-based AVL’s
medical instruments business led to
amarked increase in headcount in the
Diagnostics Division.AVL Medical
Instruments’employees were rapidly
integrated into the division,and
Our success is determined in large measure by
thepersonnel adjustments needed
toeliminate duplication were imple-
the qualifications and motivation of our employees.
mented in a socially responsible
By continuing to promote a performance-based fashion.The cost of wages,salaries
andemployee benefits totalled
culture, we intend to be the company the best people
7,583million Swiss francs.
want to work for.
New technologies and ongoing realign-
Daniel Villiger, Head of Corporate Services ments in response to changing market
needs continue to make tough de-
mands on the flexibility and dedica-
Continuing development makes tough tionof all our employees.Displaying
demands. At the end of 2000 the high levels of motivation,skill and pro-
Roche Group employed 64,758 people fessionalism,they have met the chal-
world-wide.This is 2,937 less than the lenge of rapid structural change,
1999 figure,due to the spin-off of the mastering increasingly complex tasks
Fragrances and Flavours Division in and further enhancing Roche’s per-
mid-2000 and the divestment by the formance.
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals Division
42 Human ResourcesHeadcount by division at year end itsdue.This is supported by identifying
2000 1999 change % change critical performance areas and creating
Pharmaceuticals 41,409 40,299 1,110 +3 individual development plans for all
Diagnostics 15,631 14,456 1,175 +8 employees.We reward high achievers
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals 7,257 7,551 –294 –4 with performance-based salary compo-
Fragrances and Flavours – 4,907 –4,907 –100 nents,a system which we continued
Others 461 482 –21 –4 toextend to additional management
Roche Group 64,758 67,695 –2,937 –4 levels in 2000.Roche offers a wide range
of attractive career opportunities to
Headcount by region at year end employees with development potential
Europe 32,533 33,861 –1,328 –4 and above-average commitment.
– Switzerland 8,659 9,725 –1,066 –11
North America 17,682 18,449 –767 –4 The Executive Committee has decided
Latin America 5,857 6,398 –541 –8 to continue the Group-wide workshops
Asia 6,908 7,124 –216 –3 conducted in 1999 to explain and dis-
Africa, Australia, Oceania 1,778 1,863 –85 –5 cuss Roche’s corporate principles and
Total 64,758 67,695 –2,937 –4 issues relating to behaviour in busi-
ness,with the addition of new topics.
The subjects to be covered in the next
Continual expansion of leadership Europe-wide programme designed to phase are the protection of personal
skills, professional abilities and promote international experience shar- data,the use of Roche electronic com-
social competence. In 2000 we ing and transfer of know-how.The munication tools,and business
stepped up our efforts to provide our Vitamins and Fine Chemicals Division integrity.The programme is designed
employees with first-rate opportunities has revamped its management develop- to impart rules for behaviour in busi-
for personal and professional develop- ment and succession planning,with the ness that will enable Roche employees
ment.This is done primarily by offer- main focus on preparing successors for to perform their tasks in a way that is
ing challenging management positions key posts. exemplary in every respect.We firmly
at local and international levels,many believe that business practices based
of them involving complex project September 2000 saw the ground-break- not only on ethical and social but also
management tasks.Roche encourages ing ceremony for Roche’s new interna- environmental responsibility (see
continuous assessment of the training tional training and conference centre Safety and Environmental Protection,
and development needs of middle and for senior managers,Roche Forum p.44) are the cornerstone of commer-
senior managers to prepare them for Buonas,which is being established on cial success.
such posts.In 1999 Roche initiated a the scenic Buonas Peninsula,Lake Zug,
Group-wide programme with an indi- Switzerland.The new complex will
vidual focus to develop leadership incorporate a conference area,meeting
skills in collaboration with London rooms,a restaurant and an accommo-
Business School.Several hundred dation wing.If the ambitious timetable
senior managers from Roche affiliates is met,we expect the centre to be oper-
world-wide will take part in this two- ational early in 2002.
part programme,which will run until
2002.A similar programme will now be Commitment to performance culture
implemented extensively in the Phar- and ethical business practices.
maceuticals Division.In autumn 2000 Roche’s management culture is per-
the Diagnostics Division started a formance-based – we give excellence
Human Resources 43Safety and
Environmental Protection
pation in the chemical industry’s world-
wide Responsible Care programme
andother initiatives.We are taking the
initiative with efficient solutions that
are helping to improve community
acceptance at all Roche production
locations.In doing so,we are conscious
of the dynamic interdependence of
The safety of our products and processes and the
economic,environmental and social
issues.
protection of our employees and the environment from
unwanted effects of our activities are essential to Given the nature of our manufacturing
activities,our principal aim is to pro-
Roche’s long-term success.
mote eco-efficiency by continually
Hans Künzi, Head of Corporate Safety and Environmental Protection improving our existing production
processes or replacing them with fun-
damentally new ones.Accordingly,
Sustainable development. As an inno- integrated safety and environmental
vative,globally active healthcare group, protection controls accounted for a
Roche is committed to putting the substantial part of Roche’s total S&E
principle of sustainable development expenditure in 2000.
into practice responsibly and appro-
priately.We intend to maintain our Accidents and incidents. In 2000
already high health,safety and envi- Roche again remained free of major
ronmental protection (S&E) standards incidents.Unfortunately,however,we
and continually improve performance have to report that a serious accident at
in these areas,as shown by our partici- one of our plants in China claimed the
44 Safety and Environmental Protectionlife of a young employee,the first fatal- Safety and environmental protection expenditure in millions of CHF
ity at a Group facility in many years.It 2000 1999
was caused by human error,a factor Investment 165 154
that even the most sophisticated safety Operating costs 368 379
measures can never completely offset. Total expenditure 533 533
There were two incidents involving
fires,one at our factory in Morocco, coal-fired power plant in China. organisations and other bodies
the other at one of our French produc- Another significant reduction was (including the OECD,ILO and CEFIC)
tion facilities,which resulted in prop- achieved in emissions of volatile working to improve the safe manage-
erty damage only. organic compounds (VOCs),though ment of chemicals.We are particularly
emission levels did vary from site active in programmes that focus on
Overall,the number of occupational tosite owing to varying production high production volume chemicals.In
accidents remained at the previous volumes.Our contributions to envi- the past two years the chemical indus-
year’s low level,an achievement to ronmental protection also received try has launched a number of interna-
which training,continuing education public recognition.Implementation tional initiatives to speed up these
and rigorous S&E audits throughout of a new,eco-efficient synthesis of the activities and improve our knowledge
the Group certainly made an important antiviral agent ganciclovir enabled a of chemicals used world-wide in large
contribution.40 S&E audits conducted 90% reduction in waste,for which our quantities.In addition,Roche is a
at Roche facilities in 20 countries again facility in Boulder (Colorado) received major contributor to the global chemi-
confirmed the Group’s uniformly the Presidential Green Chemistry cal industry’s Long-range Research Ini-
highhealth,safety and environmental Challenge 2000 Award.In Mexico our tiative,which aims to increase our
standards.This positive trend was again facility in Cuernavaca received the understanding of the ways in which
reflected in awards to Roche facilities: Clean Industry Award. chemicals interact with the human
our factory in Clarecastle (Ireland) body and the environment.
received awards from the National Irish The total volume of chemical waste
Safety Organisation and the Depart- declined far more steeply than produc-
ment of Enterprise,Trade and Employ- tion volume.Successful implementa-
ment for logging one million man- tion of our policy of eliminating sub-
hours without lost worktime due to stances that contribute to depletion of
accidents,and our plant in Florence the ozone layer and replacing them
(North Carolina) was similarly hon- with alternative solutions continued.
oured by the US Occupational Safety Roche took an important step towards
and Health Administration. the goal of sustainable development
with the introduction of a fermenta-
Successful environmental protection tion process for vitamin B production.
2
measures. The good environmental Thanks to the new process,consump-
protection record of previous years was tion of non-renewable raw materials is
maintained overall,although problems reduced by 80%,VOC emissions by
with atmospheric emissions led to an 50% and emissions to water by 66%.
investigation by the authorities at one Moreover,the resulting waste is com-
Group company.Energy consumption postable,allowing natural recycling.
declined slightly,in step with a modest
drop in production volume.By con- Commitment to sound environmental
trast,CO emissions increased for the policy. For many years Roche has con-
2
year,following the acquisition of a tributed its expertise to international
Safety and Environmental Protection 45Finance
In 2000 Roche achieved a record net income of CHF 8.6 billion, an increase
of 50% over 1999. As in the previous year the operating result was enhanced
through placing Genentech shares in the market which contributed CHF 3.9 bil-
lion to Group operating profit and CHF 2.5 billion to Group net income. In
addition, finance and treasury operations contributed a strong net financial
income of CHF 2.3 billion including gains from the sale of LabCorp shares. On
an adjusted basis, excluding the effects from these items, changes in accounting
policies and the Fragrances and Flavours business spun off in June 2000, Group
net income increased 14% over 1999. As a result of the strong cash flow Roche
has – three years after the Corange acquisition – become a net creditor again
with a net liquidity position of CHF 3.2 billion. The ratio of equity and minor-
ity interests to total assets improved from 43% to 46%.
46 FinanceFinancial Review
Highlights in millions of CHF
Figures reported Figures reported
in the financial statements on an adjusted basis
2000 1999 % change 2000 1999 % change
Sales 28,672 27,567 +4 27,543 25,496 +8
EBITDA 11,126 8,874 +25 7,068 6,647 +6
Operating profit 7,131 6,421 +11 4,301 4,094 +5
Net income 8,647 5,764 +50 5,014 4,401 +14
Record results
In 2000 the Roche Group achieved record results. Consolidated sales reached 28.7 billion Swiss
francs, an increase of 4% over the previous year, EBITDA increased by 25% to 11.1 billion Swiss
francs, operating profit reached 7.1 billion Swiss francs, a rise of 11% compared to 1999, and net
income rose by 50% to 8.6 billion Swiss francs. These results were driven by higher operating and
financial income and substantial gains on the sale of Genentech and LabCorp shares.
On an adjusted basis, the results of the Roche Group also reflect a strong performance. Group
sales rose by 8% to 27.5 billion Swiss francs, EBITDA increased by 6% to 7.1 billion Swiss francs,
operating profit by 5% to 4.3 billion Swiss francs and net income by 14% to 5.0 billion Swiss
francs. The adjusted figures are presented to improve the comparability of current and future
results and are given for both 2000 and 1999. They are shown on a continuing basis, without the
Fragrances and Flavours business, and adjust for the accounting effects of various special items
and changes in International Accounting Standards. A description of the adjustments is given on
page 50.
In 2000 Roche again recorded record profits, as net
income rose 50% over the previous year to 8.6 billion
Swiss francs.
Henri B. Meier, Chief Financial Officer until 31 December 2000
Double-digit sales growth in Diagnostics; sales growth in Pharmaceuticals reduced due to patent
expiry and generic competition
The reported Group sales growth of 4% was influenced by the spin-off of Givaudan in June 2000.
On an adjusted basis, i.e. excluding the sales of Fragrances and Flavours, the Roche Group
achieved a growth rate of 8% in Swiss francs or 2% in local currencies. Furthermore, the sale
ofthe Medicinal Feed Additives (MFA) products in May 2000 influenced the top-line results.
Excluding MFA and Fragrances and Flavours, the Group posted a sales growth of 9% in Swiss
francs and 3% in local currencies.
Financial Review 47With growth rates of 18% in Swiss francs and 12% in local currencies, sales of the Diagnostics
Division once again outpaced the market. Sales in Patient Care, Molecular Systems and Molecular
Biochemicals all grew at double-digit rates in local currencies. Pharma sales rose 7% in Swiss
francs and 1% in local currencies. The good performance of certain established and new products
such as Mabthera/Rituxan, Herceptin, NeoRecormon, Cellcept and Roaccutan/Accutane was
partially offset by generic competition for Versed and Ticlid in the United States after patents had
expired. After a strong start sales of Xenical levelled off in 2000. Sales by the Vitamins and
FineChemicals Division increased by 2% in Swiss francs, but declined by 4% in local currencies,
excluding the MFA products. Sales volumes continued to grow strongly while price levels after
a7-year decline on average have now stabilised.
Further increase of EBITDA and operating profit
Group EBITDA increased by 25% to 11.1 billion Swiss francs and the operating profit increased by
11% to 7.1 billion Swiss francs. The main drivers for this strong result are a 4% increase in gross
profit, another substantial gain on the sale of Genentech shares and the absence of further
unprovided expenses for settling the vitamin case. The gross profit margin remained stable. Mar-
keting and distribution costs grew faster than sales to exploit the market potential of established
and new products. Net other operating income reflected gains from the continuing realignment of
the product portfolio. On an adjusted basis, i.e. excluding special items, changes in accounting
policies and the Fragrances and Flavours business, EBITDA rose by 6% to 7.1 billion Swiss francs
and operating profit by 5% to 4.3 billion Swiss francs.
Roche has by far the highest amortisation charge of the large pharmaceutical companies as a
result of its acquisitions (instead of mergers) and the use of International Accounting Standards.
In 2000, the amortisation charge was 1.5 billion Swiss francs or 5% of sales compared to 0–2% of
sales for our main competitors.
The EBITDA margins for Diagnostics and Pharmaceuticals remained practically unchanged, while
the Vitamins EBITDA margin declined slightly as a result of lower average prices.
Givaudan spin-off completed
On 8 June 2000 the Fragrances and Flavours Division was listed on the Swiss Exchange as an
independent company under the name Givaudan. The shares in Givaudan were distributed as a
special dividend to all holders of Roche shares and non-voting equity securities on a one-for-
onebasis. The annual impact of the spin-off on the results of the Roche Group, as shown in the
adjusted figures, is a reduction of sales by 8%, operating profit by 6% and net income by 3%.
Acquisition of Kytril to strengthen Roche’s oncology portfolio
In December 2000 Roche acquired the global rights to Kytril for 1.1 billion US dollars from
SmithKline Beecham in connection with its merger with Glaxo Wellcome. In 1999 Kytril achieved
net sales of 550 million Swiss francs. Roche also sold to SmithKline Beecham the exclusive
rightsto Coreg in the United States and Canada for 400 million US dollars.
Substantial gain on sale of Genentech shares
On 29 March 2000 the Group sold 17.3 million shares of Genentech through a public offering
yielding proceeds of 2.8 billion US dollars. The resulting pre-tax gain after incidental costs
was3.9 billion Swiss francs. Roche now holds 58% of Genentech, which corresponds approximately
to the majority holding acquired in 1990.
48 Financial ReviewMajor steps in settling vitamin case in the United States
During 2000 Roche completed two major steps for settling the vitamin case in the United States.
On 28March 2000 a US federal judge approved the overall settlement agreement to a class
action suit brought by the US buyers of bulk vitamins. Several customers in the class action have
decided to opt out of the overall settlement and pursue claims against the Group individually.
On 10 October 2000 an overall agreement with indirect customers and end-consumers in the
United States was announced. Outside the United States, the European Commission issued
aStatement of Objections in July 2000 against 13 producers of bulk vitamins, including Roche.
The global provisions recorded in 1999 remain the current best estimate of the total liability.
Another strong financial result
Total financial income reached 2.3 billion Swiss francs in 2000. This strong positive result is
primarily driven by net gains on sales of marketable securities including shares of LabCorp. In
June 2000 LabCorp called for redemption its entire convertible preferred stock, part of which was
held by Roche as a portfolio investment. During the conversion process Roche realised a pre-tax
gain of 296 million Swiss francs. In October 2000 Roche reduced its holding in LabCorp to 33%,
realising a pre-tax gain of 660 million Swiss francs. The gain on the October sale is excluded from
the adjusted results.
With our capacity to generate a high cash flow and
our very solid financing we are highly flexible and well
equipped for the future.
Anton Affentranger, Chief Financial Officer since 1 January 2001
Financial condition strengthened further
In 2000, the Group achieved an impressive cash flow. The gross cash flow of the Group (EBITDA)
increased by 25% to 11.1 billion Swiss francs reflecting the improvements in the operating result
including the gain from the sale of Genentech shares. Furthermore, the improvement of the work-
ing capital turnover and the financial income contributed substantially. Net liquidity was strength-
ened by 6.1 billion Swiss francs in total during the year. At 31 December 2000 the net liquidity
amounted to 3.2 billion Swiss francs (compared to net debt of 2.9 billion Swiss francs at
31December 1999). The ratio of equity and minority interests to total assets increased from 43%
atyear-end 1999 to 46% at the end of 2000.
Offsetting impacts of new and revised International Accounting Standards
Several new and revised standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Committee
became effective from 1 January 2000. The effects of the changes in accounting policies
regarding business combinations and intangible assets amount to 1.4 billion Swiss francs, which
was largely offset by the impact from the new standard on impairment of assets of 1.2 billion
Swiss francs. The accounting effects of all major acquisitions since 1990 are now reported in
aconsistent manner.
Financial Review 49Consolidated income statements in millions of CHF
Figures reported Figures reported
in the financial statements on an adjusted basis
2000 1999 % change 2000 1999 % change
Sales 28,672 27,567 +4 27,543 25,496 +8
Cost of sales (9,163) (8,874) +3 (8,445) (7,813) +8
Gross profit 19,509 18,693 +4 19,098 17,683 +8
Marketing and distribution (8,746) (7,813) +12 (8,507) (7,377) +15
Research and development (3,950) (3,782) +4 (3,919) (3,732) +5
Administration (1,242) (1,174) +6 (1,201) (1,103) +9
Amortisation of intangible assets (1,474) (1,207) +22 (1,439) (1,371) +5
Impairment of long-term assets (1,147) – – 14 – –
Other operating income (expense),
net 232 14 +1,557 255 (6) –
Gain from sales of
Genentech shares 3,949 4,461 –11 – – –
Vitamin case – (2,426) –100 – – –
Genentech legal settlements – (345) –100 – – –
Operating profit 7,131 6,421 +11 4,301 4,094 +5
Financial income (expense), net 2,337 1,134 +106 1,723 1,242 +39
Profit before taxes 9,468 7,555 +25 6,024 5,336 +13
Income taxes (2,272) (1,902) +19 (1,026) (992) +3
Profit after taxes 7,196 5,653 +27 4,998 4,344 +15
Changes in accounting policies 1,395 27 +5,067 – – –
Income applicable to minority
interests 33 88 –63 (7) 61 –
Share of result of associated
companies 23 (4) – 23 (4) –
Net income 8,647 5,764 +50 5,014 4,401 +14
Diluted earnings per share and
non-voting equity security (CHF) 1,024 668 596 510
Adjusted results:The consolidated results for 2000 and 1999 are significantly influenced by various special items and
also by changes in International Accounting Standards. To improve the comparability of current and future consolidated
results adjusted figures are calculated for both years. They are used in the internal management of the business and are
helpful when reviewing the trends in the Group’s results.
• The adjusted results are shown on a continuing basis. The results of the Fragrances and Flavours Division are excluded
as if the Givaudan spin-off had already taken place on 1 January 1999. Sales by the Vitamins and Fine Chemicals
Division to the Fragrances and Flavours Division are reclassified as sales to third parties.
• The adjusted results also exclude the gains on the sales of Genentech shares, the gain on the sale of LabCorp shares
inOctober 2000, the costs of the vitamin case and Genentech legal settlements.
• The 1999 adjusted results show the recurring accounting effects of the new and revised International Accounting
Standards that became effective on 1 January 2000, and of the acquisition of the remaining outstanding shares in
Genentech in 2000 as if they had already taken place at the beginning of 1999.
• The adjusted figures exclude the charges recorded in the second half of 1999 and in 2000 relating to the fair-value
adjustments of inventories associated with the Genentech acquisition.
• The above adjustments have also led to corresponding modifications to income taxes and to income applicable
tominority interests. The minority interest figure for 1999 is calculated as if the participation in Genentech as at
31December 1999 had applied throughout the whole of 1999.
An analysis of the adjustments is given on page 95, and explanations of the adjusting items are given in Notes 1, 3, 5, 6
and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
50 Financial ReviewSales on an adjusted basis in millions of CHF
% change
% change (local
By division 2000 1999 (CHF) currencies)
Pharmaceuticals 17,686 16,487 +7 +1
Diagnostics 6,252 5,282 +18 +12
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals 3,605 3,727 –3 –9
Total sales 27,543 25,496 +8 +2
Gross profit
In 2000 gross profit increased by 816 million Swiss francs to 19.5 billion Swiss francs. The gross
profit margin remained at 68%. On an adjusted basis, i.e. excluding primarily Fragrances and
Flavours, gross profit reached 19.1 billion Swiss francs, an increase of 1.4 billion Swiss francs.
Onthis basis, the gross profit margin also remained stable at 69%. The gross profit margin was
improved by a favourable change in the division mix with a higher share of high-margin busi-
nesses and further productivity improvements in all divisions. However, this was offset by contin-
ued pressure on prices, in particular for Vitamins and Fine Chemicals, anda new generation
ofproducts in Diagnostics with increased production and service costs.
Marketing and distribution
Marketing and distribution expenses increased by 933 million Swiss francs or 12% to 8.7 billion
Swiss francs. On an adjusted basis, i.e. excluding Fragrances and Flavours, marketing and distri-
bution expenses rose by 1.1 billion Swiss francs or 15% to 8.5 billion Swiss francs. The major
factors involved were the increased efforts in Pharmaceuticals to build the market for Xenical and
Tamiflu, the increased support for the new oncology products and pre-marketing expenses for
upcoming product launches. Other factors were the increased marketing spend by Diagnostics to
foster its leading position in the industry and to build new markets.
Research and development
The 4% rise in research and development costs was almost exclusively attributable to Genen-
tech’s in-license and collaboration agreements and increased spending on later-stage clinical
trials. Excluding Genentech, research and development costs remained at the level of 1999.
Research and development costs as a percentage of sales on Group level were stable at 14%. For
Pharmaceuticals, which account for more than 80% of the Group’s research and development
expenses, they remained at 18%.
Administration
Administration costs grew by 6%, and by 9% on an adjusted basis, i.e. excluding Fragrances and
Flavours. This increase was slightly greater than the growth in sales mainly as a result of
increased legal costs due to competitive conditions and governmental inquiries more than offset-
ting savings from improved processes.
Amortisation of intangible assets
The significant increase of amortisation expenses was primarily driven by a half-year amortisation
of intangible assets and goodwill resulting from the acquisition of the remaining outstanding
Genentech shares in June 1999. On an adjusted basis, the increase in amortisation of intangible
assets was primarily due to foreign currency effects.
Impairment of long-term assets
The adoption of new International Accounting Standards resulted in impairment charges of
1.2billion Swiss francs relating to intangible assets acquired prior to 2000. Further impairment
entries during 2000 resulted in a net impairment credit of 14 million Swiss francs as shown in
theadjusted results.
Financial Review 51Other operating income (expense), net
Other operating income (expense), net increased by more than 0.2 billion Swiss francs mainly due
to higher gains from ongoing realignments of the product portfolio and higher royalty income
despite increased royalty and restructuring expenses.
Operating profit
Operating profit rose by 11% to 7.1 billion Swiss francs primarily driven by a 4% increase in gross
profit, the 3.9 billion Swiss francs gain on the sale of Genentech shares and no further unpro-
vided expenses for the vitamin case. Operating profit on an adjusted basis increased from 4.1 to
4.3 billion Swiss francs in 2000. The margin on sales on an adjusted basis declined from 16.1%
in1999 to 15.6%.
Divisional results on an adjusted basisin millions of CHF
Vitamins
Pharma- and Fine
ceuticals Diagnostics Chemicals Other Group
Year ended 31 December 2000
Divisional sales to third parties 17,686 6,252 3,605 – 27,543
EBITDA 4,970 1,639 719 (260) 7,068
– as % of sales 28 26 20 – 26
Operating profit 3,249 822 494 (264) 4,301
– as % of sales 18 13 14 – 16
Year ended 31 December 1999
Divisional sales to third parties 16,487 5,282 3,727 – 25,496
EBITDA 4,656 1,380 799 (188) 6,647
– as % of sales 28 26 21 – 26
Operating profit 3,069 633 584 (192) 4,094
– as % of sales 19 12 16 – 16
EBITDA (Earnings before interest and other financial income, tax, depreciation and amortisation
including impairment) measures the gross cash generation of the divisions. The divisional
operating profit margins furthermore reflect the different fixed asset intensities of the businesses
and the acquisition history.
The EBITDA margin of the Pharmaceuticals Division remained at 28%. The higher marketing
costsfor Xenical, Tamiflu and the new oncology products and the pre-marketing expenses for
upcoming product launches were offset by higher sales with an improved gross profit margin
andby gains from the continuing realignment of the product portfolio.
The Diagnostics Division maintained its EBITDA margin at 26%. The higher marketing efforts led
to correspondingly higher sales. The operating profit margin increased by 1 percentage point.
The strong long-term competitive pressure in the Vitamins and Fine Chemicals business con-
tinued. However, the division was able to offset the sales price decline to some extent by
furtherproductivity improvements and volume increases. EBITDA decreased by one percentage
point to 20%.
The result of ‘Other’ consists of the costs of Corporate Headquarters. In 2000 they increased
substantially due to restructuring costs relating to the Basel Institute for Immunology and the vol-
untary solidarity contribution to the Holocaust Victim Assets Litigation (Swiss Banks Litigation).
52 Financial ReviewFinancial income (expense), net
Total financial income (expense), net showed a substantial increase of over 100% to 2.3 billion
Swiss francs. Key factors were profits achieved on the marketable securities portfolio, despite
weak stock markets, together with the gain on the sale of LabCorp shares, which reduced the
Group’s participation to 33%, and the gain on the portfolio investment in LabCorp convertibles.
With higher net liquidity available than in 1999, interest income increased substantially. This
increase largely compensated the rise in interest expenses resulting from additional debt and
from increases in the discounted value of provisions. The net result on foreign exchange
transactions also improved compared to the previous year. Even after exclusion of the gain on
theOctober saleof LabCorp shares, total financial income (expense), net rose by 39%.
An analysis of its components is given in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Net income
Net income rose by 50% to 8.6 billion Swiss francs in 2000. This represents a return on sales of
30%. On an adjusted basis, the increase amounted to 14%.
Balance sheet in millions of CHF
2000 1999 % change
Long-term assets 34,798 35,800 –3
Current assets 34,737 34,631 –
Total assets 69,535 70,431 –1
Equity 27,608 26,954 +2
Minority interests 4,428 3,047 +45
Non-current liabilities 23,642 25,574 –8
Current liabilities 13,857 14,856 –7
Total equity, minority interests and liabilities 69,535 70,431 –1
One of the most notable factors in the development of the Group’s balance sheet during the year
was the spin-off of Givaudan, excluding assets of 3.9 billion Swiss francs and liabilities of 1.2 bil-
lion Swiss francs from the Roche Group’s balance sheet. A further significant development was
the acquisition of the global rights to Kytril for 1.1 billion US dollars, which added to intangible
assets. There was also a change in accounting policy under which the Group reclassified as a
reduction from equity 4.2 billion Swiss francs of own equity instruments, which in previous years
were reported as marketable securities.
The record earnings, fed by the Genentech and LabCorp share sales and the strong results of
on-going activities, were largely responsible for turning the net debt position of 2.9 billion Swiss
francs at the start of the year into a net liquidity position of 3.2 billion Swiss francs by its end.
They also helped raise the Group’s ratio of equity and minority interests to total assets from 43%
to 46% over the same period.
The ‘Knock Out’ bonds were repaid at maturity, and some of the ‘Helveticus’ convertible bonds
were also exercised. The consequent reduction in the Group’s borrowings was nevertheless more
than offset by the issue of the ‘Sumo’ and ‘LYONs’ bonds.
The implementation of new and revised International Accounting Standards on intangible assets
and business combinations at 1 January 2000 resulted in an increase of 1.4 billion Swiss francs in
intangible assets. However, a reduction in intangible assets of a similar magnitude arose follow-
ing the implementation of the new Standard on impairment of assets at the same date, so that the
net effect on the balance sheet was minor. The changes are purely of an accounting nature and
have no impact on the Group’s cash flows.
Financial Review 53Cash flows in millions of CHF
2000 1999
Operating activities before income taxes 6,204 2,557
Income taxes paid (all activities) (2,288) (830)
Operating activities 3,916 1,727
Financing activities (2,538) (895)
Investing activities (832) (867)
Net effect of currency translation on cash (36) 103
Increase (decrease) in cash 510 68
Cash flows from operating activities (before income taxes) increased by 3.6 billion Swiss francs
due to the improved operating result, better working capital performance and reduced outflows in
respect of the vitamin case and restructuring. Income taxes paid in 2000 were considerably
higher, mainly due to the Genentech and LabCorp share sales. Financing activities cash flows
benefited from the 4.1 billion Swiss francs proceeds from the issue of the ‘Sumo’ and ‘LYONs IV’
bonds which exceeded the outflows on the‘Knock Out’ and ‘Helveticus’ bonds. Meanwhile, the
5.7 billion Swiss francs proceeds from the Genentech and LabCorp transactions were partly used
in the Kytril acquisition (1.9 billion Swiss francs) and in additions to property, plant and equip-
ment (2.2 billion Swiss francs). The remainder was reinvested in net purchases of marketable
securities, to give a net cash outflow from investing activities of 0.8 billion Swiss francs.
Foreign exchange rates
Exchange rates against the Swiss franc were:
31 December Average 31 December Average 31 December
2000 2000 1999 1999 1998
1 USD 1.64 1.69 1.60 1.50 1.37
1 EUR 1.52 1.56 1.61 1.60 1.60
1 GBP 2.45 2.56 2.58 2.43 2.29
100 JPY 1.43 1.57 1.57 1.33 1.18
Compared to 1999 the US dollar was on average 13% stronger against the Swiss franc, while
theeuro was around 3% weaker. The net effect of these differing exchange rate patterns on the
Group’s sales was a positive 6 percentage points.
The US dollar’s 3% strengthening against the Swiss franc on a year-end basis contrasted with
theweakening of the euro (–6%) and the Japanese yen (–9%). The divergence in trends tended to
mitigate effects on the Group’s balance sheet.
54 Financial ReviewCHF/USD exchange rate
2000 1999
1.85
1.80
1.75
1.70
1.63 1.64 1.65
1.60
1.60
1.55
1.50
1.45
1.40
1.35
1.30
J F M A M J J A S O N D
Introduction of the euro
The introduction of the euro has presented various opportunities to streamline the conduct of
the business. With regard to systems, the business processes and IT systems of European Group
companies have been adapted to handle euro-denominated transactions. The companies con-
cerned are able to deal with dual-currency transactions in the transition period to 2002, and
those located in EMU countries will be converting to the euro for accounting purposes during
the course of 2001.
Financial Review 55Consolidated Financial Statements
Reference numbers indicate corresponding Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated income statement in millions of CHF
Year ended 31 December
2000 1999
Sales4 28,672 27,567
Cost of sales (9,163) (8,874)
Gross profit 19,509 18,693
Marketing and distribution (8,746) (7,813)
Research and development4 (3,950) (3,782)
Administration (1,242) (1,174)
Amortisation of intangible assets13 (1,474) (1,207)
Impairment of long-term assets1, 13 (1,147) –
Other operating income (expense), net9 232 14
Gain from sales of Genentech shares3 3,949 4,461
Vitamin case5 – (2,426)
Genentech legal settlements6 – (345)
Operating profit 7,131 6,421
Financial income (expense), net10 2,337 1,134
Profit before taxes 9,468 7,555
Income taxes11 (2,272) (1,902)
Profit after taxes 7,196 5,653
Changes in accounting policies1 1,395 27
Income applicable to minority interests23 33 88
Share of result of associated companies14 23 (4)
Net income 8,647 5,764
Basic earnings per share and non-voting equity security (CHF)22 1,036 668
Diluted earnings per share and non-voting equity security (CHF)22 1,024 668
56 Consolidated Financial StatementsConsolidated balance sheet in millions of CHF
31 December
2000 1999
Long-term assets
Property, plant and equipment12 13,785 14,240
Intangible assets13 15,870 15,672
Investments in associated companies14 652 535
Other investments 1,558 1,736
Deferred income tax assets11 460 1,170
Other long-term assets15 2,473 2,447
Total long-term assets 34,798 35,800
Current assets
Inventories16 5,754 6,546
Accounts receivable – trade17 5,519 6,178
Current income tax assets11 435 408
Other current assets18 2,381 2,633
Marketable securities19 18,086 16,814
Cash19 2,562 2,052
Total current assets 34,737 34,631
Total assets 69,535 70,431
Equity
Share capital21 160 160
Non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine)21 p.m. p.m.
Own equity instruments21 (4,166)
Retained earnings 31,839 26,669
Other reserves (225) 125
Total equity 27,608 26,954
Minority interests23 4,428 3,047
Non-current liabilities
Long-term debt24 16,167 15,962
Deferred income tax liabilities11 2,535 3,895
Liabilities for post-employment benefits8 2,502 2,764
Provisions26 2,036 1,694
Other non-current liabilities 402 1,259
Total non-current liabilities 23,642 25,574
Current liabilities
Short-term debt24 5,451 5,702
Current income tax liabilities11 882 728
Provisions26 1,959 2,660
Accounts payable – trade and other 2,215 2,378
Accrued and other current liabilities20 3,350 3,388
Total current liabilities 13,857 14,856
Total equity, minority interests and liabilities 69,535 70,431
p.m. = pro memoria. Non-voting equity securities have no nominal value (see Note 21).
Consolidated Financial Statements 57Consolidated statement of changes in equity in millions of CHF
Year ended 31 December
2000 1999
Share capital21
Balance at 1 January and at 31 December 160 160
Non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine)21
Balance at 1 January and at 31 December p.m. p.m.
Own equity instruments21
Balance at 1 January as previously reported –
Adjustment from change in accounting policies (3,291)
Balance at 1 January as restated (3,291)
Movements during the year (875)
Balance at 31 December (4,166)
Retained earnings
Balance at 1 January 26,669 21,655
Net income 8,647 5,764
Dividends paid21 (835) (750)
Givaudan spin-off – special dividend and transfer of net assets7, 21 (2,642) –
Balance at 31 December 31,839 26,669
Other reserves
– Equity conversion options
Conversion option embedded in ‘Sumo’ bonds24 24 –
– Currency translation differences
Balance at 1 January 125 (149)
Gains (losses) recognised during the year (374) 274
Balance at 31 December (249) 125
Balance other reserves at 31 December (225) 125
Total equity at 31 December 27,608 26,954
p.m. = pro memoria. Non-voting equity securities have no nominal value (see Note 21).
58 Consolidated Financial StatementsConsolidated cash flow statement in millions of CHF
Year ended 31 December
2000 1999
Cash flows from operating activities
Net income 8,647 5,764
Non-operating income and expenses* (1,516) 657
Operating profit 7,131 6,421
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment12 1,374 1,246
Amortisation of intangible assets13 1,474 1,207
Impairment of long-term assets1, 13 1,147 –
Effects of Genentech transactions, vitamin case
and Genentech legalsettlements28 (3,791) (1,550)
Other adjustments for non-cash operating income and expense28 (90) 619
(Increase) decrease in working capital 367 (2,618)
Costs of vitamin case paid5 41 (1,282)
Costs of Genentech legal settlements paid6 (337) (75)
Restructuring costs paid26 (338) (910)
Payments made for defined benefit post-employment plans8 (309) (290)
Other operating cash flows (465) (211)
Cash flows from operating activities, before income taxes paid 6,204 2,557
Income taxes paid (2,288) (830)
Total cash flows from operating activities 3,916 1,727
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of long-term debt28 4,143 4,175
Repayment of long-term debt28 (3,062) (3,689)
Transactions in own equity instruments21 (875)
Increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings (747) 70
Interest and dividends paid28 (1,737) (1,436)
Givaudan spin-off – special dividend and Givaudan cash balances7, 21 (465) –
Other 205 (15)
Total cash flows from (used in) financing activities (2,538) (895)
Cash provided by operating and financing activities 1,378 832
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets12, 13 (2,402) (2,413)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets12, 13 200 376
Acquisition of subsidiaries, associated companies and products28 (2,686) (6,222)
Divestments of subsidiaries, associated companies and products28 6,809 7,353
Interest and dividends received28 743 459
Purchases of marketable securities, net of sales, and other (3,496) (420)
Total cash flows from (used in) investing activities (832) (867)
Net effect of currency translation on cash (36) 103
Increase (decrease) in cash 510 68
Cash at beginning of year 2,052 1,984
Cash at end of year19 2,562 2,052
*Non-operating income and expenses consist of the following income statement items: financial income (expense), net,
income taxes, changes in accounting policies, income applicable to minority interests, and share of result of associated
companies.
Consolidated Financial Statements 59Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements
Reference numbers indicate corresponding Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation of the consolidated financial statements
The consolidated financial statements of the Roche Group have been prepared in accordance
with International Accounting Standards, using the historical cost convention. They were
authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2001.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities,
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements. If in the future such
estimates and assumptions, which are based on management’s best judgement at the date of the
financial statements, deviate from the actual circumstances, the original estimates and assump-
tions will be modified as appropriate in the year in which the circumstances change.
Consolidation policy
These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of Roche Holding Ltd,
acompany registered in Switzerland, and its subsidiaries (hereafter ‘the Group’).
The subsidiaries are those companies controlled, directly or indirectly, by Roche Holding Ltd,
where control is defined as the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an enter-
prise so as to obtain benefits from its activities. This control is normally evidenced when Roche
Holding Ltd owns, either directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting rights of a company’s
share capital. Companies acquired during the year are consolidated from the date on which
operating control is transferred to the Group, and subsidiaries to be divested are included up to
the date of divestment. Companies acquired to be resold are not consolidated but are classified
as assets held for sale and carried at cost. Assets identified for divestment in the following year
are reclassified as assets held for sale within other current assets. These assets normally consist
mainly of inventories, property, plant and equipment, and other long-term assets.
Investments in associated companies are accounted for by the equity method. These are com-
panies over which the Group exercises significant influence, but which it does not control. This
isnormally evidenced when the Group owns 20% or more of the voting rights of the company.
Interests in joint ventures are reported using the line-by-line proportionate consolidation method.
Other investments are carried at cost after deducting appropriate provisions for permanent
impairment and are included in long-term assets.
60 Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsForeign currency valuation
Assets and liabilities of Group companies reporting in currencies other than Swiss francs
(foreignentities) are translated into Swiss francs using year-end rates of exchange. Sales,
costs,expenses, net income and cash flows are translated at the average rates of exchange for
the year. Translation differences due to the changes in exchange rates between the beginning
and the end of the year and the difference between net income translated at the average and
year-end exchange rates are taken directly to equity. Exchange gains and losses on hedges of
non-Swiss franc net investments and on intercompany balances of a long-term investment nature
are also taken to equity. On the divestment of a foreign entity, the cumulative currency translation
differences relating to that foreign entity are recognised in income as part of the gain or loss
ondivestment.
Gains and losses on exchange arising in Group companies from the translation into their local
reporting currency of their financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and
from the settlement of foreign currency transactions are included in income.
Certain Group companies maintain financial information for Group reporting purposes in
US dollars, Swiss francs or euros where these are the functional currencies of the companies
concerned. The effect of exchange rate differences between the local currency and the
USdollar,Swiss franc or euro in respect of financial assets and liabilities is included in income.
Sales and cost of sales
Sales represent amounts received and receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to
customers after deducting volume discounts and sales taxes. Cost of sales includes the cor-
responding direct production costs and related production overhead of goods manufactured and
services rendered.
Research and development
Research costs are charged against income as incurred, with the exception of buildings and
major items of equipment, which are capitalised and depreciated. Development costs are also
charged against income as incurred since the criteria for their recognition as an asset are
notmet.
Employee benefits
Wages, salaries, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, options
and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered
by employees of the Group. Where the Group provides long-term employee benefits, the cost is
accrued to match the rendering of the services by the employees concerned.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution plans throughout the
world. The cost for the year for defined benefit plans is determined using the projected unit credit
method. This reflects service rendered by employees to the dates of valuation and incorporates
actuarial assumptions primarily regarding discount rates used in determining the present value of
benefits, projected rates of remuneration growth, and long-term expected rates of return for
planassets. Discount rates are based on the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds in the
country concerned. Differences between assumptions and actual experiences, and effects of
changes in actuarial assumptions are allocated over the estimated average remaining working
lives of employees, where these differences exceed a defined corridor. Past service costs are
allocated over the average period until the benefits become vested. Pension assets and liabilities
in different defined benefit schemes are not offset unless the Group has a legally enforceable
right to use the surplus in one plan to settle obligations in the other plan.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 61The Group’s contributions to the defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement
in the year to which they relate.
Taxation
Income taxes include all taxes based upon the taxable profits of the Group, including withholding
taxes payable on the distribution of retained earnings within the Group. Other taxes not based
onincome, such as property and capital taxes, are included within operating expenses or financial
expenses according to their nature.
Provision for income taxes, mainly withholding taxes, which could arise on the remittance of
retained earnings, principally relating to subsidiaries, is only made where there is a current inten-
tion to remit such earnings.
Deferred income taxes are provided using the liability method, under which deferred tax conse-
quences are recognised for temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities
and their carrying values for financial reporting purposes. Deferred income tax assets relating to
the carry-forward of unused tax losses are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future
taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses can be utilised.
Current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when the income taxes are levied
by the same taxation authority and when there is a legally enforceable right to offset them.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are initially recorded at cost of purchase or construction and are
depreciated on a straight-line basis, except for land, which is not depreciated. Estimated useful
lives of major classes of depreciable assets are as follows:
Buildings and land improvements 40 years
Machinery and equipment 5–15 years
Office equipment 3 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
Investment grants or similar assistance for projects are initially recorded as deferred income
(inother non-current liabilities) and are subsequently recognised as income over the useful lives
of the related assets. Repairs and maintenance costs are recognised as expenses as incurred.
Borrowing costs are not capitalised. Assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over
their estimated useful lives. Payments made under operating leases are charged against income
on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is determined by the first-
in first-out method.
Cash and marketable securities
Cash comprises cash on hand and time, call and current balances with banks and similar institu-
tions. This definition is also used for the cash flow statement. Marketable securities are shown at
the lower of cost or market value.
62 Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsDebt instruments
The proceeds, net of expenses, of bonds issued with warrants are allocated between the bonds
and the warrants in proportion to their respective fair market values at the time of issue. Any
discount arising from the low coupon rate and represented by the difference between the prin-
cipal amount and the net proceeds is charged to interest expense over the life of the bonds.
Obligations arising from warrants issued with debt instruments are accrued over the period
thewarrants are outstanding, to meet the maximum cash obligation at the date when the
warrants are exercisable.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised where a legal or constructive obligation has been incurred which will
probably lead to an outflow of resources that can be reasonably estimated.
Financial instruments
Gains and losses from forward exchange contracts, options and currency swaps used to hedge
potential exchange rate exposures are deferred and then offset against losses and gains on the
specific transactions being hedged. The fee agreed in establishing each contract is amortised
over the duration of the contract. Interest differentials under swap arrangements, forward rate
agreements and interest rate caps used to manage interest rate exposures are recognised by
adjustments to interest expense. When such derivative financial instruments are used for trading
purposes any gains and losses from changes in their market value are taken to income as they
arise. Certain covered call option contracts entered into by the Group require that underlying
securities be lodged with the financial institutions involved in the arrangement.
The fair values at the balance sheet date are approximately in line with their reported carrying
values unless specifically mentioned in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
International Accounting Standards
Several revised or new standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Committee
and interpretations of the Standing Interpretations Committee became effective from 1 January
2000. These are listed below and their effects, if any, are described.
In total, recurring operating costs in 2000 are 33 million Swiss francs higher than under the
previous methods of accounting. In recording the effects of changes in accounting policy the
Group follows the allowed alternative of retaining the previous year’s figures as reported and
ofdisplaying the effect in the current year’s income statement.
‘Property, plant and equipment’, ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets’
and ‘Events after the balance sheet date’. No adjustments were necessary as a result of these
implementations, as the Group’s accounting policies previously reflected the measurement prin-
ciples in these new or revised standards.
‘Share capital – reacquired own equity instruments’. The Group’s holdings in its own equity
instruments are recorded as a deduction from equity. The original cost of acquisition, considera-
tion received for subsequent resale of these equity instruments and other movements are
reported as changes in equity. Previously these instruments were recorded in marketable securi-
ties. Had they been treated as own equity instruments in 1999, reported earnings per share would
have been approximately 3% higher. These instruments have been acquired primarily to meet the
obligations that may arise in respect of certain of the Group’s debt instruments.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 63‘Impairment of assets’. When the recoverable amount of an asset, being the higher of its net
selling price and its value in use, is less than its carrying amount, then the carrying amount is
reduced to its recoverable value. This reduction is reported in the income statement as an impair-
ment loss. Value in use is calculated using estimated cash flows, generally over a five-year period,
with extrapolating projections for subsequent years. These are discounted using an appropriate
long-term interest rate. Previously the value in use was calculated using cash flow projections on
an undiscounted basis. The new standard is required to be adopted on a prospective basis.
As a result, effective 1 January 2000, the Group recognised impairment charges of 1,161 million
Swiss francs relating to acquired intangible assets. A reduction in deferred tax liabilities of
348million Swiss francs was also recorded, giving a net charge of 813 million Swiss francs in the
consolidated results. Under the Group’s previous accounting treatment, no impairment would
have arisen. As a result of the impairment, the net book value of intangible assets was reduced by
the amount of the impairment charge, and consequently amortisation in 2000 was 130 million
Swiss francs lower than it would have been under the previous policy.
Further impairment entries that arose during the year are disclosed in Note 13.
‘Intangible assets’ and ‘Business combinations’. Goodwill is recorded as an intangible asset
and is the surplus of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired. Any
goodwill and fair value adjustments are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquired company
and are recorded in the local currency of that company.
Patents, licences, trademarks and other intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value.
Where these assets have been acquired through a business combination, this will be the fair
value allocated in the acquisition accounting. Where these have been acquired other than
through a business combination, the initial fair value will be cost.
All intangible assets are amortised over their useful lives on a straight-line basis. Estimated useful
lives of major classes of intangible assets are as follows:
Goodwill 5–20 years
Patents, licences, trademarks Lower of legal duration and
and other intangible assets economic useful life, up to a maximum of 20 years
As required for the implementation of these new and revised standards the Group has reviewed
the accounting for its previous acquisitions. This process included the acquisitions of Genentech,
Nicholas, Syntex, Tastemaker and Corange. The Group has recalculated the goodwill and other
assets and liabilities arising from significant acquisitions since 1995 and has adjusted the carry-
ing values accordingly, as is required by the new and revised standards. Furthermore, in connec-
tion with acquisitions made prior to 1995, the Group now reports as intangible assets the goodwill
which had previously been written-off to equity, and has recalculated this goodwill and other
assets andliabilities arising from these acquisitions. Thus the accounting effects of the Group’s
acquisitions are reported in a consistent manner. In addition, non-acquisition-related intangible
assets have been reviewed to ensure that they meet the recognition and measurement criteria
ofthe new standard.
As a result, as of 1 January 2000, the Group recorded certain reclassifications and adjustments of
the original purchase accounting allocations to reflect the revised balances, the approximate
amount of amortisation up to 1 January 2000 and effects on taxation balances and minority inter-
ests. These are as follows:
64 Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsOther Deferred
intangible income Minority
In millions of CHF Goodwill assets taxes interests Total
Items not previously recognised 12,901 1,727 – – 14,628
Provisions now charged to expense (711) – – – (711)
Transfers 1,079 (1,079) – – –
Prior changes in Group organisation (628) – – – (628)
Amortisation, net (10,283) (1,505) – – (11,788)
Deferred income tax effects, net – – 49 – 49
Minority interests – – – (155) (155)
Net credit to income 2,358 (857) 49 (155) 1,395
As a result of this change in accounting policy, the carrying value of intangible assets increased
as of 1 January 2000. Consequently the Group’s amortisation charge in 2000 was 104 million
Swiss francs higher than it would have been under the previous policy. Most of this increase was
in the Diagnostics Division.
If the new and revised standards on ‘Intangible assets’ and ‘Business combinations’ had been
applied in 1999 then the Group’s net assets at 31 December 1999 would have been higher by
1,395 million Swiss francs, and the recurring operating costs would have been 187 million Swiss
francs higher than reported.
New standards for 2001. For the Consolidated Financial Statements for 2001, a new Interna-
tional Accounting Standard ‘Financial instruments: recognition and measurement’ will come into
effect. The standard requires that all financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on
the balance sheet, including all derivatives. The financial statements will be affected by the intro-
duction of fair value accounting for certain marketable securities, investments and derivatives.
For certain marketable securities and investments designated as available for sale, the Group
intends to recognise the changes in fair value in equity until the asset is sold.
The assessment of the impact of the standard on the Group’s financial position as of 1 January
2001 will be reported in the 2001 consolidated financial statements as an adjustment to retained
earnings at 1 January 2001, with no restatement of previously reported amounts for the year
ended 31 December 2000. As a result retained earnings will increase by approximately one billion
Swiss francs. The most significant part of this relates to other investments, the fair value of which
is approximately one billion Swiss francs higher than the carrying value as at 31 December 2000.
The new International Accounting Standard on ‘Investment property’, effective from 1 January
2001, is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements.
International Accounting Standards will continue to be developed and revised in the future. This
will lead to further adaptations of the Group’s accounting policies in the coming years.
2. Financial risk management
Financial risk management within the Group is governed by policies approved by senior manage-
ment. These policies cover foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, market risk, credit risk and
liquidity risk. Group policies also cover areas such as cash management, investment of excess
funds and the raising of short- and long-term debt.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 65When deemed appropriate, certain of the above risks are altered through the use of financial
instruments. Group management believes that, in order to create the optimum value for the
Group, it is not desirable to eliminate or mitigate all possible market fluctuations. Financial instru-
ments are selectively used to create and optimise value. Group companies report details of the
financial instruments outstanding and financial liquidity position to Group Treasury on at least a
monthly basis.
Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates across the world and is exposed to movements in foreign currencies affecting
its net income and financial position, as expressed in Swiss francs.
Transaction exposure arises because the amount of local currency paid or received for trans-
actions denominated in foreign currencies may vary due to changes in exchange rates. For many
Group companies income will be primarily in the local currency. A significant amount of expen-
diture, especially for purchase of goods for resale and interest on and repayment of loans will be
in foreign currencies. Similarly, transaction exposure arises on net balances of monetary assets
held in foreign currencies. Group companies manage this exposure at a local level, if necessary
by means of financial instruments such as options and forward contracts. In addition, Group
Treasury monitors total worldwide exposure with the help of comprehensive data received on a
monthly basis.
Translation exposure arises from the consolidation of the foreign currency denominated finan-
cial statements of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries. The effect on the Group’s consolidated equity
is shown as a currency translation movement. The Group hedges significant net investments in
foreign currencies by taking foreign currency loans or issuing foreign currency denominated debt
instruments. Major translation exposures are monitored on a regular basis.
A significant part of the Group’s cash outflows for research, development, production and admin-
istration is denominated in Swiss francs, while a much smaller proportion of the Group’s cash
inflows are Swiss franc denominated. As a result, an increase in the value of the Swiss franc rela-
tive to other currencies has an adverse impact on consolidated net income. Similarly, a relative
fall in the value of the Swiss franc has a favourable effect on results published in Swiss francs.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk arises from movements in interest rates which could have adverse effects on
theGroup’s net income or financial position. Changes in interest rates cause variations in interest
income and expenses on interest-bearing assets and liabilities. In addition, they can affect the
market value of certain financial assets, liabilities and instruments as described in the following
section on market risk.
The interest rates on the Group’s major debt instruments are fixed, as described in Note 24,
which reduces the Group’s exposure to changes in interest rates. Group companies manage their
short-term interest rate risk at a local level, if necessary using financial instruments such as
interest rate forward contracts, swaps and options.
Market risk
Changes in the market value of certain financial assets, liabilities and instruments can affect the
net income or financial position of the Group. The Group’s long-term investments are held for
strategic purposes, and changes in market value do not affect the carrying value, unless a perma-
nent loss in value is indicated. The Group’s marketable securities are held for fund management
purposes. The risk of loss in value is reduced by a very careful review prior to investing, concen-
tration of investments and continuous monitoring of the performance of investments and changes
in their risk configuration.
66 Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsCredit risk
Credit risk arises from the possibility that the counter-party to a transaction may be unable or
unwilling to meet their obligations causing a financial loss to the Group.
Trade receivables are subject to a policy of active risk management focussing on the assessment
of country risk, credit availability, ongoing credit evaluation and account monitoring procedures.
There are no significant concentrations within trade receivables of counter-party credit risk,
dueto the Group’s large number of customers and their wide geographical spread. Country risk
limits and exposures are continuously monitored.
The exposure of other financial assets and liabilities to credit risk is controlled by setting a policy
for limiting credit exposure to high-quality counter-parties, continuously reviewing credit ratings,
and limiting individual aggregate credit exposure accordingly.
Liquidity risk
Group companies need to have sufficient availability of cash to meet their obligations. Individual
companies are responsible for their own cash management, including the short-term investment
of cash surpluses and the raising of loans to cover cash deficits, subject to guidance by the
Group and, in certain cases, to approval at Group level.
The Group maintains sufficient reserves of cash and readily realisable marketable securities to
meet its liquidity requirements at all times. In addition, the strong international creditworthiness
of the Group allows it to make efficient use of international capital markets for financing pur-
poses.
3. Group organisation
An overview of the operating subsidiaries and associated companies is included on pages 110 to
111. In addition to the operating companies, the Group has holding and finance companies.
Genentech
On 13 June 1999 the Group exercised its option to acquire the remaining outstanding Special
Common Stock of Genentech, Inc. on 30 June 1999. As a result, Genentech became a wholly
owned subsidiary of the Group. The total consideration of 4,007 million US dollars (6,222 million
Swiss francs) included the contribution by the Group to Genentech of the funds required by
Genentech to purchase the outstanding Genentech Special Common Stock and the cost to
Genentech of settling outstanding obligations under its employee stock option plan. The consid-
eration paid was allocated to the assets and liabilities of Genentech, and consequently the total
carrying value of Genentech increased by 6,222 million Swiss francs. As part of this the Group
recorded a write-up of inventory of 298 million Swiss francs. During 2000 158 million Swiss francs
of this was recognised as cost of sales through the sale of inventory (1999: 140 million Swiss
francs).
On 23 July 1999 and 21 October 1999 the Group sold a total of 34% of the Common Stock of
Genentech through public offerings yielding total proceeds of 4.9 billion US dollars (7.4 billion
Swiss francs). The total resulting pre-tax gain of 4.5 billion Swiss francs is calculated as the
difference between the proceeds of the sales, net of incidental costs, and the proportion of net
assets.
On 29 March 2000 the Group sold 17.3 million shares of Genentech through a public offering
yielding proceeds of 2,771 million US dollars (4,599 million Swiss francs). The resulting
pre-taxgain after incidental costs was 3,949 million Swiss francs. Roche’s ownership interest
inGenentech at 31 December 2000 was 58%.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 67Other acquisitions and divestments
On 22 December 2000 the Group acquired the global rights to Kytril (granisetron) from SmithKline
Beecham for a cash consideration of 1,114 million US dollars (1,871 million Swiss francs).
On 22 December 2000 the Group also sold its exclusive rights to Coreg (carvedilol) in the United
States and Canada to SmithKline Beecham for 400 million US dollars (660 million Swiss francs).
The Group will remain the supplier of carvedilol in all markets outside the United States and
Canada.
As a result of the acquisition of Kytril, the acquisition of the medical instruments division of AVL
and certain other smaller acquisitions, additional intangible assets of 2,267 million Swiss francs
were recorded. Total cash outflow from other acquisitions was 2,351 million Swiss francs and the
inflow from other divestments was 1,087 million Swiss francs.
68 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements4. Segment information in millions of CHF
Divisional information
Vitamins Fragrances
Pharma- and Fine Continuing and
2000 ceuticals Diagnostics Chemicals Others operations Flavours Group
Segment revenues
Segment revenue/
divisional sales 17,831 6,252 3,696 – 27,779 1,193 28,972
Less inter-divisional
salesa) (145) – (125) – (270) (30) (300)
Divisional sales
to third parties 17,686 6,252 3,571 – 27,509 1,163 28,672
Segment results/
operating profit 5,879 822 494 (264) 6,931 200 7,131
Segment assets
and liabilities
Divisional assetsb) 24,657 11,962 4,406 60 41,085 – 41,085
Other segment assetsc) 530 41 82 – 653 – 653
Segment assets 25,187 12,003 4,488 60 41,738 – 41,738
Non-segment assetsd) 27,797
Total assets 69,535
Divisional liabilitiesb) (501) (280) (158) (1) (940) – (940)
Other segment
liabilitiesc) (2,007) (1,496) (1,196) – (4,699) – (4,699)
Segment liabilities (2,508) (1,776) (1,354) (1) (5,639) – (5,639)
Non-segment
liabilitiesd) (31,860)
Total liabilities (37,499)
Other segment information
Capital expendituree) 3,209 1,023 385 8 4,625 68 4,693
Depreciation 742 387 209 4 1,342 32 1,374
Amortisation 993 430 16 – 1,439 35 1,474
Impairment of
long-term assets 1,147 – – – 1,147 – 1,147
Research and
development costs 3,201 558 122 38 3,919 31 3,950
Share of result of
associated companies – 34 (11) – 23 – 23
Investments in
associated companies 101 432 31 88 652 – 652
Number of employees 41, 409 15,631 7,257 461 64,758 – 64,758
a) Transfer prices for inter-divisional sales are set on an arm’s length basis.
b) Divisional assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, receivables and inventories.
Divisional liabilities consist of trade accounts payable.
c) Other segment assets and liabilities consist of assets and liabilities which can be reasonably attributed to the reported
business segments. These include pension assets and liabilities and some provisions.
d) Non-segment assets and liabilities mainly include current and deferred income tax balances, and financial assets and
liabilities, principally cash, marketable securities, investments in associated companies, other investments and debt.
e) Capital expenditure comprises additions to intangible assets (including goodwill) and additions to property, plant and
equipment, including those arising from acquisitions.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 69Vitamins Fragrances
Pharma- and Fine Continuing and
1999 ceuticals Diagnostics Chemicals Others operations Flavours Group
Segment revenues
Segment revenue/
divisional sales 16,684 5,283 3,832 – 25,799 2,231 28,030
Less inter-divisional
salesa) (197) (1) (183) – (381) (82) (463)
Divisional sales
to third parties 16,487 5,282 3,649 – 25,418 2,149 27,567
Segment results/
operating profit 7,287 771 (1,842) (192) 6,024 397 6,421
Segment assets
and liabilities
Divisional assetsb) 25,138 10,142 4,440 56 39,776 2,977 42,753
Other segment assetsc) 534 35 100 – 669 17 686
Segment assets 25,672 10,177 4,540 56 40,445 2,994 43,439
Non-segment assetsd) 26,992
Total assets 70,431
Divisional liabilitiesb) (674) (346) (149) (1) (1,170) (72) (1,242)
Other segment
liabilitiesc) (2,033) (1,660) (1,384) – (5,077) (141) (5,218)
Segment liabilities (2,707) (2,006) (1,533) (1) (6,247) (213) (6,460)
Non-segment
liabilitiesd) (33,970)
Total liabilities (40,430)
Other segment information
Capital expendituree) 6,507 633 477 6 7,623 131 7,754
Depreciation 672 336 169 4 1,181 65 1,246
Amortisation 776 323 46 – 1,145 62 1,207
Research and
development costs 3,048 516 130 38 3,732 50 3,782
Share of result of
associated companies – (4) – – (4) – (4)
Investments in
associated companies – 515 2 18 535 – 535
Number of employees 40,299 14,456 7,551 482 62,788 4,907 67,695
a) Transfer prices for inter-divisional sales are set on an arm’s length basis.
b) Divisional assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, receivables and inventories.
Divisional liabilities consist of trade accounts payable.
c) Other segment assets and liabilities consist of assets and liabilities which can be reasonably attributed to the reported
business segments. These include pension assets and liabilities and some provisions.
d) Non-segment assets and liabilities mainly include current and deferred income tax balances, and financial assets and
liabilities, principally cash, marketable securities, investments in associated companies, other investments and debt.
e) Capital expenditure comprises additions to intangible assets (including goodwill) and additions to property, plant and
equipment, including those arising from acquisitions.
70 Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsGeographical information
Sales to third parties
2000 (by destination) Segment assetsa) Capital expenditureb)
Switzerland 509 4,083 1,313
European Union 9,012 15,157 867
Rest of Europe 1,266 435 43
Europe 10,787 19,675 2,223
North America 10,636 17,296 1,992
Latin America 2,928 2,143 253
Asia 3,394 2,214 175
Africa, Australia and Oceania 927 410 50
Segment total 28,672 41,738 4,693
Non-segment assetsc) – 27,797 –
Consolidated total 28,672 69,535 4,693
1999
Switzerland 455 4,168 515
European Union 9,326 14,107 842
Rest of Europe 1,090 395 30
Europe 10,871 18,670 1,387
North America 10,130 18,922 6,076
Latin America 2,577 2,372 133
Asia 3,109 2,923 124
Africa, Australia and Oceania 880 552 34
Segment total 27,567 43,439 7,754
Non-segment assetsc) – 26,992 –
Consolidated total 27,567 70,431 7,754
a) Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangibles, receivables and inventories. Segment
liabilities are not included.
b) Capital expenditure comprises additions to intangible assets (including goodwill) and additions to property, plant and
equipment, including those arising from acquisitions.
c) Non-segment assets mainly include current and deferred income tax assets, and financial assets, principally cash,
marketable securities, investments in associated companies and other investments.
5. Vitamin case
Following the settlement agreement with the US Department of Justice on 20 May 1999 regarding
pricing practices in the vitamin market, the Group recorded pre-tax expenses of 2,426 million
Swiss francs in respect of the vitamin case in 1999. Cash outflows in 1999 were 1,282 million
Swiss francs.
On 28 March 2000 a US federal judge approved the overall settlement agreement to a class
action suit brought by the US buyers of bulk vitamins. Several customers in the class action have
decided to opt out of the proposed settlement and pursue claims against the Group individually.
As these individual suits are still in process it is not possible to determine the timing and amount
of the ultimate settlement of these claims.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 71On 10 October 2000 settlement agreements were executed with Attorneys General and private
class counsels representing US indirect purchasers and consumers in 22 states and with Attor-
neys General in respect of governmental entities in 43 states. The class action settlements remain
subject to court approval. If approved, Roche will pay up to 171 million US dollars, plus interest
and legal fees. Certain suits in other states are still in process and it is not possible to determine
the outcome of these claims.
On 6 July 2000 the European Commission issued a Statement of Objections against 13 producers
of bulk vitamins, including Roche. This is the beginning of the Commission’s formal investi-
gationinto the vitamin case and it is not yet possible to determine the ultimate outcome of this
investigation.
The provisions that were recorded in respect of the vitamin case at 31 December 1999, less the
amounts utilised during 2000, remain the Group’s best current estimate of the total liability that
may arise. Therefore no additional expenses have been charged in 2000. Net cash inflows in 2000
were 41 million Swiss francs. Following the opt-out of some of the US buyers of bulk vitamins
from settlement agreement, the Group received a repayment of part of the amounts paid into a
trust fund in 1999.
6. Genentech legal settlements
On 19 November 1999 the Group’s subsidiary Genentech reached a settlement agreement with
the University of California regarding alleged patent infringement involving Genentech’s human
growth hormone products. Furthermore, Genentech made a payment to settle an investigation by
the United States federal authorities relating to past clinical, sales and marketing activities asso-
ciated with a human growth hormone. The total pre-tax expense recorded in 1999 was 345 million
Swiss francs. All payments in respect of these matters have been made.
7. Givaudan spin-off in millions of CHF
On 8 June 2000 the Group’s Fragrances and Flavours Division was spun off as an independent
company under the name of Givaudan. The shares in Givaudan were distributed on this date as a
special dividend to the holders of Roche shares and non-voting equity securities. As a result of
the spin-off, assets totalling 3.9 billion Swiss francs and liabilities totalling 1.2 billion Swiss francs
were transferred to Givaudan.
The results and cash flows of the Fragrances and Flavours Division up until the spin-off in June
2000 are included in the consolidated figures. However, the consolidated balance sheet is shown
after the spin-off and does not include this Division’s assets and liabilities.
The sales, results, assets, liabilities and net cash flows of the Fragrances and Flavours Division as
part of the Roche Group are shown as discontinuing operations in the following table.
72 Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsContinuing operations Discontinuing operations Group Group
Statement of income 2000 1999 2000 1999 2000 1999
Sales 27,779 25,799 1,193 2,231 28,972 28,030
Less inter-divisional sales* (270) (381) (30) (82) (300) (463)
Sales to third parties 27,509 25,418 1,163 2,149 28,672 27,567
Operating profit 6,931 6,024 200 397 7,131 6,421
Financial income (expense), net 2,383 1,242 (46) (108) 2,337 1,134
Result before taxes 9,314 7,266 154 289 9,468 7,555
Income taxes (2,226) (1,797) (46) (105) (2,272) (1,902)
Result after taxes 7,088 5,469 108 184 7,196 5,653
Changes in accounting policies 1,395 29 – (2) 1,395 27
Minority interests 33 88 – – 33 88
Share of result
of associated companies 23 (4) – – 23 (4)
Net income 8,539 5,582 108 182 8,647 5,764
Balance sheet at 31 December
Property, plant and equipment 13,785 13,304 – 936 13,785 14,240
Intangible assets 15,870 14,492 – 1,180 15,870 15,672
Other long-term assets 5,143 5,577 – 311 5,143 5,888
Current assets 34,737 33,329 – 1,302 34,737 34,631
Total assets 69,535 66,702 – 3,729 69,535 70,431
Long-term debt 16,167 15,948 – 14 16,167 15,962
Other non-current liabilities 7,475 7,730 – 1,882 7,475 9,612
Current liabilities 13,857 13,754 – 1,102 13,857 14,856
Total liabilities 37,499 37,432 – 2,998 37,499 40,430
Net assets 32,036 29,270 – 731 32,036 30,001
Statement of cash flows
Operating activities 3,726 1,436 190 291 3,916 1,727
Financing activities (2,727) (749) 189 (146) (2,538) (895)
Investing activities (743) (743) (89) (124) (832) (867)
Net effect of currency translation
on cash (51) 94 15 9 (36) 103
Increase (decrease) in cash 205 38 305 30 510 68
*Transfer prices for inter-divisional sales are set on an arm’s length basis.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 738. Employee benefits in millions of CHF
Amounts recognised in arriving at operating profit are as follows:
2000 1999
Wages and salaries 6,156 5,613
Social security costs 746 719
Post-employment benefits: defined benefit plans 298 322
Post-employment benefits: defined contribution plans 58 41
Other employee benefits 325 236
Total employees’ remuneration 7,583 6,931
The number of employees at the year-end was 64,758 (1999: 67,695).
Post-employment benefits
Most employees are covered by retirement benefit plans sponsored by Group companies. The
nature of such plans varies according to legal regulations, fiscal requirements and economic con-
ditions of the countries in which the employees are employed. Other post-employment benefits
consist mostly of post-retirement healthcare and life insurance schemes, principally in the USA.
Plans are usually funded by payments from the Group and by employees to trusts independent
ofthe Group’s finances. Where a plan is unfunded, a liability for the whole obligation is recorded
in the Group’s balance sheet.
The amounts recognised in arriving at operating profit for post-employment defined benefit plans
are as follows:
2000 1999
Current service cost 333 311
Interest cost 675 677
Expected return on plan assets (714) (645)
Net actuarial (gains) losses recognised 2 –
Past service cost 3 7
(Gains) losses on curtailment (1) (28)
Total included in employees’ remuneration 298 322
The actual return on plan assets was 1,175 million Swiss francs (1999: 932 million Swiss francs).
74 Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsThe movements in the net asset (liability) recognised in the balance sheet for post-employment
defined benefit plans are as follows:
2000 1999
At the beginning of the year
– as previously reported (2,078) (2,107)
– effect of implementing the revised International
– Accounting Standard for Employee Benefits in 1999 – 39
– as restated (2,078) (2,068)
Changes in Group organisation and Givaudan spin-off3, 7 84 (4)
Total expenses included in employees’ remuneration (as above) (298) (322)
Contributions paid 174 165
Benefits paid (unfunded plans) 135 125
Currency translation effects and other 134 26
At end of year (as below) (1,849) (2,078)
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet for post-employment defined benefit plans are as
follows:
2000 1999
Unfunded plans
Recognised asset (liability) for actuarial present value
of unfunded obligations due to past and present employees (2,423) (2,648)
Funded plans
Actuarial present value of funded obligations
due to past and present employees (9,034) (9,028)
Plan assets held in trusts at fair value 10,448 10,046
Plan assets in excess of actuarial present value
of funded obligations 1,414 1,018
Less
– unrecognised actuarial (gains) losses (862) (467)
– unrecognised past service costs 22 19
Recognised asset (liability) for funded obligations
due to past and present employees 574 570
Asset (liability) recognised
Deficit recognised as part of liabilities for post-employment benefits (2,502) (2,764)
Surplus recognised as part of other long-term assets15 653 686
Total net asset (liability) recognised (1,849) (2,078)
The above amounts include non-pension post-employment benefit schemes, principally medical
plans, with an actuarial present value of obligations of 690 million Swiss francs (1999: 703 million
Swiss francs) and plan assets of 649 million Swiss francs (1999: 576 million Swiss francs). The
related net liability recognised is 147 million Swiss francs (1999: 190 million Swiss francs). Actu-
arial gains of 106 million Swiss francs (1999: 63 million Swiss francs) were unrecognised.
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet for post-employment defined benefit plans are predom-
inantly non-current and are reported as long-term assets and non-current liabilities.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 75Included within the fair value of the assets of the funded plans are 30 (1999: 1,700) of the Group’s
non-voting equity securities with a fair value of 0.5 million Swiss francs (1999: 32 million Swiss
francs).
The Group operates defined benefit schemes in many countries and the actuarial assumptions
vary based upon local economic and social conditions. The range of assumptions used in
theactuarial valuations of the most significant defined benefit plans, which are in countries with
stable currencies and interest rates, is as follows:
Discount rates 3 to 8% (1999: 3 to 8%)
Projected rates of remuneration growth 2 to 9% (1999: 2.5 to 9%)
Expected rates of return on plan assets 3 to 10% (1999: 3.5 to 10%)
Healthcare cost trend rate 4 to 10% (1999: 4 to 9%)
9. Other operating income (expense), net in millions of CHF
2000 1999
Royalty income 626 504
Other operating income 1,132 826
Total other operating income 1,758 1,330
Royalty expense (740) (561)
Restructuring expense (46) (4)
Other operating expense (740) (751)
Total other operating expense (1,526) (1,316)
Total other operating income (expense), net 232 14
10. Financial income (expense), net in millions of CHF
2000 1999
Gains from sale of marketable securities and other 3,522 2,529
Losses from sale of marketable securities and other (761) (621)
Net gain from sale of marketable securities and other 2,761 1,908
Interest and dividend income 738 532
Interest expense (1,487) (1,237)
Exchange gains (losses), net 325 (69)
Total financial income (expense), net 2,337 1,134
11. Income taxes in millions of CHF
Income tax expenses
The amounts charged in the income statement are as follows:
2000 1999
Current income taxes 2,913 1,103
Deferred income taxes (641) 799
Total charge for income taxes 2,272 1,902
The Group’s parent company, Roche Holding Ltd, and several of the Group’s operating companies
are domiciled in Switzerland. The maximum effective rate of all income taxes on companies
domiciled in Basel, Switzerland, is 8% for holding companies and 25% for operating companies
(1999: 8% and 25%).
Since the Group operates across the world, it is subject to income taxes in many different tax
jurisdictions. The Group calculates its average expected tax rate as a weighted average of the tax
rates in the tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
76 Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsThe Group’s effective tax rate differs from the Group’s expected tax rate as follows:
2000 1999
Group’s average expected tax rate 20% 20%
Tax effect of
– Income not taxable (3%) (2%)
– Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3% 3%
– Benefit of prior year tax losses not previously recognised – –
– Other differences (3%) (3%)
– Gain from sales of Genentech shares 8% 2%
– Gain from sales of LabCorp shares 2% –
– Impairment of long-term assets (3%) –
– Vitamin case – 6%
– Genentech legal settlements – (1%)
Group’s effective tax rate 24% 25%
Income tax assets and liabilities
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet for income taxes are as follows:
2000 1999
Current income taxes
Current income tax assets 435 408
Current income tax liabilities (882) (728)
Net current income tax asset (liability) in the balance sheet (447) (320)
Deferred income taxes
Deferred income tax assets 460 1,170
Deferred income tax liabilities (2,535) (3,895)
Net deferred income tax asset (liability) in the balance sheet (2,075) (2,725)
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet for deferred taxes are reported as long-term assets and
non-current liabilities, of which approximately 50% and 15% respectively is current.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry forwards only to the extent that
realisation of the related tax benefit is probable. The Group has no significant unrecognised tax
losses. Deferred income tax liabilities have not been established for the withholding tax and other
taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries, as such
amounts are currently regarded as permanently reinvested. These unremitted earnings totalled
24.8 billion Swiss francs at 31 December 2000 (1999: 19.2 billion Swiss francs).
The deferred income tax assets and liabilities and the deferred income tax charges (credits) are
attributable to the following items:
Property, plant and Other
equipment, and Restructuring temporary
2000 intangible assets provisions differences Total
Net deferred income tax asset (liability) at
beginning of year (3,128) 302 101 (2,725)
Adjustment from changes in accounting policies1 49 – – 49
On issue of debt instruments24 – – (128) (128)
(Charged) credited to the income statement 312 (144) 473 641
Changes in Group organisation
and Givaudan spin-off3, 7 (54) (8) (55) (117)
Currency translation effects and other (521) (4) 730 205
Net deferred income tax asset (liability)
at end of year (3,342) 146 1,121 (2,075)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 77Property, plant and Other
equipment, and Restructuring temporary
1999 intangible assets provisions differences Total
Net deferred income tax asset (liability) at
beginning of year (2,030) 637 237 (1,156)
Adjustment from change in accounting policies – – (12) (12)
(Charged) credited to the income statement (358) (363) (78) (799)
Changes in Group organisation (646) – (89) (735)
Currency translation effects and other (94) 28 43 (23)
Net deferred income tax asset (liability)
at end of year (3,128) 302 101 (2,725)
12. Property, plant and equipment in millions of CHF
Buildings
and land Machinery
improve- and Construction 2000 1999
Land ments equipment in progress Total Total
Net book value
At beginning of year 739 5,634 6,159 1,708 14,240 12,704
Currency translation effects (8) 2 (77) (118) (201) 1,121
Changes in Group organisation,
including Givaudan spin-off3, 7 (59) (443) (384) (57) (943) 25
Additions 36 128 951 1,068 2,183 2,150
Disposals (32) (18) (33) (37) (120) (514)
Transfers – 337 849 (1,186) – –
Depreciation charge – (212) (1,162) – (1,374) (1,246)
At end of year 676 5,428 6,303 1,378 13,785 14,240
At 31 December
Cost 676 8,319 13,498 1,378 23,871 24,199
Accumulated depreciation – (2,891) (7,195) – (10,086) (9,959)
Net book value 676 5,428 6,303 1,378 13,785 14,240
At 31 December 2000 the capitalised cost of machinery and equipment under finance leases
amounts to 356 million Swiss francs (1999: 317 million Swiss francs) and the net book value of
these assets amounts to 250 million Swiss francs (1999: 231 million Swiss francs).
Operating lease commitments
At 31 December the future minimum payments under non-cancellable operating leases were as
follows:
2000 1999
Within one year 191 184
Between one and five years 437 352
Thereafter 39 104
Total minimum payments 667 640
Total rental expense in 2000 for all operating leases was 322 million Swiss francs (1999: 305 mil-
lion Swiss francs).
The Group has no significant capital commitments for the purchase or construction of property,
plant and equipment.
78 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements13. Intangible assets in millions of CHF
Patents, licences,
trademarks 2000 1999
Goodwill and other Total Total
Net book value
At beginning of year 5,389 10,283 15,672 10,757
Changes in accounting policies1 2,358 (857) 1,501 –
Currency translation effects 172 (104) 68 724
Changes in Group organisation,
including Givaudan spin-off3, 7 (805) 1,859 1,054 5,316
Additions – 219 219 263
Disposals (2) (21) (23) (181)
Amortisation charge (562) (912) (1,474) (1,207)
Impairment charge – (1,147) (1,147) –
At end of year 6,550 9,320 15,870 15,672
At 31 December
Cost 17,762 16,849 34,611 20,207
Accumulated depreciation (11,212) (7,529) (18,741) (4,535)
At end of year 6,550 9,320 15,870 15,672
On 1 January 2000 the Group recognised an impairment charge of 1,161 million Swiss francs
when implementing a change in accounting policy (see Note 1). In 2000 a credit of 14 million
Swiss francs is recognised, based on changes in the recoverable amounts of impaired assets
during the year.
14. Investments in associated companiesin millions of CHF
The Group has investments in associated companies as listed below. Equity investments in asso-
ciated companies have been accounted for using the equity method.
Share of net income Balance sheet value
2000 1999 2000 1999
Laboratory Corporation of America
Holdings (USA) 34 (4) 429 17
Other investments accounted for using the equity method (11) – 223 20
Total investments accounted for using the equity method 23 (4) 652 37
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (USA) –
non-voting convertible mandatorily redeemable 8.5%
preferred stock (at cost) – 498
Total investments in associated companies 652 535
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings
The Group has a non-controlling 32.6% interest (1999: 47.6%) in Laboratory Corporation of Amer-
ica Holdings (LabCorp), which operates clinical laboratories in the United States. LabCorp was
created in 1995 from the merger of Roche Biomedical Laboratories, Inc. with and into National
Health Laboratories Holdings, Inc., with Roche owning 49.9% of the new company. In 1997
theGroup purchased non-voting convertible preferred stock of LabCorp which was held at cost
as a portfolio investment.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 79On 6 June 2000 LabCorp announced that it had called for the redemption on 7 July 2000 all of its
outstanding convertible preferred stock. During this redemption period, the Group sold sufficient
of its holding in LabCorp’s ordinary stock such that the Group’s non-controlling interest in
LabCorp would be at a similar level after the redemption date as it was before. The Group realised
a pre-tax gain of 296 million Swiss francs during this process. On 17 October 2000 the Group
sold4,000,000 shares of LabCorp, resulting in a pre-tax gain after incidental costs of 660 million
Swiss francs. The above transactions resulted in a total cash inflow of 1,123 million Swiss francs.
Basilea Pharmaceutica
On 17 October 2000 the Group contributed cash of 206 million Swiss francs to establish a newly
formed Swiss company, Basilea Pharmaceutica Ltd (Basilea). The Group also transferred certain
know-how and intellectual property in antibiotics, antifungals and dermatology, and property,
plant and equipment to Basilea for a consideration of 6 million Swiss francs. On 31 October 2000
the Group sold 51% of the shares of Basilea. The Group retains a non-controlling interest in
Basilea.
15. Other long-term assets in millions of CHF
2000 1999
Recognised surplus on funded pension plans8 653 686
Loans receivable 491 596
Prepaid employee benefits 420 375
Other 909 790
Total other long-term assets 2,473 2,447
Loans receivable comprise all loans to third parties with a term of over one year. Other long-term
assets consist of various assets not otherwise shown separately from which the Group expects
toderive economic benefits in over one year.
16. Inventories in millions of CHF
2000 1999
Raw materials and supplies 963 1,298
Work in process 545 575
Finished goods 4,525 4,942
Less: provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory (279) (269)
Total inventories 5,754 6,546
Inventories held at net realisable value have a carrying value of 26 million Swiss francs
(1999: 25 million Swiss francs).
17. Accounts receivable – trade in millions of CHF
2000 1999
Accounts receivable 5,759 6,309
Notes receivable 109 123
Less: provision for doubtful accounts (349) (254)
Total accounts receivable – trade 5,519 6,178
At 31 December 2000, accounts receivable – trade include amounts denominated in US dollars
equivalent to 2.0 billion Swiss francs (1999: 1.9 billion Swiss francs) and amounts denominated in
euros and EMU national currencies equivalent to 1.9 billion Swiss francs (1999: 1.8 billion Swiss
francs).
80 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements18. Other current assets in millions of CHF
2000 1999
Accrued interest income 122 127
Prepaid expenses 1,346 1,122
Assets held for sale – 367
Other receivables 913 1,017
Total other current assets 2,381 2,633
Assets held for sale include inventories, property, plant and equipment, and other long-term
assets of products identified for divestment in the following year.
19. Cash and marketable securities in millions of CHF
2000 1999
Equity securities 11,347 12,593
Bonds and debentures 4,669 2,700
Money market instruments 2,070 1,521
Total marketable securities 18,086 16,814
Total cash 2,562 2,052
Total cash and marketable securities 20,648 18,866
Equity securities: These consist primarily of readily saleable securities.
Bonds and debentures:
Contracted maturity Amount Range of interest rates
2000
Within one year 1,054 3.0–9.8%
Between one and five years 1,163 1.0–11.8%
Over five years 2,452 2.0–7.6%
1999
Within one year 378 4.0–6.9%
Between one and five years 1,285 1.5–7.8%
Over five years 1,037 2.8–8.2%
The weighted average interest rate is approximately 4.7% for the bonds and debentures
(1999:5.9%).
Money market instruments: These generally have fixed interest rates ranging from 3.1% to
4.8% (1999: 1.3% to 6.3%) depending upon the currency in which they are denominated. They are
contracted to mature within one year of 31 December 2000.
As of 31 December 2000 the fair value of marketable securities is approximately 18.2 billion Swiss
francs (1999: approximately 17.4 billion Swiss francs).
20. Accrued and other current liabilitiesin millions of CHF
2000 1999
Deferred income 161 142
Accrued payroll and related items 768 668
Interest payable 298 302
Other accrued liabilities 2,123 2,276
Total accrued and other current liabilities 3,350 3,388
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 8121. Equity
Share capital
At 31 December 2000 and 1999, the authorised and called-up share capital was 1,600,000 shares
with a nominal value of CHF 100 each.
Based on information supplied to Roche by a shareholders’ group with pooled voting rights,
comprising the Hoffmann and Oeri-Hoffmann families, that group holds 800,200 shares as in the
preceding year. (This figure does not include any shares without pooled voting rights that are
held outside this group by individual members of the group.) There were no transactions with
these individuals other than those in the ordinary course of business.
Non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine)
As of 31 December 2000 and 1999, 7,025,627 non-voting equity securities had been issued. Under
Swiss company law these non-voting equity securities have no nominal value, are not part of the
share capital and cannot be issued against a contribution which would be shown as an asset in
the balance sheet of Roche Holding Ltd. Each non-voting equity security confers the same rights
as any of the shares to participate in the net profit and any remaining proceeds from liquidation
following repayment of the nominal value of the shares and, if any, participation certificates.
Inaccordance with the law and the Articles of Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd, the company
is entitled at all times to exchange all or some of the non-voting equity securities into shares or
participation certificates.
Own equity instruments
As at 31 December 2000 the Group held 284,566 (1999: 251,589) of its own non-voting equity
securities and financial instruments to acquire these securities. These have been acquired pri-
marily to meet the obligations that may arise in respect of certain of the Group’s debt instru-
ments. For 2000 the Group’s holdings in its own equity instruments are recorded as a deduction
from equity.
Dividends
On 9 May 2000 the shareholders approved the distribution of a dividend of CHF 100 per share
and non-voting equity security (1999: CHF 87) in respect of the 1999 business year. The distribu-
tion to holders of outstanding shares and non-voting equity securities totalled 835 million Swiss
francs and has been charged to retained earnings in 2000. The shareholders also approved the
special dividend in respect of the Givaudan spin-off. The accounting effect of this distribution,
which primarily includes the carrying value in the Group’s financial statements of the assets and
liabilities of Givaudan, totalled 2,642 million Swiss francs and has been included with the special
dividend as a movement in retained earnings in 2000.
22. Earnings per share and non-voting equity security
Basic earnings per share and non-voting equity security
2000 1999
Net income (millions of CHF) 8,647 5,764
Number of shares (thousands)21 1,600 1,600
Number of non-voting equity securities (thousands)21 7,026 7,026
Weighted average number of own non-voting equity securities held
(thousands)21 (277)
Total (thousands) 8,349 8,626
Basic earnings per share and non-voting equity security (CHF) 1,036 668
82 Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsDiluted earnings per share and non-voting equity security
For the calculation of diluted earnings per share and non-voting equity security in 2000,
theweighted average number of shares and non-voting equity securities outstanding is adjusted
to assume conversion of all dilutive potential shares or non-voting equity securities.
2000
Net income (millions of CHF) 8,647
Elimination of interest expense, net of tax,
of convertible debt instruments, where dilutive (millions of CHF) 114
Net income used to calculate diluted earnings per share (millions of CHF) 8,761
Weighted average number of shares and non-voting equity securities
in issue (thousands) 8,349
Adjustment for assumed conversion of convertible debt instruments,
where dilutive (thousands) 203
Weighted average number of shares and non-voting equity securities
in issue used to calculate dilutive earnings per share (thousands) 8,552
Diluted earnings per share and non-voting equity security (CHF) 1,024
23. Minority interestsin millions of CHF
2000 1999
At beginning of year 3,047 1,149
Change in accounting policies1 155 –
Givaudan spin-off7 (2) –
Acquisition of Genentech Special Common Stock – (1,298)
Sales of Genentech shares3 649 2,892
Conversion option embedded in the ‘LYONs IV’ notes issued in 200024 172 –
Minority share of Group net income, net of tax (33) (88)
Exercise of Genentech stock options 381 240
Currency translation effects and other 59 152
At end of year 4,428 3,047
Of which:
Genentech 4,377 2,993
Other 51 54
Total minority interests 4,428 3,047
Genentech
As of 31 December 2000 the minority interest of 42% in Genentech is publicly held by third par-
ties. The Group’s transactions in Genentech shares are described in Note 3.
At 31 December 2000 Genentech had options outstanding under its employee stock option plans
which entitled the holders on exercise of the options to purchase 40.9 million shares at prices
ranging from USD 12.53 to USD 95.66. Of these options outstanding 13.4 million were exercisable
at that date.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 8324. Debtin millions of CHF
2000 1999
Amounts due to banks and other financial institutions 4,427 5,157
Debt instruments 13,510 12,553
Capitalised lease obligations 206 213
Other borrowings 13 25
Total debt 18,156 17,948
Less: current portion of long-term debt (amounts due within one year) (1,989) (1,986)
Total long-term debt 16,167 15,962
Short-term debt totalling 5,451 million Swiss francs (1999: 5,702 million Swiss francs) consists
ofthe current portion of long-term debt, as shown in the above table, together with short-term
bank loans and overdrafts and other short-term debt amounting to 3,462 million Swiss francs
(1999: 3,716 million Swiss francs).
Repayment terms of long-term debt
2000 1999
Within one year 1,989 1,986
Between one and two years 2,519 3,180
Between two and three years 3,507 1,359
Between three and four years 3,470 4,625
Between four and five years 1,520 2,718
Thereafter 5,151 4,080
Total long-term debt 18,156 17,948
The ‘LYONs’ zero coupon US dollar exchangeable notes (see below) are reflected as due the first
year that the holders of the notes can request the Group to purchase the notes.
The fair value of long-term debt is 20.8 billion Swiss francs (1999: 19.5 billion Swiss francs). This
is calculated based upon the present value of the future cash flows on the instrument, discounted
at a market rate of interest for instruments with similar credit status and cash flows.
Amounts due to banks and other financial institutions
Interest rates on these amounts, which are primarily denominated in US dollars, euros and EMU
national currencies, average approximately 5% (1999: 5%). Repayment dates vary between 1 and
15 years.
Debt instruments
The carrying value of the Group’s debt instruments is given in the table below. Supplementary
information about the Group’s debt instruments, including redemption and conversion terms,
ifany, is given on pages 99 to 101.
84 Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsEconomic
interest rate if
held to maturity 2000 1999
Swiss franc bonds
‘Bullet’ 2% due 2003, principal 1.25 billion Swiss francs 1.78% 1,245 1,242
‘Rodeo’ 1.75% due 2008, principal 1 billion Swiss francs 2.66% 923 912
US dollar bonds
‘Knock Out’ 2.75% due 2000, principal 1 billion US dollars 6.20% – 1,586
‘Bull Spread’ 3.5% due 2001, principal 1 billion US dollars 8.60% 1,610 1,506
‘Chameleon’ 6.75% due 2009, principal 1 billion US dollars 6.75% 1,622 1,584
Japanese yen bonds
‘Samurai’ 1% due 2002, principal 100 billion Japanese yen 5.19% 1,051 1,011
Swiss franc convertible bonds
‘Helveticus’ dividend-linked convertible bonds, due 2003,
principal 1 billion Swiss francs – 215 990
Zero coupon US dollar exchangeable notes
‘LYONs II’ due 2010, principal 2.15 billion US dollars 7.00% 1,785 1,618
‘LYONs III’ due 2012, principal 3 billion US dollars 6.375% 2,301 2,098
‘LYONs IV’ due 2015, principal 1.506 billion US dollars 2.75% 1,363 –
Japanese yen exchangeable bonds
‘Sumo’ 0.25% due 2005, principal 104.6 billion Japanese yen 1.00% 1,388 –
Limited conversion preferred stock – 7 6
Total debt instruments 13,510 12,553
The economic interest rate if held to maturity is the market rate of interest at the date of issuance
for a similar debt instrument, but with no conversion rights or discount upon issuance.
Issue of ‘LYONs IV’ US dollar notes exchangeable into Genentech shares
On 19 January 2000 the Group issued zero coupon US dollar exchangeable notes due 19 January
2015 with a principal amount of 1,506 million US dollars. The notes are exchangeable into shares
of the Group’s subsidiary, Genentech, at any time prior to maturity. If all of the notes were
exchanged into Genentech shares, the Group’s percentage of ownership of Genentech would
decrease by 2.5%.
Net proceeds from the issue were 980 million US dollars (1,562 million Swiss francs). These were
initially allocated as 2,369 million Swiss francs of debt, 1,094 million Swiss francs of unamortised
discount, 172 million Swiss francs of minority interest (in respect of the conversion option
embedded in the notes) and 115 million Swiss francs of deferred tax liability.
Issue of ‘Sumo’ Japanese yen bonds exchangeable into non-voting equity securities
On 26 April 2000 the Group issued 0.25% Japanese yen exchangeable bonds due 25 March 2005
with a principal amount of 104.6 billion Japanese yen. The bonds are exchangeable into non-
voting equity securities until 17 March 2005.
Net proceeds from the issue were 98.76 billion Japanese yen (1,599 million Swiss francs). These
were initially allocated as 1,694 million Swiss francs of debt, 132 million Swiss francs of unamor-
tised discount, 24 million Swiss francs of equity (in respect of the conversion option embedded in
the bonds) and 13 million Swiss francs of deferred tax liability.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 85Repayment of ‘Knock Out’ US dollar bonds
On the due date of 14 April 2000 the Group repaid the principal amount of 1 billion US dollars of
the 2.75% US dollar bonds originally issued in 1993. The resulting cash outflow was 1,648 million
Swiss francs.
Exercise of ‘Helveticus’ Swiss franc convertible bonds
During May 2000 ‘Helveticus’ dividend-linked Swiss franc convertible bonds due 2003 with
a principal amount of 698 million Swiss francs were exercised. The resulting cash outflow was
659 million Swiss francs. Other smaller amounts were exercised during the year.
Swiss franc convertible bonds
An annual payment distribution amount is paid on 31 July for each bond of CHF 9,530 par value
in the place of a fixed rate of interest. This annual payment distribution amount equals two
timesthe ordinary and/or extraordinary dividend declared on one non-voting equity security of
Roche Holding Ltd for the business year ended on 31 December which was nineteen months
priorto 31 July for the relevant year.
Unamortised discount
Included within the carrying value of debt instruments are the following unamortised discounts:
2000 1999
Swiss franc bonds 82 96
US dollar bonds 41 124
Japanese yen bonds 55 95
Swiss franc convertible bonds 1 9
Zero coupon US dollar exchangeable notes 5,443 4,524
Japanese yen exchangeable bonds 103 –
Total unamortised discount 5,725 4,848
25. Financial instrumentsin millions of CHF
In appropriate circumstances the Group uses financial instruments as part of its risk management
and trading strategies. This is discussed in Note 2. The majority of the derivative financial instru-
ments outstanding at the year-end consist of forward contracts entered into by foreign affiliates
for the purchase of currencies for settling intra-Group liabilities.
The notional principal values, fair values and carrying values of derivative financial instruments
held by the Group are shown in the table on page 87. The notional amounts do not represent the
amounts actually exchanged by the parties, and therefore are not a measure of the Group’s expo-
sure. Fair value is determined by reference to quoted market prices and the use of established
estimation techniques. The carrying values are those included in the consolidated balance sheet
as either other current assets or accrued liabilities.
86 Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsNotional principal Carrying
2000 amount Fair value value
Foreign currency derivatives
– forward exchange contracts and swaps 8,223 156 84
– options 1,391 18 17
Interest rate derivatives
– swaps 4,289 (34) 5
– other 114 – 1
Other derivatives 1,512 97 99
Total derivative financial instruments 15,529 237 206
1999
Foreign currency derivatives
– forward exchange contracts and swaps 7,933 (5) (49)
– options 6,088 4 101
Interest rate derivatives
– swaps 4,482 (48) 1
– other 633 (6) –
Other derivatives 1,807 210 189
Total derivative financial instruments 20,943 155 242
The net unrecognised gains on open contracts which hedge future anticipated foreign currency
sales amounted to 75 million Swiss francs (1999: 44 million Swiss francs). These gains will be
recognised in the income statement when these open contracts mature at various dates up to one
year from the balance sheet date.
26. Provisionsin millions of CHF
Restructuring Other 2000 1999
provisions provisions Total Total
At beginning of year 748 3,606 4,354 3,352
Changes in Group organisation and Givaudan spin-off3, 7 16 (10) 6 (54)
Additional provisions created 75 368 443 2,673
Unused amounts reversed (69) (96) (165) (62)
Utilised during the year (338) (632) (970) (1,903)
Increase in discounted amount due to passage
of time or change in discounting rate – 77 77 –
Currency translation effects and other (4) 254 250 348
At end of year 428 3,567 3,995 4,354
Of which:
Current portion of provisions 216 1,743 1,959 2,660
Non-current portions of provisions 212 1,824 2,036 1,694
Total provisions 428 3,567 3,995 4,354
Restructuring provisions arise from planned programmes that materially change the scope of
business undertaken by the Group or the manner in which business is conducted. Such
provisions include only the costs necessarily entailed by the restructuring which are not asso-
ciated with the ongoing activities of the Group. The creation of such provisions is recorded as
acharge against other operating income, except where they arise from the restructuring of newly
acquired companies, in which case they are included in the acquisition accounting and hence
form part of the goodwill.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 87Other provisions consist mainly of legal, environmental and similar matters. Other provisions
include provisions in respect of the vitamin case (see Note 5).
27. Contingent liabilities
The operations and earnings of the Group continue, from time to time and in varying degrees,
tobe affected by political, legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments, including those relating
to environmental protection, in the countries in which it operates. The industries in which the
Group is engaged are also subject to physical risks of various kinds. The nature and frequency of
these developments and events, not all of which are covered by insurance, as well as their effect
on future operations and earnings are not predictable.
Provisions have been recorded in respect of the vitamin case, as disclosed in Note 5. These
provisions are the Group’s best current estimate of the total liability that may arise. As the various
investigations outside the United States of America and private civil suits are still in progress it
ispossible that the ultimate liability may be different from this.
28. Cash flow statement in millions of CHF
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash flows from operating activities are those derived from the Group’s primary activities,
asdescribed in the divisional review. This is calculated by the indirect method, by adjusting the
Group’s operating profit for any operating income and expenses that are not cash flows
(for example depreciation and amortisation), and for movements in the Group’s working capital.
Operating cash flows also include income taxes paid on all activities, including, for example,
thetaxes paid on the Genentech and LabCorp share sales.
Effects of Genentech transactions,
vitamin case and Genentech legal settlements 2000 1999
Gain on sale of Genentech shares3 (3,949) (4,461)
Charge for vitamin case5 – 2,426
Charge for Genentech legal settlements6 – 345
Genentech inventory write-up charged3 158 140
Total (3,791) (1,550)
Other adjustments for non-cash operating income and expense
Expense for defined benefit post-employment plans8 298 322
Other adjustments (388) 297
Total (90) 619
Cash flows from financing activities
Cash flows from financing activities are primarily the proceeds from issue and repayments of the
Group’s equity and debt instruments. They also include interest payments and dividend payments
on these instruments. Cash flows from short-term financing, including finance leases, are also
included. These cash flows indicate the Group’s transactions with the providers of its equity and
debt financing.
Cash flows from short-term borrowings are shown as a net movement, as these consist of a large
number of transactions with short maturity.
88 Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsProceeds from issue of long-term debt 2000 1999
‘LYONs IV’ zero coupon exchangeable US dollar notes due 201524 1,562 –
‘Sumo’ 0.25% exchangeable Japanese yen bonds due 200524 1,599 –
‘Chameleon’ 6.75% US dollar bonds due 200924 – 1,537
Long-term bank loans and other borrowings24 982 2,638
Total 4,143 4,175
Repayment of long-term debt
Repayment of ‘Knock Out’ 2.75% US dollar bonds24 (1,648) –
Exercise of ‘Helveticus’ dividend-linked Swiss francs convertible bonds24 (659) (1)
Long-term bank loans and other borrowings24 (755) (3,688)
Total (3,062) (3,689)
Interest and dividends paid
Interest paid (902) (686)
Dividends paid (835) (750)
Total (1,737) (1,436)
Cash flows from investing activities
Cash flows from investing activities are principally those arising from the Group’s investments in
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, and from the acquisition and divestment of
subsidiaries, associated companies and businesses. Cash flows connected with the Group’s
portfolio of marketable securities and other investments are also included as are any interest and
dividend payments received in respect of these securities and investments. These cash flows
indicate the Group’s net reinvestment in its operating assets and the cash flow effects of the
changes in Group organisation, as well as the cash generated by the Group’s other investments.
Cash flows from marketable securities, including income and capital gains and losses, are shown
as a net movement on the Group’s portfolio, as these consist of a large number of positions which
are not held on a long-term basis.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries, associated companies and products 2000 1999
Cash contribution to Basilea14 (206) –
Acquisition of Genentech Special Common Stock3 – (6,222)
Other acquisitions3, 14 (2,480) –
Total (2,686) (6,222)
Divestments of subsidiaries, associated companies and products
Proceeds on sales of Genentech shares3 4,599 7,353
Proceeds on sales of LabCorp shares14 1,123 –
Other divestments3 1,087 –
Total 6,809 7,353
Interest and dividends received
Interest received 542 303
Dividends received 201 156
Total 743 459
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 8929. Subsequent events
At the Annual General Meeting on 3 April 2001, the shareholders will be asked to approve a
100for 1 stock split of the shares and non-voting equity securities of Roche Holding Ltd.
Ifapproved the split will take place after changes in the relevant Swiss company law will have
entered into force.
90 Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsReport of the Group Auditors
To the General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
As auditors of the Group, we have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Roche
Group on pages 56 to 90 for the year ended 31 December 2000.
These Consolidated Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Board of Directors of
Roche Holding Ltd. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Consolidated Financial
Statements based on our audit. We confirm that we meet the Swiss legal requirements con-
cerning professional qualification and independence.
Our audit was conducted in accordance with auditing standards promulgated by the Swiss pro-
fession and with the International Standards on Auditing issued by the International Federation
of Accountants, which require that an audit be planned and performed to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements are free from material misstate-
ment. We have examined on a test basis evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
theConsolidated Financial Statements. We have also assessed the accounting principles used,
significant estimates made and the overall consolidated financial statement presentation.
Webelieve that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Roche Group present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position at 31 December 2000, and the results of operations and
the cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Accounting Standards,
and comply with relevant Swiss law.
We recommend that the Consolidated Financial Statements submitted to you be approved.
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
William D. Kirst Ralph R. Reinertsen
Basel, 26 February 2001
Report of the Group Auditors 91Multi-Year Overview
Statistics, as reported 1991 1992
Statement of income in millions of CHF
Sales 11,451 12,953
EBITDA 2,208 2,893
Operating profit 1,386 2,013
Net income 1,482 1,916
Research and development 1,727 1,998
Balance sheet in millions of CHF
Long-term assets 8,478 9,293
Current assets 16,567 18,290
Total assets 25,045 27,583
Equity 14,429 16,046
Minority interests 511 581
Non-current liabilities 7,029 6,809
Current liabilities 3,076 4,147
Additions to property, plant and equipment 1,139 1,293
Personnel
Number of employees at end of year 55,134 56,335
Key Ratios
Net income as % of sales 13 15
Net income as % of equity 10 12
Research and development as % of sales 15 15
Current ratio % 539 441
Equity and minority interests as % of total assets 60 60
Sales per employee in thousands of CHF 208 230
Data on shares and non-voting equity securities
Number of shares 1,600,000 1,600,000
Number of non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine) 7,025,627 7,025,627
Total shares and non-voting equity securities 8,625,627 8,625,627
Total dividend in millions of CHF 236 312
Earnings per share and non-voting equity security (diluted) in CHF 172 222
Dividend per share and non-voting equity security in CHF 28 37
Cash and warrants in addition to dividend (adjusted) in CHF 13 –
Cash and warrants in addition to dividend (unadjusted) in CHF 25 –
a) If 1991 warrants held to final exercise date.
b) In addition to the normal dividend, the shareholders approved for each share and each non-voting equity security a special
RO 100 centenary warrant worth CHF 36 on date of issue or, at the holder’s option, a cash equivalent of CHF 36.
c) 1997 net income and related key ratios are shown after special charges of 6,308 million Swiss francs, net of tax, incurred following
the Corange acquisition and include Corange only in respect of balance sheet data.
92 Multi-Year Overview1993 1994 1995 1996 1997c) 1998 1999 2000
14,315 14,748 14,722 15,966 18,767 24,662 27,567 28,672
3,278 3,635 4,176 4,629 5,076 6,423 8,874 11,126
2,348 2,656 3,057 3,420 3,590 4,350 6,421 7,131
2,478 2,860 3,372 3,899 (2,031) 4,392 5,764 8,647
2,269 2,332 2,290 2,446 2,903 3,408 3,782 3,950
9,522 13,549 12,632 15,487 32,453 27,952 35,800 34,798
21,404 22,684 22,932 24,289 22,323 27,927 34,631 34,737
30,926 36,233 35,564 39,776 54,776 55,879 70,431 69,535
17,914 16,422 17,554 20,780 18,250 21,666 26,954 27,608
625 861 799 835 1,187 1,149 3,047 4,428
7,921 10,034 11,554 12,727 21,181 21,416 25,574 23,642
4,466 8,916 5,657 5,434 14,158 11,648 14,856 13,857
1,407 1,355 1,490 1,624 1,802 1,883 2,150 2,183
56,082 61,381 50,497 48,972 51,643 66,707 67,695 64,758
17 19 23 24 –11 18 21 30
14 17 19 19 –11 20 21 31
16 16 16 15 15 14 14 14
479 254 405 447 158 240 233 251
60 48 51 54 36 41 43 46
255 240 292 326 363 370 407 443
1,600,000 1,600,000 1,600,000 1,600,000 1,600,000 1,600,000 1,600,000 1,600,000
7,025,627 7,025,627 7,025,627 7,025,627 7,025,627 7,025,627 7,025,627 7,025,627
8,625,627 8,625,627 8,625,627 8,625,627 8,625,627 8,625,627 8,625,627 8,625,627
404 474 552 647 716 750 863e) 992f)
287 332 391 452 (235) 509 668 1,024
48 55 64b) 75 83 87 100e) 115f)
– 77a) – 36 – 190d) – –
– 153a) – 36 – 190d) – –
d) If 1996 warrants held to final exercise date.
e) Dividend 1999 does not include the special dividend relating to the spin-off of the Fragrances and Flavours Division.
f) Dividend 2000 as proposed by the Board of Directors.
Multi-Year Overview 93Sales by division in millions of CHF
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
Pharmaceuticals 10,460 12,070 14,376 16,487 17,686
Diagnostics 757 966 4,616 5,282 6,252
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals 3,329 3,803 3,630 3,649 3,571
Fragrances and Flavours 1,414 1,928 2,040 2,149 1,163
Others 6 – – – –
Total 15,966 18,767 24,662 27,567 28,672
Sales by geographical area in millions of CHF
Switzerland 291 320 445 455 509
European Union 4,923 5,588 8,799 9,326 9,012
Rest of Europe 635 841 1,017 1,090 1,266
Europe 5,849 6,749 10,261 10,871 10,787
North America 5,946 6,974 8,698 10,130 10,636
Latin America 1,568 1,991 2,455 2,577 2,928
Asia 2,003 2,333 2,453 3,109 3,394
Africa, Australia and Oceania 600 720 795 880 927
Total 15,966 18,767 24,662 27,567 28,672
Additions to property, plant and equipment by division in millions of CHF
Pharmaceuticals 1,156 1,204 858 963 1,132
Diagnostics 72 128 439 568 603
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals 282 394 442 450 372
Fragrances and Flavours 84 71 144 165 68
Others 30 5 – 4 8
Total 1,624 1,802 1,883 2,150 2,183
Additions to property, plant and equipment by geographical area in millions of CHF
Switzerland 366 307 295 335 361
European Union 420 457 703 826 731
Rest of Europe 6 13 28 30 31
Europe 792 777 1,026 1,191 1,123
North America 650 793 591 668 610
Latin America 40 74 98 133 229
Asia 129 138 141 124 173
Africa, Australia and Oceania 13 20 27 34 48
Total 1,624 1,802 1,883 2,150 2,183
94 Multi-Year OverviewConsolidated Income Statement
on an Adjusted Basis
Reconciliation of reported figures to adjusted basis in millions of CHF
Sales to Operating Net
2000 third parties EBITDA profit income
As reported in the financial statements 28,672 11,126 7,131 8,647
Discontinuing operations (1,163) (267) (200) (108)
Reclassification of sales to Givaudan
as sales to third parties 34 – – –
Impact of fair value adjustment
to Genentech inventories – 158 158 158
Impairment of long-term assets – – 1,161 1,161
Gain on sale of Genentech shares – (3,949) (3,949) (3,949)
Gain on sale of LabCorp shares – – – (660)
Income taxes – – – 1,200
Change in accounting policies – – – (1,395)
Income applicable to minority interests – – – (40)
Adjusted 27,543 7,068 4,301 5,014
1999
As reported in the financial statements 27,567 8,874 6,421 5,764
Discontinuing operations (2,149) (524) (397) (182)
Reclassification of sales to Givaudan
as sales to third parties 78 – – –
Impact of fair value adjustment
to Genentech inventories – 140 140 140
Impact of new/revised IAS – (153) (187) (187)
Additional amortisation on Genentech
acquisition as if effective 1 January 1999 – – (193) (193)
Gain on sale of Genentech shares – (4,461) (4,461) (4,461)
Vitamin case – 2,426 2,426 2,426
Genentech legal settlements – 345 345 345
Income taxes – – – 805
Change in accounting policies – – – (29)
Income applicable to minority interests – – – (27)
Adjusted 25,496 6,647 4,094 4,401
Consolidated Income Statement on an Adjusted Basis 95Holding and Finance Companies
Boehringer Mannheim (Far East) Pte. Ltd., Singapore
Boehringer Mannheim France Holding S.A., Meylan, France
Corange Deutschland Holding GmbH, Mannheim, Germany
Corange Ltd., Hamilton, Bermuda
Hoffmann-La Roche France SAS, Neuilly-sur-Seine, France
Roche Capital Corporation, Panama City, Panama
Roche Capital Market International Limited, St. Peter Port, Guernsey
Roche Capital Transactions Limited, Hamilton, Bermuda
Roche (China) Limited, Shanghai, China
Roche Deutschland Holding GmbH, Grenzach-Wyhlen, Germany
Roche Financial Management, Inc., Panama City, Panama
Roche Financial Products Limited, Hamilton, Bermuda
Roche Finanz AG, Basel, Switzerland
Roche Holding (UK) Limited, Welwyn Garden City, Great Britain
Roche Holdings, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware, USA
Roche International Finance (Bermuda) Ltd, Hamilton, Bermuda
Roche International Finance Corporation Limited, St. Peter Port, Guernsey
Roche International Ltd., Hamilton, Bermuda
Roche Kapitalmarkt AG, Basel, Switzerland
Roche Pharmholding B.V., Mijdrecht, Netherlands
Roche Treasury Management Europe Ltd, Basel, Switzerland
Sapac Corporation, Ltd., Montevideo, Uruguay
Syntex Corporation, Panama City, Panama
The above companies are wholly owned by the Group.
96 Holding and Finance CompaniesRoche Securities
Price development of share in CHF
Roche share (adjusted) Swiss Market Index (rebased)
30,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
Price development of non-voting equity security (Genussschein) in CHF
Roche non-voting equity security (adjusted) Swiss Market Index (rebased)
20,000
16,000
12,000
8,000
4,000
0
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
Price development of American Depositary Receipt (ADR) in USD
Roche ADR (adjusted) S&P 500 index (rebased)
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
100 Roche American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) are equivalent to one non-voting equity security (Genussschein).
ADRs have been traded in the United States over-the-counter market since July 1992.
Roche Securities 97Number of shares and non-voting equity securitiesa)
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
Number of shares
(nominal value CHF 100) 1,600,000 1,600,000 1,600,000 1,600,000 1,600,000
Number of non-voting equity securities
(Genussscheine)(no nominal value) 7,025,627 7,025,627 7,025,627 7,025,627 7,025,627
Total 8,625,627 8,625,627 8,625,627 8,625,627 8,625,627
Data per share and non-voting equity securityc) in CHF
Net income 452 (235)d) 509 668 1,003
Equity 2,409 2,116 2,512 3,125 3,201
Dividend 75 83 87 100e) 115f)
Stock price of shareb) High 16,545 23,066 26,278 27,348 26,375
Low 13,626 14,623 20,633 24,210 16,800
Year-end 14,696 21,898 24,210 25,305 20,100
Stock price of non-voting High 10,172 14,379 17,112 18,760 18,755
equity security Low 8,428 10,095 13,085 15,489 14,900
(Genussschein)b) Year-end 10,095 14,059 16,245 18,319 16,510
Historic stock prices (unadjusted)
Share Year-end 15,100 22,500 24,875 26,000 20,100
Non-voting equity security Year-end 10,415 14,505 16,760 18,900 16,510
Market capitalisation (unadjusted) in millions of CHF
Year-end 97,332 137,907 157,550 174,384 148,153
Key ratios (year-end)
Net income as % of equity 19 –11d) 20 21 31
Dividend yield of shares in % 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.6
Dividend yield of non-voting equity
securities (Genussscheine)in % 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.7
Price/earnings of shares (unadjusted) 33 –96 49 39 20
Price/earnings of non-voting
equity securities(Genussscheine) (unadjusted) 23 –62 33 28 16
a) Each non-voting equity security (Genussschein)confers the same rights as any of the shares to participate in the
available earnings and any remaining proceeds from liquidation following repayment of the nominal value of the
sharesand the participation certificate capital (if any). Shares and non-voting equity securities are listed on the Swiss
Exchange. Roche Holding Ltd has no restrictions as to ownership of its shares or non-voting equity securities.
b) All stock price data reflect daily closing prices. Stock price figures prior to 8 June 2000 are adjusted for the effects
ofthe Givaudan spin-off. The adjustment factors used are 0.97325 (shares) and 0.96925 (non-voting equity securities),
which are the factors used by independent financial institutions.
c) The net income per share and market capitalisation figures assume that the own equity instruments held are
outstanding.
d) 1997 net income and related key ratios are shown after special charges of 6,308 million Swiss francs, net of tax,
incurredfollowing the Corange acquisition and include Corange only in respect of balance sheet data.
e) 1999 dividend does not include the special dividend relating to the spin-off of the Fragrances and Flavours Division.
f) 2000 dividend as proposed by the Board of Directors.
Ticker symbols
Share Non-voting American
equity security Depositary Receipt
Reuters ROCZ.S ROCZg.S ROHHY.PK
Bloomberg RO SW ROG SW ROHHY US
SWX Swiss Exchange RO ROG –
98 Roche SecuritiesOutstanding bonds
Summarised bond terms Exchange terms and warrants
‘Bull Spread’ 1991 to 16 May 2001 The warrants were exercised on 16 May 1994. Each holder of
Face value: USD 1,000,000,000 100 warrants received CHF 10,000 in cash.
Coupon: 3.5%
Issuer: Roche Holdings, Inc.
Keep well: Roche Holding Ltd
Attached warrants: relating to Roche
bearer shares
‘Samurai’ 1994 to 15 May 2002 The warrants were exercised on 15 June 1998. Each holder of
Face value: JPY 100 billion 100 warrants received CHF 7,100 in cash.
Coupon: 1%
Issuer: Roche Financial Management, Inc.
Keep well: Roche Holding Ltd
Attached warrants: relating to Roche
non-voting equity securities
(Genussscheine)
‘LYONs’ 1995 to 20 April 2010 The Notes are exchangeable for American Depositary Shares
Face value: USD 2,150,000,000 (ADSs) at an adjusted exchange ratio of 4.84495 exchange
Coupon: Zero ADSs per USD 1,000 principal amount at maturity of the Notes.
Issuer: Roche Holdings, Inc. The exchange ratio was changed in accordance with the inden-
Keep well: Roche Holding Ltd ture agreement, dated 20 April 1995, with an effective date of
Exchange right: Roche ADSs 8June 2000. The Group will purchase any Note for cash, at the
option of the holder, on 20 April 2003 for a purchase price
perUSD 1,000 principal amount of the Notes of USD 617.78. In
addition, the Notes will be redeemable at the option of the
Group in whole or in part at any time after 20 April 2003 at the
issue price plus accrued original issue discount (OID).
‘Helveticus’ 1995 to 31 July 2003 Each bond of CHF 9,530 par value is exchangeable for one non-
Face value: CHF 1,000,650,000 voting equity security of Roche Holding Ltd at any time during
Coupon: 2 times ordinary and/or extra- the life of the bond. In accordance with the terms of the bonds
ordinary dividend on non-voting equity an additional cash payment of CHF 200 is made upon conver-
securities (Genussscheine) sion of each bond of CHF 9,530 par value.
Issuer: Roche Capital Market International
Limited
Keep well: Roche Holding Ltd
Conversion right: Roche non-voting equity
securities
Roche Securities 99Outstanding bonds
Summarised bond terms Exchange terms and warrants
‘LYONs’ 1997 to 6 May 2012 The Notes are exchangeable for American Depositary Shares
Face value: USD 3,000,000,000 (ADSs) at an exchange ratio of 3.62514 exchange ADSs per
Coupon: Zero USD 1,000 principal amount at maturity of the Notes. The
Issuer: Roche Holdings, Inc. exchange ratio was changed in accordance with the indenture
Keep well: Roche Holding Ltd agreement, dated 6 May 1997, with an effective date of 8 June
Exchange right: Roche ADSs 2000. The Group will purchase any Note for cash, at the
optionof the holder, on 6 May 2004 and 6 May 2008 for a pur-
chase price per USD 1,000 principal amount of the Notes of
USD 605.29 and USD 778.01, respectively. In addition, the Notes
willbe redeemable at the option of the Group in whole or in
part atany time after 6 May 2004 at the issue price plus
accrued original issue discount (OID).
‘Rodeo’ 1998 to 20 March 2008 100 warrants entitle the holder on 20 March 2001 (the exercise date):
Face value: CHF 1,000,000,000 (a) to receive a cash payment of CHF 2,000 if the average closing
Coupon: 1.75% price of the non-voting equity security in the period 14–20 March
Issuer: Roche Kapitalmarkt AG 2001 (‘the relevant price’) is at least CHF 20,700
Keep well: Roche Holding Ltd or
Attached warrants: Roche (b) at the option of the Group:
non-voting equity securities (i) to receive a cash payment equal to the difference between
(Genussscheine) the relevant price and CHF 18,700 if the relevant price is
between CHF 18,700 and CHF 20,700, or
(ii) to buy one non-voting equity security at the exercise price of
CHF 18,700.
In accordance with the terms of the warrants the upper and
lower relevant price were adjusted as of 8 June 2000.
‘Bullet’ 1998 to 21 March 2003 –
Face value: CHF 1,250,000,000
Coupon: 2%
Issuer: Roche International Finance
Corporation Limited
Keep well: Roche Holding Ltd
‘Chameleon’ 1999 to 6 July 2009 –
Face value: USD 1,000,000,000
Coupon: 6.75%
Issuer: Roche Holdings, Inc.
Keep well: Roche Holding Ltd
100 Roche SecuritiesOutstanding bonds
Summarised bond terms Exchange terms and warrants
‘LYONs’ 2000 to 19 January 2015 The Notes are exchangeable for Genentech shares at an
Face value: USD 1,506,342,000 exchange ratio of 8.65316 Genentech shares per USD 1,000
Coupon: Zero principal amount at maturity of the Notes. The Group has
Issuer: Roche Holdings, Inc. theright to pay cash equal to the market value of the Genen-
Keep well: Roche Holding Ltd tech shares in lieu of delivering Genentech shares. The Group
Exchange right: will purchase any Note for cash, at the option of the holder,
Genentech common stock on19 January 2004 and 19 January 2010 for a purchase price
per USD 1,000 principal amount of the Notes of USD 740.49
and USD 872.35, respectively. In addition, the Notes will be
redeemable at the option of the Group in whole or in part at
anytime after 19 January 2004 at the issue price plus accrued
original issue discount (OID).
‘Sumo’ 2000 to 25 March 2055 Each bond of JPY 1,410,000 par value is exchangeable for one
Face value: JPY 104,600,000,000 non-voting equity security of Roche Holding Ltd at an exchange
Coupon: 0.25% ratio of 1.03292. The bonds will be redeemable at maturity
Issuer: Roche Holdings, Inc. attheissue price (96.4%) plus accrued original issue discount
Keep well: Roche Holding Ltd (OID) at 100%.
Exchange right: Roche non-voting equity
securities (Genussscheine) In accordance with the terms of the bonds the exchange ratio
was adjusted as of 8 June 2000.
Roche Securities 101Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
Financial Statements
Income statement in millions of CHF
2000 1999
Income
Income from participations 1,335 1,133
Interest income from loans to Group companies 71 36
Interest and investment income 12 22
Other income 60 6
Total income 1,478 1,197
Expense
Financial expense (2) (1)
Administration expense (14) (14)
Other expense (93) (10)
Total expense (109) (25)
Profit for the year before taxes 1,369 1,172
Taxes (9) (7)
Net profit for the year 1,360 1,165
102 Financial StatementsBalance sheet at 31 December in millions of CHF
2000 1999
Long-term assets
Participations 3,871 3,940
Loans to Group companies 807 727
Total long-term assets 4,678 4,667
Current assets
Accounts receivable from Group companies 2,380 1,630
Other accounts receivable 245 156
Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1 1
Marketable securities 8 7
Liquid funds 217 726
Total current assets 2,851 2,520
Total assets 7,529 7,187
Equity
Share capital 160 160
Non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine) p.m. p.m.
General legal reserve 300 300
Free reserve 3,193 3,019
Special reserve 2,152 2,168
Available earnings:
– Balance brought forward from previous year 6 10
– Net profit for the year 1,360 1,165
Total equity 7,171 6,822
Non-current liabilities
Provisions 44 75
Total non-current liabilities 44 75
Current liabilities
Accounts payable to Group companies 235 286
Other liabilities 74 1
Accrued liabilities 5 3
Total current liabilities 314 290
Total liabilities 358 365
Total equity and liabilities 7,529 7,187
p.m = pro memoria. Non-voting equity securities have no nominal value.
Financial Statements 103Notes to the Financial Statements
General
The financial statements of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel, are prepared in accordance with the provi-
sions of Swiss company law and accepted business principles.
Valuation methods and translation of foreign currencies
In the balance sheet, assets and liabilities are disclosed at net realisable values. Exceptions
tothis rule are participations, which are shown at their acquisition values less appropriate
write-downs, and marketable securities, which are shown at the lower of cost or market value.
Unrealised foreign currency gains on balance sheet items are deferred. Expenses and income,
aswell as foreign currency transactions, are translated at exchange rates ruling at the relevant
transaction dates.
Details to specific items
Income
Total income of 1,478 million Swiss francs in 2000 is 281 million Swiss francs higher than in the
previous year due to better operating but also because of increased financial income.
Taxes
The tax charge includes corporate income and capital taxes, withholding taxes and stamp duty.
Equity
Total equity equals 95% of total assets as in the previous year.
Share capital
As in the previous year, share capital amounts to 160 million Swiss francs. It consists of 1,600,000
bearer shares with a nominal value of CHF 100 each.
Non-voting equity securities
As in the previous year, there are 7,025,627 non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine) with no
nominal value.
Guarantees
Guarantees in favour of Group companies total 9 million Swiss francs (previous year 8 million
Swiss francs).
At the time of preparing the balance sheet no risks arising out of these contingent liabilities were
discernible.
Pledged assets
Assets with a total book value of 8 million Swiss francs (previous year 7 million Swiss francs) have
been pledged as security for the Company’s own commitments.
104 Notes to the Financial StatementsParticipations
The major participations are listed on pages 96 and 110 to 111.
Important shareholders
All shares in the Company have been issued to bearer, and for this reason the Company does
notkeep a register of shareholders. The following figures are based on information from share-
holders, the shareholder validation check at the Annual General Meeting of 9 May 2000 and
onother information available to the Company.
800,200 (previous year 800,200) shares: Shareholders’ group with pooled voting rights, comprising
Dr L. Hoffmann, Ms V. Michalski-Hoffmann, Ms M.-A. Hoffmann, Mr A. Hoffmann, Ms V. Oeri-
Hoffmann, Dr A. Oeri, Ms S. Duschmalé-Oeri, Ms C. Oeri, Ms B. Oeri and Ms M. Oeri.a)
268,721 (previous year 178,901) shares: BZ Gruppe Holding Aktiengesellschaft, Wilen, Switzer-
land.b)
a) Information supplied by the shareholders as of 31 December 2000. This figure of 800,200 shares does not include
shares without pooled voting rights held outside the group by individual members of the group.
b) Figures as of 31 December 2000 supplied by BZ Gruppe Holding Aktiengesellschaft.
Notes to the Financial Statements 105Appropriation of Available Earnings
Proposals to the General Meeting in CHF
2000 1999
Available earnings
Net profit for the year 1,359,532,021 1,164,667,191
Balance brought forward from previous year 5,602,760 9,991,059
Total available earnings 1,365,134,781 1,174,658,250
Appropriation of available earnings
Distribution of an ordinary dividend of CHF 115 gross
per share and non-voting equity security (Genussschein)
as against CHF 100 last year (991,947,105) (862,562,700)
Distribution of a special dividend of CHF 15.39 gross
for allocating one share of Givaudan Ltd for each share
and non-voting equity security – (132,748,400)
Transfer to free reserve (365,721,270) (173,744,390)
Total appropriation of available earnings (1,357,668,375) (1,169,055,490)
To be carried forward on this account 7,466,406 5,602,760
106 Appropriation of Available EarningsReport of the Statutory Auditors
To the General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
As statutory auditors we have audited the accounting records and the financial statements
(income statement, balance sheet and notes, pages 102 to 105) of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel, for
the year ended 31 December 2000.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Board of Directors. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We confirm that we meet
the legal requirements concerning professional qualification and independence.
Our audit was conducted in accordance with auditing standards promulgated by the Swiss pro-
fession, which require that an audit be planned and performed in such a manner as to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
We have examined on a test basis evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. We have also assessed the accounting principles used, significant estimates
made and the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the accounting records, the financial statements and the proposed appropriation
of available earnings comply with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation.
We recommend that the financial statements submitted to you be approved.
Ernst & Young Ltd
Jürg Zürcher Philipp Schaffter
Basel, 26 February 2001
Report of the Statutory Auditors 10790°
70°
120°
150° 180° 150° 120°
Arctic Circle
60°
50°
40°
30°
Tropic of
Cancer
20°
10°
0°
10°Roche –
20°
Tropic of
Capricorn
30°
a Global Market Presence
40°
50°
90° 120° 150° An Ct ia rcrc letic 180° 150° 120°
• Sales • • • • • Switzerland
• Manufacturing • • Argentina
• Research and development • • Australia
• Services, financing
• Toll manufacturing by third parties • Austria
• • Bangladesh
• • • Belgium
• Bermuda
• • Brazil
• • Canada
• • Chile
• • • • China
• • Colombia
• • Costa Rica
• Czech Republic
• Denmark
• Dominican Republic
• • • • • Ecuador
• • Egypt
• El Salvador
• Finland
• • • • France
• • • • • Germany
• • • • Great Britain
• • • • • Greece
• • Guatemala
108 Roche – a Global Market Presence30°
90° 60° 30° 0° 70°
Arctic Circle
60°
50°
40°
30°
Tropic of
Cancer
20°
10°
0°
10°
20°
Tropic of
Capricorn
30°
40°
50°
90° 60° A Cnt ia rcrc letic 30° 0° 30°
• • Honduras • • South Korea
• Hungary • • Spain
• • • • India • Sweden
• • Indonesia • • Taiwan
• • Ireland • • • • • Thailand
• • • • • Israel • • Turkey
• • • Italy • • • • Uruguay
• • • Japan • • • • USA
• Malaysia • • Venezuela
• • • • Mexico
• • Morocco
• • • • The Netherlands
• New Zealand
• Nicaragua
• Norway
• • Pakistan
• • • • Panama
• • • • • Peru
• • • • • Philippines
• Poland
• • • • • Portugal
• • • • • Puerto Rico
• Russia
• • • Singapore
• • South Africa
Roche – globale Marktpräsenz 109Operating Subsidiaries
and Associated Companies
The Group holds an interest of over 90% in Switzerland:F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, S.A., San José | Roche Servicios S.A., San
mostofthe companies listed below. Exceptions Basel | Roche Ltd, Sisseln | Teranol Ltd, José | Roche Costa Rica S.A., San José.
aremarked either with a single dot Lalden | Roche Pharma (Switzerland) Ltd, Czech Republic: Roche s.r.o., Prague.
••= Group interest 50–90%
Reinach | Roche Diagnostics (Schweiz) Denmark: Roche a/s, Hvidovre. Dominican
or with a double dot
••= Group interest <50%. Ltd, Rotkreuz | Roche Diagnostics Inter- Republic: Productos RocheDominicana
national Ltd, Cham | Roche Vitamins S.A., Santo Domingo. Ecuador: Roche
Europe Ltd, Birsfelden | Roche Instrument Ecuador S.A., Quito. Egypt: Rovigypt Ltd.,
31December 2000 Center Ltd, Rotkreuz | Roche Consumer Giza | Roche (Egypt) Ltd., Giza. El Sal-
Health Ltd, Kaiseraugst |••Basilea Phar- vador: Productos Roche (El Salvador)
Includes changes in Group membership
maceutica Ltd, Basel. Argentina:Produc- S.A., San Salvador. Finland: Roche Oy,
up to February 2001.
tos Roche S.A. Química e Industrial, Espoo. France: Hoffmann-LaRoche
Olivos. Australia: Roche Products Pty. France SAS, Neuilly-sur-Seine | Produits
Limited, Dee Why | Roche Vitamins Roche S.A., Neuilly-sur-Seine | Roche
Australia Pty.Limited, French Forest | Diagnostics S.A., Meylan | Roche Vita-
Syntex Australia Limited, North Sydney | mines France S.A., Village-Neuf | Labo-
Roche DiagnosticsAustralia Pty. Limited, ratoires Roche Nicholas S.A., Gaillard.
Castle Hill. Austria: Roche Austria GmbH, Germany: Roche Deutschland Holding
Vienna| Roche Diagnostics GmbH, GmbH, Grenzach-Wyhlen | Corange
Vienna. Bangladesh: Roche Bangladesh Deutschland Holding GmbH, Mannheim |
Ltd., Dhaka. Belgium:N.V. Roche S.A., Hoffmann-La Roche Aktiengesellschaft,
Brussels | S.A. Citrique Belge N.V., Tienen | Grenzach-Wyhlen | Roche Nicholas
Roche Vitamins N.V., Deinze-Astene | Deutschland GmbH, Eppstein | Dr. Schief-
Roche Diagnostics Belgium SA, Brussels. fer Arzneimittel GmbH, Cologne | Roche
Bermuda: Syntex Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics GmbH, Mannheim | Galenus
International Limited, Hamilton. Brazil: Mannheim GmbH, Mannheim | Hestia
Produtos Roche Químicos e Farmacêuti- Pharma GmbH, Mannheim | Roche Vita-
cos S.A., São Paulo | Colborn-Dawes S.A., mine GmbH, Grenzach-Wyhlen. Great
São Paulo. Canada:Hoffmann-La Roche Britain: Roche Products Limited, Welwyn
Limited, Toronto | Roche Vitamins Canada Garden City | Roche Diagnostics Ltd,
Inc., Cambridge, Ontario. Chile: Productos Lewes | Roche Vitamins (UK) Ltd, Welwyn
Roche Ltda., Santiago de Chile. China: Garden City | Roche Registration Limited,
Roche (China) Limited, Shanghai |•Shang- Welwyn Garden City. Greece: Roche (Hel-
hai Roche Pharmaceuticals Limited, las) S.A., Athens. Guatemala: Productos
Shanghai | •Roche Taishan (Shanghai) Roche Guatemala S.A., Guatemala City.
Vitamin Products Ltd., Shanghai |•Roche Honduras: Productos Roche (Honduras),
Sunve (Shanghai) Vitamins Ltd., Shang- S.A., Tegucigalpa. Hungary: Roche (Hun-
hai| •Roche New Asiatic (Shanghai) gary) Ltd, Budapest. India: Roche Scien-
Vitamins Ltd., Shanghai | •Roche tific Company (India) Private Limited,
Zhongya (Wuxi) Citric Acid Ltd, Wuxi | Mumbai. Indonesia: P.T. Roche Indonesia,
Roche Diagnostics (Shanghai) Limited, Jakarta. Ireland: Roche Products (Ireland)
Shanghai | Roche Hong Kong Limited, Limited, Dublin | Roche Ireland Limited,
Hong Kong | Roche Diagnostics (Hong Clarecastle. Israel: Roche Pharmaceuti-
Kong) Limited, Hong Kong. Colombia: cals (Israel) Ltd., Tel-Aviv. Italy: Roche
Productos Roche S.A., Bogotá. Costa S.p.A., Milan | Roche Diagnostics S.p.A.,
Rica: Productos Roche Interamericana Milan | Istituto delle Vitamine S.p.A.,
110 Operating Subsidiaries and Associated CompaniesMilan. Japan: Nippon Roche K.K., Tokyo | tary) Limited, Johannesburg. South
••Nutritec Co., Ltd., Tokyo | Roche Korea:Roche Korea Company Ltd.,
Diagnostics K.K., Tokyo | Roche Vitamins Seoul| Roche Diagnostics Korea Co. Ltd.,
Japan K.K., Tokyo. Malaysia: Roche Seoul | Roche Vitamins Korea Ltd., Seoul.
Malaysia Sdn Bhd, Kuala Lumpur | Roche Spain: Roche Farma S.A., Madrid (from
Diagnostics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, Kuala 1March 2001) | Roche Vitaminas S.A.,
Lumpur | Roche Vitamins (Malaysia) Sdn Madrid | Andreu Roche S.A., Madrid |
Bhd, Kuala Lumpur. Mexico: Productos Syntex Roche S.A., Madrid | Roche Diag-
Roche, S.A. de C.V., Mexico City | Syntex nostics, S.L., Barcelona| Boehringer
S.A. de C.V., Mexico City | Grupo Roche Mannheim Roche S.A., Madrid. Sweden:
Syntex de México, S.A. de C.V., Mexico Roche AB, Stockholm | Roche Diagnos-
City | Lakeside de México, S.A. de C.V., tics Scandinavia AB, Bromma. Taiwan:
Mexico City. Morocco:•Produits Roche Roche Products Ltd., Taipei | Roche Diag-
S.A., Casablanca. The Netherlands: Roche nostics Ltd., Taipei | Roche Vitamins
Pharmholding B.V., Mijdrecht | Roche Taiwan Limited, Taipei. Thailand: Roche
Nederland B.V., Mijdrecht | Roche Diag- Thailand Limited, Bangkok |••Rovithai
nostics Nederland B.V., Almere. New Limited, Bangkok | ••Roche Diagnostics
Zealand: Roche Products (New Zealand) (Thailand) Limited, Bangkok. Turkey:
Limited, Auckland | Roche Vitamins (New Roche Müstahzarları Sanayi Anonim
Zealand) Limited, Auckland | Roche S¸irketi, Istanbul | Roche Diagnostik Sis-
Diagnostics New Zealand Pty. Ltd., Auck- temleri Ticaret A.S., Istanbul. Uruguay:
land. Nicaragua: Productos Roche Roche International Ltd., Montevideo |
(Nicaragua) S.A., Managua. Norway: Sapac Corporation Ltd., Montevideo.
Roche Norge A/S, Oslo. Pakistan: Roche USA: Roche Holdings, Inc., Wilmington
Pakistan Ltd., Karachi. Panama: Produc- (Delaware) | Hoffmann-LaRoche Inc.,
tos Roche Interamericana S.A., Panama Nutley (New Jersey) | RocheLaboratories
City | Productos Roche Panamá S.A., Inc., Nutley (New Jersey) | Roche Vitamins
Panama City. Peru: Productos Roche Inc., Parsippany (New Jersey) | Roche
Química Farmacéutica S.A., Lima. Philip- Molecular Systems, Inc., Pleasanton
pines: Roche (Philippines) Inc., Makati | (California) | American Roche Interna-
Roche Vitamins Philippines, Inc., Manila. tional Inc., Little Falls (New Jersey) | Roche
Poland: Roche Polska Sp. z o.o., Warsaw | Carolina Inc., Florence (South Carolina) |
Roche Diagnostics Polska Sp. z o.o., •Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco
Warsaw | Roche Witaminy Polska Sp. (California) | Syntex (U.S.A.) L.L.C., Palo
zo.o., Mszczonów. Portugal: Roche Far- Alto (California) | Roche Colorado Corpo-
macêutica Química Lda, Amadora | Roche ration, Boulder (Colorado) | •Bayer-
Sistemas de Diagnósticos, Sociedade Roche L.L.C., Morristown (New Jersey) |
Unipessoal, Lda., Linda-A-Velha. Puerto ••Laboratory Corporation of America
Rico: Syntex Puerto Rico, Inc., Humacao. Holdings, Burlington (North Carolina) |
Russia: Roche Moscow Ltd., Moscow. Roche Diagnostics Corporation, Indiana-
Singapore: Roche Singapore Pte. Ltd., polis (Indiana). Venezuela: Productos
Singapore | Roche Diagnostics Asia Roche S.A., Caracas.
Pacific Pte. Ltd., Singapore | Roche Vita-
mins Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd., Singapore.
South Africa: Roche Products (Proprie-
Operating Subsidiaries and Associated Companies 111Published by F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, 4070 Basel, Switzerland
Tel. ++41/61 688 11 11, Fax ++41/61 691 93 91
Media Office Corporate Communications, 4070 Basel, Switzerland
Tel. ++41/61 688 88 88, Fax ++41/61 688 27 75
Investor Relations 4070 Basel, Switzerland
Tel. ++41/61 688 88 80, Fax ++41/61 691 00 14
World Wide Web http://www.roche.com
To order Tel. ++41/61 688 83 39, Fax ++41/61 688 43 43
publications E-mail: basel.webmaster@roche.com
All trademarks mentioned enjoy legal protection.
The Roche annual report is published in German
Next Annual General Meeting:
(original language) and English.
3 April 2001
The Roche annual report is issued by F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd,
Basel, Corporate Communications.
Design: Wirz Identity AG, Zurich
Typesetting: Stauffer-Febel AG, Basel
Lithos: Photolitho Sturm AG, Muttenz-Basel
Printers: Birkhäuser+GBC AG, Graphische Unternehmen,
Reinach-Basel
Binding: Buchbinderei Grollimund AG, Reinach-Basel
Cover:
The background picture shows a computer-assisted molecular
modelling of the active ingredient of Herceptin, a drug for the
treatment of breast cancer.Vitamins and
Fine Chemicals 13%
Diagnostics 23%
Sales by division1)
Pharmaceuticals 64%
Latin America 10%
Others 3%
Asia 12%
Sales by region1)
Europe 38%
North America 37%
Vitamins and
Fine Chemicals 11%
Others 1%
Diagnostics 24%
Employees by division
Pharmaceuticals 64%
Latin America 9%
Others 3%
Asia 11%
Employees by region
North America 27%
Europe 50%
1) On an adjusted basis.