Annual Report 2023Sustainable
innovation
at our core
Innovation is at the core of everything we do. We are committed to
transform lives. Pushing boundaries, we pursue ground-breaking
solutions across all our functions. Doing now what patients need
next, we look ahead to create a healthy and stable future for people
and the planet.
With pharmaceuticals and diagnostics under one roof, we are
uniquely positioned to improve care along the patient journey. By
investing in cutting-edge research and collaborative partnerships,
we continue to transform ideas into life-changing solutions for
people and communities worldwide.2 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration ReportAnnual Report 2023 | Roche 3
Contents
Letters to shareholders 4
Sustainability Report 14
How we contribute 96
Corporate Governance 122
Remuneration Report 148
roche.com/reporting4 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration ReportLetters to shareholders | Roche 5
Letters to
shareholders6 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Dr Severin SchwanChairman’s shareholder letter | Roche 7
Dear Shareholders
At Roche, the year 2023 was marked by significant opportunities to make our work even more efficient
management changes. I am very pleased that my along the entire value chain. This includes, for
successor as CEO, Thomas Schinecker, and his instance, testing and developing new methods in
leadership team have already embarked on a series research and development.
of important initiatives. Roche is characterised by
its ability to combine continuity and change. We One great example of this is the foundation of the
remain committed to our values and our strategy, Institute of Human Biology (IHB) in Basel last year.
and at the same time, we evolve as an organisation, The institute is focused on, among other things,
and initiate necessary changes accordingly. research on organoids – miniature models of organs
or tissues that are grown in the laboratory and
We are convinced that our strategy, which is used for researching diseases without having to
focused on innovation in pharmaceuticals and rely on real organs. This also means we can reduce
diagnostics, ensures we remain in a strong position. animal testing even further while accelerating
Our consistent ability to successfully bring new and improving the development of much needed
products to patients is a hallmark of our company – innovative treatments.
particularly last year when we were able to offset
the expected significant decline in the COVID-19 As important as our own innovative strength is, a
business with new products. large proportion of innovation takes place outside
our company. For that reason, securing even more
Our ability to innovate will remain the key success long-term partnerships with academic institutions,
factor for Roche in the future. For this, we need hospitals and other companies remains an essential
the courage to take risks. In our industry, only part of our strategy. For example, the recent
a handful of molecules make the leap from acquisition of Telavant provides the opportunity
development to approved medicine. And Roche for us to combat various autoimmune diseases
is no exception: we have also had to overcome with a promising new mechanism of action. And
some setbacks in recent times, such as with a with the acquisition of Carmot, we are able to tap
new compound against Alzheimer’s. The patients into potential new medicines in obesity and other
are at the heart of all our endeavours. And that metabolic diseases.
is exactly what motivates us to keep creating a
better framework in order to maintain, foster and After all, innovation is only sustainable if it
strengthen the creativity and innovative spirit at reaches the patients who need it most. One of our
Roche. This starts with the company’s culture key priorities therefore remains to facilitate and
and the incredibly talented people who work here. improve worldwide access to our medicines and
Yet, at the same time, we must keep looking for diagnostic tests.8 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Roche Board of Directors on 31 December 2023
Dr Severin Schwan (1967), Chairman, D*, E
André Hoffmann (1958), Vice-Chairman, representative of the shareholder group with pooled voting rights, A*, C*, D, E, G
Dr Jörg Duschmalé (1984), representative of the shareholder group with pooled voting rights, B, C, E, G
Dr Patrick Frost (1968), B*, E, G
Anita Hauser (1969), C, D, E, G
Prof. Dr Akiko Iwasaki (1970), A, E, G
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953), C, E, G
Dr Jemilah Mahmood (1959), A, E, G
Bernard Poussot (1952), C, E, G
Dr Mark Schneider (1965), B, E, G
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967), A, B, E, G
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee | B Audit Committee | C Remuneration Committee | D Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
E Non-executive director | F Executive director (currently no member) | G Independent member of the Board of Directors | * Committee chairpersonChairman’s shareholder letter | Roche 9
From a results perspective, 2023 was again a good to receive our medicines and diagnostic tests.
year for Roche. In spite of the expected decline in Our employees devote themselves to achieving
sales from our COVID-19 products of CHF 4.3 billion, this goal with great passion and dedication every
total sales rose by 1% at constant exchange rates, single day. I would like to thank them for their
and IFRS net income came to CHF 12.4 billion. tireless efforts.
The Board of Directors therefore proposes to the And thank you, dear shareholders, for placing your
Annual General Meeting an increase in the dividend trust in us.
of 1% to CHF 9.60 per share. If approved, this will be
the 37th consecutive increase.
Lastly, the past year was also marked by
geopolitical uncertainties, major conflicts, war,
terror and the dreadful impact these events had on
those affected. In such situations, it becomes even Dr Severin Schwan
more important to ensure that patients continue Chairman
Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates and comparisons to the previous year are at constant exchange rates (CER; average rates 2022) and all total figures
quoted are reported in CHF.10 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Dr Thomas SchineckerShareholder letter CEO Roche Group | Roche 11
Dear Shareholders
2023 was both a demanding and a successful year We have also achieved other important
for Roche – with strong business performance, milestones for patients in 2023. Our innovative
promising medical advances and key partnerships immunotherapies Columvi and Lunsumio, both
and acquisitions. bispecific antibodies aimed at activating the body’s
own immune system, opened up new avenues in the
This was also the year in which the World Health combat against blood cancer. Columvi has shown
Organization declared the end of the coronavirus promising results for people with an aggressive form
pandemic. We at Roche are proud of the significant of blood cancer who have already received several
contributions we made towards achieving this treatments and are in urgent need of new options.
objective. Lunsumio offers new promise to patients with a
special type of follicular lymphoma, a disease that
The return to normality consequently led to a progresses slowly and has been incurable until now.
decline in our COVID-19 sales. Given this, our
annual result is all the more impressive: with sales The positive phase III data for Alecensa and
of CHF 58.7 billion – an increase of 1% at constant inavolisib in lung and breast cancer, respectively,
exchange rates – we more than offset the decline in are further highlights. Alecensa – which is already
COVID-19 sales and the impact of biosimilar/generic effective in a specific form of advanced lung
erosion. Overall, we were able to compensate more cancer – now offers the chance of cure to those
than CHF 6.4 billion – which is more than 10% of in the early stages of the disease. Inavolisib could
our sales. This success is rooted in our strong base prove to be a medical breakthrough for a form of
business (without COVID-19 products), which grew advanced, hard-to-treat breast cancer.
by 8% thanks to the high demand for our newer
diagnostics and medicines. At Roche, we have a long tradition of complementing
our own research and development activities with
One particular highlight is Vabysmo, an innovative external partnerships. 2023 was no different: by
medicine for the treatment of eye diseases that partnering with Alnylam, we gained access to an
can lead to blindness. Around 70 million people investigational therapeutic for treating high blood
worldwide currently suffer from ‘wet’ age-related pressure, a disease that affects 1.2 billion people
macular degeneration, diabetic macular oedema and cannot be adequately controlled with
or retinal vein occlusion. For many elderly people, treatments currently available. With Telavant, we
Vabysmo already offers new hope: it may help acquired a potential treatment for inflammatory
them to maintain – or even regain – eyesight and bowel disease and other immune-mediated
thus independence. Vabysmo made a significant diseases. In addition, our acquisition of Carmot
contribution to the company’s growth in 2023 has the potential to enrich our portfolio with
and has been one of the most successful product a range of programmes in obesity and other
launches in Roche’s history. metabolic disorders.
Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates and comparisons to the previous year are at constant exchange rates (CER; average rates 2022) and all total figures
quoted are reported in CHF. | Biosimilars/generics for Avastin, Herceptin, MabThera/Rituxan, Lucentis and Esbriet12 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Roche Corporate Executive Committee on 31 December 2023
Dr Thomas Schinecker (1975), CEO Roche Group
Teresa Graham (1973), CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals
Matt Sause (1977), CEO Roche Diagnostics
Dr Alan Hippe (1967), Chief Financial and Information Officer
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967), Chief People Officer
Claudia Böckstiegel* (1964), General Counsel
Prof. Dr Hans Clevers* (1957), Head Roche Pharma Research and Early Development (pRED)
Dr Levi Garraway* (1968), Head Global Product Development and Chief Medical Officer
Silke Hörnstein* (1975), Head Corporate Strategy and Sustainability
Dr Aviv Regev* (1971), Head Genentech Research and Early Development (gRED)
Dr James H. Sabry* (1958), Global Head Pharma Partnering
Barbara Schädler* (1962), Head Group Communications
* Member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive CommitteeShareholder letter CEO Roche Group | Roche 13
It is well-known that you can only treat what you mission. I am honoured to have been part of this
know. Patient care always begins with a diagnosis – team for over 20 years. Second, innovation remains
its importance is immense. Modern diagnostics at the core of our company. Over the past ten years,
are pivotal for early detection of diseases and we have brought more than 20 new medicines
targeted treatments, for example in infection- to patients and thus successfully diversified our
related conditions such as sepsis. Often called portfolio. Today, we are leading not only in cancer
blood poisoning, sepsis is a leading cause of treatments but also in neuroscience, ophthalmology
death in newborns. With Elecsys IL-6, the world’s and haemophilia A. We are also the market leader
first immunoassay for the diagnosis of sepsis in in in-vitro diagnostics.
newborns, we are setting a new standard in the
fight against this severe condition. In order to keep delivering innovative medicines
and diagnostics, it is clear that research-driven
Early diagnosis and treatment monitoring are also companies like Roche must continue to push
crucial for neurological diseases. In 2023, Roche scientific frontiers.
made significant progress in this area. For example,
our Elecsys NfL test obtained ‘Breakthrough Device Therefore, my personal focus during the first
Designation’ from the FDA. This minimally invasive few months as CEO was to work with our teams
test helps to detect disease activity in certain forms to find ways to further strengthen our pipeline
of multiple sclerosis and could therefore support and ability to innovate. Together, we have laid
better disease management. the foundation for the future. One example is
digitalisation, which includes the increased use
We also launched the navify Algorithm Suite, a of artificial intelligence at all stages of the drug
‘digital library’ of medical algorithms that help development process.
improve clinical decision-making through the
combination of different data points. This library Strengthening our research and development
is already enabling better diagnoses in cardiology engine also forms the basis for increasing the value
and oncology and is being continuously expanded. of our company. At Roche – with pharmaceuticals,
diagnostics and digital solutions under one roof –
We have achieved a lot, and I would like to thank we are uniquely positioned to continue to develop
all of our more than 100,000 employees worldwide breakthrough innovations for patients around
for their outstanding commitment to improving the world.
patients’ lives!
I would like to thank everyone who worked with us
2023 also marks my first year as CEO of Roche, in 2023 to improve the lives of patients. And thank
a time full of exciting new challenges and you, our valued shareholders, for the trust you
opportunities. During these months, I had many have placed in our company.
in-depth, extensive and rewarding conversations
with colleagues, customers, patients and other
stakeholders to listen and learn.
In these conversations, two important insights were
reaffirmed. First, at Roche we work with fantastic Dr Thomas Schinecker
people who are passionate about our company and CEO Roche Group14 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration ReportSustainability Report | Roche 15
Sustainability
Report
1. Our approach to sustainability 16
1.1 Our purpose 22
1.2 Our strategy and our business model 24
2. Business performance 26
2.1 Roche Group 28
2.2 Diagnostics 30
2.3 Pharmaceuticals 36
3. Our reporting approach 42
3.1 Our key sustainability topics 44
4. Partnering with patients 46
5. Access to healthcare 50
6. Diversity, equity and inclusion 54
7. Safety, health and well-being 60
8. Ethical business practices and human rights 64
9. Environment 78
10. Global citizenship 84
11. Information security 88
Independent practitioner’s limited assurance report 9216 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
1. Our approach to sustainability
Our purpose is: Doing now what patients need next. How we identify and
meet those needs − what we do every day − must be sustainable if we are
to succeed.
Sustainability is built into our business strategy longer, better and more productive lives − enabling
and is part of everyone’s job at Roche. We engage them to support themselves and contribute to their
regularly and systematically with our internal and local economies.
external stakeholders to understand their needs
and build mutual trust. Our holistic approach to Our commitments and initiatives
sustainability integrates three dimensions: Roche is dedicated to working with partners across
and beyond our sector to amplify our collective
Society. We contribute to a better society by social and environmental impact. We are committed
developing new medicines and ways of diagnosing to several global sustainability initiatives, including:
disease which provide life-changing benefits for • United Nations Sustainable Development
patients. We have a deep respect for the human Goals
rights of everyone we reach – especially patients, Roche contributes to a number of the 2030 United
business partners, suppliers, local communities Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
and, of course, our colleagues around the world. and its 169 specific targets within the sphere of
It is why we emphasise employee safety, health our work. We have a particularly important role
and development while promoting diversity, to play in contributing to SDG 3, Good health
equity and inclusion, integrity, mutual respect, and well-being, and its associated targets. Good
and equal opportunities for all. health plays a foundational role in supporting
strong societal and economic development.
Environment. Respect for a healthy planet • United Nations Global Compact
and the environment has always been a priority Roche has been a signatory to the United
of the company. We are committed to halving Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2021.
the environmental impact of our operations and Our Communication on Progress (COP) confirms
products from 2019 to 2029. And we aim to reduce our commitment to integrating the UNGC
our own greenhouse gas emissions to absolute principles on human rights, labour, environment
zero by 2050, while partnering with our suppliers and anti-corruption across our strategy, culture
to reduce their emissions for our mutual benefit. and day-to-day operations, and to advancing
global development goals – in particular the
Economy. Our business must meet the needs of 2030 United Nations SDGs.
patients and continue creating quality jobs that • Science Based Targets initiative
provide people and their families with secure Roche has committed to the Science Based
livelihoods, while earning competitive returns for Targets initiative (SBTi) to achieve absolute net
our investors. We do this by promoting innovation zero for scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas
and by translating science into pioneering emissions. The SBTi drives necessary climate
medicines and diagnostics that help patients live action in the private sector by enablingOur approach to sustainability | Roche 17
Sustainability is built into our business strategy
and is part of everyone’s job at Roche.18 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
organisations to set science-based emissions and reporting internal and external risks and
reduction targets. The SBTi is a partnership opportunities. A consolidated Group Risk Report
between the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the covering all material risks and opportunities is
UNGC, the World Resources Institute (WRI) and discussed with the Corporate Executive Committee
the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), and its and reviewed by the Board of Directors annually.
emissions reduction guidance for businesses has The effectiveness of Roche’s Group risk
become recognised globally as the gold standard. management process is regularly monitored by
• Sustainable Markets Initiative (SMI) the Group Risk Advisory team. The overall process
Roche has joined the SMI Health Systems Task is reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Board
Force to address emissions across supply of Directors and also externally when appropriate.
chains, patient care pathways and clinical trials. Risk management is embedded at all levels of the
The SMI Health Systems Task Force launched Roche Group. Our Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
at the 26th United Nations Climate Change Divisions and global functions conduct a formal risk
Conference (COP26) with the central aim of and opportunity assessment at least once a year
accelerating the delivery of net-zero, patient- and must develop response plans for their most
centric healthcare systems that improve individual, material risks and opportunities.
societal and planetary health. The public-private
partnership brings together CEOs and leaders Read more in ‘Corporate Governance’ on page 122.
from AstraZeneca, GSK, Merck, Novo Nordisk,
Roche, Samsung Biologics, Sanofi, the Karolinska We also identify long-term business environment
Institutet, National Health Service England, the trends and the associated risks and opportunities
Sustainable Healthcare Coalition, UNICEF, the on an annual basis and integrate these into our
University of Pavia and the WHO. Group risk management process. Each year,
• Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative emerging trends are identified from internal and
Roche is a member of the Pharmaceutical Supply external sources. Our Sustainability Steering
Chain Initiative (PSCI), a collaboration of more Committee then evaluates and selects the trends
than 40 pharmaceutical companies and suppliers (and the associated risks and opportunities) most
with a shared vision to establish and promote relevant to Roche.
responsible business practices that continuously
improve human rights, ethics, labour, health, Sustainability risks and opportunities in focus
safety and environmentally sustainable outcomes We have also established a diligent Business
for pharmaceutical supply chains (the PSCI Sustainability Risk and Opportunity Assessment
Principles). process to identify, assess and mitigate significant
social, environmental and economic risks and
Our risk assessment and management process opportunities that could impact our business
Our Risk Management Policy1 sets out Roche’s objectives and protect the interests of our
approach to identifying, analysing, managing stakeholders in the long term.
1 go.roche.com/risk-management-policyOur approach to sustainability | Roche 19
Widespread increase in chronic physical and Climate action failure, environmental
mental health conditions and infectious diseases degradation with increasing biodiversity loss
Continuous and emerging threats to physical and mental Extreme weather events and ecosystem collapses aggravated
well-being leads to rising costs for health systems, by climate action failure threaten the stability of the physical
threatening societal gains in life expectancy and quality. business environment and the well-being of its stakeholders.
Political complexity and Progressing cyberdependency
geoeconomic confrontations and vulnerability
State collapse, armed conflict, regional/ Mounting cyberdependency due to the
global instability, shifting political influence ever-increasing digital interconnectedness
and unstable political relationships add to the of everyone and everything can lead to
complexity of the business environment. over-reliance, creating vulnerabilities.
Business
Societal crises Lasting economic instability
environment
Societal models with limited educational Lasting global macroeconomic instability
and economic prospects threaten societal trends leading to a potential collapse of systemically
solidarity, causing regional instabilities and important industries creates an undercurrent
disrupting interconnected global markets. of uncertainty across the business world.
Mistrust and scepticism in science Future of work
Wide, persistent spread of false information Companies must experiment with agile
(deliberate or unintended) by states, populists organisational design and new ways of working
and media can instil mistrust even in the most to accommodate an increasingly virtual business
advanced science and knowledge. world and changing workforce demands.
Healthcare evolution challenged
by its affordability Accelerated technological transformation
As healthcare evolves towards a continuum-of-care approach, Rapid technological transformation continues to expand
offering a full range of solutions (from prevention and opportunities across all sectors but the pace of change
detection to cure) at a fair value proves more challenging. increases the unpredictability of its implications on business.20 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Social, environmental and economic risks and opportunities
Risk Description Our actions
Climate As we witness the effects of climate change grow in frequency and intensity, Roche has committed to set near- and long-term company-wide emission
change its implications on the business environment become increasingly clear. reductions in line with science-based net zero with the Science Based Targets
Extreme and unpredictable weather events disrupt company operations initiative (SBTi).
and local communities, and the urgent need for climate action is changing
the demands and expectations of business stakeholders worldwide. The Based on our ambitious emissions reduction trajectory2, we outperform all
implications of climate change on global health and the nature and spread the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) scenarios, which limit
of disease is particularly important to health-focused organisations. global warming to 1.5°C, all without offsetting our emissions. To ensure we
continue on this path, all our sites are required to develop roadmaps towards the
Roche approaches the issue of climate change from a double materiality sustainable energy future with tangible actions to achieve real zero emissions
perspective – acknowledging both our impact on climate change and without offsetting.
the influence climate change has on our business. We assess climate
change-related risk and its implications for our business, which guides our We are assessing climate change-related risks and are committed to disclosing
decision-making process and enables us to develop proactive mitigation the updated TCFD report3 in 2024.
strategies and enhance our resilience.
Greenhouse At the 2015 UN Climate Change Conference, 196 parties signed a legally As the majority of our GHG emissions originate from the transformation and
gas emissions binding international treaty on climate change (i.e. the Paris Agreement). use of energy, we aim to reduce our emissions by reducing our energy
With this, the parties committed to reducing their greenhouse gas (GHG) consumption and switching to entirely sustainable energy. We do not favour
emissions to limit the effects of global warming. Since the conference, the use of carbon offsetting as an alternative to reducing our emissions. By
countries around the world have advanced action and legislation on focusing on emissions reduction and the substitution of non-sustainable
GHG emissions reduction, making it a priority for companies, too. energy rather than offsetting, we aim to achieve real zero emissions by 2050.
Guided by the European Green Deal, European nations and companies are We have set up action plans3 across our sites to reduce GHG emissions. This
leaders in the energy transition away from fossil fuels. As a result of this, involves the implementation of innovative technologies and continuous
combined with other factors such as the increasingly visible effects of upgrading of infrastructure.
climate change, our stakeholders are demanding emissions reduction
results from us and our peers. We use energy-efficient equipment, continue to evaluate employees’ travel
needs and set the goal of a GHG emissions-free vehicle fleet by 2030.
To mitigate these risks, we are committed to maintaining low levels of GHG
emissions as our business and therefore our production continues to grow. We also change work processes, which is a complex task in highly regulated
Our ambitious goal is to eliminate all GHG emissions from our operations and approved facilities, and we are focusing our effects on a steady
and energy purchases by 2050. transition to the use of sustainable energy.
We are phasing out fossil fuel use and substitute with energies from
sustainable sources.
Corruption Corrupt business behaviour, such as bribery, unfair advantages, theft, Roche employees and our business-critical business partners complete a
fraud, embezzlement and misuse of company assets is persistent in today’s mandatory e-learning on compliance5, which covers: bribery and improper
interconnected and increasingly competitive world. Failure to actively advantages, gifts and entertainment, conflict of interest, discrimination and
manage this threat has legal and financial implications. It also harms harassment, responsible use of social media and electronic communication
companies’ reputation and jeopardises their licence to operate. tools, and business partners and supply chain. All employees must complete
the compliance training when they join Roche and undergo periodic refreshers,
Given the broad scope of Roche operations worldwide and the different including whenever the Roche Group Code of Conduct is updated.
types of relationships with key stakeholders, there is exposure to
corruption risk. We reject all forms of corrupt business behaviour and Anyone who becomes aware of a potential violation of the Roche Group Code of
our key expectations regarding integrity are communicated in the Roche Conduct is encouraged to bring it to the attention of our compliance experts. Roche
Group Code of Conduct.4 Our Behaviour in Business directive outlines our takes all reports of non-compliance seriously and is fully committed to efficiently
approach to anti-corruption and anti-bribery. and timely investigate the facts and take any necessary corrective action.
2 Environmental goals: roche.com/about/sustainability/environment/goals-performance
3 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures: go.roche.com/climate-risk-management
4 Roche Group Code of Conduct: roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conduct
5 Behaviour in business: go.roche.com/behaviour_in_businessOur approach to sustainability | Roche 21
Social, environmental and economic risks and opportunities (continued)
Risk Description Our actions
Human rights In a globalised world, business value chains often span across international Roche upholds human rights principles across our own operations and
borders, giving millions of people an opportunity to participate in the global our value chain. We have policies in place as well as a risk management
economy, however this also brings challenges to ensuring workers’ human approach to mitigate and prevent any infringement on human rights and its
rights. As part of Roche’s global operations with 100,000+ employees and adverse impacts, including the assessment of whether there are reasonable
thousands of business partners, we are at risk of being involved with grounds to suspect child labour.6
negative human rights impacts. In 2023 we conducted a Group human
rights risk assessment for our own operations and third-party operations.
For our own operations, the assessment identified data privacy, access to
healthcare and a fair and safe work environment as focus areas. For our
supply chain, working conditions, fair treatment and non-discrimination
and a healthy work environment were identified as focus areas.
Talent The ability to create an inclusive work environment for people with diverse We have introduced strategic workforce planning to identify the skills
attraction, backgrounds, experiences, skills and ideas is essential for any innovation- needed for the future and to prepare to attract and develop employees
development based company such as Roche. The risk of not doing this well could mean with these skill sets.7, 8
and retention being unable to attract and retain talented people with the innovation
capabilities we need to deliver on our ambitions. This is especially the case Our Global Employee Opinion Survey (GEOS) conducted every two years
in the face of an increasing skills shortage in an environment of growing helps us understand employee perceptions and sentiments.
competition from existing and new players and geographies. Adapting how
we work at Roche to navigate new agile and virtual ways of working requires We conduct an organisation-wide pay equity analysis every three years.
iterative talent strategies, new skills, differentiated leadership and a focus In 2022 we also conducted a living-wage analysis9 and we will repeat this
on well-being. We continuously monitor our progress towards our workforce periodically in future.
goals to refine our approach and strengthen our talent pipeline.
We offer information and programmes to support the physical and mental
health and well-being10 of our employees.
Our OneRoche Learning & Development Portfolio enables all employees to
access training and development options and become lifelong learners.
Our Leadership Commitments11 set clear expectations for all people leaders
at Roche and we have a series of programmes such as Symbiosis designed
to continually build leadership capability. Several other programmes are
available to help managers lead virtual and diverse global teams.
6 For more information about human rights, see page 68.
7 For more information about our DE&I activities, see page 54 and careers.roche.com/global/en/diversity-equity-inclusion
8 Roche Group Employment Policy: go.roche.com/group-employment-policy
9 Annual Report 2022, reference to living wage, page 110: roche.com/ar22e.pdf
10 For more information about well-being, see page 60 and careers.roche.com/global/en/your-wellbeing-matters
11 Leadership Commitments: go.roche.com/group-employment-policy
For all sustainability aspects that were identified as can be found in each section of this report. The KPIs
material and where Roche can drive greater impact are reassessed regularly to ensure that they are the
as a company, we have defined key performance most relevant to measure the effectiveness of the
indicators (KPIs) which allow us to measure progress actions implemented for the defined topic and meet
on actions implemented. The relevant data points regulatory transparency requirements.22 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
1.1 Our purpose
We believe it is urgent to deliver medical solutions right now – even as we
develop innovations for the future. We are passionate about transforming
patients’ lives. We are courageous in both decision and action. And we
believe that good business means a better world.
That is why we come to work each day. We commit ourselves to scientific
rigour, unassailable ethics, and access to medical innovations for all.
We do this today to build a better tomorrow.
We are proud of who we are, what we do and how we do it. We are
many, working as one across functions, across companies and across
the world.
We are Roche.Our purpose | Roche 23
Doing now what patients need next24 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
1.2 Our strategy and our
business model
We focus on finding new medicines and diagnostics many different stakeholders in the healthcare
and on establishing data-based insights that evolve ecosystem to broaden access to our offerings
the practice of medicine and that help patients live for people who need them and, ultimately,
longer, better lives. to provide a seamless patient journey. We
will continue to concentrate our energies on
Our business environment is undergoing prescription medicines, in vitro diagnostics
tremendous change. We are facing new challenges and increasingly data and insights, rather
due to the complexity of care and increasing than diversify into other sectors like generics,
pressure on healthcare budgets. At the same biosimilars or over-the-counter medicines.
time, we see new opportunities arising from major
advances in life sciences and from digitalisation Our delivery is to create value for all our
in healthcare. stakeholders: being a partner of choice; bringing
significant medical benefit for patients, doctors
In these turbulent times, we are guided by our and payers; offering a great place to work for
common purpose: Doing now what patients employees; delivering a sustainable positive
need next. Our company has been bringing novel contribution to society; and earning competitive
diagnostics and treatments to patients for more returns for our investors.
than 125 years. Patients are and will remain at
the core of what we do. They are the reason How we do it
we come to work every day. Ultimately, delivering on our commitments takes
people with integrity, courage and a passion
What we do for making a difference for patients. Our people
We focus on our vision of fitting treatments to are proud to say: We are Roche.
patients: providing the right therapy for the right
patient to ensure the best response at the right Our leadership inspires outcomes that matter by
time for the right value. Our approach combines our embracing diversity, equity and inclusion. Different
rich expertise in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics backgrounds, perspectives and experiences,
with expanded data science capabilities to drive across the entire organisation, foster innovative
more effective and efficient research and to solutions for the benefit of patients. Our ways of
enable better therapeutic decisions for patients. working enable agile and networked responses to
the ever-increasing pace of change by balancing
Our pursuit of excellence in science rests on four the needs for stability, speed and flexibility.
key elements: an exceptionally broad and deep
understanding of disease biology; the seamless Our set-up is designed for innovation. Our
integration of our capabilities in pharmaceuticals autonomous research and development centres
and diagnostics; a diversity of approaches to and alliances with more than 250 external partners
maximise innovation; and a long-term orientation. foster a diversity of scientific approaches and
agility. Our global geographical scale and reach
Working in partnership with third parties, we enables us to attract talent in the leading global
offer integrated solutions with improved medical, science clusters and to quickly bring our solutions
health and economic benefits. We work with to people who need them.Our strategy and our business model | Roche 25
Our business model Our management model
Our focus Our leadership
Fitting treatments to patients Inspiring outcomes that matter
Our distinctiveness Our ways of working
Excellence in science Agile and networked
Our delivery Our set-up
Value for all stakeholders Built for innovation26 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
2. Business performance
2023 was a demanding and successful year for Roche. With good results
in our base business, we were able to offset the sharp yet expected drop
in COVID-19 sales. Our diagnostics base business and newer medicines
continued to show strong growth.
In the Diagnostics Division, the strength of We are especially excited about the good progress
our portfolio combined with the commercial in our product pipeline, notably in oncology,
excellence of our affiliates resulted in strong ophthalmology and neurology. Additionally, we
base business growth. have forged important partnerships through
collaborations and acquisitions in areas of high
In the Pharmaceuticals Division, we experienced unmet need.
impressive growth in 2023 thanks to advanced
medicines like Vabysmo (severe eye diseases), Innovation will continue to be at our company’s core.
Ocrevus (multiple sclerosis), Hemlibra With our strong product portfolio in both divisions
(haemophilia A), Polivy (blood cancer) and and a promising product pipeline, Roche is well
Phesgo (breast cancer). positioned for future growth.Business performance | Roche 27
Through the seamless integration of our capabilities in
Roche Pharmaceuticals and Roche Diagnostics, we are
uniquely positioned to achieve medical breakthroughs
for patients and society.28 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
2.1 Roche Group
In 2023, Roche achieved sales growth of 1%* (-7% in Hemlibra (haemophilia A), Polivy (blood cancer)
CHF) to CHF 58.7 billion, exceeding the company’s and Phesgo (breast cancer) – achieved total
guidance for the year. This increase more than made sales of CHF 14.8 billion. This represents a plus
up for the expected decline in COVID-19-related of CHF 4.3 billion compared to 2022.
sales, amounting to CHF 4.3 billion, and the effects
of biosimilar erosion on our cancer medicines Vabysmo, launched only in early 2022, reached
MabThera/Rituxan, Herceptin and Avastin, which sales of CHF 2.4 billion, and has become one of
totalled CHF 1.1 billion – resulting in an overall the best-selling medicines of Roche.
impact of CHF 5.4 billion.
The Diagnostics Division’s base business sales
The Swiss franc significantly appreciated versus increased by 7%, with immunodiagnostic products,
most currencies, impacting results when reported in particularly cardiac tests, and diagnostics
Swiss francs compared to constant exchange rates. solutions for clinical chemistry and for advanced
staining contributing significantly to this growth.
Core operating profit was down 1% (-13% in CHF) to
CHF 19.2 billion. The good sales performance and Overall, the Diagnostics Division reported
a return towards a pre-COVID-19 sales mix resulted sales of CHF 14.1 billion, a decline of 13%. This
in an improved gross margin. This was offset by reflects the anticipated significant drop in
continued investments in pharmaceutical research, demand for COVID-19-related products (sales
development and launches of new products. of CHF 0.8 billion in 2023, compared to sales of
Additionally, the patent settlement income in CHF 4.1 billion in 2022).
Japan in 2022 affected the growth rate in 2023.
With lower demand for COVID-19 testing, sales
IFRS net income increased by 7% (-9% in CHF) to in the North America, Europe, Middle East and
CHF 12.4 billion due to the increase in operating Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific regions decreased
profit (IFRS) and lower income tax expenses. by 21%, 13% and 11%, respectively. The division’s
base business grew across all regions.
Core earnings per share rose by 6% (-9% in CHF),
including the positive impact from the resolution Outlook for 2024
of tax disputes in 2023. Roche expects an increase in Group sales in
the mid single digit range (at constant exchange
Sales in the Pharmaceuticals Division increased by rates). Core earnings per share are targeted
6% to CHF 44.6 billion, with newer medicines for to develop broadly in line with sales growth
severe diseases continuing their strong growth. (at constant exchange rates), excluding the
impact from the resolution of tax disputes
The top five growth drivers – Vabysmo (severe in 2023. Roche expects to further increase its
eye diseases), Ocrevus (multiple sclerosis), dividend in Swiss francs.
* Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates and comparisons to the previous year are at constant exchange rates (CER; average rates 2022) and all total
figures quoted are reported in CHF.Roche Group | Roche 29
Key figures 2023
CHF millions
Group sales
2023 58,716 +1%*
2022 63,281 +2%
Pharmaceuticals sales
2023 44,612 +6%
2022 45,551 +2%
Diagnostics sales
2023 14,104 –13%
2022 17,730 +3%
Core operating profit
2023 19,240 –1%
2022 22,173 +3%
R&D core investments
2023 13,237 +5%
2022 13,255**
CHF
Dividend
2023 9.60
2022 9.50
* Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates and comparisons to the previous year are at constant exchange rates (CER; average rates 2022) and
all total figures quoted are reported in CHF.
** Effective 1 January 2023, the Group has made certain presentational and cost allocation changes to the income statement. The comparative
information for 2022 has been restated accordingly.30 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
2.2 Diagnostics
The Diagnostics Division’s base business sales lower COVID-19-related sales for SARS-CoV-2
increased by 7%, with immunodiagnostic products, assays on the cobas 6800/8800 systems.
particularly cardiac tests, and diagnostics solutions Growth in the underlying base business included
for clinical chemistry and for advanced staining higher sales from blood screening as well as
contributing significantly to this growth. from diagnostics solutions for the detection
and monitoring of cervical cancer and from the
Overall, the Diagnostics Division reported virology base business.
sales of CHF 14.1 billion, a decline of 13%. This
reflects the anticipated significant drop in Pathology Lab. This customer area focuses on
demand for COVID-19- related products (sales pathology labs and provides diagnostics solutions
of CHF 0.8 billion in 2023, compared to sales for tissue biopsies and companion diagnostics.
of CHF 4.1 billion in 2022). These are targeted diagnostics to aid in the
choice of specific therapies for each patient.
With lower demand for COVID-19 testing, sales Sales increased by 14% and across all regions
in the North America, Europe, Middle East and due to growth in the advanced staining and the
Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific regions decreased companion diagnostics businesses.
by 21%, 13% and 11%, respectively. The division’s
base business grew across all regions. Point of Care. This customer area provides
diagnostics solutions immediately at the point
Core Lab. This customer area focuses on of care, such as in emergency rooms, general
central labs and provides diagnostics solutions practitioners’ practices and directly with patients,
in the areas of immunoassays, clinical chemistry and includes the SARS-CoV-2 Rapid Antigen test
and custom biotech. Sales increased by 9% due and blood gas and electrolyte (BGE) tests. Lower
to the 10% growth in immunodiagnostic products, sales of the SARS-CoV-2 Rapid Antigen test were
such as cardiac and oncology tests, and the the main driver of the 58% sales decrease. There
10% growth in the clinical chemistry business. was growth in the base business, driven by the
Sales grew across all regions, with the largest Liat molecular point-of-care product line.
contributions to the sales growth coming from
the Asia-Pacific and EMEA regions, which grew Diabetes Care. This customer area provides
by 10% and 9%, respectively. diagnostics solutions for patients and healthcare
professionals enabling integrated personalised
Molecular Lab. This customer area focuses diabetes management. Sales decreased by 4%
on molecular labs and provides diagnostics driven by the continued contraction of the blood
solutions for the detection and monitoring glucose monitoring market in the US and major
of pathogens, donor screening, sexual health European markets, due to people switching to
and genomics. Sales declined by 30% due to continuous glucose monitoring systems.Diagnostics | Roche 31
Sales by customer area in 2023
CHF millions
Core Lab 7,750 +9%
Molecular Lab 2,220 –30%
Pathology Lab 1,388 +14%
Point of Care 1,379 –58%
Diabetes Care 1,367 –4%32 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Innovation to improve patient outcomes
In 2023, we maintained our momentum of strong Alzheimer’s disease, the most common form of
growth in our diagnostics base business, launching dementia, affects 55 million people worldwide
a range of new tests, platforms and digital solutions. and this number is expected to triple by 2050.
We continued to focus our innovations on supporting However, up to 75% of people living with symptoms
healthcare professionals in prevention, diagnosis of Alzheimer’s have not yet been diagnosed;
and monitoring to improve health outcomes while those who have received a diagnosis waited, on
reducing the cost of care. We have retained our average, 2.8 years after symptom onset. As part
position as the world’s leader in in vitro diagnostics, of our commitment to addressing the burden of
with a growing portfolio of more than 500 diagnostic Alzheimer’s disease, in March we entered into a
assays on more than 100,000 instruments around collaboration with Eli Lilly and Company to support
the world that deliver breakthrough innovations with the development of our Elecsys Amyloid Plasma
the greatest possible patient and market impact. Panel (EAPP). The EAPP is an innovative blood
test that aims to facilitate the earlier diagnosis
In addition to being the leader in laboratory of Alzheimer’s disease and potentially streamline
diagnostics, we have a prominent role in bringing access to future treatment options.
diagnostics closer to patients through our
point- of-care innovations. For example, the Cancer continues to be one of the world’s
handheld cobas pulse represents an industry-first greatest health threats. Across testing disciplines –
professional blood glucose management solution molecular, sequencing, immunochemistry,
that features mobile digital health capabilities to imaging, tissue and digital diagnostics – we offer a
help improve patient care. comprehensive ecosystem of solutions to ensure
laboratories and healthcare professionals have
Transforming healthcare delivery to meet the tools they need to give patients the care they
global challenges deserve. For example, 90% of women who die from
Throughout the year, we increased our efforts to cervical cancer live in LMICs. The WHO has awarded
address critical health challenges, including ageing us a prequalification for our cobas HPV test for
populations with increasingly complex medical needs. use in LMIC national cervical cancer elimination
Around the world, the number of patients over programmes.
age 60 is growing. By 2030, the World Health
Organization (WHO) estimates that one in six people In diabetes care we continued deploying our
will be over 60. And by 2050, there will be more than integrated Personalised Diabetes Management
2.5 billion people in their sixties or older, with nearly (iPDM) strategy, strengthening our market
half a billion people over 80. Two of the most common leadership in blood glucose monitoring (BGM)
comorbid conditions occurring in elderly people and thus enabling access to care for people
are cardiometabolic diseases and dementia. with diabetes around the world. Connectivity
and digital solutions play a key role in our vision,
Cardiovascular disease is the number one cause and we proudly reached more than 5 million
of mortality, accounting for 31% of all global registered users with our diabetes management
deaths – 75% of which occur in low- and middle- app, mySugr, while making our RocheDiabetes Care
income countries (LMICs). The STRONG-HF study Platform for healthcare providers now available
results show how our NT-proBNP biomarker testing, in 30 countries.
embedded in a therapeutic strategy, is an integral
part of improving care for patients with heart failure.Business peDriafogrnmoasnticces || RRoocchhee 3333
Roche Diagnostics tests delivered to our customers
29 billion
Active in-licensing agreements
325
Active out-licensing agreements
150 Diagnostics Analytical units placed
in the cobas pro* line
facts
2023 3,200+
Analytical units placed 64% growth versus 2022
in the cobas pure* line
1,800+
110% growth versus 2022
6 21 7
new platforms tests digital solutions
Pathology Lab Roche Information Solutions
9 new tests 3 new digital solutions
1 new digital solution
Diabetes Care
Diagnostics
3 new digital solutions key launches
2023
Molecular Lab Core Lab
1 new platform 5 new platforms
4 new tests 8 new tests
2 other
* cobas pro is for our mid-high throughput and cobas pure is for our low-mid throughput Core Lab customers. These instruments are used for the measurement of over
200 parameters in blood.34 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Innovative insights integrate data across care settings, connecting
We have made significant progress in strengthening the healthcare community and accelerating access
and expanding our efforts in healthcare digitalisation to innovation and insights. The navify approach
with a focus on lab insights, clinical workflow focuses on open digital ecosystems to address
optimisation, clinical decision support and patient interoperability and enable a patient-centric model
monitoring. These segments primarily target labs, rather than a disease-centred approach. To support
providers and patients. efficient product development for digital solutions,
we are committed to establishing a common and
Our navify digital solutions – including the navify scalable technology stack for all digital products
Algorithm Suite and navify Sample Tracking – securely for customers and patients.
Key launches and activities in 2023
Name Launch date Approval Indication/disease, etc. System/platform
Tests
VirSNiP SARS-CoV-2 Spike 26 January FDA Research Use PCR test to detect SARS-CoV-2 XBB.1.5 variant PCR platforms LightCycler
F486P Only 480 II and cobas z 480
IDH1 R132H (IDH glioma) 23 February FDA Neuropathology/immunohistochemistry (IHC) solution supporting BenchMark instrument series
and ATRX rabbit detection of tumour cells with IDH1 R132H mutation; aids
polyclonal antibody pathologists in diagnosis of gliomas and identifies mutation status
in patients diagnosed with brain cancer
Ventana PD-L1 (SP263) 3 March FDA label expansion Identifies patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who may Companion diagnostic for
be eligible for treatment with Libtayo (Regeneron) monotherapy BenchMark ULTRA system
cobas HPV test 13 June WHO prequalification Enables LMICs to use the cobas HPV test in their national cervical Roche molecular systems
cancer elimination programmes (e.g.: cobas 4800, cobas 6800,
cobas 8800)
Elecsys IL-6 Neonatal 18 October Countries accepting First IL-6 test to have a certified claim for use in diagnosis cobas e immunoassay
sepsis immunoassay the CE mark of neonatal sepsis, immunoassay with dedicated claim and analysers
supporting evidence aiding diagnosis of sepsis in neonates;
potential to reduce newborn mortality
cobas HPV test 6 November FDA PCR test to identify presence of HPV genotypes 16 and 18, with cobas 5800
12 other high-risk HPV types as a combined result; will broaden
access to HPV testing in US mid-size and smaller labs
Elecsys Neurofilament 9 November FDA Breakthrough Test to aid in detection of disease activity in adults Elecsys technology
Light Chain (NfL) test for Device Designation (18–55 years old) with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis
multiple sclerosis (MS) (RRMS) or secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS)
Elecsys Anti-HEV IgM 16 November Countries accepting Detection of hepatitis E virus (HEV) infections for treatment, Fully automated assays run
and Elecsys Anti-HEV IgG the CE mark monitoring and prevention of disease progression. HEV testing on Elecsys technology
immunoassays included in WHO 2023 Essential Diagnostics List (EDL)
Elecsys HBeAg quant 27 November Countries accepting Immunoassay able to determine both presence and quantity cobas e analysers
the CE mark (qualitative and quantitative) of hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) in
human serum and plasma; complements existing HBV testing markersDiagnostics | Roche 35
Key launches and activities in 2023 (continued)
Name Launch date Approval Indication/disease, etc. System/platform
Instruments/automation
CCM Vertical 17 August Global cobas connection modules: fast transport system connecting cobas p 512 and cobas p 612
cobas p 512 and cobas p 612 to analytics and post-analytics
cobas pro integrated August China Scalable, modular SWA for mid- to high-volume clinical chemistry cobas systems
solutions and immunochemistry testing
cobas pure integrated October China SWA analyser bringing together three diagnostic technologies cobas systems
solutions on a single platform to optimise space and resources in small to
medium labs
LightCycler PRO 20 November CE mark; FDA 510(k) New, next-generation, flexible real-time qPCR instrument with New LightCycler qPCR instrument
exempt status dual IVD and research mode plus enhanced system features
LumiraDX 29 December Global Roche entered into a definitive agreement to acquire LumiraDx’s Transaction closing expected by
point-of-care technology combining multiple diagnostic modalities mid-2024
on a single platform
Digital solutions
navify Algorithm Suite 11 April Europe and Single platform hosting library of digital medical algorithms that Embedded in existing healthcare
Asia-Pacific generate patient-centric insights; initial focus: liver disease and workflows and the lab/hospital
colon cancer information system (LIS/HIS) and/
or electronic health/medical
record (EHR/EMR)
navify Tumor Board 25 October Attained an overall Cloud-based digital solution streamlining workflows and Recognition in KLAS research
performance score multidisciplinary collaboration for oncology tumour boards First Look Report***
of 92.4* with HCP**
navify POC Operations 25 October Attained an overall Software that connects and monitors point-of-care devices Recognition in KLAS research
(formally registered in performance score (Roche and non-Roche) for device oversight and error First Look Report***
most countries as of 90.1* with HCP** management of test results
cobas infinity POC)
navify Lab Operations 25 October Attained an overall Lab software that consolidates data from various instruments Recognition in KLAS research
(formally registered in performance score and systems and automates lab processes for optimal lab First Look Report***
most countries as of 89.5* with HCP** efficiency
cobas infinity lab)
Expanded menu of 9 November 14 CE-marked Clinical decision support algorithms in the areas of oncology navify algorithm suite
algorithms for navify algorithms added and cardiovascular metabolics
Algorithm Suite
RUO Digital Pathology 22 December Global Research Digital pathology algorithm for scoring PD-L1 (SP142) Ventana DP 200 or Ventana DP
Algorithm Use Only breast samples 600 slide scanner stained with
Ventana PD-L1 (SP142) Assay
* Limited data | ** Healthcare professionals | *** The 2023 Best in KLAS software average for this category is 80.3%.36 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
2.3 Pharmaceuticals
Sales in the Pharmaceuticals Division increased by the non-inhibitor segment. In Europe and the
6% to CHF 44.6 billion, with newer medicines for International region, sales grew across major
severe diseases continuing their strong growth. markets, while sales in Japan increased as a
result of further market penetration.
In the United States, sales rose by 8%. Vabysmo,
Ocrevus and Hemlibra were the main growth drivers. Perjeta (CHF 3.8 billion, +1%). HER2-positive
This increase was partly offset by declining sales of breast cancer. Sales of Perjeta grew by 1%,
medicines with expired patents. with the International region, particularly
China and Brazil, being key growth driver. This
Sales in Europe grew by 6%, with key contributions was partly offset by a decline in sales in the
from Germany, France and the UK. The sales growth US as a result of an adjustment related to US
of Vabysmo, Phesgo, Evrysdi, Hemlibra and Ocrevus governmental plans. Excluding this adjustment,
more than compensated for the lower sales of Perjeta sales in the US showed a growth of 1%.
Ronapreve and medicines with expired patents. Sales of Perjeta in Europe were lower following
the launch of Phesgo.
In Japan, sales were down by 14%, mainly due to
lower supply of Ronapreve to the government. Tecentriq (CHF 3.8 billion, +9%). Cancer
Excluding Ronapreve, sales in Japan grew by 6%. immunotherapy (either alone or in combinations)
This increase was fueled by the strong performance for various types of cancer, e.g. lung, bladder,
of newer medicines such as Polivy and Vabysmo, breast and liver cancer. Sales increased by 9%
which effectively compensated for the impact with growth across all regions. In the US sales
of biosimilars. were higher driven by the non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC) adjuvant indication. In Europe
Sales in the International region grew by 13%, led by the growth was mainly driven by the small cell
China, Brazil and Canada. In China, sales rose by 6%, lung cancer and the hepatocellular carcinoma
with Tamiflu, Xofluza and the cancer medicines Polivy, indications. In Japan the sales increase came
Tecentriq and Perjeta being the key growth drivers, from growth in the NSCLC adjuvant indication.
more than offsetting the impact of biosimilars and In the International region China was the key
lower sales of CellCept. growth driver.
Ocrevus (CHF 6.4 billion, +13%). For relapsing Actemra/RoActemra (CHF 2.6 billion, +5%).
forms of multiple sclerosis and primary progressive For rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic
multiple sclerosis. There was continuously growing arthritis, giant cell arteritis, CAR T-cell-induced
demand in both indications primarily driven by the US, severe or life-threatening cytokine release
with the growth coming from both new and retained syndrome and COVID-19. Sales increased by
patients. Elsewhere, Ocrevus continued to show 5%, mainly in the US, despite lower demand
high uptake, notably in Germany, Italy and Brazil. from hospitalised patients with COVID-19.
The demand outside of COVID-19 increased
Hemlibra (CHF 4.1 billion, +16%). Haemophilia A. based on continued confidence in the medicine,
Sales growth continued, especially in the US in especially in the rheumatoid arthritis segment.Pharmaceuticals | Roche 37
Top-selling pharmaceuticals in 2023
CHF millions
Ocrevus 6,381 +13%
Neurology
Hemlibra 4,147 +16%
Haemophilia A
Perjeta 1 3,768 +1%
Oncology
Tecentriq 3,766 +9%
Oncology
Actemra/RoActemra 1 2,630 +5%
Immunology
Vabysmo 2,357 +324%
Ophthalmology
Xolair 1 2,176 +5%
Immunology
Kadcyla 1 1,966 +4%
Oncology
MabThera/Rituxan 1 1,630 –15%
Oncology/Immunology
Herceptin 1 1,626 –16%
Oncology
1 Products launched before 201538 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Innovating for patients around the world
The US FDA and the European Commission The phase III OCARINA II trial for Ocrevus twice-
approved Columvi for people with relapsed or a-year ten-minute subcutaneous injection was
refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma based non-inferior to intravenous infusion and provided
on results from phase I/II pivotal data where near-complete suppression of brain lesions. The
Columvi given as a fixed course induced early and ten-minute subcutaneous injection has the potential
long-lasting complete responses in these heavily to improve the treatment experience and expand
pretreated patients. Columvi is given for a fixed usage for people with multiple sclerosis (MS) in
period of time and made to be readily available, centres with IV capacity limitations.
providing patients with a treatment end date and
a treatment-free period. The pivotal phase III IMbrave050 study investigating
Tecentriq plus Avastin in people with early-stage
The US FDA also approved Polivy in combination hepatocellular carcinoma at high risk of recurrence
with R-CHP for the treatment of certain types following surgery met the primary endpoint of
of previously untreated diffuse large B-cell recurrence-free survival.
lymphoma, based on the POLARIX trial. Results of
this phase III study showed the Polivy combination Tecentriq subcutaneous (SC) received its first
reduced the risk of disease progression, relapse or marketing authorisation in Great Britain and
death by 27% compared to the standard of care, a positive opinion by the European Medicines
R-CHOP, with a comparable safety profile. This Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products
combination is the first FDA-approved therapy for Human Use (CHMP) for approval in Europe.
in nearly 20 years for the first-line treatment of Tecentriq SC can be injected within minutes, which
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. can free up time for patients, healthcare teams
and caregivers.
The European Commission approved the expansion
of the Hemlibra European Union marketing In the phase III ALINA study, Alecensa met its
authorisation. The label now includes the routine primary endpoint, demonstrating a statistically
prophylaxis of bleeding episodes in people with significant and clinically meaningful improvement
haemophilia A without factor VIII inhibitors, who in disease-free survival. Alecensa reduced the risk
have moderate disease (FVIII ≥1% and ≤5%) with of disease recurrence or death by 76% compared
a severe bleeding phenotype. with platinum-based chemotherapy in people with
early-stage ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer
The COMMODORE 2 study, a global phase III (NSCLC). In a setting where treatment has curative
programme for crovalimab in paroxysmal nocturnal intent, adjuvant Alecensa represents an important
haemoglobinuria (PNH), a rare life-threatening blood new treatment strategy for patients with resected,
condition, met its co-primary efficacy endpoints, stage IB–IIIA, ALK-positive NSCLC.
showing crovalimab achieved disease control in
people with PNH who have not been previously Data from the phase III EMBARK study showed
treated with complement inhibitors. that boys aged 4–7 years with Duchenne muscular
dystrophy (DMD) treated with Elevidys showed an
The US FDA accepted the company’s Biologics increase on the North Star Ambulatory Assessment
License Application (BLA) for crovalimab, for the (NSAA), a measure of motor function, compared
treatment of PNH. to placebo at 52 weeks, but the primary endpointPharmaceuticals | Roche 39
19
major approvals
US Japan – Chugai
3 4
C olumvi P hesgo
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, HER2-positive breast cancer /
third-line treatment HER2-positive colorectal cancer
P olivy Actemra/RoActemra
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, Cytokine release syndrome
Major approvals
first-line treatment
MabThera/Rituxan
in 2023
V abysmo Lupus nephritis
Retinal vein occlusion (central vein
MabThera/Rituxan
occlusion or branched vein occlusion)
Antibody-mediated rejection in
organ transplantation
Europe
China
5
7
C olumvi
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, third-line treatment C olumvi
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, third-line treatment
H emlibra
Moderate haemophilia A P hesgo
HER2-positive breast cancer
Evrysdi
Spinal muscular atrophy, presymptomatic P olivy
paediatric <2 months Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, first-line treatment
Xofluza P olivy
Influenza, paediatric Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, relapsed refractory
R onapreve Evrysdi
SARS-CoV-2 hospitalised Spinal muscular atrophy, presymptomatic
paediatric <2 months
Xofluza
Influenza, paediatric
V abysmo
Neovascular or ‘wet’ age-related macular
degeneration / Diabetic macular oedema
Oncology/Haematology Inflammation/Immunology Neurology Infectious diseases Ophthalmology40 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
71
new partnerships
Personalised healthcare agreements
Technology and discovery licence
14
agreements
10 Pilot agreements
5
Acquisitions Number of new
3 partnerships Product licence agreements
in 2023
4
Agreements derived from Product out-licensing
existing alliances agreements and divestments
28 7
Pharmaceuticals clinical pipeline
Phase I Phase II Phase III Registration
31 3 4 1
Oncology
7 3 2
Inflammation/Immunology
4 6 2
Neurology
3 3
Infectious diseases
4 1 1
Ophthalmology
2 3
Metabolics
1 1
Others
Our pipeline of 82 new molecular entities covers a broad range of diseases, and highly innovative technologies are applied to create and produce the active molecules.PPhhaarrmmaacceeuuttiiccaallss || RRoocchhee 4411
was not met. Clinically meaningful and statistically commercialise ZN-A-1041, a phase I HER2 tyrosine
significant treatment benefits were observed on all kinase inhibitor (TKI) with best-in-class potential.
key pre-specified secondary functional endpoints. ZN-A-1041 has been specifically designed to be
Further evaluation of the data is ongoing. blood-brain barrier penetrant to address the
significant unmet medical need associated with
The phase III INAVO120 study investigating inavolisib brain metastases in people with metastatic breast
in combination with palbociclib and fulvestrant cancer. This TKI has the potential to treat or prevent
as a first-line treatment for people with PIK3CA- the onset of brain metastases in these patients.
mutated, hormone receptor- positive, HER2-
negative, endocrine-resistant, locally advanced or Building on our expertise in immunology, Roche
metastatic breast cancer met its primary endpoint. signed an agreement to acquire Telavant from
It demonstrated a statistically significant and Roivant and Pfizer, including the rights to RVT-3101,
clinically meaningful improvement in progression- an antibody with first-in-class and best-in-disease
free survival (PFS). The inavolisib combination potential to treat inflammatory bowel disease. With
reduced the risk of disease worsening or death this agreement, Roche gains the right to develop,
by 57%, more than doubling PFS compared to manufacture and commercialise RVT-3101 in the
palbociclib and fulvestrant alone. Overall survival US and Japan.
data were immature at this time, but a clear positive
trend has been observed. Follow-up will continue Genentech entered into a strategic collaboration
to the next analysis. Data from the INAVO120 study with Nvidia that couples Genentech’s cutting-edge
will be submitted to health authorities with the artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities, extensive
view of bringing this potential treatment option to biological and molecular datasets, and research
patients as soon as possible. expertise with Nvidia’s world-leading accelerated
computing capabilities and AI to speed up drug
Partnerships complementing our portfolio and discovery and development.
expanding our presence in new areas
Roche entered a partnership with Alnylam to At the end of 2023, Roche entered into a definitive
co-develop and co-commercialise the phase II RNAi merger agreement to acquire Carmot Therapeutics
therapeutic zilebesiran to treat hypertension in including Carmot’s innovative R&D portfolio of
patients with high cardiovascular risk. Zilebesiran incretin-based clinical and pre-clinical assets. The
has best-in-disease potential for patients with portfolio has great potential to provide new best-
hypertension at high risk of cardiovascular morbidity in-class treatments as monotherapy as well as in
and mortality, by robustly and durably lowering various combinations with other assets to treat
blood pressure. obesity and several other indications.
In Oncology, Roche signed an agreement with
Zion Pharma to continue developing and to42 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
3. Our reporting approach
Roche is committed to transparent reporting on our economic, social and
environmental performance.
This report has been prepared Content
• in compliance with ‘Section Six: Transparency on The content disclosed is based on voluntary and
Non-Financial Matters’ and ‘Section Eight: Due mandatory disclosure requirements and the
Diligence and Transparency in relation to Minerals company strategy.
and Metals from Conflict-Affected Areas and
Child Labour’ of the Swiss Code of Obligations and • The content covers non-financial matters in
the respective implementing Ordinance on Due accordance with ‘Section Six: Transparency
Diligence and Transparency in relation to Minerals on Non-Financial Matters’ and GRI Universal
and Metals from Conflict-Affected Areas and Standards.
Child Labour, and • The content covers risk-based due diligence in our
• in alignment with the latest Global Reporting own operations and in the supply chain upstreams
Initiative (GRI) Universal Standards issued in 2021. to identify, prevent, mitigate and account for
actual and potential adverse impacts when there
Reporting scope and boundaries are reasonable grounds to suspect that products
This report covers all regions and divisions of the or services were manufactured or provided using
Roche Group from 1 January to 31 December 2023 child labour, in accordance with ‘Section Eight:
with the scope as defined and outlined in the Due Diligence and Transparency in relation to
document 2023 Non-financial reporting indicators Minerals and Metals from Conflict-Affected
definitions and scope.1 Areas and Child Labour’ under the Swiss Code
1 go.roche.com/non-financial-reporting-scope-2023 | Annual Report 2023: ar23.roche.com | roche.com/ar23e.pdf | roche.com/fb23e.pdf |
Risk management: roche.com/risk-management | Key performance indicators: roche.com/performanceOur reporting approach | Roche 43
of Obligations, as well as the provisions of the the forward-looking statements. Any forward-
Ordinance on Due Diligence and Transparency looking statement speaks only as of the date of
in relation to Minerals and Metals from Conflict- such statement. Roche does not undertake any
Affected Areas and Child Labour. obligation to publicly update any forward-looking
• Financial data mentioned in our ‘Business statement, whether as a result of new information,
performance’ section is summarised and/ future events or otherwise.
or aggregated information from our Financial • Some information provided may be based on
Statements, prepared in accordance with internally developed methodology.
International Financial Reporting Standards • Some figures have been rounded, some
(IFRS), as issued by the International Accounting percentages have been calculated using rounded
Standards Board (IASB). numbers and non-material data have been
• All information provided is based on a reasonably excluded.
diligent data collection process with a second line
of controls in order to reflect accurate information External assurance
in all material aspects within the reasonable Some selected key figures of our non-financial
opinion of Roche, taking in particular into account reporting for the year ended 31 December 2023
the size and complexity of the Roche Group and have been subject to limited assurance procedures
its operations. Inadvertent errors in information performed by our third-party assurance provider
may occur and inaccuracies may in particular PricewaterhouseCoopers AG (PwC), in particular
be difficult to observe below a reasonable level in the areas of: i) safety, security, health and
of materiality. environmental protection, ii) people and culture and
• Forward-looking statements are not guarantees iii) grants, donations and sponsorships.
of future performance or developments, and
actual results or other developments may differ See ‘Independent practitioner’s limited assurance
materially from the expectations expressed in report’ on page 92.44 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
3.1 Our key sustainability topics
We initiated a refreshed materiality assessment The process and initial results of our materiality
process, based on double materiality principles, analysis were shared with the Roche Corporate
to identify sustainability topics that have a Executive Committee and will be further shared
significant impact on people, the environment for endorsement as we progress.
and Roche’s long-term business success. This
ongoing assessment builds on our previous For the purpose of this report, out of the 19 key
materiality assessments. sustainability topics, the following have been
prioritised:
The first phase of the assessment focused on a
stakeholder engagement exercise. We collected Environment
quantitative data from 307 internal and 298 external • Climate change, GHG and energy
stakeholders on priority sustainability topics. • Air pollution
Internal stakeholders comprised a randomly • Water
selected group of Roche employees, and external
stakeholders consisted of various groups including Social
patients, caregivers, healthcare practitioners, • Product innovation and research
governments and policymakers. Based on the • Patient health and well-being
quantitative inputs and best-practice sustainability • Access and affordability
frameworks, we created a topic map. • C ommunities
• Employee rights and workforce DE&I
Following the mapping exercise, additional • H uman rights and responsible, resilient
quantitative and qualitative data were collected value chains
from 30 internal and 30 external stakeholders.
The internal stakeholders were subject-matter Governance
experts within the organisation, and the external • Corporate governance
stakeholders comprised various groups including • Compliance and business ethics
academia, industry bodies and associations, • Risk management
investors, patient organisations and suppliers. From • I T, data governance, privacy and cybersecurity
this, we derived our 19 key sustainability topics. • Transparency, accountability and reporting
Sustainability: roche.com/sustainability | Materiality: roche.com/materiality | Stakeholder engagement: roche.com/stakeholder_engagement |
Key performance indicators: roche.com/performance | Our contribution to the UN SDGs: roche.com/un-sdgsOur key sustainability topics | Roche 45
19
key sustainability topics
Environment Social Governance
How we minimise our impact How we contribute to a better How we embed transparency and
on the planet tomorrow for all compliance in everything we do
• Climate change, GHG and energy • Product innovation and research • Corporate governance
• Air pollution • Patient health and well-being • Compliance and business ethics
• Water • Health equity • Risk management
• Biodiversity • Access and affordability • IT, data governance, privacy
and cybersecurity
• C ircularity • Responsible marketing and labelling
• T ransparency, accountability
• Sustainable health systems and reporting
and communities
• Stakeholder engagement
• Employee rights and workforce DE&I
• Human rights and responsible,
resilient value chains
Industry bodies and associations Academics and other thought leaders
Governments, policymakers Assurance firms and other
and regulators expert service providers
Payers and providers Patient organisations
Overview of
subject-matter expert
segments consulted
NGOs**, MLOs*** Suppliers
Peers Internal SMEs*
Labs Investors
* Subject-matter experts | ** Non-governmental organisations | *** Multilateral organisations46 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
4. Partnering with patients
Connecting our work to patient needs requires us to move beyond
patient centricity to patient inclusivity.
The pharmaceutical industry is inherently science- evaluating the potential benefits and risks of their
based and rooted in the belief that good science scientific discoveries for patient populations that
results in good products. While advancing science are relevant and representative of the real-world
is our core focus at Roche, we also believe that our setting. Our approach to patient insight integration
scientific innovations are only valuable if they serve also involves an early assessment of the impact
patients in the way they want and need. our innovations have on health systems so that
we can prioritise our investments to advance the
Over the past year, we have focused on applying most beneficial molecules and diagnostics for
this belief to our development efforts by integrating further development.
patient insights, patient experience data and patient
preference into our process. Through this effort, Ultimately, our goal is to create an internal
we’ve strived to balance our scientific discoveries ecosystem where patients are not just at the heart
with an understanding of what patients – including of our work, but they are included and integrated
historically underserved, under-represented into our processes as partners who challenge and
patients – need and desire in their care. shape our science, enabling Roche to define or
redefine the standard of care for the diseases we
This work is driven by our Global Patient Network actively focus on.
team and guided by our proprietary Patient Benefits
and Societal Impact Framework that captures Making patient inclusivity a core priority for every
prioritised, actionable insights about: employee, in every function, in every country is
• Gaps patients experience in their care the only way we will ensure that the patient voice
• Current and future patient needs is embedded into our decision-making – not just at
• Patient feedback on new medicines, diagnostics Roche, but also within healthcare systems, which
and integrated healthcare solutions that are should be designed to address the most pressing
in development patient needs.
• Benefits patients seek from their treatments and
overall care Maintaining high standards with patient
stakeholders
Embedding patient voice from end to end This work, however, must be done with integrity
We strive to embed the patient voice from end and transparency to ensure that we do not unduly
to end into our disease area strategies. This influence patient communities in relation to our
work begins by empowering our early research innovations. For this reason, Roche consistently
teams to focus their discovery, partnering and applies high standards of conduct in its
development programmes on patient needs by collaboration with patient stakeholders.Partnering with patients | Roche 47
Key sustainability topics
• Patient health and well-being
• Responsible marketing and labelling
• Stakeholder engagement
While advancing science is our core focus at Roche,
we also believe that our scientific innovations are
only valuable if they serve patients in the way they
want and need.48 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
The Roche Group Code of Conduct1, Roche’s offered by organisations like Patient Focused
Position on Partnering with Patient Communities2 Medicines Development (PFMD) and the European
and the Roche Directive on Collaborating with Patients Academy on Therapeutic Innovation
Patient Groups and Patients3 establish guiding (EUPATI).
principles that govern the actions of all our
employees. At their core, these documents Our commitment to these principles is further
outline our commitment to mutual value, mutual reflected in our annual disclosure of funding
respect, integrity, equity, independence and and non-monetary support provided to patient
transparency. They also form the basis of our organisations around the world. This disclosure is a
robust training programmes provided to all core component of our sustainability overview and
employees who may interact with patients. They a further reflection of our approach to maintaining
are based on and include elements of training productive and purposeful relationships.
Patient view global rankings for 2022 (made available in 2023)
2022 ranking of Big Pharma by PAGs* 2022 ranking of all companies by PAGs*
that worked with us that worked with us
Overall portfolio 1st out of 15 3rd out of 42
(2,207 patient organisations) (2021: 2nd) (2021: 3rd)
Cancer (overall) 1st out of 15 1st out of 23
(555 patient organisations) (2021: 2nd) (2021: 2nd)
Breast cancer 1st out of 12 1st out of 14
(106 patient organisations) (2021: 2nd) (2021: 2nd)
Blood cancer 1st out of 15 1st out of 18
(88 patient organisations) (2021: 4th) (2021: 4th)
Lung cancer 1st out of 9 1st out of 9
(35 patient organisations) (2021: 2nd) (2021: 2nd)
Ophthalmology 1st out of 3 Companies evaluated in ophthalmology
(35 patient organisations) (2021: 2nd) were all Big Pharma
Rare diseases 1st out of 15 1st out of 31
(426 patient organisations) (2021: 1st) (2021: 1st)
Rare bleeding disorders 1st out of 4 1st out of 9
(61 patient organisations) (2021: 1st) (2021: 1st)
Neurology 1st out of 11 1st out of 18
(286 patient organisations) (2021: 1st) (2021: 1st)
Multiple sclerosis 1st out of 6 1st out of 9
(72 patient organisations) (2021: 1st) (2021: 2nd)
Neuromuscular disorders 2nd out of 3 Companies evaluated in neuromuscular
(42 patient organisations) (2021: 1st) disorders were all Big Pharma
* Patient Advocacy Groups
1 roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conduct | 2 go.roche.com/position-on-partnering-with-patient-communities |
3 go.roche.com/collaborating-with-patient-groups-and-patientsPartnering with patients | Roche 49
Patient-focused roles that help Roche integrate
the voice and feedback of patients into our
development and commercialisation efforts
300+
Patient Partnership Teams
Patient Experience Teams
serve as primary relationship managers that build,
maintain and drive Roche’s collaborations with help design and implement programmes
patient organisations as well as individual patients or solutions that improve the experience
and their carers. Patient Partnership Leads (also patients have with the Roche Group. These
known as Patient Advocacy Leads at the country individuals focus on understanding how
level) proactively drive Roche’s collaborations patients navigate healthcare systems so
with the patient community to bring their feedback that we can offer ‘beyond the pill’ services,
and relevant insights to our teams so that we may digital health solutions or end-to-end
Patient-focused
develop medicines, diagnostics and integrated health patient support programmes to enhance
solutions of high value to patients. These teams roles their experience and outcomes.
work across the full lifecycle of Roche’s innovations
to shape clinical development as well as access
strategies to ensure that every patient who can benefit
from our company’s innovations can access them.
Patient Journey Partners (PJPs)
Healthcare System Partners (HSPs)
are local Roche representatives who work closely
serve as the local face of Roche with key healthcare with patients as well as the stakeholders and
system stakeholders, such as policymakers, organisations that directly impact the patient
regulators, payers and patient organisations, to journey at a country level. PJPs have a deep
improve patient access to healthcare. HSPs identify knowledge of their local health system and can
shared purpose and value with our partners to drive identify unmet patient needs for which Roche
health system innovation and co-create solutions may develop solutions to add value and improve
that will deliver value for patients and the local patient outcomes.
health ecosystem.
1,604 patient organisations that engage with Roche across the world
CHF 54 million provided in grants, sponsorships and donations to the worldwide patient community in 202350 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
5. Access to healthcare
Roche supports the expansion of universal health coverage,
a key component of the United Nations Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs).1
Access to healthcare is a core element of Roche’s full range of quality health services, whenever
sustainable business strategy. We work to identify and wherever they need them, without financial
and address the root causes preventing access hardship.
to innovative healthcare at global, country and
local levels. We also work closely with partners to Yet, as we find ourselves halfway towards the
develop and deliver tailored access solutions that 2030 deadline for achieving the SDGs, the world
reflect each country’s unique healthcare needs. is significantly off track to meet this target. The
WHO stated in an SDG progress report that in
Our commitment to sustainable healthcare is the wake of the pandemic, progress towards
reflected in the Roche Group Code of Conduct.2 UHC has slowed while financial hardship has
Employees are expected to ensure that all access risen. They also reported that in 2019, around
programmes are compliant with applicable laws, 381 million people (4.9% of the global population)
regulations and industry codes, and to collaborate were pushed or further pushed into extreme
in a transparent and responsible way with different poverty due to out-of-pocket payments to cover
stakeholders to enable access to our products health costs.
and services. Our policies provide guidance on
ethical collaboration with different stakeholder Key elements to achieving UHC
groups, including patients and patient organisations, As a global healthcare company working in
healthcare professionals, healthcare organisations innovative therapeutics and diagnostics – and
and government officials. a member of the UHC2030 Private Sector
Constituency – we have made a clear commitment
The importance of UHC and the SDGs to support the adoption of UHC. We believe that
In 2015, world leaders agreed on the United Nations public funding, complemented by other sustainable
SDGs, a “shared blueprint for peace and prosperity funding and financing mechanisms between the
for people and the planet”. One of the 17 goals, public and private sectors, is fundamental to
SDG 3, aims to “ensure healthy lives and promote achieve UHC.
well-being for all at all ages”. As a healthcare
company, we know we have an important role to UHC must include non-communicable diseases
play in SDG 3, including through supporting access (NCDs) such as cardiovascular diseases, cancers,
to our innovations. chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes. NCDs
kill approximately 41 million people each year,
One way we facilitate access to our innovations is equivalent to 74% of all deaths globally.
by supporting the expansion of universal health
coverage (UHC), a key component of the SDGs. It is also vital that screening, early diagnosis
UHC means that all people have access to the and treatment are built into an integrated
1 go.roche.com/un-goals | 2 roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conductAccess to healthcare | Roche 51
Key sustainability topics
• Patient health and well-being
• Health equity
• Access and affordability
• Responsible marketing and labelling
• Sustainable health systems and communities
• Stakeholder engagement
The support for the EMPOWER programme in Kenya is
one of our various initiatives around the world to provide
sustainable patient access to quality and affordable
healthcare, and ultimately to support the expansion of UHC.52 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
healthcare system, supported by a backbone Kenya, with more than 42,000 women screened
of lab-strengthening and connected laboratory for breast cancer and cervical cancer. The
networks. With the adoption in 2023 of the WHO programme has also seen over 4,000 men
resolution on strengthening diagnostics capacity, screened for prostate cancer.
we see growing political recognition of the value
of diagnostics to deliver improved care for all, • Peru: In collaboration with the Peruvian Ministry
encouraging member states to adopt national of Health, government organisations, patient
diagnostics strategies as a way to ensure effective advocates and other groups in Peru, Roche is
allocation of limited resources. supporting the implementation of a national
cervical cancer screening programme. The goal
Working in partnership towards UHC is to ensure women have access to improved care
Roche has long supported UHC. We work at the in cities and remote villages along the Amazon,
global, regional and local levels, collaborating where some of the highest cervical cancer
with multiple stakeholders to address the care rates are found. Through the programme, which
gap, which ranges from working on screening serves 19 sites in Peru, nearly 300,000 women
programmes to healthcare workforce capacity have been tested for HPV infection in the past
building and beyond. We are working on initiatives two years, with more than 80% choosing sample
around the world to provide sustainable patient self-collection. Roche has trained around
access to quality and affordable healthcare, 7,500 healthcare providers in the programme and
and ultimately to support the expansion of UHC: worked with the Ministry of Health to improve the
• Indonesia: Roche is working closely with care of high-risk HPV-positive patients.
the government and local partners on two
unique projects. The first aims to strengthen • Pakistan: We are supporting the #ScreenHer
oncology nursing capacity by increasing the plan, a project to improve diabetes management
number of trained nurses who can deliver basic for women. Developed in partnership with
and specialised oncology nursing care. The Greenstar Social Marketing (Guarantee) Limited,
second project is introducing and establishing the project allows women in underprivileged areas
Cancer Patient Navigator professionals to help to access diabetes risk assessment, education
patients and their families navigate the complex and testing that would otherwise be difficult to
treatment journey. get. It also allows earlier diabetes diagnosis and
management, improving overall health outcomes.
• Kenya: We are supporting the EMPOWER We hope to reach over one million women in the
programme to establish clinics that provide next three years.
integrated care for breast and cervical cancer,
and NCDs. The programme is a partnership As the world seeks to catch up on UHC
between public, private and non-profit implementation ahead of 2030, Roche remains
organisations that aims to overcome systemic committed to working in partnership with private
healthcare challenges such as lack of screening and public stakeholders around the world to address
and access to medicines. Since its launch in and overcome local challenges, building strong
2019, 19 clinics have been established across and more resilient healthcare systems for all.Access to healthcare | Roche 53
More than 8,500 laboratory professionals More than 40,500 patients
in Africa were trained through the Global Access Program in scope of our low- and lower-middle-income country (LLMIC)
to address critical shortages of lab technicians and support access goal used our core medicines in 2023, as we aim to
the need for more quality diagnostic services. double access from 27,000 patients between 2021 and 2026.*
More than 25 million women 68% of Roche’s core medicines
were tested with Roche’s HPV high-risk testing were approved or approval was in progress
in 2023 – more than 600,000 of these women in in LLMICs, compared to 60% in 2021.
low- and middle-income countries.
Access
29 billion Roche Diagnostics tests around Patients in 37 LLMICs
were delivered to customers worldwide the world were treated with Roche medicines in
in 2023. 2023, compared to 33 LLMICs in 2021.
14 cities
More than 52,200 children
We continue to work with City Cancer Challenge,
who are now active in 14 cities worldwide reaching in 29 countries have been reached through the
an estimated 66.5 million people. Changing Diabetes in Children programme, a
partnership with Novo Nordisk, since its launch
in 2009.
#ScreenHer programme
in Pakistan was launched in partnership with Greenstar
Social Marketing (Guarantee) Limited in 2023 to improve
diabetes management for women, with the goal to reach
over one million individuals in the next three years.
* 2023 saw a decline in the use of Actemra/RoActemra for COVID-19; however this was compensated by increases in other medicines.54 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
6. Diversity, equity and inclusion
Diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) are key components of Roche’s
sustainability-focused identity.
We see DE&I as a critical lever that enables prevent people from accessing quality care.
innovation for our medicines and diagnostics Our partnerships driving inclusive research have
solutions – helping millions of patients and expanded to include sites across the US, UK,
contributing to healthier communities. As an Canada, South Africa, Kenya, Morocco, Nigeria
employer, we are committed to fostering a and India.
work environment where all employees can be
themselves and can thrive. One example is Roche’s partnership with Omnigen
to analyse health and genetic information from up to
The newly created global Chief Diversity Officer 100,000 patients in South Africa. The project aims
role is a visible and important milestone in our to address the relative lack of genomic data from
efforts towards a holistic and global approach. people of African descent. Better health data allows
Caroline Creven Fourrier has been appointed in Roche to develop more effective drugs, targeted
this role leading a team set up as a stand-alone therapies and novel biomarkers, and expand market
group closely connected to the business and our access to improve patient outcomes globally. Read
executives. The role involves taking responsibility more about our work to close representation gaps
for Roche’s DE&I strategy, strengthening our on page 110.
internal DE&I community and driving internal and
external efforts to accelerate the realisation of Building a workforce that reflects the societies
Roche’s DE&I vision and ambitions. we serve
We rely on the creativity and diverse ideas of our
Focus on equity people to create innovative healthcare solutions
We recently updated our DE&I strategy to add that improve outcomes for patients. In 2023 we
‘equity’ as a critical focus area. Equity has always made progress in improving data quality and
been inherently included in our efforts and we transparency and helping employees further grow
wanted to call it out more explicitly. To Roche, their understanding of the importance of DE&I
equity means giving people and groups fair access around the globe. By improving our data quality
to opportunities, with consideration for their unique and sharing data more transparently across the
differences, to create equal outcomes. organisation, we encourage greater accountability
and collective action towards our DE&I strategy
Addressing the unmet needs of diverse patients and goals. In addition, we communicated our DE&I
and communities narrative so that all employees better understand
We are committed to contributing to science by the connection between the DE&I strategy and
advancing inclusive research for diverse patient our ability to innovate on behalf of patients around
populations globally – reducing barriers that the globe.Diversity, equity and inclusion | Roche 55
Key sustainability topics
• Employee rights and workforce DE&I
We rely on the creativity and diverse ideas of our
people to create innovative healthcare solutions
that improve outcomes for patients.56 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Roche has two corporate goals focused on gender Our inclusive culture is strengthened by the
and nationality, which catalyse action across the collective efforts of our diversity networks.
organisation with the aim to achieve improvement Forty-five new diversity networks formed in 2023,
year on year. These measures serve as proxies to bringing the total to 127 (see page 57).
the numerous (and often immeasurable) dimensions
of diversity that our people bring to Roche. Globally, Advancing positive change in society through
we have set a target to increase the proportion diverse partnerships
of women in executive positions by 2%, and under- Our DE&I strategy encourages the development
represented nationalities in executive positions of local partnerships with diverse stakeholders
by 1%. In 2023 we focused on building more to create a positive ripple effect in communities
inclusive talent pipelines and increasing equity across the globe. In 2023 Roche strengthened
for under-represented talent, with the aim to drive partnerships that add value to patients, society,
progress against our corporate diversity goals healthcare and Roche – fostering greater
(see chart on page 57). appreciation for DE&I globally and locally. One
example is Mission Leapfrog, an initiative that aims
Embedding DE&I practices to ensure to transform patient well-being and population
everyone can be themselves, do their best health in Asia. By partnering with people across
work and thrive the region to co-create breakthroughs, the
In 2023 we continued to embed DE&I practices project hopes to trigger transformative ‘leapfrog’
across our operations to foster greater inclusion progress that improves health outcomes for
at Roche. Our global DE&I learning portfolio is underserved populations.
accessible to more than 99% of our employees.
The portfolio, available on our global learning Proactively addressing demographic shifts,
platform, includes trainings on bias awareness, workplace expectations and policy changes
intercultural awareness and psychological safety The DE&I landscape is constantly evolving and
to help employees expand their understanding requires continued focus and investment. With
and build skills to support the DE&I strategy. Our global demographic shifts such as population
ongoing awareness campaign – DE&I: It Starts growth in low- and middle-income countries,
With Me – helps raise awareness of important along with a generational shift in the workforce,
issues and creates lasting, positive change we expect our current and future organisational
across Roche by driving ‘doable’, incremental and needs to mirror these dynamics. Roche is also
actionable changes across 100,000+ employees. proactively taking steps to meet changing
The 2023 campaign reached 50% more people regulatory requirements that call for additional
than previous campaigns. focus on DE&I, with particular attention to health
equity, disability, ethnicity and age.
Through the Inclusion Index in the 2023 Global
Employee Opinion Survey (GEOS), we measured Supporting global DE&I commitments
the perception of inclusion at Roche, focusing Roche is committed to creating a diverse, equitable
on inclusion, authenticity and respect. Our 2023 and inclusive workplace where human rights are
score was 77%, remaining stable from 2021. respected and safe working conditions are ensured.Diversity, equity and inclusion | Roche 57
Global DE&I corporate goals
We have set the 2023 target of achieving +2% share of women in executive positions and +1% of under-represented nationalities* in executive positions (as per
our Q4 2022 baseline). Additionally, we invite leaders across Roche to make an additional commitment which is relevant in the local culture and context.**
38.7%
35.4% 36.1% 35.9% 35.9% 35.6% 35.8% 36.7% 36.9% 37.3% 37.1% 36.7%
34.3%
17.8%
15.8% 16.2% 15.6% 15.5% 15.8% 15.9% 16.2% 16.5%
13.6% 13.6% 13.9% 14.2%
Women
Under-represented nationalities
Q1 2021 Q2 2021 Q3 2021 Q4 2021 Q1 2022 Q2 2022 Q3 2022 Q4 2022 Q1 2023 Q2 2023 Q3 2023 Q4 2023 Goal
127 diversity networks and chapters around the globe***
Age/generation
Race/ethnicity
Disability
Gender
LGBTQ+
DE&I
Veterans
Intersectional
Diversity networks are grassroots, self-organised groups of employees coming together to contribute to the DE&I mission of our organisation and are
specifically aimed at embracing the unique power of each person to transform the lives of patients and society.
* Includes individuals from countries in Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa.
** E xcludes Chugai and Workday Lite companies (these companies do not use the Roche Workday system as their leading HR system) due to our arm’s-length alliance and
merger/acquisition agreements.
*** Illustrative map of the diversity networks and chapters; not exhaustive5588 || CCoonntteennttss LLeetttteerrss ttoo sshhaarreehhoollddeerrss SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy R Reeppoorrtt HHooww w wee c coonnttrribibuuttee CCoorrppoorraattee G Goovveerrnnaannccee RReemmuunneerraattioionn R Reeppoorrtt
103,605
employees*
by region
North America Asia
28,661 23,219
Part-time
11.5%
Africa
Australia/New Zealand
1,171 Full-time 652
88.5%
Latin America Europe
4,981 44,920
Pharmaceuticals 45,239
Chugai 7,499
Diagnostics 38,173
Corporate and other 12,694
Employees* by Division/ODG**
60 and over 2,576 3,240
55–59 4,147 5,130
50–54 5,752 6,171
45–49 7,090 7,397
40–44 9,089 9,033
35–39 10,281 9,749
30–34 9,306 8,202
25–29 5,309 4,435
20–24 978 858
19 and under 34 29
Female Age distribution by gender Male
* Number of employees expressed in full-time equivalents, on 31 December 2023
** Operating Divisional GroupDDiivveerrssiittyy,, Eeqquuiittyy aanndd Iinncclluussiioonn || RRoocchhee 5599
As a United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Organization (ILO), specifically the Conventions
signatory, we commit to integrate the universal No. 138 and No. 182 and the ILO-IOE Child Labour
principles in the areas of human rights, labour, Guidance Tool for Business
environment and anti-corruption into our business • the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global
strategy, culture and daily operations. Compact
• the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business
Our Valuable 5001 commitment supports disability and Human Rights (UNGPs)
inclusion and we are a signatory of the UN • the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR)
Standards of Conduct for Business on Tackling
Discrimination against LGBTQ+ People.2 We also Mechanisms to mitigate risk related to DE&I
recently signed the Zero Health Gaps Pledge3 from We take a holistic approach to ensuring employees
the World Economic Forum (WEF). This pledge are compensated fairly, diversely represented,
aligns with our commitment to address barriers to provided equitable opportunities and work in a safe
clinical trial participation, diversify genetic data and fulfilling environment, free from discrimination.
for scientific discovery and increase access to In addition to what is described in the Ethical
innovative diagnostic and therapeutic solutions business practices and human rights, and Safety,
by advancing inclusive research4 (read more about health and well-being chapters, there are two
our work in this area on page 110). additional key mechanisms we use:
• We continuously track and communicate progress
Our approach to DE&I is outlined for employees against our corporate goals and refine our
in the Roche Group Code of Conduct5 and the approach to achieving them, including quarterly
Roche Group Employment Policy.6 We communicate reviews by the Corporate Executive Committee
our expectations to suppliers through the Roche and regular engagement with the People &
Directive on Human Rights Due Diligence for Culture teams most directly involved.
Business Partners.7 • We conduct an organisation-wide pay equity
analysis every three years. In 2022 we also
Roche acknowledges and is committed to conducted a living-wage analysis and will repeat
internationally respected standards and guidelines, this periodically in future.
including:
• the Fundamental Principles and Rights at
Work stipulated by the International Labour
1 go.roche.com/roche-the-valuable-500 | 2 go.roche.com/unfe-standards | 3 go.roche.com/zero-health-gaps-pledge | 4 go.roche.com/advancing-inclusive-research |
5 roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conduct | 6 go.roche.com/roche-group-employment-policy | 7 go.roche.com/human-rights-due-diligence-for-business60 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
7. Safety, health and well-being
Roche strives to be an innovative company that our employees are proud
to be part of and our partners trust.
We are committed to maintaining the Safety, • Promotion. We promote mental health and
Security, Health and Environmental (SHE) principles well-being as part of Roche’s global well-being
and practices outlined in the Roche Group Code initiative LiveWell@Roche.
of Conduct.1 These principles establish a uniform
minimum standard for SHE across all Roche • Support. Every employee has access to a local
companies, workplaces and employees. We expect employee assistance or counselling programme,
our suppliers and service providers to uphold these including counselling for psychological stress at
same standards in their own operations. work as well as in their home life. We also offer a
network of dedicated Mental Health Champions
Mental health is top of mind and Mental Health First Aiders to help reduce the
At Roche, we take mental health seriously and stigma surrounding mental health conditions and
strive to create a culture where everyone can create a safe space for employees.
thrive, feeling supported and psychologically safe.
The responsibility for workplace mental health Since 2020 we have reported on the maturity
is shared at the global and local levels and is of health risk assessments and management, in
supported by senior management. “As a leader, it particular for psycho-social risks, and have set
is my responsibility to prioritise the mental health ambitious goals for 2020–2025 (see illustration
and well-being of my people. Helping people on page 63). Roche was rated as one of the top
thrive is a non-negotiable part of a people leader’s improvers in the 2023 CCLA Corporate Mental
job. By fostering an open dialogue, we create a Health Benchmark, which ranks companies based
culture where everyone can flourish,” says Thomas on the strength of their management commitments
Schinecker, Roche CEO. In 2023, we continued and public reporting on mental health. We ranked
establishing an effective, efficient and holistic in tier 3 of the benchmark.
global mental health and well-being programme.
The programme is centred on three pillars: Well-being
As a company actively shaping the present and
• Protection. The assessment of psycho-social future of healthcare, we are passionate about
risk factors at work is part of the comprehensive fostering a health and well-being culture at work.
workplace risk assessment mandated for all Roche’s holistic approach to well-being takes
Roche workplaces. both organisational and individual perspectives
1 roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conductSafety, health and well-being | Roche 61
Key sustainability topics
• Employee rights and workforce DE&I
While actively shaping the present and future
of healthcare, Roche considers the safety and
well-being of its employees a top priority.62 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
into account. Our global Live Well hub offers over Total body well-being
30 well-being resources for individuals and teams on In each country we operate in, we create and
topics including psychological safety, mental health, support safe and inspirational spaces where
mindfulness and gratitude. employees can have fun, challenge themselves and
share their passion. We offer a range of wellness
We measure and report on employee well-being resources tailored to our employees’ needs and
primarily through our Global Employee Opinion stage of life, including meditation and mindfulness
Survey (GEOS) (see table). resources, sleep tools, resilience training, coaching
and counselling sessions, as well as fitness
LiveWell@Roche options. Many of these initiatives are driven by
Each year our sites hold two Live Well weeks to our employees.
promote healthy lifestyles and physical, mental
and emotional well-being. In 2023, we offered over Safety in the workplace
50 global events with thousands of employees All forms of work at Roche must be safe, whether
attending, where we celebrated genuine connections, the tasks are urgent, complex or routine. We aim
fostered a sense of community and ignited our to minimise the number of occupational accidents
sense of purpose. We placed particular emphasis on per year and the number of accidents causing
the topic of women’s health, especially menopause, absence from work (lost time accident frequency
offering keynotes, awareness sessions and guidelines. rate per 200,000 worked hours). Our approach
to safety at the workplace has been recognised
In addition, we have a Global Live Well Community in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, where
that supports employees to care for themselves Roche was rated in the 97th percentile for
and others as much as we care for patients. Over occupational health and safety compared to
250 dedicated Live Well Champions across the the industry benchmark.
Roche network help boost awareness and impact.
Employee health and well-being in the Global Employee Opinion Survey GEOS
Indices 2023 2021 2019
Environment and culture1, 2 76 75 76
Health and well-being1, 3 73 72 n/a
Impact on overall health1, 4 66 66 n/a
n/a – not applicable
1 The measures have been gathered according to the independent third party that provides the services for the GEOS survey. Roche aims to continuously
improve the used survey measures.
2 Currently, measured through the following three items: “Roche takes a genuine interest in the employees’ well-being”, “I am able to successfully balance my
work and personal life”, “Roche offers me a healthy workplace”
3 Currently, measured through the following two items: “My current state of well-being allows me to perform my job effectively”, “I am able to cope effectively
with work-related stress”
4 Currently, measured through the following item: “The impact of work at Roche on my overall health is positive”Safety, health and well-being | Roche 63
Employee psycho-social risk assessment and management
9.2 55 14.2
>56
>13.5
>9.5
goal reached
Commitment Approach Culture
0 10 0 75 0 15
Scores for 2023
Five-year SHE Goal (2025)
Maximum score
Employee health and safety
334
277 270
238
200
0.375
0.297 0.285
0.251 0.207
Total number of lost time accidents
Lost time accident frequency rate
2019 2020 2021 2022 202364 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
8. Ethical business practices and
human rights
Roche is convinced that integrity is essential to the success and
sustainability of our business.
The Roche Group Code of Conduct clearly expresses as well as solutions and tools that enable the
Roche’s expectations as an employer relating to implementation of our business strategy.
ethical business practices and human rights and
provides our employees with practical guidance, A good example of this is the launch of a Roche
examples and references to further useful Group Directive on Employees Engaging in External
information. Commitments that clarifies our expectations in
regard to handling potential conflicts of interest,
To ensure our high ethical standards are upheld, and establishes a digital tool making the process
Roche relies on a robust and comprehensive more consistent, transparent and simple for
compliance management programme. The the employees.
programme covers all relevant areas including proper
compliance training and communication, risk and Our efforts to radically simplify our Directive on
opportunity management, anti-corruption policy, due Personal Use of Social Media, with the aim to ensure
diligence when dealing with business partners and effective and compliant use of social media by
suppliers, and mechanisms for identifying, reporting employees, is another example: A multidisciplinary
and investigating compliance concerns – including task force updated the directive, refreshing the
protection of whistleblowers against retaliation. content and modernising the look and feel to make
it clearer and more accessible to all employees.
Embedding our strong ethics culture into everything
we do remains the main focus of our compliance And an example of a solution-oriented collaboration
programme. We know that our success in this area enabling the implementation of our business strategy
depends on how comprehensive and accessible is the successful roll-out of our Business Partner
the compliance programme is to all our employees. Management Checklist, which provides guidance on
Our compliance ambitions reflect this aspiration the proper management of external business partners
(see table). With this in mind, our actions in 2023 and allows affiliates to test their maturity level in
focused on effective education and culture of regard to this process, including important elements
integrity, simplification of directives and processes, such as due diligence and human rights.
Our compliance ambitions
We have a strong culture of integrity • We drive compliance leadership and an ethical mindset via continuous education for line managers and promoting ownership.
at Roche. • Our leaders are role models on compliance behaviour in an agile environment.
Our compliance programme is simple • We regularly revise and modernise our existing processes and policies.
and supports quick decisions. • We develop compliance digital solutions in the spirit of OneRoche.
• We develop OneRoche data and digital strategy for healthcare compliance.
We enable the implementation of • We effectively collaborate across functions to accelerate learning.
our business strategy through • We base our decisions and focus areas on the outcome of our comprehensive risk and opportunity management process.
solution-oriented collaboration. • We continuously develop our compliance community to serve business needs.Ethical business practices and human rights | Roche 65
Key sustainability topics
• Human rights and responsible, resilient value chains
• Compliance and business ethics
• Risk management
We are convinced that integrity is essential to the success
and sustainability of our business. To ensure our high
ethical standards are upheld, we rely on a robust and
comprehensive compliance management programme.66 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Compliance
Business conduct culture Roche is convinced that integrity is essential to ensuring the success and sustainability of our business. The Roche Group Code of Conduct
is developed in alignment with the Roche values of integrity, courage and passion. The code contains guidance in the areas of products
and services, personal integrity, corporate integrity, employment, company assets, responsible business and comprehensive compliance
management. It also provides questions and answers, examples and information on where to find more detailed guidance on the various topics.
All employees and all others acting on behalf of Roche must comply with the Roche Group Code of Conduct, regardless of their location and the
nature of their work. Following the ‘OneRoche Approach’ principle, the standards are equally binding for Group functions, the Pharmaceuticals
and the Diagnostics Division.
roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conduct
Policies and targets Our Behaviour in Business directive defines our expectations on business conduct. It defines business integrity as both the actual and the
on business conduct perception of ethical behaviour in business that is in line with the Roche Group Code of Conduct and our commitment to run our business in
a socially responsible way.
go.roche.com/behaviour_in_business
Prevention and Roche rejects all forms of corrupt business behaviour, such as bribery, improper advantages, theft, fraud, embezzlement and misuse of company
detection of corruption assets. While the key expectations regarding integrity are set forth in the Roche Group Code of Conduct, the Behaviour in Business directive
and bribery specifies and provides explanations on the specific aspects of anti-corruption and anti-bribery.
go.roche.com/behaviour_in_business
Anti-corruption and Roche employees, as well as business-critical business partners, are trained on the key compliance principles through a global mandatory
anti-bribery training e-learning. The e-learning focuses on the following topics: bribery and improper advantages, gifts and entertainment, conflict of interest,
discrimination and harassment, responsible use of social media and electronic communication tools, and business partners and supply chain.
All employees are required to complete this e-learning when they join Roche, as well as periodic refreshers and when the Roche Group Code of
Conduct gets updated.
roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conduct
Anti-competitive The maintenance of high ethical standards in adhering to national and international laws is one of the fundamental Roche Corporate Principles.
behaviour prevention It is the policy of the company to comply strictly, in all respects, with competition laws, and Roche supports all efforts to promote and
and detection protect competition.
The Behaviour in Competition directive is designed to make both management and employees aware of the basic rules, and how these rules
affect their business behaviour in making commercial decisions.
go.roche.com/behaviour_in_businessEthical business practices and human rights | Roche 67
Compliance (continued)
Handling non- compliance Anyone who becomes aware of a potential violation of the Roche Group Code of Conduct can and should bring it to the attention of our
events (including compliance experts.
corruption, bribery and/or
anti-competitive events) Roche employees and contractors can use the following reporting channels:
• the Chief Compliance Officer and the Compliance Officers network worldwide;
• t he Roche Group Code of Conduct Help & Advice Line in case of compliance questions or uncertainties;
• t he Roche Group SpeakUp Line to report in good faith a suspected violation. Roche expects employees to speak up when they believe in
good faith that someone has done, is doing, or may be about to do something that violates the Roche Group Code of Conduct.
The Roche Group SpeakUp Line comprises a web and telephone service that enables reporting compliance concerns confidentially and
anonymously. It is also available for everyone who is not a Roche employee or contractor. The Roche Group SpeakUp Line operates in
103 countries and 53 languages, making it available worldwide.
Any employee who raises a compliance concern in good faith acts in the interest of Roche and deserves acknowledgement. Roche does not
tolerate any retaliation against an employee who raises a compliance concern in good faith.
Roche takes all non-compliance reports seriously and is fully committed to efficiently and timely investigate them, to assess the facts and,
if necessary, to take adequate corrective measures and sanctions.
Our Business Ethics Incident Management System (BEIMS) enables our management, the Chief Compliance Officer and the Chief Audit & Risk
Advisory Executive to capture, track and monitor alleged violations, from initial reports through to resolution.
roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conduct
Roche Group Code of Conduct violations
In 2023, 240 employees and 63 externals used the Roche As a result, 115 employment contracts and 4 contracts
Group SpeakUp Line, which is operated by an external with business partners were terminated.
provider. Of these, 78 qualified as alleged violations of
the Code of Conduct. The increase in the numbers of reported alleged
violations compared to last year* is (i) due to the opening
The Chief Compliance Officer received in total, from of our speak-up line to external people and (ii) still due to
all channels, 760 reports of alleged violations of the a broadening of the scope of the definition of a Business
Code of Conduct via the Business Ethics Incident Ethics Incident, with the removal of the materiality
Management System. Of these, 316 were unfounded, criterion as of 1 March 2022.
285 were founded, and 159 are still under investigation.
* Annual Report 2022, reference to Roche Group Code of Conduct violations, page 157: roche.com/ar22e.pdf68 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Human rights
Our commitments human rights and the report on child labour in
Roche fosters human rights globally, both in our compliance with Section Eight: Due Diligence and
own operations and across our value chain. We are Transparency in relation to Minerals and Metals from
evolving our holistic approach in the value chain Conflict-Affected Areas and Child Labour under the
towards a proactive approach in improving human Swiss Code of Obligations, as well as the provisions
rights by committing to doing no harm and making of the implementing Ordinance on Due Diligence
an impactful positive contribution to society. and Transparency in relation to Minerals and Metals
from Conflict-Affected Areas and Child Labour.
Roche has been supporting and implementing Roche is out of scope of the due diligence and
the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on reporting obligations on minerals and metals from
Business and Human Rights and became a conflict-affected and high-risk areas under Article 9
signatory to the UN Global Compact. We are of said ordinance.
equally committed to supporting: the Ten UN Global
Compact Principles; the Universal Declaration Risk management
of Human Rights; and the International Labour We have a risk management approach designed
Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental to systematically identify, assess, mitigate and
Principles and Rights at Work and the Conventions adequately manage the risk of human rights
No. 138 and No. 182. These commitments are violations, including the assessment of whether
embodied in our Roche Group Code of Conduct1 there are reasonable grounds to suspect
and the Roche Group Employment Policy.2 In 2023 child labour.
we updated our Roche Position on Respecting
Human Rights3, the Supplier Code of Conduct4 In 2023 we conducted a Group human rights risk
and the Roche Directive on Human Rights Due assessment for our own operations and third-party
Diligence for Business Partners.5 operations. The purpose was to identify and assess
the potential negative human rights impacts of our
This section of the report covers the obligations activities and business relationships with a focus
on due diligence and transparency in relation to on own operations and the upstream supply chain.
1 roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conduct | 2 go.roche.com/group-employment-policy | 3 go.roche.com/respecting-human-rights |
4 go.roche.com/supplier-code-of-conduct | 5 go.roche.com/human-rights-due-diligence-for-businessEthical business practices and human rights | Roche 69
Group human rights risk assessment
Three-year cycle, review and update
Assess
Communicate
• Identify human rights risks Roche may
• Establish form and frequency of potentially cause or contribute to through
communication accessible to all its own activities, or directly linked to its
intended audiences operations, products or services by its
• Educate internal and external business relationships
stakeholders • Consolidate and prioritise impact-based risks
Annual cycle
• Define risk mitigation strategies/plans
Track
Integrate
• Monitor risk mitigation strategies/plans
• Collect feedback from both internal and external • Coordinate with relevant internal functions the risk
affected stakeholders (leverage materiality responsibility (risk owners), budget allocations and
assessment process when possible) processes
• Put mitigation strategies/plans into action
• Establish appropriate qualitative and quantitative
indicators70 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
The following focus areas based on impact were identified in our own operations
Focus areas Background and commitments Prevention and mitigation
Data privacy Data is a valuable element for developing innovative treatments and Roche collects data in compliance with applicable data privacy laws (e.g. Swiss
diagnostic solutions for patients and a driver for business excellence. Federal Act on Data Protection, EU General Data Protection Regulation and the
We strive to be a respected and preferred partner to all who may US Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act). The same is expected
provide such data, like our employees, patients and healthcare from our service providers and collaboration partners.
stakeholders.
A comprehensive risk assessment and mitigation process ensures privacy by
Roche is committed to collecting and using data in a lawful, fair, design and default and that privacy principles are always considered.
legitimate and ethical way, and will always respect the privacy of
individuals in order to earn and deserve their trust. Roche applies appropriate governance and safeguards measures to protect
individuals’ privacy rights. The Group Privacy Officer together with the Global
Privacy Office coordinates a global network with subject-matter experts and
privacy coordinators in Roche affiliates and in global and regional business
functions in close collaboration with Global IT Security and Privacy Governance
and other global functions.
Access to Access to healthcare is part of the SDG 3 to ensure healthy lives. Through trusted partnerships with global, regional and local stakeholders, we
healthcare help governments address relevant access gaps and build strong and resilient
As a healthcare company, Roche plays a role in collaborating with healthcare systems, including in LLMICs where, according to the World Bank,
different stakeholders in improving the prevention, treatment and 75% of the world’s population live.
management of non-communicable diseases and infectious diseases,
such as HIV, tuberculosis and hepatitis C. Every country has a different situation, and their healthcare systems present
unique challenges. So we work closely with partners to develop and deliver
We are also accelerating our ongoing efforts with our goal to double tailored access solutions that reflect each country’s individual healthcare needs.
the number of patients being treated with our innovative therapies
in low- and lower-middle-income countries (LLMICs) by the end of Our Global Access Program was created to enable access to reliable diagnostics
2026. And it is also our ambition to double patient access to novel, for patients in LLMICs, leveraging our world-class expertise and innovation as a core
high-medical-value diagnostics for people around the world. component to help control and eliminate diseases such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis,
hepatitis C, COVID-19 and human papillomavirus (HPV) / cervical cancer.
Fair and safe work Roche is committed to fair working conditions, and respecting Roche aims to prevent non-compliant behaviour by fostering a culture of openness
environment human rights. These commitments are reflected in the Roche Group to questions. We provide designated contacts to address uncertainties on the
Code of Conduct and Roche Group Employment Policy. Roche Roche Group Code of Conduct.
condemns all forms of child, forced or compulsory labour. Roche
tolerates the employment of juveniles only where it is lawful and All Roche companies have to ensure that the Roche Group Employment Policy is
only under conditions that adequately safeguard their well-being. properly implemented in their local employment practices and that local policies
are developed and communicated to meet the minimum standards.
Roche does not tolerate:
• any form of psychological, physical or sexual harassment, or Roche observes all regulations in the SHE area, in respect of all its employees and
any other violation of the dignity and respect of employees in of anyone else potentially affected by its activities. Workplace risk assessments
the workplace. with mitigation plans are performed in every affiliate.
• any form of workplace discrimination based on gender, age,
ethnicity, national origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation, A management system approach is in place to identify and control safety, security,
HIV/AIDS status, citizenship, generic information or any other health and environmental risks. Exposure of workers to occupational health
relevant characteristics protected under the applicable law. hazards are prevented or adequately controlled. The risks and the measures taken
to control them is documented in workplace health risk assessments. Workers are
At Roche, prevention is the key element for all activities, decisions offered health surveillance exams and are provided with information and training.
and measures aimed at ensuring safety, security, health and
environmental protection (SHE). We have a holistic approach to
well-being, taking both the organisational aspects and the individual
perspective into account.Ethical business practices and human rights | Roche 71
The following focus areas based on impact were identified in our supply chain
Focus areas Background and commitments Prevention and mitigation
Working conditions Suppliers are committed to pay workers according to applicable wage We require our suppliers to explicitly acknowledge and adhere to the
laws, including minimum wages, overtime hours and mandated benefits, principles embodied in the Supplier Code of Conduct. Suppliers must ensure
and consider remuneration in accordance with the skills, performance that their own suppliers appropriately ensure compliance with these
and experience of their workers based on local competitive conditions. principles along their own supply chains.
Healthy working Suppliers are expected to be committed to protecting human health,
environment to understanding relevant workplace hazards and to effectively Suppliers shall also ensure that Roche can verify compliance with the
communicating such hazards and related protection to all potentially Supplier Code of Conduct through our PSCI*-based Supplier Sustainability
impacted workers. Assurance Visit (SSAV) programme.
Fair treatment and Suppliers are expected to be committed to providing a workplace free
non-discrimination of harsh and inhumane treatment, and a workplace free of harassment Business partners identified as being at higher risk for human rights violations
and discrimination. Given the type of business relationship that Roche are included in a list of business partner auditable entities and scheduled for
has with its suppliers, this focus area is particularly relevant for migrant PSCI-based audits.
workers for reasons such as national origin.
Suppliers that fail to meet Roche’s expectations on the topics outlined in the
Roche Supplier Code of Conduct might be disqualified from working with
Roche. For current suppliers when expectations are not met a mitigation plan
is put in place, and in the event of non-compliance it may lead to termination.
* Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI: go.roche.com/pscinitiative)
Respecting human rights in our supply chain These expectations are covered in the Supplier
Roche holds our suppliers to high performance Code of Conduct, which our suppliers are
expectations concerning human rights that are contractually obligated to adhere to. In 2023, we
aligned with our own values and principles. shared an updated version of the Supplier Code
of Conduct with our suppliers, containing the
Our human rights commitment for business human rights aspects of freely chosen labour,
partners is based on the Pharmaceutical Supply child labour and young workers, fair treatment and
Chain Initiative (PSCI) Principles, which we are non-discrimination, wages, benefits and working
committed to. The Principles are referenced in all hours, forced or compulsory labour, and responsible
Roche contracts and embedded in the provisions sourcing of minerals and metals.
of the Roche Supplier Code of Conduct, which all
our suppliers commit to. To ensure the protection of human rights throughout
the Roche value chain, these human rights
We focus on the following human rights aspects: aspects are an integral part of the risk-based due
• Freely chosen employment diligence process in our upstream supply chain
• No child labour and with potential and existing suppliers and
• Legal treatment of young workers business partners. We have a formal process and
• Fair treatment and non-discrimination methodology to identify, prevent, mitigate and
• Working conditions (wages, benefits, working account for actual and potential adverse impacts on
hours) human rights. To enhance transparency within our
• Freedom of association and right of collective sphere of influence, we also expect suppliers and
bargaining business partners to actively assess and manage
• Health and safety human rights risks of their own business partners.72 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
The Roche Directive on Human Rights Due Diligence Pre-contract
for Business Partners6 sets forth the framework and Our Roche risk management programme is
principles to ensure the protection of human rights designed to systematically identify, assess,
across the Roche value chain. Global guidance on mitigate and adequately manage the risk of
the due diligence process, including instruction human rights violations and to ensure that
on how to develop and implement appropriate due business partners meet Roche’s expectations
diligence for local markets, is provided. throughout the procurement life cycle.
Roche’s due diligence process for protecting human The assessment of human rights risk is embedded
rights for business partners includes: in our standardised due diligence process
• Identification of risks and impact assessment conducted before engaging new business
considering any actual and potential risks for partners. Roche procurement professionals
human rights violations in our own operations, in considering offering opportunities to business
our business partners and activities related to partners use an online tool developed by Roche
our business adequately weighted and prioritised to create a risk profile of the business partner
according to their severity and likelihood. Roche that includes an initial assessment of the business
provides mechanisms to raise concerns from partner’s risk of human rights violations. The
Roche employees and business partners – methodology used mirrors the methodology
initiating and implementing corrective and described in the next section.
remedial measures if needed.
• Systematic and regular review of the risk No supplier can be engaged without having been
identification and impact assessment: the assessed accordingly with regards to potential
identification and active management of risk is a human rights adverse impacts.
continuous process undertaken with the active
engagement of all stakeholders potentially
impacted.
• Supportive documentation evidencing the
adequate due diligence process is stored in line
with Roche’s corporate records management
programme requirements and applicable
laws. Reporting of relevant and legally binding
human rights-related activities and related Key
Performance Indicators (KPIs) are maintained to
ensure proper record-keeping and transparency
with all stakeholders.
6 go.roche.com/human-rights-due-diligence-for-businessEthical business practices and human rights | Roche 73
Ongoing human rights risk management
Identification of business partners subject to human rights audits Supplier Sustainability Assurance Visit (SSAV) programme
We have a formal, annual process and methodology for assessing business partners As mentioned, depending on the circumstances, further risk-based due diligence
in order to identify those at higher risk for human rights violations. Business partners actions may be undertaken to ensure that issues such as human rights violations are
at high risk are subject to formal audits under the programme established to assess detected and addressed, as per the risk-based approach principles of the OECD Due
business partners against compliance with the Roche Supplier Code of Conduct. Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business of 30 May 2018. We conduct on-site
Criteria used include the following: audits at high-risk suppliers through which we directly evaluate supplier human rights
• Being associated with an industry that is likely to employ vulnerable populations compliance and overall supplier performance against the requirements of the Roche
• Being located in a region at higher risk for human rights violations, per respected Supplier Code of Conduct via our PSCI-based SSAV programme. Key characteristics of
human rights indices SSAV include the following:
• Being associated with government, media or internal reports of alleged behaviour • A regularly updated list of auditable suppliers, identified for inclusion on the list by
or operations that indicate real or potential non-compliance with the Roche Supplier the risk-based method previously described
Code of Conduct • An annual audit plan that is communicated to all relevant internal stakeholders (e.g.
supplier relationship managers, Global Procurement leadership and risk managers)
Inputs to our automated human rights risk assessment methodology that allows • Use of PSCI-approved independent auditors
for traceability in the supply chain include an external perspective with risk • Documented audit reports using PSCI templates and following PSCI standard for
assessment depending of four main externally available and recognised indexes: classifying findings based on level of risk
KidsRights Index, Global Slavery Index, OECD Index and Global Rights Index, using • Documented action plans submitted by the audited suppliers and monitored to
the following data: timely closure
• Nature of product or service procurement category code identifying the • Follow-up audits to ensure both adequacy of action plans and continuous
supplier’s exact industry and the nature of its product or service – to assess improvement
associated human rights risk. We are looking for activities typically associated • Disclosure of programme KPIs through various Roche public reporting mechanisms,
with vulnerable populations such as children, underage workers, migrants, including Roche’s external website
local underprivileged communities and people with low levels of education. • A documented SSAV programme manual describing all aspects of the programme
• Exact location of the business partner’s operations to assess if that area or
region is associated with higher levels of human rights violations (i.e. limited The SSAV programme also embeds Sub-tier Oversight Per PSCI protocols, based on the
regulation or enforcement). transparency obligations our suppliers commit to according to the Roche Supplier
• History or new information on potential risk data input on external reports or Code of Conduct. Therefore, SSAV audits include the following:
concerns raised about a particular business partner, region or industry • A review of the supplier programmes and management systems in place to ensure
that the human rights of the supplier’s own suppliers are adequately protected
Business partners identified as being at higher risk for human rights violations are • The direct assessment of human rights and labour compliance associated with any
included in a list of business partner auditable entities. These are scheduled for sub-tier suppliers working at supplier sites during the time of the audit
PSCI-based audits as part of our SSAV programme.
Where suppliers are found to not be in compliance with these principles or where
other serious concerns related to a supplier’s ability to meet Roche performance
expectations exist, Roche demands immediate corrective action or, where immediate
corrective action is not possible, a concept to correct issues including a concrete time
schedule. As a last resort, when there are severe issues and a supplier is not able or
willing to correct those, Roche will terminate business relationships with the supplier
and disqualify them from future opportunities.74 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Grievance mechanism All allegations are taken seriously and are
Employees as well as business partners are objectively investigated. Full protection to any
encouraged to speak up in good faith if they believe retaliation practice against the person who spoke
that a human rights violation has occurred. This up (identified or anonymous) is provided. If the
also covers any reasonable concerns about the allegation is substantiated, we take appropriate
existence of a potential or actual adverse impact remedial measures.
related to child labour.
Our reporting
The Roche Group SpeakUp Line is available for In 2023, 27 substantiated incidents related to
everyone internally and externally to report human rights violations triggered terminations
compliance concerns. of contracts. All the incidents were related to
Discrimination and Harassment, 25 involving Roche
Our local and regional Compliance Officers also employees, 1 a contractor and 1 a business partner.
serve as contacts for allegations, which are then
reported to the Chief Compliance Officer via the In addition, we assess supplier compliance with
Business Ethics Incident Management System our human rights standards through our SSAV
(BEIMS). Human rights violations, especially audit programme.
by our suppliers, can also be identified by the
Procurement department.Ethical business practices and human rights | Roche 75
Supplier sustainability audits
69
Number of supplier SHE audits
Sustainability audits triggered by high conducted with contract
human rights risk: 26 SHE* and manufacturers
Sustainability audits with findings related SSAV** audits
37
to human rights and labour: 36
2023
Facilities and utilities
Contract research organisations
5
5
Laboratory supplies
13
Logistics and transportation
SSAVs
32
per industry Construction and building
2023 2
Temporary labour
3
IT and telecommunication
Waste management and cleaning
7
2
The most common critical or major findings categories: excessive overtime and incorrect overtime compensation (10%), not granted enough days off or
annual leave (4%), delayed payment of wages (3%) and improper maintenance of HR and payroll documentation (3%)
* Safety, security, health and environment
** Supplier Sustainability Assurance Visit76 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Facilities and utilities
Construction and building
4
9
Contract research organisations
6
Logistics and transportation
Human rights-related Laboratory supplies
62
findings per 16
industry 2023
Temporary labour
8
Waste management and cleaning services
IT and telecommunication
1
5
A Number of findings regarding child labour and young workers 7
B Number of findings regarding forced labour 20
C Number of findings regarding overtime payments 18
D Total of all findings with any human rights impacts (including A to C) 111Ethical business practices and human rights | Roche 77
100%
Risk-assessed suppliers
Significant suppliers* assessed in 100%
relation to the SSAV programme
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Successful collaboration with business partners to avoid negative impacts
on human rights
Between 2021 and 2022, Roche observed findings related working time registration systems or appropriate
to human rights and fair labour practices notably within control mechanisms within the existing operational
the logistics industry segment. processes, as well as the implementation of dedicated
training for managers and operational team leaders to
Audits performed within the SSAV programme raise their awareness within the area of human rights
highlighted several situations within the logistics and labour.
industry where companies did not introduce and manage
appropriate policies and procedures to protect the The effectiveness and efficiency of the actions
rights of employees. A recurring problem was the lack of implemented within the CAP have been confirmed during
appropriate control mechanisms regarding the working the follow-up audits by an independent external auditor.
conditions (especially overtime and days off) of truck
drivers and warehouse workers. All non-compliances At Roche, we are aware that throughout the supply
were noted in the final audit report and reflected within chain we must actively cooperate with our suppliers and
the Corrective Action Plan (CAP) addressing proper business partners to minimise the risk of non-compliance,
actions to remove them. especially related to human rights and fair labour
practices. At the same time, we are constantly improving
The CAP contained the implementation of appropriate our internal due diligence processes and procedures,
policies, systems and procedures to secure employee which guide our activities and risk analysis beyond the
rights. These include the implementation of electronic tier-1 level.
* Significant suppliers are those that are assessed with the risk-based methodology for Supplier Sustainability Assurance Visits (SSAVs).78 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
9. Environment
Roche’s progressive approach to environmental protection and
management reflects our strong commitment to risk mitigation and
is intrinsic to our business.
Environmental protection is nothing new to Roche. Minimising our ecological footprint
For many years, we have been working to minimise As part of our commitment to sustainable
our ecological footprint and increase the use of development, we strive to use new and more
renewable resources while expanding the global sustainable technologies and processes to minimise
business. To achieve this, we have embedded our impact on the environment. We measure our
our procedures for environmental protection impact on the environment using the eco-balance
throughout our operations. metric developed by the Swiss Federal Office for
the Environment. By 2025, we want to improve
Roche aims to mitigate environmental risks via our eco-balance by at least 36% compared to
a multidisciplinary system of prevention and a 2019. In 2023, we report an overall improvement of
successful environmental risk management system. 32.8% in our eco-balance compared to 2019. This
Expert teams at each Roche site identify risks achievement was reflected by a 2% improvement
and develop mitigation plans. They communicate observed in 2023 when compared to 2022. This
our policy and guidelines to employees and other improvement was attributed to a reduction in
stakeholders and motivate them to implement the phosphorus emissions, increased use of sustainable
necessary measures. energy and a decrease in water use.
We approach prevention with the same sense Greenhouse gas emissions
of responsibility and just as methodically as we The pharmaceuticals and diagnostics industry – as
approach issues concerning quality, productivity a contributor to global GHG emissions – must take
and cost-efficiency. Our environmental programme appropriate measures to reduce its impact. Roche
has operational strategies covering climate adheres to international agreements that define
change mitigation, reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) targets and schedules for reducing emissions,
emissions and increasing resource efficiency, the such as the Paris Agreement, as well as national
environmental aspects of procurement, and water legislation at site level.
and waste management. We complement these
strategies by setting tangible and quantitative GHG emissions are an integral part of Roche’s
medium-term (2025) and long-term (2050) goals. environmental impact, and therefore we have set
ambitious but realistic reduction targets in line
We continuously monitor our environmental with the latest climate science. We have committed
performance against a range of key performance ourselves through the Science Based Targets
indicators (KPIs). This gives us greater oversight initiative (SBTi) and will submit our targets for
and control of our impacts and allows us to identify approval. Our long-term goal is to reduce scope 1
areas for improvement – helping ensure compliance and 2 GHG emissions to real zero by 2050. This
with our high standards and meet our objectives. means reaching zero operational emissions byEnvironment | Roche 79
Key sustainability topics
• Climate change
• Air pollution
• Water
• Circularity
Expert teams at each Roche site identify environmental
risks and develop mitigation plans. They communicate our
policy and guidelines to employees and other stakeholders
and motivate them to implement the necessary measures.80 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
focusing on our own reduction efforts, rather than providers to meet the same standards as we do.
relying on carbon offsets. Our short-term goal is to To ensure compliance, we inspect the operations
reduce total scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 40% of our suppliers and make recommendations for
by 2025 from 2019 levels. In 2023, our scope 1 improvement. In the event of non-compliance, we
and 2 emissions decreased by 6.9% due to an either ask for improvements, which we actively
increase in the use of sustainable energy. monitor and support, or terminate the contract.
Our scope 3 GHG programme Improving data quality
Value chain emissions are a significant part of Roche plays a pivotal role in advancing healthcare –
our total footprint. In 2023 we began developing bringing life-saving medications, treatments
our decarbonisation roadmap. Partnering with and diagnostics to millions of people worldwide.
suppliers, industry, health systems and financial Amidst the pursuit of innovation and therapeutic
institutions, we are accelerating progress to breakthroughs, it is crucial that we prioritise the
reach net zero emissions. Through the Sustainable safety and well-being of our workforce alongside
Markets Initiative (SMI) Health Systems Taskforce, environmental sustainability. Accurate and
our immediate focus is on identifying key hotspots, reliable employee safety and environmental
decarbonising healthcare supply chains and patient data are key to enabling ethical, sustainable and
care pathways, and delivering digital solutions for responsible practices.
sustainable clinical research. Supplier engagement
is a crucial part of our approach. Through the SMI Accurate employee safety and environmental
and the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) performance data help us identify potential risks
we are communicating our expectations to suppliers, and hazards so we can implement preventive
including on emissions disclosure and commitment measures and reduce the likelihood of workplace
to science-based targets. In 2023, our scope 3 accidents, injuries and environmental incidents.
emissions decreased by 7.4% overall. Emissions from They are also essential for demonstrating
business flights, waste and use of sold products compliance.
(diagnostic instruments) increased in the reporting
period. Supply chain emissions decreased in line Over the last year, Roche has been reviewing its
with a lower third-party spend, especially for the data collection processes. As part of this journey,
COVID-19 portfolio, and due to restatement using we have made significant changes to data practices
more granular (activity-based) emission factors. and systems across the organisation. This includes
aligning processes and platforms that enable
Environmental compliance more efficient and accurate safety, health and
A dedicated team of Roche employees around the environmental data collection. These efficiency
globe identifies potential risks to people, goods, the gains have allowed us to focus on workplace
environment and Roche’s reputation. The corporate safety initiatives that enable our people to deliver
Safety, Security, Health and Environmental patient outcomes and reduce environmental
Protection audit team inspects our pharmaceuticals impacts at the same time. Access to real-time data
and diagnostics manufacturing facilities for has also allowed Roche to extract meaningful
environmental performance and implementation insights in a more dynamic way than was previously
of our environmental policy in line with legal possible. Roche plans to expand on this work in the
requirements and internal standards. We expect coming years by continuing to explore innovative
contract manufacturers, suppliers and service technologies within safety, health and environment.Environment | Roche 81
Water consumption
1.4%
Noise pollution
1.4%
Landfilled waste
1.1%
Energy consumption
9.5%
Emissions to water
3.0%
Roche Emissions to air
eco-balance
83.6%
2023
By 2030, all vehicles will operate using
energy from sustainable sources.
Electricity
Company vehicles
26.3%
4.8%
We look for ways to reduce energy
consumption and improve energy efficiency,
Energy use by
and we aim to be using 100% renewable
electricity by 2025. selected types
2023
Business air travelling
Natural gas
13.0%
23.9%
Video and teleconferencing facilities
have been established at all sites and are
widely used. Employees are encouraged
to use trains and to consolidate several
business trips into one.82 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Scope 3 Scope 2 (market based) Capital goods4
4,214,069 98,820 303,925
92.5% 29.1% 7.2%
Scope 11, 22, 33 Scope 11, 22 Scope 33
GHG emissions GHG emissions GHG emissions
(t CO ) (t CO ) (t CO )
2 2 2
Purchased goods
Scope 1 Scope 1 and services4
240,610 240,610 3,299,154
5.3% 70.9% 78.3%
Scope 2 (market based)
98,820
2.2% Fuel- and energy-related activities
89,026
2.1%
Upstream transportation
175,672
4.2%
Waste generated in operations
44,149
1.0%
Business travel
129,183
3.1%
Use of sold products
172,960
4.1%
1 Direct emissions from within operations | 2 Indirect emissions from purchased energy | 3 Emissions resulting from activities within our supply chain |
4 The calculation methodology is based on the GHG Protocol following a hybrid activity-based approach.Environment | Roche 83
Energy consumption in terajoules
2023 2022 2021 2020
Total (scope 1 and scope 2, market based) 8,438 8,396 8,306 8,420
Energy (scope 1 and scope 2, market based) consumption (GJ/employee) 76 78 79 81
GJ = gigajoule
Halogenated hydrocarbons in tonnes*
2023 2022 2021 2020
Inventory 74.1 85.1** 88.6** 92.0
Releases 1.5 3.5 1.5 1.5
* Global inventory including Chugai, Genentech and Ventana
** Includes data from additional Roche sites as well as a wider scope of halogenated hydrocarbons than in previous years.
Emissions into the air in tonnes
2023 2022 2021 2020
VOCs* 79 80 86 73
Particulates 17 16 18 16
Nitrogen oxides 100 113 118 113
Sulphur dioxide 3 2 4 3
* Volatile organic compounds
Water usage and discharge
2023 2022 2021 2020
Water withdrawn (million m3) 16.7 14.9 15.4 14.9
Water consumed (million m3) 2.5 2.9 2.7 2.8
Organic matter discharged to waterways after treatment (t) 49 80 76 76
Heavy metals discharged to waterways after treatment (kg) 418* 137 131 174
* The increase in heavy metals was due to additional reporting of iron and manganese.
Landfilled and incinerated waste in tonnes
2023* 2022 2021 2020
Non-hazardous 10,538 9,087 10,357 11,139
Hazardous 17,051 14,587 15,110** 13,332
* In 2023, one of our affiliates reevaluated its waste disposal classification which resulted in an increase in the reported numbers.
** The increase in hazardous waste was due to the reallocation of electronic waste to hazardous waste.
Environmental data from Spark Therapeutics and Flatiron Health are not included in the Roche environmental results.84 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
10. Global citizenship
From communities to arts and culture, from environment to education,
our philanthropic programmes are united by one goal: partnering to
create a lasting impact.
What does it mean to be a good global corporate than CHF 23 million in donations have supported
citizen? For Roche, it means contributing to making childhood development and education projects
a difference in communities where we live and over the last 20 years.2
work to help make them healthier, more resilient
and more sustainable. We aim to create a lasting Employee volunteering is vital for our philanthropic
impact across our philanthropic endeavours. efforts. Our secondment programme draws upon a
broad pool of employee specialists for skills-based
We can’t achieve this alone. From the moment volunteering with non-governmental organisations
we first ventured into philanthropy with the (NGOs) across two domains: science and education,
International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and humanitarian and health. One initiative saw
back in 1918, we have collaborated with trusted over 40 members of our GPS Digital Excellence
partners. Today, in a fast-changing external team from around the world volunteer more than
environment, partnerships are more important than 400 hours for Swisscontact, an NGO fostering
ever. Increasingly, we work in a more integrated sustainable development in developing countries.
way with several stakeholders at once. The insights provided by the Roche team enabled
a digital strategy to help Swisscontact grow its
We have an established policy1 to ensure the reach and reputation.
projects we endorse meet specific quality,
innovation and sustainability criteria, and strictly Rapid and collaborative disaster response is
adhere to the high integrity standards set in the more important than ever. We work closely with
Roche Group Code of Conduct. Our Sustainability our affiliates to identify the best ways to support
Group Reporting System GAIA ensures internal local efforts with relief organisations and to help
documentation and monitoring of assets spent disaster-affected communities rebuild and prepare
on philanthropy. for the future.
In 2023, we drove many projects with potential for After an earthquake hit areas of Türkiye and Syria in
lasting impact across our four key pillars: community February 2023, Roche joined international partners
and environment, humanitarian and social, science to help ensure uninterrupted access to healthcare.
and education, and arts and culture. In Türkiye, we helped establish six field health units
in four cities and a fully equipped family health
Community and environment centre in Adıyaman, one of the hardest-hit cities.
The Roche Children’s Walk – our biggest employee In Syria, we supplied two highly specialised mobile
engagement and philanthropy initiative – health units.
celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2023. More
1 go.roche.com/donations-and-non-commercial-sponsorship | 2 See our feature on the anniversary on page 118 of this report.Global citizenship | Roche 85
Key sustainability topics
• Sustainable health systems and communities
• Stakeholder engagement
Roche Continents programme students participate in a
workshop for sustainable colour dyeing at Atelier LUMA,
a design research programme of LUMA Arles in France.86 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Since 2017, Roche has supported the ICRC in its change, sustainability and human capital, with input
drive to improve access to clean water and essential from both artists and scientists. Severin Schwan,
services for hundreds of thousands of vulnerable Chairman of the Roche Board of Directors, André
people in Mali, many cut off from other humanitarian Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman, and Hans Clevers, Head
organisations. In total, over 300,000 people have of Roche Pharma Research and Early Development,
received improved access to drinking water as of inspired and engaged students in discussions about
2023. We have contributed to similar projects with science, sustainability and the importance of ethical
the ICRC since 2006 across several other countries, and responsible business.
including Pakistan, Ethiopia, Liberia, Uganda,
Burundi, Eritrea and Guinea. The parallels between arts and science were also
apparent in the ten-year anniversary of Roche
Science and education Young Commissions where we partnered once more
We are passionate about nurturing the next with the Lucerne Festival to commission new works
generation of scientific leaders in a collaborative from young composers and paired them with two
environment. We support the International of our scientists, Eoin O’Connor and Shanon Seger.
Chemistry Olympiad (IChO), an annual competition Having visited the Roche labs, young composers
for the world’s most talented chemistry students. David Moliner and Hovik Sardaryan premiered their
In 2023, the competition was held in Switzerland for incredible composition at the KKL Luzern Concert
the first time since it began in 1968. We are proud Hall. Just like our own work at Roche, Young
that Vivian Michael Huber, a 2023 first-place winner, Commissions shows that working together, across
is completing an apprenticeship at Roche in the disciplines, perspectives and countries, leads to
field of synthesis. creativity and innovation. The intersection between
science and arts was explored in an opening
We continue to champion education programmes dialogue between Hans Clevers and a composer,
to train the next generation of healthcare and in a welcome speech provided by Teresa
providers. This is vital in a world experiencing health Graham, CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals.
system labour shortages. We fund a wide range
of scholarships in emerging markets, providing At Roche we celebrate multiculturalism, a value
education and training for new nurses – such as that speaks to our own diverse and inclusive
training for oncology nurses in Indonesia – health culture. That is why we are proud to support
workers, lab technicians and more. Culturescapes, a biennial festival promoting arts,
cross-cultural dialogue and networking. The 2023
Arts and culture theme was Sahara, and Roche played an integral
Roche has a long tradition of cultivating role in supporting the festival, including hosting
interdisciplinary exchanges to foster creativity and the opening event – a dance production called
innovation. For example, the Roche Continents ‘C La Vie’ by Serge Aimé Coulibaly, a renowned
programme brings together talented international dancer and choreographer from Burkina Faso.
students studying at European universities for an The dance, like the event, was a tribute to pluralism
immersion into a diverse world of arts and science. and the uniqueness of life. Such events offer a
In 2023, Roche Continents was held in Arles, France, unique opportunity for our employees and the
in partnership with the LUMA Arles Centre of Arts community to experience the rich artistic and
and Culture. The focus in 2023 was on climate cultural diversity we cherish.Global citizenship | Roche 87
170 sites in 75 countries joined the Roche Children’s Walk 2023*
Over 20 years
• CHF 23 millions raised
• >1,000 projects supported
• Total attendance: >315,000 employees
incl. 23,000 in 2023 (+15% from 2022)
Enduring alliances and long-standing partners to drive sustainable impact
Roche Commissions Roger Federer Foundation
12 renowned composers were paired with Roche >67,000 children were enrolled in
scientists and featured at the Lucerne Festival. the School Readiness Initiative.
20 years
of partnership
with Roche
UNICEF Culturescapes
>450,000 children received educational support. 17 arts and culture celebrations fostered
dialogue, diversity and inclusion.
>30,000 children accessed early childhood
development programmes.
* Illustrative map of participating sites; not exhaustive88 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
11. Information security
For Roche, security goes beyond compliance. It is a strategic advantage
and central to our goal of developing the medicines, diagnostics and
insights that help people live longer, better lives.
Our work revolves around data, and the integrity jurisdictional data privacy regulations, such as
of that data must be protected. Information HIPAA (US) and GDPR (EU).
security allows us to proceed swiftly in developing
medical advancements, unhindered by potentially Making security simple
damaging cyberattacks that can take companies While cybersecurity is a shared responsibility, we
offline for seconds, minutes or even months. It also work to ensure our researchers and partners can
preserves the security of our partners – healthcare operate without the constant fear of security
organisations that can only collaborate with breaches. As Tim Ehrhart, Roche’s Chief Information
third parties whose systems they know will not Security Officer, puts it candidly, “The security
compromise their devices, products and, most team’s goal is to be delightfully boring and
importantly, patient data. inconspicuous. We’re in the background, creating
an environment where our employees and partners
Patient safety and data privacy can focus on what they need to prioritise rather
Patient safety and data privacy are of the than worry about their cyber safety.”
utmost importance to Roche, and we comply
with applicable global, regional and local laws, Our security approach enables safe collaboration
regulations, standards, policies and contractual from anywhere, any time. While many organisations
obligations. Our robust list of certifications require employees to switch out laptops when
provides assurance that Roche is maintaining a travelling internationally and forbid the use of
comprehensive information security management personal devices, we believe restrictive policies
system with strong security governance, state-of- complicate the work of employees without offering
the-art risk management, effective security controls a meaningful boost in safety. Particularly in today’s
and processes, appropriate IT and information post-COVID era, people demand – and deserve – the
security operations, commitment at all levels of freedom to connect wherever they may be. This
management, and very high employee awareness is achieved by taking the necessary measures to
of best practices in cybersecurity, data and ensure a simple user experience by embedding
privacy protection. safety by design.
Built-in security and data privacy Fundamentally safe by design
Our navify digital solutions securely integrate data Our informatics system is fundamentally safe by
across care settings, connecting the healthcare design. In practical terms, we minimise usage of
community and accelerating access to innovation virtual private networks, using cloud computing
and insights. We employ multi-layer security through to compartmentalise data and follow a policy of
state-of-the-art controls to protect customers’ just-in-time access (where system and application
and patients’ sensitive data while complying with access is granted for predetermined periods of timeInformation security | Roche 89
Key sustainability topics
• Compliance and business ethics
• IT, data governance, privacy and cybersecurity
Security is more than policies and structures – it is people, too.
At Roche, all 100,000+ employees around the world, along with
our partners and stakeholders, work together to protect the
integrity and confidentiality of our systems and data.90 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
and on an as-needed basis to help minimise risk). Growing our security capabilities in-house
If a breach does occur, it is contained and therefore As fully integrated members of our organisation
does not pose a threat to our wider systems. and culture, Roche information security experts
Safety by design means we are better equipped are as dedicated to our healthcare mission as
to handle potential breaches, which cause minor any Roche employee. They bring a diverse array
inconvenience rather than a major incident. This of experience across the telecommunications,
approach relieves users of as much of the security finance, government and healthcare industries.
burden as possible. It is also more sustainable, Embedding security into our business strategy
requiring fewer total devices, which lowers our means that, unlike many of our competitors, we
environmental impact. The result is a cost-effective, do not outsource the majority of our information
resilient security posture that supports sustainable security organisation. Instead, we prioritise
innovation and empowers our workforce to be growing our security capabilities in-house. “By
adaptable within a secure environment. cultivating a supportive, fulfilling work environment,
we increase our ability to attract and retain top
Developing and empowering people security talent,” says Tim.
Security is more than policies and structures – it
is people, too. At Roche, all 100,000+ employees Constantly testing and improving
around the world, along with our partners and Because threats are constantly evolving, our
stakeholders, work together to protect the integrity team is constantly improving our security posture
and confidentiality of our systems and data. using a multi-pronged approach. We conduct
Information security awareness training and Roche penetration tests, web security vulnerability tests
privacy awareness training are mandatory for all and daily network perimeter tests. We benefit
of our employees. Additionally, we invest heavily from external expertise both through our strong
in continuous development opportunities so our network of partners including security experts
technical experts stay ahead of both industry trends from healthcare, government, technology vendors
and constantly evolving cyberthreats. This helps and private entities.
ensure we are prepared and proactive in mitigating
threat risks.Information security | Roche 91
Vendor security and privacy
assessments completed
Information security and privacy 430
risk assessments performed
1,500
Security incidents resolved
Information
2,400
security
2023
Critical vulnerability alerts released
220 Bug bounty reports received and remediated
300
95% of employees feel aware and contributing towards preventing IT security risks and cyber threats.
USD 143,000 in rewards were given to external security researchers in 2023.
Compliance and certifications Certifications
Patient safety and privacy are of the utmost importance ISO 27001
to Roche, and we comply with applicable global, regional ISO 27701
and local laws, regulations, standards and policies. The SOC 2 Type 2
certifications on the right provide assurance that Roche Cyber Essentials+ (UK)
maintains a comprehensive information security management HITRUST
(ISM) framework with strong security governance, state-
of-the-art risk management, effective security controls
and processes, and appropriate IT and information security
organisation operations.92 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Independent practitioner’s limited
assurance report
on selected 2023 non-financial information to the Corporate Governance and
Sustainability Committee of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
We have been engaged by the Corporate • Employee health and safety in the graph on
Governance and Sustainability Committee to page 63 of the Report;
perform assurance procedures to provide limited • Roche eco-balance and Energy use by
assurance on selected non-financial information selected types in the diagrams on page 81
(including the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions) of the Report;
of Roche Holding Ltd and its consolidated • All key figures in the tables and graphs on
subsidiaries (‘Roche Group’) for the period from pages 82 and 83 (except Scope 3: Capital
1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023 disclosed goods, Purchased goods and services,
in the Annual Report 2023 (‘Report’). Fuel- and energy-related activities, Upstream
transportation, Waste generated in operations,
Scope and subject matter Use of sold products).
Our assurance engagement relates to limited
level of assurance on the selected non-financial Criteria
information (including the GHG emissions) from The selected 2023 non-financial information
1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023 disclosed (including the GHG emissions) was prepared by
in the Report 2023. the Corporate Governance and Sustainability
Committee of Roche Holding Ltd based on the
The following selected non-financial information document ‘2023 Non-financial reporting indicators
(including the GHG emissions) published in the definitions and scope’ (the ‘suitable Criteria’) which
Report is within the scope of our limited assurance is available on the Roche website
engagement: go.roche.com/non-financial-reporting-scope-2023.
• the following people key figures, in all material Inherent limitations
aspects, disclosed in the Report: The accuracy and completeness of the selected
• Number of employees (expressed in FTEs), 2023 non-financial information (including the
Part-time and Full-time employees as well as GHG emissions) are subject to inherent limitations
Employees by Division/Operating Divisional given their nature and methods for determining,
Group (ODG) in the diagram on page 58 of calculating and estimating such data. In addition,
the Report; the greenhouse gas quantification is subject
• Share of women in executive positions in the to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete
graph on page 57 of the Report; and scientific knowledge used to determine factors
related to the values needed to combine emissions
• the following Safety, Security, Health and of different gases. Our assurance report will
Environmental protection (‘SHE’) key figures therefore have to be read in connection with the
(including GHG emissions for scope 1 & 2 and document ‘2023 Non-financial reporting indicators
scope 3 resulting from business travel), in all definitions and scope’ used by Roche Group,
material aspects, disclosed in the Report: its definitions and procedures as well as on the
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zurich
Telephone: +41 58 792 44 00, www.pwc.ch
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity.Independent practitioner’s limited assurance report | Roche 93
related third-party guidelines used to present the Practitioner’s responsibility
selected 2023 non-financial information. Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance
engagement and to express a conclusion on the
Corporate Governance and Sustainability selected 2023 non-financial information (including
Committee’s responsibility the GHG emissions) of Roche Group disclosed
The Corporate Governance and Sustainability in the Report. We conducted our engagement in
Committee of Roche Holding Ltd is responsible accordance with the International Standard on
for the preparation and presentation of the non- Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised)
financial information (including the GHG emissions) ‘Assurance engagements other than audits or
in accordance with the document ‘2023 Non- reviews of historical financial information’ and the
financial reporting indicators definitions and International Standard on Assurance Engagements
scope’. This responsibility includes the design, 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse
implementation and maintenance of the internal Gas Statements (‘ISAE 3410’), issued by the
control system related to the preparation of the International Auditing and Assurance Standards
selected non-financial information that are free Board. Those standards require that we plan and
of material misstatement, whether due to fraud perform our procedures to obtain limited assurance
or error. Furthermore, the Corporate Governance whether anything has come to our attention
and Sustainability Committee is responsible for that causes us to believe that the selected 2023
the selection and application of the document non-financial information (including the GHG
‘Basis for Preparation of Non-financial Information emissions) was prepared, in all material aspects, in
2023’ and adequate record keeping. accordance with the document ‘2023 Non-financial
reporting indicators definitions and scope’.
Independence and quality management
We are independent of Roche Holding Ltd in Based on risk and materiality considerations, we
accordance with the International Code of Ethics performed our procedures to obtain sufficient and
for Professional Accountants (including appropriate assurance evidence. The procedures
International Independence Standards) issued selected depend on the assurance practitioner’s
by the International Ethics Standards Board for judgement. A limited assurance engagement
Accountants (IESBA Code). We have fulfilled our under ISAE 3000 (Revised) and ISAE 3410 is
ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IESBA substantially less in scope than a reasonable
Code, which is founded on fundamental principles assurance engagement in relation to both
of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and the risk assessment procedures, including
due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. an understanding of internal control, and the
procedures performed in response to the assessed
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG applies International risks. Consequently, the nature, timing and extent
Standard on Quality Management 1, which requires of procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate
the firm to design, implement and operate a evidence are deliberately limited relative to a
system of quality management including policies reasonable assurance engagement and therefore
or procedures regarding compliance with ethical less assurance is obtained with a limited assurance
requirements, professional standards and engagement than for a reasonable assurance
applicable legal and regulatory requirements. engagement.94 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
We performed the following assurance procedures, We believe that the evidence we have obtained
among others: is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
• R eview of the application of Roche Group our conclusion.
guidelines
Reviewing the application of the Roche Group Conclusion
selected non-financial reporting guidelines as Based on the work we performed, nothing has
per the document ‘2023 Non-financial reporting come to our attention that causes us to believe
indicators definitions and scope’; that the selected 2023 non-financial information
(including the GHG emissions) of Roche
• S ite visits and management inquiry Group for the period from 1 January 2023 to
Visiting selected Pharmaceuticals and 31 December 2023 disclosed in the Report is not
Diagnostics sites in China, Germany, Italy and the prepared, in all material respects, in accordance
USA. The selection was based on quantitative with the document ‘2023 Non-financial reporting
and qualitative criteria; indicators definitions and scope’.
Interviewing personnel responsible for internal
non-financial reporting and data collection at Intended users and purpose of the report
the sites we visited and at the Group level to This report is prepared for, and only for, the
determine the understanding and application of Corporate Governance and Sustainability
Roche Group’s non-financial reporting guidelines Committee of Roche Holding Ltd, and solely for
as per the document ‘2023 Non-financial the purpose of reporting to them on selected 2023
reporting indicators definitions and scope’; non-financial information (including the GHG
emissions) disclosed in the Report and no other
• A ssessment of the key figures purpose. We do not, in giving our conclusion,
Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence accept or assume responsibility (legal or otherwise)
supporting selected people and SHE key figures or accept liability for, or in connection with, any
concerning completeness, accuracy, adequacy other purpose for which our report including the
and consistency; conclusion may be used, or to any other person to
whom our report is shown or into whose hands it
• R eview of documentation and analysis of relevant may come, and no other persons shall be entitled
policies and principles to rely on our conclusion.
Reviewing relevant documentation on a sample
basis, including Roche Group non-financial We permit the disclosure of our report, in full only
reporting policies, management of reporting and in combination with the suitable Criteria,
structures and documentation; and to enable the Corporate Governance and
Sustainability Committee to demonstrate that they
• A ssessment of the processes and data have discharged their governance responsibilities
consolidation by commissioning an independent assurance
Reviewing the management and non-financial report over the selected 2023 non-financial
reporting processes for selected people and SHE information (including the GHG emissions),
key figures; and without assuming or accepting any responsibility
Assessing the aggregation process of data at or liability to any third parties on our part. To the
Roche Group level. fullest extent permitted by law, we do not acceptIndependent practitioner’s limited assurance report | Roche 95
or assume responsibility to anyone other than
the Corporate Governance and Sustainability
Committee of Roche Holding Ltd for our work
or this report.
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
Bruno Rossi Raphael Rutishauser
Zurich, 31 January 2024
The maintenance and integrity of Roche Holding Ltd’s
website and its content are the responsibility of the
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee;
the work carried out by the assurance provider does
not involve consideration of the maintenance and
integrity of Roche Holding Ltd’s website, accordingly,
the assurance provider accepts no responsibility for
any changes that may have occurred to the specified
non-financial information or suitable Criteria since
they were initially presented on the website.96 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration ReportHow we contribute | Roche 97
How we
contribute
Through our commitment to innovation and collaboration, we bring
meaningful change to patients, people and communities across
the globe. The stories behind our advancements capture the reach
and impact of our people’s work.98 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
As a Roche patient expert since 2019, Antoine has helped Roche
colleagues better understand the experiences of people with
multiple sclerosis (MS).How we contribute | Roche 99
Sharing his journey with multiple sclerosis,
Antoine helps us improve care for people with MS
When Antoine learned in 2009 that he had relapsing perspective has contributed to valuable outcomes.
remitting multiple sclerosis, he felt shocked but also His feedback has ensured that our patient-facing
relieved. He had sought help after losing vision in materials are easy to understand and that Roche’s
one eye, feeling ‘pins and needles’ in his head and integrated strategic plan (iSP) for MS is focused on
suspecting he might have a fatal illness. “I felt happy meeting patient needs. “Antoine was a great person
not to have a brain tumour,” he recalls. to have on the team as he brought not only his own
lived experiences but also a broader perspective
He decided to keep his diagnosis private. At his from the patient community,” said Marco Parisi,
engineering job at a medical devices plant in his who led the development of the iSP for MS. “He
native France, he kept a smile on his face even as he has helped us build a strategy that is based on the
struggled to focus and steady himself going up and needs of patients and what a ‘win’ in MS looks like
down the stairs. When it came time for his annual for them.”
review, his boss told him that his performance had
declined and the company wanted to let him go. Antoine’s voice has also helped Roche colleagues
“They didn’t know I had MS,” Antoine, 44, recalls. better understand the experiences of people with
“I cracked and I cried.” MS and has been a valued addition to our training
we provide on Ocrevus, our MS therapy.
The experience was early in Antoine’s journey with
MS, an immune-mediated disease that affects A true inspiration to everyone
2.9 million people1 and is the leading cause of non- Antoine joined Roche on a work placement
traumatic disability in young people. But Antoine has organised through a government-run scheme
since embraced transparency. Today, as one of the that provides reintegration opportunities and
1,500 members of CareRing, an internal community financial support for people with disabilities.
of employees who are also patients or caregivers, Roche is committed to advancing the inclusion of
he regularly shares details about his life with MS to people with disabilities through our Valuable 500
help Roche improve delivery of care. The CareRing pledge. Antoine’s placement was facilitated
community is designed to create a safe, trusting by the RocheAbility network, which promotes
space for members to share their experiences, disability inclusion, and was one of the first of its
connect and contribute to projects related to kind for Roche. Since then, he has been consulting
relevant disease areas. with us for about four hours a week when he feels
well enough and is not attending rehabilitation
Collaborating with patient communities (including for his MS.
patient organisations, patients and their families,
etc.) enables us to better understand unmet needs “Having a patient on our team is something unique
and co-create solutions that support personalised across the industry,” says Christine Eighteen,
healthcare from an early stage of drug development Roche’s Global Patient Partnership Leader in MS,
through to the delivery of care. who works closely with Antoine. “I’m proud that
Roche provides people living with diseases like MS
As a Roche patient expert since 2019, Antoine’s the opportunity to continue to work and I’m grateful
courage, honesty and passion for sharing a patient for the value they add to our business.”
1 go.roche.com/atlasofms-number-of-people-with-ms100 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
“Working with Roche has given me a sense of relief his MS may be evolving to secondary progressive
because I don’t feel that I have a handicap,” says MS, which is characterised by a gradual worsening
Antoine. “As a patient expert, I am talking about of symptoms with no definite periods of remission.
MS, I am using my brain and I can help people. And This worries him because treatment options are
that is really important for me. I help people better limited in this type of MS.
understand this disease.”
In response to Antoine’s emerging cognitive
Setbacks along the way challenges, his Roche colleagues have implemented
Antoine’s ability to confront his disease with strategies to ensure he can track his tasks. When
positivity has encouraged us in our work and he requires rehabilitation, which can be last-minute
commitment to improving the lives of those living and time-intensive, Roche adapts to accommodate
with MS. When he was first diagnosed, Antoine his absence. “We always remain flexible as an
met with neurologists, physiotherapists and a organisation because his availability changes
psychologist to help him with the less visible depending on his health, and his health is always
effects of his disease. “MS is not only linked to our priority,” says Christine.
physical symptoms,” Antoine says. “You may
see I am struggling to walk, losing my balance, Readapting to a new reality
struggling with fatigue, but you can’t see my mental To prioritise the aspects of his health he can control,
state, the fact I forget things more easily. The Antoine has recently given up alcohol and changed
effects of a disease like MS are multifaceted.” his diet. “I have a daughter, I have a family, I can still
work, I can still do lots of things. So I try to focus
Like other people with MS, Antoine spent the early now on what I can do and not what I’ve lost.”
part of his journey working with doctors to find a
treatment that worked best for him. He learned to Antoine continues to advance Roche’s
self-administer injections – “an act that wasn’t easy understanding of life with MS, enabling better
for me to accept because it was a frequent injection patient care. He is a valued colleague who inspires
and a constant reminder that I had MS,” Antoine with his commitment to supporting his peers
says. He approaches setbacks and difficult days and with his ability to adapt to his changing life.
with positivity. “I have a daughter and I don’t want “Readaptation is an important word for me and for
to show her that Papa is sick, Papa is tired, Papa all MS patients. Since I’ve had this condition, I’ve
struggles to do lots of things. So even if I had a bad been working to readapt myself to the new me.”
night, I always greet her with a smile,” he says.
Today, Antoine says he has become more
As Antoine adjusted to life with MS, he moved to comfortable asking for help and has a new
Basel where his wife, Katie, found work with Roche. perspective on life. “Having MS puts things into
He began looking for work, too, and started seeing perspective; I don’t sweat the small stuff. It changes
a new medical team. Recently, however, Antoine your way of thinking and your behaviour. It changed
and his medical team have begun to suspect that my behaviour drastically – for the better I think.”How we contribute | Roche 101
Antoine continues to advance Roche’s understanding of life with MS,
enabling better patient care. His feedback has ensured that our
patient-facing materials are easy to understand.102 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Human model systems and related cutting-edge technologies have
the potential to reduce reliance on animal testing and significantly
speed up the drug development process.How we contribute | Roche 103
Accelerating drug discovery and development
through the Institute of Human Biology
We are at an inflection point in healthcare. Human One key area of interest for the IHB is ‘organoids’ –
model systems – miniature, simplified versions of tiny tissue cultures that mimic properties of in
human tissues and organs – are poised to transform vivo organs. They can be derived from a patient’s
the way we discover and develop new therapies. own tissues, enabling individualised diagnosis and
Although still in its infancy, the technology has treatment. The applications of this technology are
the potential to reduce reliance on animal testing far-reaching. For example, cystic fibrosis centres
and significantly speed up the drug development in the Netherlands and beyond now routinely use
process without sacrificing patient safety. organoids to determine patient eligibility for cystic
fibrosis therapies. This work was led by Hans Clevers,
The Institute of Human Biology (IHB), launched Head of pRED at Roche, who brings considerable
in May 2023, is the latest example of Roche’s expertise in organoids to the IHB.
commitment to advance human model systems. The
institute combines the best of exploratory research Roche’s pRED has already had success with
with the translational power of industry to solve organoids in testing anti-cancer drugs. Using
the real-life challenges of drug discovery and organoids to assess drug response, scientists
development. Established by our Roche Pharma progressed drugs into the clinical trial stage
Research and Early Development (pRED) innovation without animal testing.
engine, the IHB provides a platform for cutting-
edge collaboration among experts in exploratory Our capacity to create sustainable solutions for
biology, biomedicine, engineering, computational patients that are safer, more effective and more
and data science. No other institute in the world personalised is our key differentiator. Human model
unites all these areas under one roof. Partnerships systems have the potential to transform healthcare,
with academic institutions including the Swiss but there is still a way to go before they reach
Federal Institute of Technology (ETH Zurich) ensure widespread application. The IHB will play a key
we foster the next generation of translational role in advancing this technology – contributing to
bioengineering talent and equip them to address our long-term vision to revolutionise industry drug
future healthcare challenges. discovery and development.104 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
The #MyStoryForChange illustrations capture the experiences and
challenges women all over the world have encountered throughout
their healthcare journey.How we contribute | Roche 105
Closing the gaps on women’s health equity
with XProject
For too long women1 have been overlooked by chromosome that has historically been overlooked.
healthcare systems that see men as the default. The project has grown into a number of initiatives
Research into women’s health has been chronically spanning health, technology and financing. Teresa
underfunded, leaving women facing inequities Graham, CEO of Roche Pharmaceuticals, together
in treatment, access and care. Women are 50% with passionate colleagues, has been a major
more likely to be misdiagnosed with a heart driving force for the project.
attack, for example. The disparities are bigger for
women of colour, with black women suffering 41% Outside of Roche, momentum has also been building.
higher mortality for breast cancer compared to In March 2023, the United Nations Population
white women. Fund (UNFPA) launched the Equity 2030 Alliance,
of which Roche is a founding member. The global
Recognition of this systemic blindness to the commitment brings together leaders in the private
experiences and needs of women has catalysed sector, academia and government to close gender
a movement to amplify and empower women’s equity gaps.
voices. The #MyStoryForChange campaign
from Roche’s XProject aims to do just this. Since Technology is key
its launch in early 2023, over 630 women from FemTech plays a crucial role in the prevention,
around the world have shared stories about their diagnosis and management of women’s diseases.
healthcare experiences. Roche looks to harness the power of innovative
technologies to improve patient outcomes –
“I had endometriosis that was left undiagnosed for including those specifically designed to collect
about five years – by the time it was found I had women’s health data. In partnership with Microsoft2
a mass twice the size of my uterus,” shared one we developed a tool that uses artificial intelligence
woman. “My mother, a biracial medical doctor, was and cloud technologies to improve breast cancer
grossly dismissed by her peers. It took hours of diagnosis in the Middle East to 96% accuracy. We
advocating for herself until she received life-saving continue to support FemTech innovations, for example
care,” said another of her mother’s heart attack. by participating in the annual FemTechnology Summit,
which brings together leaders across the industry,
Together driving change and Tech4Eva, an acceleration programme for
Roche has a long-standing history in women’s women’s health start-ups.
health, pioneering diagnostics and treatments
for conditions that primarily address women. Women’s health is not a niche issue. And if women
XProject represents this continued commitment. are doing better, society is, too. By amplifying
It is an ongoing initiative aiming to close the gaps women’s voices and advancing gender-inclusive
in women’s health through partnerships, funding solutions in health, technology and financing, we
and action to create better health outcomes for can provide better outcomes for even more people
everyone. The ‘X’ in XProject represents the female around the world.
1 W e use the terms ‘woman’ and ‘women’ to refer to people who biologically have two X chromosomes (XX). However, inclusivity is at the core of XProject and we recognise
that these individuals may not all identify as female. We respect that gender identities are diverse and are striving for an equitable health system for all. |
2 roche.com/xproject/xstories/technology-for-womens-health106 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
In the last 15 years, IEEPO has become the cornerstone of our
engagement with the worldwide patient community.How we contribute | Roche 107
Engaging with the patient community:
thinking globally, acting locally
Our patient partnership model prioritises the is central to our vision of ensuring that patients
integration of patient insights and feedback into have a seat at decision-making tables with an
early- and late-stage research where we believe informed and active voice that will shape how
the patient voice can have the greatest impact. healthcare is delivered across the globe.
But the value of this work extends well beyond
the development setting and is key to helping At its core, the mission of IEEPO is to ‘humanise
shape effective policy, as well as healthcare healthcare’ through coordinated action on five
systems. key topics:
• Improving health literacy
This work is closely connected with our mission to • Advocating for universal health coverage in
help patient communities play a more influential all geographies and markets
and purposeful role in healthcare – a mission we • Improving the collection and utilisation of
have championed for the last 15 years through our health data to support decision-making
International Experience Exchange with Patient • Focusing on prevention and cure with a
Organisations (IEEPO). 50:50 model
• Prioritising diversity, equity and inclusion
We are proud that IEEPO has become the in healthcare
cornerstone of our engagement with the worldwide
patient community. The platform enables us to While each of these topics is complex on its own,
help patient organisations identify synergies in and has different implications in every country,
their markets and programmes, support them as we know that sharing knowledge, experience and
they build their capabilities to amplify their voice, learnings with and within the patient community
and collaborate with them on urgent topics with ultimately drives change. By thinking globally, we
the goal of making healthcare accessible to all. have built our collective capacity to act locally,
empowering every person – regardless of their age,
With more than 1,000 patient community sex, gender, race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status,
stakeholders participating in the platform and health literacy and geography – to take control of
its related events from over 95 countries, IEEPO their health.108 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Roche has a bold ambition to radically improve breast cancer
diagnosis and treatment by 2030, so that eight in ten women in
Africa will survive five years after diagnosis.How we contribute | Roche 109
Supporting breast and cervical cancer services
in Africa
Breast and cervical cancer currently constitute services at six sites across Kenya, Côte d’Ivoire
over half the cancer burden for women in sub- and Zimbabwe.
Saharan Africa, with 60% to 70% of women with
these cancers in African countries diagnosed at a The initiative includes health promotion,
late stage. Only five in ten women diagnosed with screening, early diagnosis and treatment, as well
breast cancer in an African country will survive as general primary care and screening for other
five years, compared to nine in ten in high-income non-communicable diseases. Early detection
countries. services will be integrated into existing cervical
cancer screening clinics to ensure both old and
Roche has identified breast cancer as a priority new systems are unified. The aim is to provide
condition to be addressed as part of our long- an integrated and holistic system of healthcare
term strategy in Africa, as we believe it will not that will contribute to addressing the burden of
only support people with the disease but may also breast and cervical cancer in the African region.
support the delivery of other non-communicable
diseases and support health equity strategies. The initiative also seeks to increase healthcare
workers’ ability to provide cancer care within
Roche has a bold ambition to radically improve communities through training, and will supply
breast cancer diagnosis and treatment by 2030, and deliver the necessary equipment and
so that eight in ten women in Africa will survive five essential supplies to support women at primary
years after diagnosis. To achieve this monumental healthcare level.
ambition, Roche is working with a consortium of
influential stakeholders, uniting governments, “This programme marks an exciting and tangible
civil society, development finance institutions, step on the path to true health equity in Africa
private sector entities, multilateral organisations, and demonstrates a new way in which the public
community leaders and healthcare professionals. and private sector can work together to drive real
All are bringing their own expertise and resources change within healthcare systems,” said Maturin
to this fight. Tchoumi, Roche Pharma International Area Head
for Africa, at the time of the launch.
In September 2023, the World Health Organization
(WHO) Regional Office for Africa announced a pilot Collaborations are absolutely vital to enable
to support better access to breast and cervical long-term, sustainable access to healthcare
cancer services in three African countries. Roche is that goes from screening to diagnosis through to
supporting the WHO Regional Office for Africa with treatment. Roche is proud to support the WHO
funding to provide integrated breast and cervical Regional Office for Africa on this initiative.110 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Roche has been conducting clinical trials for 25 years and
continues to work across Africa to close representation gaps
in trial and research data.How we contribute | Roche 111
Working towards a healthier future for all
Africa has the world’s fastest-growing population In addition, through the African Genomics Program,
and is the birthplace of all of humanity. Yet less we are expanding equitable data access in Africa
than 2% of human genome data comes from people and accelerating research. In 2023, a number of
of African descent. This important population is initiatives were underway to enhance capacity on
also under-represented in clinical trials, reducing the continent for the genomics ecosystem. Two
opportunities for scientists to research diseases key programmes initiated in 2023 include Together
and develop medicines that are equally effective For Change, a collaborative effort with several
across global populations. industry peers and Meharry Medical College to
create the largest African genomic database to
As a science-driven healthcare company striving date, comprising up to 425,000 samples from
to improve health outcomes for all patients, Roche people of African descent in the US and Africa. The
is committed to addressing barriers that prevent globally available data will increase opportunities
people from accessing quality healthcare. One to discover new human biology and better diagnose,
of the key ways we work to do this is by ensuring prevent and treat disease. Additionally, in the
inclusion and increasing representation of Discover Me South Africa collaborative research
historically excluded populations in research and initiative, we will access and analyse health and
development to help optimise health outcomes genetic information from up to 100,000 patients
for all patients worldwide. in South Africa.
With our commitment in Africa, for example, Roche At the same time, we are building the capacity of
has been conducting clinical trials for 25 years the next generation of African scientists by offering
and continues to work across the continent and fellowships focused on clinical pharmacology,
its diaspora to close representation gaps in trial pathology and human genetics.
and research data. There is a growing momentum
across the continent, powered by African scientists We understand that there is still much work ahead,
and a broad network of partners including NGOs, but we are committed to continue to improve
academia, the public sector and the private sector – inclusion of understudied patients in clinical
including Roche. Through these partnerships, and research, generating data that enables us to
with recent advances in technology, we are closer assess the safety and efficacy of our innovations
than ever to closing these data gaps and ultimately in under-represented demographic groups, and
working towards a healthier future for all. At Roche, reducing barriers to equitable care for diverse
we are proud of our commitment in Africa and taking patients everywhere.
part in this momentous push forward.112 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Roche is committed to helping to improve global diagnostics
capacity to enable access to affordable, high-quality healthcare
services for all people around the world.How we contribute | Roche 113
Improving access to diagnostics through
strengthened labs
Diagnostics are essential to decision-making 5% of hospital spend. Roche is committed to
along every step of a patient’s health, wellness helping improve diagnostics capacity around the
and disease journey. A diagnostic test alone can world by investing in laboratory infrastructure
help clinicians change the course of someone’s innovations that increase lab efficiency. We are
healthcare experience – and their life. As a leader also continuing our support for programmes that
in diagnostics, Roche is committed to not only train new laboratory professionals and enhance
advancing solutions that can support clinicians the skills of those already working in the lab. Yet
in making critical decisions for their patients’ many countries do not have laboratory capacity to
health, but also improving the way these tools are meet current needs, let alone those of the future.
integrated into health systems around the world. The challenges are greater in low-income, rural
communities. It is thought that 81% of people in
Healthcare professionals increasingly depend low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) have
on laboratory tests to make diagnostic and little or no access to life-saving diagnostics. Many
treatment decisions. More than 29 billion tests of these countries lack an integrated laboratory
were performed on Roche Diagnostics platforms network that can provide high-quality, accessible
in 2023. But the role of the lab goes far beyond and efficient lab testing services.
the actual test – empowering doctors to make
the right decisions at the right time, giving people In May 2023, Roche welcomed the adoption of
greater control over their health and well-being, the Resolution on Strengthening Diagnostics
and helping payers and policymakers use resources Capacity by the World Health Assembly (WHA). The
more efficiently. resolution supports diagnostics as a core pillar of
universal health coverage (UHC) – a guarantee that
Stronger labs not only help healthcare systems all people have access to affordable, high-quality
make savings in the routine management of health services. The adoption of the resolution
population health – like cancer, cardiovascular represents an important step towards increasing
disease and dementia; but investing in them also global access to novel, high-medical-value
helps reduce costs and prepare for any future diagnostics solutions.
public health crises – like pandemics. A study in
Germany found PCR and antigen testing during the With added momentum from the WHA resolution,
COVID-19 pandemic helped reduce the incidence of Roche is partnering with stakeholders through
infection by 40%, resulting in 62,000 fewer deaths advocacy and public-private partnerships to
and EUR 2.8 billion in healthcare cost savings.1 implement and drive greater diagnostics capacity
globally – focusing on LMICs where access is most
Insufficient resources and underfunding are two of critical. One example is our partnership with the
the greatest challenges facing labs today. Despite Global Fund that helps improve the diagnosis of
the importance of laboratory systems, they lack HIV and tuberculosis in LMICs by building local
the political and financial support needed. It is diagnostics capacity. We will continue to advocate
estimated that although lab results drive around political commitment to strengthening laboratories
70% of clinical decisions, labs account for only as a key driver to achieving UHC.
1 go.roche.com/impact-corona-testing-economy-and-health-care114 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Roche’s years-long engagement with Uruguay’s haemophilia
stakeholders was instrumental in establishing the foundation for
universal coverage.How we contribute | Roche 115
Innovative and novel access solutions
for a treatment option in Uruguay
Hemlibra is approved in 120 countries for the foundation for universal coverage. This was
people living with haemophilia A inhibitors and originally expected to be achieved by 2024. But
in 108 countries for people with no inhibitors. To negotiations accelerated after a young boy with
increase access to innovative treatment options, haemophilia wrote to the country’s president in
patient organisations, treatment centres and 2021, describing life lacking access to treatment
pharmaceutical companies must work together with and asking for therapy for every child with
governments to make clinically informed decisions haemophilia who needed treatment in Uruguay.
that help to improve the lives of patients. To innovate a solution, Roche put together a
team of colleagues from Access, Pricing, Medical
In Latin America, Roche has spent years listening to and Compliance.
the haemophilia community to better understand
their needs and provide integral solutions, thus Expanding access to innovative treatment
being considered as a trusted and ethical partner. options under budget constraints required both
The provided solutions based on continuous an innovative payment model and an unwavering
collaboration between different sectors resulted commitment to transparently and ethically
in a first-of-its-kind agreement in Uruguay to offer co-create the model with the patient organisation,
coverage of the treatment option to paediatric physicians, opinion leaders, healthcare providers,
patients and adults with inhibitors to factor VIII. payers and the government.
Roche’s years-long engagement with Uruguay’s As we mark the 75th anniversary of Roche in
haemophilia stakeholders, including supporting Uruguay, we are proud of the trusted reputation
the haemophilia patient association to develop a we’ve maintained in the country, which enabled
population census, was instrumental in establishing us to bring innovative treatments to people.116 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Roche has expanded its architectural focus to include sustainable
construction principles, aiming to set a benchmark for the industry.How we contribute | Roche 117
Taking a holistic approach to sustainable
building construction
The construction sector accounts for around energy while fostering an environment that boosts
60% of global waste and half of the world’s energy employee efficiency and prioritises their health
consumption. Recognising our role as a global entity, and comfort. Evaluations revealed that sustainable
Roche is determined to help mitigate these impacts. buildings at Roche require on average 25% less
Building on its rich tradition of architectural energy compared to standard buildings, and users
excellence, Roche has expanded its focus to include show 2–5% higher productivity.
sustainable construction principles, aiming to set a
benchmark for the industry. Collaboration is central to Roche’s vision for
sustainable construction. For example, our work with
Sustainability in construction is a necessity, and the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) to set
Roche has risen to this challenge. Using our own GHG reduction targets in line with climate science
novel sustainable construction methodology, Roche demonstrates our commitment to reducing our
has seamlessly integrated sustainable building impact and underscores the broader significance
into our ethos. This approach not only promotes and urgency of sustainable construction in today’s
sustainability through reduced environmental world. Our sustainable construction approach is a
impact but also encourages productivity and competitive differentiator and helps us generate
community contribution. long-term value.
Three key pillars underpin Roche’s sustainable One example of this commitment is the Re-Use
construction approach: for Kids initiative. In collaboration with the Canton
of Basel-Stadt and the Bern University of Applied
1. A pplying circularity principles to reduce waste Sciences, our site in Basel is testing the reuse of
and increase resource reuse and recycling. old building components to build two kindergartens
2. Cutting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions with the for the city. This innovative project not only
aim of reducing the building’s carbon footprint. demonstrates our commitment to sustainability but
3. D esigning to enhance the productivity and also contributes to the well-being and connection
well-being of the building’s occupants. of the community.
Roche has developed a software tool to make Building on our architectural heritage, Roche’s
it possible to carry out construction projects holistic approach to sustainable construction
in compliance with all relevant sustainable positions us as a role model in the industry. With a
construction requirements. The tool evaluates focus on environmental protection and community
a building’s entire sustainability performance engagement, our buildings stand as symbols of
from the planning stage through to the end of Roche’s values – each one marking a step towards
life. The new buildings are designed to conserve a more circular and decarbonised economy.118 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
The funds Roche employees raise through the Roche Children’s Walk go
to Re&Act which supports early childhood development and education
with partners like Selam Children’s Village in Ethiopia (left) and UNICEF
projects (right, © UNICEF/UNI160400/Ose) around the world.How we contribute | Roche 119
Twenty years of impact for children
Every child has the right to education. But girls in development and education efforts around
Malawi miss 12 to 26 days of school each year on the world. From the beginning, our partnership
average due to the stigma and discrimination they with UNICEF has supported access to education
face for menstruating. for children from disadvantaged backgrounds.
In total, over 450,000 children have benefitted
To help keep girls in school, UNICEF runs a from UNICEF educational programmes across
programme to create awareness for menstrual Ethiopia, Malawi, Nepal and the Philippines. Other
health and help reduce stigma and discrimination. partners include Child’s Dream, an organisation
The Roche Employee Action and Charity Trust working to improve education access for children
(Re&Act), an independent entity funded by in Cambodia; Selam Charity, that supports
Roche employees through the Children’s Walk, orphans in Ethiopia; and the Roger Federer
has supported this UNICEF programme since Foundation, that supports a range of childhood
2020. Since then, the programme has educated development initiatives.
5,600 school and community members in menstrual
health and hygiene and provided 6,800 girls with Roche employees making it possible
reusable pads and other supplies. Our collaboration with these incredible organisations
is only possible through our employees’ dedication
“I don’t view menses as a curse anymore,” said to the Children’s Walk. In 2023 alone, over
one of the young women who received education 23,000 employees participated across 170 Roche
about menstrual health through the programme. sites in 75 countries, raising more than CHF 1 million.
“My schoolmates and I freely talk about it and
support each other, so everyone can learn in peace.” Over the last 20 years, 166 leading Roche
fundraisers and contributors have experienced
The work in Malawi is just one example of the many first-hand the impact of funds raised by the
projects supported by Re&Act. The charity is rooted Children’s Walk as ambassadors. In 2023,
in our tradition of philanthropy and reflects our six ambassadors visited Cambodia to see the
commitment to act as global citizens contributing work Child’s Dream has done to improve school
to local efforts to build stronger and healthier infrastructure, create computer facilities
communities. and provide high-school scholarships. Eight
ambassadors travelled to Ethiopia to see the
In 2023, we were proud to celebrate 20 years of Selam Children’s Village, supported by Re&Act
the Roche Children’s Walk. Over the years, more since 2017 to fund orphan homes and youth
than 315,000 Roche employees have participated vocational training, and to Malawi to visit
in the event, raising over CHF 23 million for children some of the essential educational projects
in need. led by UNICEF.
Partnering for progress The stories shared by our ambassadors, partners
Since the Children’s Walk started in 2003, and especially the children they serve remind us
Re&Act has partnered with a range of non-profit of the incredible impact that education can have
organisations to support early childhood on children’s lives.120 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
We aspire to deliver the security and privacy that our regulators
require, our customers expect and our patients deserve.How we contribute | Roche 121
Privacy and security that regulators require,
customers expect and patients deserve
We believe data is integral to improving the lives define who is responsible for which tasks to
of patients, the physicians who treat them and the ensure smooth, efficient operation. Roche security
health systems that care for them. In 2023, we teams partner closely to follow governance and risk
focused on strengthening our zero-trust network management processes, ensuring security privacy
and refining our shared-responsibility model to help end to end.
protect our data and enable our entire organisation
to achieve our mission of doing now what patients Our security experts ensure effective vulnerability
need next. and incident management and promote security
and privacy awareness, supported by training.
Zero-trust networking We hold our partners and vendors to the same
The industry’s historical security model can be high standards we set for ourselves. Through a
compared to a castle and a moat. The inside was rigorous assessment process, we mitigate risks and
assumed to be safe because all the dangers were ensure our partners meet stringent cybersecurity
kept outside. Unfortunately, that model never and compliance requirements. Finally, we report
really worked. An attack on one computer could on product security and privacy and integrate
put everything at risk at once. That is, an attacker customer feedback into product requirements.
who got past the moat had a chance to take the
whole castle. The solution to this problem is a model Looking ahead
called zero-trust networking, which assumes every Today’s world is more digitally connected than
activity comes with some level of risk and that any ever before, but with that comes network fragility.
device could be attacked or misused. Attacks have become more sophisticated and the
proliferation of connected devices has increased
Instead of assuming no bad actors will make it across the threat surface. To put it in terms of the castle
the moat and intrinsically trusting the corporate and the moat: the castle stores more treasure, the
network, our model doesn’t trust networks at all. invaders have learned to swim, and the moat’s
Instead, it trusts identities. This means we make water level is dropping.
sure we know who is accessing what data and when.
The benefit of this approach is that, in the event To achieve our mission in this environment, we’ve
of a breach, damage is contained. A compromised traded the castle and moat for a model of zero-trust
device is much less likely to pose a threat to the networking and shared responsibility. Through a
company at large. Under zero-trust, attackers trying sensible and thoughtful approach, we balance
to breach the castle get stuck in the stables. the realities of today’s modern workforce with a
pragmatic security approach that understands the
Shared-responsibility model threat landscape and user behaviour. This allows
At Roche, cybersecurity is a shared responsibility. us to focus on what drives us each day: doing now
In our shared-responsibility model we clearly what patients need next.122 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration ReportCorporate Governance | Roche 123
Corporate
Governance
Principles 124
Board of Directors 126
Corporate Executive Committee 130
Group structure and shareholders 134
Capital structure 136
Board of Directors and Corporate Executive Committee 137
Remuneration, shareholdings and loans 142
Participatory rights of shareholders 143
Change of control and defensive measures 143
Relationship to statutory auditors 144
Relationship to the independent proxy 145
Information policy 146
Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance Officers network 146
Non-applicability/negative disclosure 147124 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Principles
Business activities with a focus on sustainable value relevant corporate governance requirements, in
creation and innovation, a management culture particular with all applicable laws, the Swiss Stock
conforming to recognised standards of good Exchange (SIX Swiss Exchange) directives and
corporate governance and a policy of transparent the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate
communication embody Roche’s corporate Governance promulgated by the Swiss business
governance principles, which build the basis for the federation ‘economiesuisse’. The company’s internal
successful implementation of Roche’s commitment governance framework, particularly its Articles
to serving all its stakeholders. of Incorporation and Bylaws, embodies all the
principles needed to ensure that the company’s
A strong Board of Directors which represents businesses are managed and supervised in a
the interests of the shareholders and all other manner consistent with good corporate governance,
stakeholders, and highly skilled managers who including the necessary checks and balances.1
act with integrity are extremely important.
The printed Annual Report contains selected links
Roche ranked as one of the top three most to the Roche website (https://www.roche.com).
sustainable healthcare companies in the Readers are thus provided not only with a ‘snapshot’
Pharmaceuticals index of the Dow Jones of our company at the reporting date but are also
Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the 15th year directed to sources which they can consult at any
running. This recognition is based on an in-depth time for up-to-date information about corporate
analysis of economic, social and environmental governance at Roche. Whereas each Annual Report
performance. Sustainability is at the core of our covers a single financial year ending 31 December,
business practices and this award reflects our our website contains information of a more
commitment to running our business in a way that permanent nature, as well as the latest Roche news.
is ethical, responsible and creates long-term value The company’s Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and
for stakeholders. the curricula vitae of current and former members of
the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive
This Corporate Governance Report sets out the Committee are published on our website (status
structures, processes and rules which Roche as per end of term and as at the reporting date
takes as the basis for well-functioning corporate on 31 December of each year, at least of the last
governance. In doing so, Roche complies with all ten years).
1 https://www.roche.com/about/governanceCorporate Governance | Roche 125
Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
and Board Committees Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
CEO Roche CEO Roche CEO Roche Chief Financial and Chief People
Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Information Officer Officer
Enlarged Corporate Executive Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Committee gRED pRED Pharma Partnering Communications General Counsel
Global Product Development Corporate Strategy and Sustainability126 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Board of Directors
Review AGM 2023 Review on reporting year
Under the chair of Roche’s now-resigned Chairman, At its organising meeting immediately following
Dr Christoph Franz, the 105th ordinary Annual the AGM, the Board of Directors determined
General Meeting (AGM) of Roche Holding Ltd was the structure and composition of its remaining
held on 14 March 2023 for the first time since committees as shown on page 129 (see also page 8
2019 without any COVID-19 restrictions and with and page 137 ‘Board of Directors and Corporate
shareholders attending in person again. Executive Committee’).
As successor of Dr Christoph Franz, shareholders Outlook AGM 2024
elected Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the On 12 March 2024, at the forthcoming AGM the
Board of Directors (member since 2013) and as Board of Directors nominates Dr Severin Schwan
the new Chairman of the Board of Directors for as its Chairman for re-election.
a term of one year as provided by the Articles of
Incorporation. At the same time with this election, The Board of Directors further nominates all other
Dr Severin Schwan resigned as a member of the remaining members of the Board of Directors
Corporate Executive Committee (member since for re-election.
2006) and as the CEO Roche Group (since 2008).
Moreover, the Board of Directors nominates
Furthermore, the AGM re-elected André Hoffmann, André Hoffmann, Dr Jörg Duschmalé, Anita Hauser
Dr Jörg Duschmalé, Dr Patrick Frost, Anita Hauser, and Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton for re-election to the
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, Dr Jemilah Mahmood, Remuneration Committee at the AGM in 2024.
Bernard Poussot and Dr Claudia Suessmuth
Dyckerhoff as members of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors nominates Testaris AG for
for a term of one year as provided by the Articles election as independent proxy by the AGM in 2024
of Incorporation. for the period from 2024 until the conclusion of the
2025 ordinary AGM of shareholders.
Moreover, Prof. Dr Akiko Iwasaki and Dr Mark
Schneider were elected as new members of the
Board of Directors for a term of one year.
In addition, the AGM re-elected André Hoffmann,
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, Bernard Poussot and
elected Dr Jörg Duschmalé and Anita Hauser as
members of the Remuneration Committee for a
term of one year.Corporate Governance | Roche 127
Board of Directors
Board Committees
Board of Directors
Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
and Board Committees
Remuneration Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Audit Committee128 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
11
Board of Directors members
Nationality*
Malaysia
France 1
1
Austria
female
1
36.36% Switzerland
male 5
63.64%
US
4
Germany
3
3 <55 years 5 years 5
6 55–65 years 6–10 years 4
2 >65 years >10 years 2
Age Tenure**
Average tenure (years) 7.64
* Incl. 2× dual citizen and 1× triple citizen | ** Calculated from year of first election to 2024Corporate Governance | Roche 129
(Non-)
executive/
Committee (In-)
Composition as at membership/ dependent
31.12.2023 Name (year of birth) Nationality chair* member Function First elected
Board of Directors Dr Severin Schwan (1967) CH, AT, DE D * E Chairman 2013 (as a member)
2023 (as Chairman)
André Hoffmann (1958) (representative of the CH A*, C *, D E, G Vice- 1996
shareholder group with pooled voting rights) Chairman
Dr Jörg Duschmalé (1984) (representative of CH B, C E, G Member 2020
the shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Dr Patrick Frost (1968) CH B* E, G Member 2020
Anita Hauser (1969) CH C, D E, G Member 2017
Prof. Dr Akiko Iwasaki (1970) US A E, G Member 2023
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953) US C E, G Member 2015
Dr Jemilah Mahmood (1959) MY A E, G Member 2022
Bernard Poussot (1952) US, FR C E, G Member 2015
Dr Mark Schneider (1965) US, DE B E, G Member 2023
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967) DE A, B E, G Member 2016
Secretary to the Per-Olof Attinger (1960)
Board of Directors
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee B Audit Committee C Remuneration Committee
D Chairman’s/Nomination Committee E Non-executive director F Executive director – currently no member
G Independent member of the Board of Directors * Committee chairperson
Roche’s Board of Directors’ independence definition is based on the definition in the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance of ‘economiesuisse’
(see https://www.economiesuisse.ch/sites/default/files/publications/swisscode_e_web.pdf) and is complemented by specific preceding criteria (see https://www.roche.com/about/
governance/board-of-directors).
Members of the Board of Directors: CVs and mandates
Detailed information is available as follows:
a) Current members: https://www.roche.com/about/governance/board-of-directors
b) Former members (at least of the last ten years): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/ec-bod-former
c) Information at the reporting date on 31 December of each year (at least of the last ten years): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/archiv-former-cvs
Information of the members of the Board of Directors shown is in accordance with the Directive on Information relating to Corporate Governance (DCG, https://www.ser-ag.com/dam/
downloads/regulation/listing/directives/dcg-en.pdf) and also specifically includes mandates in accordance with article 734e and article 626 para. 2 point 1 of the Federal Act on the
Amendment of the Swiss Civil Code (Part Five: The Code of Obligations [CO]) that may be carried out in comparable positions in other undertakings with commercial objects.
Rules on mandates applying for members of the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee are in accordance with §22.4 of the Articles of Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd
(https://assets.cwp.roche.com/f/126832/x/bb7e156602/roche-statuten-2023-en.pdf) and are explained on page 137.
Board of Directors A Corporate Governance and B A udit Committee C R emuneration Committee D Chairman’s/Nomination
Committees Sustainability Committee Committee
André Hoffmann (Chair) Dr Patrick Frost (Chair) André Hoffmann (Chair) Dr Severin Schwan (Chair)
Prof. Dr Akiko Iwasaki Dr Jörg Duschmalé Dr Jörg Duschmalé André Hoffmann
Dr Jemilah Mahmood Dr Mark Schneider Anita Hauser Anita Hauser
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton
Bernard Poussot130 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Corporate Executive Committee
In 2023, memberships of the Corporate Executive Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Committee and of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Effective 1 March 2023, Dr Levi Garraway, Head
Committee changed as follows. of Global Product Development and Chief Medical
Officer, became a new member of the Enlarged
Corporate Executive Committee Corporate Executive Committee.
With his election as the new Chairman of the Board
of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd on 14 March 2023, As of 1 April 2023, Silke Hörnstein, former Head
Dr Severin Schwan resigned as a member of the of Global Strategy and Transformation for Roche
Corporate Executive Committee (member since Diagnostics, became Head of Corporate Strategy
2006) and as the CEO Roche Group (since 2008). and Sustainability as well as Secretary to the
Corporate Executive Committee and a new member
Effective 14 March 2023, the Board of Directors of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee.
appointed Dr Thomas Schinecker, former CEO
Roche Diagnostics, as Dr Schwan’s successor Information on each member of the Corporate
as the CEO Roche Group. Due to Bill Anderson’s Executive Committee and of the Enlarged Corporate
resignation as CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals Executive Committee is listed on page 133 (see
effective 31 December 2022, Dr Thomas Schinecker also page 12 and page 137 ‘Board of Directors and
became in addition the ad interim CEO Roche Corporate Executive Committee’).
Pharmaceuticals as of 1 January 2023 until
28 February 2023.
Effective 1 January 2023, Matt Sause, former
Head of Roche Diagnostics’ North America region,
succeeding Dr Thomas Schinecker, became CEO
Roche Diagnostics and a member of the Corporate
Executive Committee.
Effective 1 March 2023, Teresa Graham, former
Head of Global Product Strategy for Roche
Pharmaceuticals, was appointed CEO Roche
Pharmaceuticals and became a member of the
Corporate Executive Committee.Corporate Governance | Roche 131
Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
CEO Roche CEO Roche CEO Roche Chief Financial and Chief People
Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Information Officer Officer
Enlarged Corporate Executive Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Committee gRED pRED Pharma Partnering Communications General Counsel
Global Product Development Corporate Strategy and Sustainability132 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
5
Corporate Executive Committee members
Nationality*
Austria
1
female
US 40%
3 male
Germany
60%
2
Switzerland
1
5 years 3
3 <55 years 6–10 years 1
2 55–65 years >10 years 1
Age Tenure**
Average tenure (years) 5.60
* Incl. 2× dual citizen | ** Calculated from first year of membership in the Corporate Executive Committee to 2024Corporate Governance | Roche 133
Composition as at 31.12.2023 Name (year of birth) Nationality Position Since
Corporate Executive Committee Dr Thomas Schinecker (1975) AT, DE CEO Roche Group 2019 (as a member)
2023 (as CEO)
Teresa Graham (1973) US CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals 2023
Matt Sause (1977) US CEO Roche Diagnostics 2023
Dr Alan Hippe (1967) CH, DE Chief Financial and Information Officer 2011
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967) US Chief People Officer 2016
Enlarged Corporate Claudia Böckstiegel (1964) CH, DE General Counsel 2020
Executive Committee Prof. Dr Hans Clevers (1957) NL Head Roche Pharma Research and 2022
Early Development (pRED)
Dr Levi Garraway (1968) US Head Global Product Development 2023
and Chief Medical Officer
Silke Hörnstein (1975) DE Head Corporate Strategy 2023
and Sustainability
Dr Aviv Regev (1971) IL, US Head Genentech Research and 2020
Early Development (gRED)
Dr James H. Sabry (1958) CA, US Global Head Pharma Partnering 2018
Barbara Schädler (1962) DE Head Group Communications 2019
Secretary to the Corporate Silke Hörnstein (1975) DE 2023
Executive Committee
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (reporting years 2004–2008)
of Roche Holding Ltd KPMG AG (since 2009)
Auditor in charge: John A. Morris (2004–2010)
Ian Starkey (2011–2017)
Mark Baillache (2018–2021)
François Rouiller (since 2022)
Chief Compliance Officer Pascale Schmidt (1973) 2020
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee: CVs and mandates
Detailed information is available as follows:
a) Current members: https://www.roche.com/about/governance/executive-committee
b) Former members (at least ten years back): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/ec-bod-former
c) Information at the reporting date on 31 December of each year (at least of the last ten years): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/archiv-former-cvs
Information of the members of the Corporate Executive Committee shown is in accordance with the Directive on Information relating to Corporate Governance (DCG, https://www.ser-ag.com/
dam/downloads/regulation/listing/directives/dcg-en.pdf) and also specifically includes mandates in accordance with article 734e and article 626 para. 2 point 1 of the Federal Act on the
Amendment of the Swiss Civil Code (Part Five: The Code of Obligations [CO]) that may be carried out in comparable positions in other undertakings with commercial objects.
Rules on mandates applying for members of the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee are in accordance with §22.4 of the Articles of Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd
(https://assets.cwp.roche.com/f/126832/x/bb7e156602/roche-statuten-2023-en.pdf) and are explained on page 137.134 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Group structure and shareholders
Roche’s operating businesses are organised into information on Roche Holding Ltd and on significant
two divisions: Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. subsidiaries and associated companies (including
company name, listing information, domicile, share
The Pharmaceuticals Division comprises the capital and equity interest) is listed in the Finance
two business segments Roche Pharmaceuticals Report, Note 33 to the Roche Group Consolidated
(including Genentech in the United States) Financial Statements (‘List of subsidiaries and
and Chugai. associates’, page 143).
In 2021, the Diagnostics Division replaced the Major shareholders are listed in the Finance Report,
previous business area structure of its four Notes 22 and 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated
business areas with new customer areas. Sales are Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche
presented by the following customer areas: Core shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pages 100 and
Lab, Molecular Lab, Point of Care, Pathology Lab, 140), and in Note 4 to the Financial Statements
Diabetes Care (for details see Finance Report, of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Significant shareholders’,
page 26). page 190). In addition, significant shareholders
are published on the relevant webpage (see link
Business activities are carried out through Group below*) of the disclosure office of SIX Exchange
subsidiaries and associated companies. Detailed Regulation.
Roche Pharmaceuticals (incl. Genentech)
Pharmaceuticals
Chugai
Core Lab
Molecular Lab
Diagnostics
Point of Care
Pathology Lab
Diabetes Care
Composition as at 31.12.2023
* SIX Exchange Regulation: https://www.ser-ag.com/en/resources/notifications-market-participants/significant-shareholders.html#/Corporate Governance | Roche 135
André Hoffmann (above), Chairman of the Corporate Governance
and Sustainability Committee and of the Remuneration Committee,
and Dr Jörg Duschmalé (below), member of the Audit Committee and
of the Remuneration Committee
André Hoffmann (Vice-Chairman of the Board of
Directors, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
and of the Board’s Corporate Governance and
Sustainability Committee and member of the
Board’s Chairman’s/Nomination Committee) and
Dr Jörg Duschmalé (member of the Board of
Directors, of the Board’s Audit Committee and of the
Remuneration Committee) serve in their respective
capacities on the Board and its committees as
representatives of the shareholder group with
pooled voting rights and receive the remuneration
set forth in the Remuneration Report on page 162
and in the Finance Report, Note 32 to the Roche
Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related
parties’, page 140). No other relationships exist with
the shareholders with pooled voting rights.
There are no cross-shareholdings.136 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Capital structure
Information on Roche’s capital structure is provided Information on debt instruments which have been
in the Finance Report, Notes to the Financial issued and on outstanding bonds is provided in
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (page 187). the Finance Report, Note 21 to the Roche Group
Additional details are contained in the Articles of Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Debt’, page 94).
Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.2
Information on employee stock options is provided
Movement in recognised amounts during the last in the Finance Report, Note 27 to the Roche
three financial years are detailed in the Finance Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity
Report, Notes to the Financial Statements of compensation plans’, page 114), including detailed
Roche Holding Ltd (page 189). information on the Stock-settled Stock Appreciation
Rights (S-SARs) Plan, the Restricted Stock Units
The company has a share capital of (RSUs) Plan, Roche Connect and the Roche
CHF 106,691,000, divided into 106,691,000 fully Option Plan.
paid bearer shares with a nominal value of CHF 1
each. There are no restrictions on the exercise of Roche has issued no options apart from employee
the voting rights of these bearer shares. stock options as described in the Finance Report,
Note 27 to the Roche Group Consolidated
There is no authorised or conditional capital. Financial Statements (‘Equity compensation plans’,
page 114), and options issued in connection with
In addition, 702,562,700 non-voting equity debt instruments.
securities (NES) have been issued in bearer form.
They do not form part of the share capital and Neither the options awarded to employees nor the
confer no voting rights. Each NES confers the debt instruments which have been issued have any
same rights as one share to participate in available effect on Roche’s share capital.
earnings and in any liquidation proceeds following
repayment of the share capital. Roche’s NES
and the rights pertaining thereto (including the
provisions protecting the interests of NES holders)
are described in §4 of the Articles of Incorporation
of Roche Holding Ltd.
2 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporationCorporate Governance | Roche 137
Board of Directors
and Corporate Executive Committee
Information on each member of the Board of Mandates shall mean mandates in comparable
Directors and on each member of the Corporate functions at other companies with an economic
Executive Committee is listed on pages 129 purpose. Mandates in different legal entities that
and 133. Members of the Board of Directors have are under joint control or same beneficial ownership
no age limit or restriction on their term of office. are deemed as a single mandate.
Curricula vitae (CVs) of all current and former Since 2014, the Annual General Meeting has elected
members (of at least the last ten years) of both all members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman
bodies and other information (including information of the Board of Directors and the members of
on the years of their first election, Board the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis
memberships, additional positions, memberships in elections in which each nominee is voted on
and activities) are available and continuously separately (see §18 of the Articles of Incorporation
updated on the Internet. In addition, the status of of Roche Holding Ltd4 and the minutes of the
the CVs of both bodies at the relevant reporting 105th ordinary Annual General Meeting of Roche
date on 31 December (of at least the last ten years) Holding Ltd, held on 14 March 20235).
is separately available, too.3
With the exception of Dr Severin Schwan, none of
Rules pursuant to article 626 para. 2 point 1 of the the members of the Board of Directors in office
Federal Act on the Amendment of the Swiss Civil at the end of 2023 was a member of Roche’s
Code (Part Five: The Code of Obligations [CO]) on Corporate Executive Committee or served in an
the number of permitted activities of the Board of executive capacity at any Group subsidiary during
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee the three financial years preceding the current
members are outlined in §22.4 of the Articles of reporting period and they are for lack of existing
Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.4 business connections with the Group or any Group
• No member of the Board of Directors may assume subsidiary independent. Roche’s Board of Directors’
more than 10 additional mandates, of which no independence definition is based on the definition
more than 4 may be in publicly listed companies. in the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate
• No member of the Corporate Executive Committee Governance of ‘economiesuisse’ (see https://www.
may assume more than 5 additional mandates, economiesuisse.ch/sites/default/files/publications/
of which no more than 1 may be in a publicly swisscode_e_web.pdf) and is complemented by
listed company. specific preceding criteria (see https://www.roche.
These restrictions do not apply to: com/about/governance/board-of-directors).
a. Mandates at companies controlled by the
company or which control it. The Principles of Governance (principles of
b. Mandates which a member of the Board delegation and competence, reservation of powers
of Directors or of the Corporate Executive and management of a group of companies) of
Committee assumes by order of the company or the executive bodies of the company include
by order of companies controlled by the company. economic, environmental and social topics. The
c. Mandates at associations, foundations, family principles together with the internal organisation
foundations and employee welfare foundations. of the Board of Directors, the division of authority
3 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/board-of-directors and https://www.roche.com/about/governance/executive-committee, in addition see pages 129, 133 and 151.
4 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporation
5 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/annual-general-meetings138 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
and Board Committees Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
CEO Roche CEO Roche CEO Roche Chief Financial and Chief People
Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Information Officer Officer
and responsibilities between the Board and As part of the Management Information System
management, the remits of the Board Committees, (MIS), the Board has access to an electronic
and the information and control mechanisms information platform which provides timely
available to the Board in its dealings with corporate information to the Board of Directors and the
management, are governed by the Bylaws.6 Board Committees as does the system of controls
as set forth below.
The Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd is
organised so as to ensure that the Group conducts The Board of Directors has established a system
its businesses responsibly and with a focus on long- of controls which is continuously monitored by the
term value creation. To this end, the Roche Board Audit Committee, by the Corporate Governance
has delegated certain responsibilities to several and Sustainability Committee and by the Board of
committees.7 Their composition and chairpersons Directors and consists of the following elements:
as at 31 December 2023 are described on pages 8 • Report on operating and financial risks (risk
and 129. Each committee’s authorities and management system)
responsibilities are defined in detail in the Bylaws The Roche Group has established a risk
of the Board of Directors.8 management process covering the entire company
with a system in place to identify and manage
All the committees (with the exception of the all types of risks and opportunities potentially
Chairman’s/Nomination Committee) are chaired by affecting its business (including economic,
independent directors. environmental and social impacts). The Board of
Directors is the highest governance body involved.
According to the Bylaws of the Board of Directors, Roche’s Risk Management Policy sets out the
a Board meeting may be convened without the approach and accompanying responsibilities.
Chairman present at the request of any of its Roche’s Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions
members. The Roche Board meets once a year to and Group functions conduct a formal assessment
assess the Chairman’s performance. This meeting, process at least once a year and must develop
which is not attended by the Chairman, is chaired management plans for their most material risks
by the Vice-Chairman. and opportunities. These risk management
6 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporation
7 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/committees
8 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporationCorporate Governance | Roche 139
plans are monitored and deviations reviewed in are developed together with the business/auditee
regular performance dialogues. The consolidated and are tracked to completion.
Group Risk Report including target risk profile is • Statutory auditors, see page 144
discussed by the Corporate Executive Committee • Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance Officers
and approved together with the Group Business in subsidiaries, see page 146
Plan by the Board of Directors. All material risks • Safety, Security, Health and Environmental
are reviewed by the Board on a yearly basis. The Protection department11
effectiveness of the risk management process • Corporate Sustainability Steering Committee12
is monitored by the Group Risk Advisory team • Scientific Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG)13
and the overall process is regularly reviewed by
external auditors, with findings presented to the The members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Audit Committee and the full Board. For details are invited to attend meetings of the Board of
on risk management and the Risk Management Directors for, and report in person on, those agenda
Policy, see ‘Risk management’ on our website.9 items concerning them. When the situation warrants,
Financial risk management is described in the members of the Enlarged Corporate Executive
Finance Report.10 Committee may also be invited to attend. The Board
• System of internal controls over financial reporting Committees invite the Chairman of the Board and
(see page 162 of the Finance Report) Corporate Executive Committee members to deliver
• Internal audit reports at committee meetings and may elect to
Group Audit reports administratively to the General commission independent expert reports and call on
Counsel, has direct access and gives regular the services of consultants.
briefings to the Audit Committee, to the Corporate
Governance and Sustainability Committee and Each year several black-out periods are imposed
to the Chairman of the Board of Directors about during which members of the Board of Directors
ongoing activities and audit reports. The Chief and senior managers and certain other employees
Audit & Risk Advisory Executive attends the Audit are prohibited from trading in company stock. The
Committee and partly the Corporate Governance following black-out periods are/were in effect for
and Sustainability Committee meetings, as do the 2024 and 2023, respectively:
external auditors. Group Audit is an independent
appraisal function which evaluates and reviews Black-out periods
the Group’s activities as a service to the Board of 2024 2023
Directors and to management. The annual audit
26 December 2023 to 26 December 2022 to
plan with yearly defined focus areas is validated
1 February 2024 3 February 2023
by senior management and approved by the Audit
1 April to 24 April 2024 1 April to 26 April 2023
Committee. The Roche Group is committed to
26 June to 25 July 2024 26 June to 27 July 2023
maintaining a high standard of internal control
1 October to 1 October to
throughout its worldwide operations. Management
23 October 2024 19 October 2023
is responsible for assessing the business risks in
all aspects of its operation and for implementing
effective and efficient processes and controls Black-out periods can be changed by the Chairman
whilst ensuring compliance with internal and of the Board of Directors if circumstances warrant.
external rules and regulations. By conducting
operational audits, Group Audit determines Roche employees involved in the preparation of
management’s response to the risks surrounding regular publicity events (in particular annual and
business processes and systems, and evaluates half-year reports and media conferences, quarterly
the appropriateness, completeness and efficiency sales releases) or having otherwise access to
of the processes and controls. Action plans to such potentially share price sensitive information
implement necessary changes and enhancements of Roche are subject to these black-out periods.
9 https://www.roche.com/about/sustainability/approach/risk-management
10 Additional information is provided in the Finance Report, Note 31 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements, ‘Risk management’, page 126.
11 https://www.roche.com/about/sustainability/environment
12 https://www.roche.com/about/sustainability
13 https://www.roche.com/innovation/ethical-standards/advisory140 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Dr Patrick Frost, Chairman of the Audit Committee
full-day meeting. In addition, the Board went on
a 5-day trip to a major non-European affiliate.*
The Board Committees met as follows in 2023:
• Chairman’s/Nomination Committee: 7 meetings
(approx. 2 hours each*)
• Remuneration Committee: 3 meetings14
(approx. 2 hours each*)
• Audit Committee: 5 meetings (approx. 3 to 4 hours
Irrespective of whether the relevant information each*)
is share price sensitive for Roche or not, during • Corporate Governance and Sustainability
the black-out periods these persons shall keep Committee: 3 meetings (approx. 2 to 3 hours
the relevant information confidential and must not each*)
(i) disclose it to any non-insider within or outside
Roche (including family members), (ii) buy, sell The Board of Directors regularly conducts an
or otherwise trade in equity securities of Roche assessment (self-assessment / assessment by
(shares, non-voting equity securities) as well as third parties via electronic survey and personal
options or similar instruments and derivatives based interviews) of its performance. In 2023, a third-party
thereon, or (iii) provide trading recommendations assessment took place.
thereon. The automatic execution of predefined
periodic purchase orders under the Roche Connect Members of the Corporate Executive Committee
programme is not subject to these black-out have a maximum ordinary notice period of twelve
periods. For addressees, scope and exceptions with months. There are no change-of-control clauses in
regard to the black-out periods please refer to the the employment contracts.
Roche Group Insider Directive (https://assets.cwp.
roche.com/f/126832/x/3e96b30141/group-insider- There are no management contracts which
policy.pdf). In the reporting year, no exceptions to fall within the scope of subsection 4.4 (annex)
the general rules were granted. of the SIX Directive on Information relating to
Corporate Governance.
In 2023, the Board of Directors met for 10 meetings:
meetings from 1 to 8 hours in length, including a
14 Remuneration Committee members recuse themselves from deliberations and decisions on matters that affect their interests.
* These figures indicate the actual length of meetings and do not include the directors’ extensive pre-meeting preparations and post-meeting follow-up activities.Corporate Governance | Roche 141
Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings in 2023
Corporate
Governance
Chairman’s/ and
Nomination Remuneration Audit Sustainability
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 10 7 3 5 3
S. Schwan 10 5* (+2***) 3*** 5*** 3***
A. Hoffmann 10 7 3 – 3
J. Duschmalé 10 – 2* 5 –
P. Frost 10 – 1** 5 –
A. Hauser 10 5* 2* – 1**
A. Iwasaki (member of the Board since March 2023) 8* – – – 2*
R. P. Lifton 10 – 3 – –
J. Mahmood 10 – – – 3
B. Poussot 10 – 3 – –
M. Schneider (member of the Board since March 2023) 9* – – 4* –
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 10 – – 5 3
C. Franz (member of the Board until March 2023) 1** 2** 1** – –
– Not a member of that committee
* Member since March 2023
** Member until March 2023
*** Guest142 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Remuneration, shareholdings
and loans
All details regarding remuneration, shareholdings Rules in AoI 15 for
and loans (content and method of determining the Content Board CEC
compensation and the shareholding programmes, Rules on the principles §24.1–5 §24.2–5
basic principles and elements of compensation and applicable to performance-
shareholding programmes for serving and former related pay
members of the Board of Directors and Corporate Rules on the principles to the §24 §24
Executive Committee, together with a description of allocation of equity securities,
the authorities and procedure for determining such) convertible rights and options
are set forth in the separate Remuneration Report Additional amount for – §23.5
on pages 148 to 177 and in the Finance Report, payments to members of the
Notes 22 and 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated Corporate Executive
Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche Committee appointed after
shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pages 100 the vote on pay at the Annual
and 140), and are listed in Note 6 to the Financial General Meeting of
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and shareholders
Executive shareholdings’, page 191). Rules on loans, credit facilities §24.1 and §24.2 and
and post-employment benefits §25.1 §25.2
The following rules on remuneration, shareholdings Rules on the vote on pay at §23 §23
and loans for the Board of Directors (Board) and the the Annual General Meeting
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) are set forth
in the Articles of Incorporation (AoI):15
15 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporationCorporate Governance | Roche 143
Participatory rights of shareholders
The participatory rights of shareholders are Under §10.2 of the Articles of Incorporation,
defined in Roche’s Articles of Incorporation.16 shareholders who, alone or together, hold at least
As Roche shares are issued to bearer, there are 0.5% of the share capital or the votes may until but
no restrictions on admission to Annual General no later than 36 days before the Annual General
Meetings, with the exception that shares must be Meeting request that an item be included on the
deposited within a specified period before the agenda or that a motion relating to an agenda item
date of a meeting and an admittance card must be be included in the notice convening the Annual
issued in the shareholder’s name, as provided in §12 General Meeting.
of the Articles of Incorporation. Any shareholder
can elect to be represented by a third party at an The rules on the issue of instructions to the
Annual General Meeting. independent proxy and rules on the electronic
participation in the Annual General Meeting are
The Articles of Incorporation contain no laid down in the corresponding invitation to the
restrictions on the exercise of voting rights, and Annual General Meeting and are not regulated in
the only quorum requirements are those stipulated the Articles of Incorporation.
in §16, in conformity with the Swiss Code of
Obligations (CO).
Change of control
and defensive measures
The Articles of Incorporation contain no provisions non-voting equity securities would be terminated
on the mandatory bid rule. Swiss law applies. in the event of an acquisition, and vesting period
restrictions on pre-existing awards would be
There are no change-of-control clauses. Those removed, so that all such options could be
components of remuneration based on Roche exercised immediately.
16 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporation144 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Relationship to statutory auditors
At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd services of which limits for certain permitted other
on 14 March 2023, the shareholders voted to services are agreed by the Audit Committee. Each
appoint KPMG AG (KPMG) as statutory auditors. potential non-audit service engagement is reviewed
against this policy before any authority to proceed
Based on the existing legal requirements of the Swiss is given.
Code of Obligations (Article 730a) concerning the
maximum term of office of seven years of the auditor The auditors have direct access to the Audit
in charge, François Rouiller has been the auditor in Committee and its chair as well as the Chief Audit &
charge since the business year 2022 (information on Risk Advisory Executive to discuss relevant issues.
how long the auditor in charge has been serving in
this capacity is provided on page 133). The reports of the statutory auditor on the
Consolidated Financial Statements and on the
The statutory auditors participate in Audit Financial Statements can be found on pages 163
Committee meetings. They prepare written and and 195, respectively, of the Finance Report.
oral reports on the results of their audits. The Audit
Committee oversees and assesses the auditors KPMG received the following remuneration for their
and makes recommendations to the Board (for services as statutory auditors of Roche Holding Ltd
information on the authorities and responsibilities of and as the auditors of other Roche companies
the Audit Committee, see Article 8.1 of the Bylaws17). (including Chugai):
The statutory auditors participated in all five
meetings of the Audit Committee in 2023. 2023 2022
(millions of CHF)
The performance of KPMG is assessed based on Audit services 22.2 21.4
different elements such as affiliate surveys (to Audit-related services
evaluate the service level at the country level), – Assurance 0.7 0.7
interviews with Roche key stakeholders and the Tax services 2.5 2.8
self-evaluation of the KPMG internal processes to Other services 0.5 0.4
ensure compliance with the Federal Audit Oversight Total 25.9 25.3
Authority (FAOA) Audit Committee Guide.
KPMG’s independence is ensured by limiting The audit fee is reviewed by the Chief Audit & Risk
KPMG from providing certain non-audit services. Advisory Executive and approved by the Audit
Furthermore, permitted services cannot exceed in Committee every year and takes into consideration
total 20% of the audit fee unless they are explicitly changes in Roche’s business, as well as changes
rewieved and approved by the Audit Committee. in financial reporting and audit standards and
The company has a formal policy governing the regulations.
engagement of the statutory auditor for non-audit
17 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporationCorporate Governance | Roche 145
The statutory auditors are elected each year by Other services include advice relating to process
the Annual General Meeting. improvements, regulations and trainings.
Audit services are provided as legally required. An external audit services tender, completed in
2022, for the external auditing services starting
Audit-related services include assurance and with the 2024 financial year, in which four audit firms
accounting services provided by auditors but were invited to participate, conluded based on the
which are not necessarily provided by the statutory assessment of the audit firms as part of the tender
auditor. These services, which go beyond the legal process to reappoint KPMG as the external auditor
requirements, could include other attestation for the 2024 financial year.
services, comfort letters and consultations.
Tax services include services with respect to
compliance, tax returns and tax advice except
those services related to the audit of tax.
Relationship to the independent
proxy
Since 2019, Testaris AG has served as the General Meeting 2024 for the period from 2024
independent proxy and at the Annual General until the conclusion of the 2025 ordinary Annual
Meeting on 14 March 2023, shareholders elected General Meeting of shareholders.
Testaris AG as the independent proxy for the
period from 2023 until the conclusion of the 2024 The rules on the issue of instructions to the
ordinary Annual General Meeting of shareholders. independent proxy and the rules on the electronic
Testaris AG was paid for its services for the Annual participation in the Annual General Meeting are
General Meeting 2023 according to expenditure laid down in the corresponding invitation to the
totalling CHF 16,085 (2022: CHF 15,974). Annual General Meeting and are not regulated in
the Articles of Incorporation.
The Board of Directors nominates Testaris AG
for election as independent proxy by the Annual146 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Information policy
As provided by §30 of the Articles of Incorporation18, presentations to analyst and investor conferences
corporate notices are published in the Swiss are available on the Internet.20 Further publications
Official Gazette of Commerce and in other daily are available on
newspapers designated by the Board of Directors https://www.roche.com/publications
(‘Basler Zeitung’, ‘Finanz und Wirtschaft’, ‘L’Agefi’, or can be ordered by
‘Le Temps’, ‘Neue Zürcher Zeitung’). e-mail: materials.management.mm1@roche.com
or fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
Roche reports its half-year and full-year results in
business reports (published in print and/or online The contact address for Investor Relations is:
formats) and at media events. In addition, detailed F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations,
first-quarter and nine-month sales figures are Group Finance, 4070 Basel, Switzerland
published each year in April and October. The Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
most current list of publication dates is available Fax: +41 (0)61 691 00 14
on the Internet.19, 20
Additional information, including details on specific
All relevant information and documents, including contact persons, is available on the Internet.21
all media releases19, investor updates20 and
Chief Compliance Officer
and Compliance Officers network
The Chief Compliance Officer with the Compliance or supervisors, to the local Compliance Officer
Officers network is committed to ensuring that the or report them to the Chief Compliance Officer23
Roche Group Code of Conduct22 is consistently (Ms Pascale Schmidt, e-mail:
complied with throughout the Roche Group. The global.compliance_administration@roche.com).
Chief Compliance Officer also serves as a contact Such disclosures will be treated confidentially.
person for shareholders, employees, business In addition, employees and third parties may
partners, customers, suppliers and the general anonymously report irregularities or complaints in
public on issues relating to the implementation of their mother tongue via the Roche Group SpeakUp
and compliance with this code. Line. As part of the continuous enhancement of
Roche’s human rights programme and in compliance
Employees and other parties who become aware with applicable laws and regulations, any interested
of violations of the Roche Group Code of Conduct party can report its allegations through the same
can bring them to the attention of their managers channel if they believe in good faith that an actual
18 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporation
19 https://www.roche.com/media
20 https://www.roche.com/investors
21 https://www.roche.com/contact/investor-contacts
22 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conduct
23 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conduct/compliance-officerCorporate Governance | Roche 147
or potential human right violation has occurred in Business ethics incidents are recorded in the
Roche or in Roche’s value chain. In case of questions system when the internal investigations team or the
or uncertainties about the interpretation of the regional/local management receives specific and
Roche Group Code of Conduct and its reference concrete information about an alleged violation
documents, employees may reach out to their of the Roche Group Code of Conduct in one of
line managers, the local Compliance Officer or certain predefined categories.24 The Corporate
the Chief Compliance Officer, or contact the Governance and Sustainability Committee and
Roche Group Code of Conduct Help & Advice the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors are
Line (global.helpandadvice@roche.com). This regularly informed of substantial violations and
compliance tool also serves as a platform for ideas management’s corrective actions taken.
and suggestions concerning those documents.
The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the
In addition, Roche has established a Business Ethics General Counsel and also submits regular reports
Incident Management System (BEIMS) which enables to the Corporate Governance and Sustainability
the Chief Compliance Officer to capture, track Committee and as needed to the Audit Committee
and monitor alleged violations, from initial reports of the Board of Directors.
through to resolution.
Non-applicability/negative disclosure
It is expressly noted that any information SIX Swiss Exchange Directive on Information
not contained or mentioned herein is either relating to Corporate Governance and the
non-applicable or its omission is to be construed commentary thereto).
as a negative declaration (as provided in the
24 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/code-of-conduct148 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration ReportRemuneration Report | Roche 149
Remuneration
Report
1. Principles 150
2. Remuneration decision process and approval framework 152
3. Remuneration components 156
4. Remuneration of the Board of Directors 161
5. Remuneration of the Corporate Executive Committee 168
Statutory Auditor’s Report 178150 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
1. Principles
1.1 Overview For a global company like Roche, market-
Motivation, expertise and performance of competitive remuneration plays a key role
employees are key to the success of Roche as along with a performance- and success-based,
an innovative and agile company. This conviction transparent compensation structure. To ensure
forms the basis of our compensation policy. that compensation packages are competitive,
both the structure and individual components
Roche aims to remunerate all employees fairly, are regularly benchmarked based on the relevant
transparently and in line with market conditions, in Swiss, European and international market criteria.
order to enable them to participate appropriately Our remuneration guidelines and their underlying
in the company’s success. We pursue this goal by principles are also subject to regular outside
providing equitable, competitive, performance- comparisons.
based and results-oriented compensation.
However, our compensation policy is only one
We strive for a balanced mix of fixed and variable factor in safeguarding Roche’s future success.
compensation components geared to each The key element is a corporate culture that offers
employee’s position and management responsibility. employees conditions in which they can make their
best possible contribution to the shared corporate
Firstly, the variable components are intended to goal of improving healthcare for patients. This
create additional financial incentives to achieve includes a sound and a sustainability-oriented
corporate goals and to keep innovation at a value system that is based on integrity, courage
consistently high level while increasing the value and passion. At the same time, our decentralised
that the company creates for all stakeholder management approach plays a major role with
groups. Secondly, in order to allow employees and its wide scope for individual decision-making,
managers to participate in the company’s business respectful interactions, openness to diversity, wide-
success, variable compensation components are ranging training and development opportunities
key. Both objectives are incentivised by annual and an attractive working environment. A
bonus payments and long-term securities-based unidimensional diminishment to questions on
programmes. remuneration would fall by far too short.
Roche, the place to work: https://careers.roche.com/global/en1.2 Members of the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee: CVs and mandates*
Detailed information is available as follows:
Board of Directors Corporate Executive Committee
a) Current members https://www.roche.com/about/ https://www.roche.com/about/
governance/board-of-directors governance/executive-committee
b) Former members https://www.roche.com/about/governance/ec-bod-former
(at least of the last ten years)
c) Information at the reporting date on 31 December of each year https://www.roche.com/about/governance/archiv-former-cvs
(at least of the last ten years)
* The audited information on activities at other companies in accordance with Art. 734e CO can be found under link c).
Information of the members of the Board of The Code of Obligations [CO]) that may be carried out
Directors and of the Corporate Executive in comparable positions in other undertakings with
Committee shown is in accordance with the commercial objects.
Directive on Information relating to Corporate
Governance (DCG) (https://www.ser-ag.com/dam/ Rules on mandates applying for members of the Board
downloads/regulation/listing/directives/dcg-en. of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
pdf) and also specifically includes mandates are in accordance with §22.4 of the Articles of
in accordance with article 734e and article Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd (https://assets.cwp.
626 para. 2 point 1 of the Federal Act on the roche.com/f/126832/x/bb7e156602/roche-statuten-
Amendment of the Swiss Civil Code (Part Five: 2023-en.pdf, in addition see page 137).
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 151152 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
2. Remuneration decision process
and approval framework
2.1 Overview not be present when the Remuneration Committee
Each year the Remuneration Committee of Roche’s decides their corresponding compensation and
Board of Directors decides the remuneration of have no right to a say in decisions. The decision
Board members and the members of the Group’s right is reserved to Remuneration Committee
Corporate Executive Committee. members only.
Chairman, Group CEO and all other members of
the Group’s Corporate Executive Committee must
Remuneration decision process and approval framework as of 2023
Beneficiary
Remuneration Board of Directors (BoD) Corporate Executive Decision by Approval by
components Chairman (C) Committee (CEC)
Base pay / basic remuneration √ √
Bonus – √
Stock-settled Stock – √
Remuneration Committee Annual General Meeting
Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) – √
Pension √ (C only) √
The Remuneration Committee tracks market data Total aggregate amounts that are based on these
on salaries at other leading global pharmaceutical decisions are submitted to the General Meeting
companies1 and at major Swiss companies2 and for approval. The General Meeting shall vote
reports its findings to the full Board. The external annually and with binding effect on the approval
consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers AG (PwC) of the remuneration (that the Board of Directors
assists the Remuneration Committee of Roche has resolved) of the Board of Directors and the
in performing market comparisons and as an Corporate Executive Committee (for details see 4.
advisor. PwC has additional mandates in the and 5.).
Roche Group. Information on the Remuneration
Committee’s remit, powers and procedures for
making remuneration decisions can be found in the
Bylaws of the Roche Board of Directors3 and in the
Articles of Incorporation.4 They are also outlined
in the sections below on the principles governing
specific remuneration components (see 3.).
1 Peer set 2023: Abbott Laboratories, AbbVie, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Danaher, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Medtronic,
Merck & Co., Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, Sanofi
2 Peer set 2023: ABB, Alcon, Holcim, Lonza, Nestlé, Richemont, UBS, Zurich
3 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporation
4 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article-of-incorporationRemuneration Report | Roche 153
Abbott Laboratories Peer set for 2023
AbbVie
Amgen ABB
AstraZeneca Alcon
Bristol-Myers Squibb Holcim
Danaher Lonza
Eli Lilly Nestlé
GlaxoSmithKline Richemont
Johnson & Johnson Roche UBS
Medtronic Zurich
Merck & Co.
Novartis
Novo Nordisk
Pfizer
Sanofi
Peer set for 2023
Market comparison companies for salary assessment
Pharma peer set Major Swiss companies154 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
2.2 Procedure for submitting total Board Retrospective approval
and Executive remuneration for shareholder Total aggregate bonus amounts for the Corporate
approval at the Annual General Meeting Executive Committee and the Chairman of the
Each year at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) Board of Directors (for 2023 for the resigned
shareholders approve the total remuneration Chairman only) for the financial year just ended will
for the Board of Directors and for the Corporate be submitted retrospectively at each ordinary AGM
Executive Committee as decided by the Board for separate and binding approval.
of Directors’ Remuneration Committee and the
Board of Directors, respectively. Prospective approval
All other Board and Executive aggregate
According to the approval at the AGM 2014, remuneration will be submitted prospectively to
Roche has committed itself to obtaining separate the AGM for separate and binding approval for
and binding shareholder approvals of the total the period between two ordinary AGMs.
remuneration paid to the Board of Directors
and to the Corporate Executive Committee This Remuneration Report shall be submitted to an
as follows: advisory vote by the shareholders at the AGM 2024.Remuneration Report | Roche 155
Approval of total remuneration at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 2024 Financial year 2023 Financial year 2024
Approval of total remuneration
Retrospective:
C
Chairman (C) of the Board of Directors (BoD): Bonus
• Bonus for financial year 2023
(total amount, for 2023 to resigned C only)
CEC
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC): Bonus
• Bonus for financial year 2023 (total amount)
Prospective:
BoD
Board of Directors (BoD):
Basic remuneration
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2024–AGM 2025)
• Basic remuneration
CEC
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC):
Base pay
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2024–AGM 2025)
S-SARs
• Base pay
RSUs
• Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
Indirect benefits
• Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
• Indirect benefits
Advisory vote
Retrospective: Remuneration Report
2023
• Advisory vote on the 2023 Remuneration Report at the AGM 2024
AGM 2023 AGM 2024 AGM 2025
1.1.2023 1.1.2024 1.1.2025156 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
3. Remuneration components
3.1 Overview of remuneration elements financial performance and non-financial success5
The remuneration to the members of the Board of and thus align the interests of Roche and its
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee employees with those of shareholders. Societal
is composed of the following elements: and environmental objectives6 are also taken
into account.
The Corporate Executive Committee’s fixed base
salary is complemented with the annual variable The LTI remuneration components are intended
bonus as Short-Term Incentive (STI) and with to sustainably, homogenously and in a long-term-
perennial remuneration elements (S-SARs, RSUs) oriented perspective align management’s interest
as Long-Term Incentive (LTI). with those of shareholders and holders of non-
voting equity securities and to give participating
The remuneration components are linked to managers an additional incentive to achieve
the employees’ performance, the company’s sustainable shareholder value growth.
Composition of remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
Board of Directors Corporate Executive Committee
Annual remuneration elements C BoD CEO Roche Group CEC
Base pay / basic remuneration √ Cash and for ten years √ Cash √ Cash √ Cash
(see 3.1.1) blocked non-voting equity
securities and/or shares
Bonus – – √ Cash or non-voting equity √ Cash
(see 3.1.2) securities and/or shares
Pensions, etc. √ – √ √
(see 3.1.5)
Perennial remuneration elements
Stock-settled Stock – – √ √
Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
(see 3.1.3)
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) – – √ √
(see 3.1.4)
5 https://www.roche.com/investors/reports/performance
6 https://www.roche.com/about/sustainability/environment/goals-performanceRemuneration Report | Roche 157
The LTI of the Corporate Executive Committee expiration periods are aligned for any newly issued
and the Enlarged Corporate Executive S-SARs and RSUs (see below). Unlike all other
Committee is composed of 80% S-SARs and 20% participants of the two programmes, members of
RSUs (based on the already existing individual the Corporate Executive Committee have no choice
target value of the total LTI for Corporate Executive in determining the mix of RSUs and S-SARs, which
Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay since 2019 have a four-year cliff vesting.
measured on 1 January of a year). Vesting and
Corporate Executive Committee LTI
Mix (S-SARs/RSUs) fixed Base for calculation Vesting period Cliff vesting Expiration period
Based on the individual target
80% S-SARs 4 years 4 years 10 years
value of the total LTI for Corporate
Executive Committee members of
133.33% of a base pay measured
20% RSUs 4 years 4 years –
on 1 January of a year
The remaining participants of the S-SARs and Offering this level of choice empowers participants
RSUs programme are offered on a yearly basis a to engage more fully in their total rewards, enables
choice of three combinations to determine the mix them to better understand a critical element of
of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock-settled their compensation and increases the value of
Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs, options are used the programme.
instead of S-SARs in some countries). The following
options are available: This attractively designed Roche Long-Term
Incentive programme enables Roche to attract,
Choice 1 Choice 2 Choice 3 motivate and retain the best talent and keep it
80% S-SARs 50% S-SARs 20% S-SARs aligned with the company’s long-term success.
20% RSUs 50% RSUs 80% RSUs158 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Fixed
Base pay / basic remuneration
Indirect benefits (employer contribution):
Roche
• Pensions and insurance contributions
remuneration • Roche Connect
STI: • Tax consulting services
components
• Bonus
Expense allowances
LTI:
• Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights Others:
• Restricted Stock Units • Children’s schooling costs
• Foreign tax obligation
Variable, long-term • AHV/IV/ALV*
* Employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
3.1.1 Base pay (fixed) 3.1.2 Bonuses (variable)
Base pay / basic remuneration is determined for Bonuses are annually awarded for individual
each position based on salary market data of other contributions of value creation in a business year and
leading global pharmaceutical companies (see are meant to be an incentive to strive for outstanding
footnote 1) and of other major Swiss companies results and to create new business opportunities.
(see footnote 2) and reflects individuals’ abilities, Bonus amounts are linked to Group and divisional
experience and performance over time. Pay core profits, sales growth at constant exchange
adjustments are likewise linked to individual rates, Operating Profit After Capital Charge (OPAC)
performance and take into account prevailing based on core operating profit, core earnings per
market conditions and the company’s overall share and non-voting equity security (NES) growth
financial situation. at constant exchange rates, product development
pipeline, diversity of employees and managers7 and
The Remuneration Committee makes and reviews environmental goals.8 Additionally, they are linked
the final decision on the basic remuneration paid to to the achievement of measurable and qualitative
the Chairman of the Board of Directors and on the individual or functional performance objectives. For
individual base pay to members of the Corporate competitive reasons, Roche does not disclose the
Executive Committee and on the remuneration of individual performance objectives of members of its
the other members of the Board. Corporate Executive Committee and of its Chairman.
7 https://www.roche.com/about/people-culture
8 https://www.roche.com/about/sustainability/environment/goals-performance and SHE goals 2020–2025 for the Roche Group:
https://assets.cwp.roche.com/f/126832/x/70206811f5/20200331-she-goals-2020-2025-communication.pdfRemuneration Report | Roche 159
In December at the end of a reporting year 3.1.4 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) (long-term)
or in January following a reporting year, the The proportion of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) of
Remuneration Committee decides on the bonuses the members of the Corporate Executive Committee
and their amounts payable to the members is 20% of the total LTI (based on the individual
of the Corporate Executive Committee and target value of the total LTI for Corporate Executive
to the Chairman of the Board (for 2023 to the Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay
resigned Chairman only) in respect of the relevant measured on 1 January of a year).
reporting year, based on performance against the
aforementioned objectives. At the same time, the RSUs contain rights to receive non-voting equity
Remuneration Committee also decides in what securities and/or shares after a four-year vesting
form bonuses will be awarded, i.e. cash payments period plus a value adjustment (being the amount
and/or blocked (if applicable) non-voting equity equivalent to the sum of the dividend paid during
securities and/or shares. the vesting period attributable to the number of
non-voting equity securities and/or shares for which
The Remuneration Committee uses its discretion an individual award has been granted). They will
appropriately in the weighting of each criterion all be vested to the recipient for the Corporate
and in the bonus allocation. Executive Committee after four years only.
Thereafter, resulting non-voting equity securities
In 2023 in total, 84,279 employees were eligible and/or shares may remain blocked for up to
for a bonus under the Roche Bonus Program. ten years.
3.1.3 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights RSU awards are allocated individually for
(S-SARs) (long-term) the Corporate Executive Committee at the
The S-SARs proportion of the LTI of the Corporate Remuneration Committee’s discretion.
Executive Committee is 80% (based on the
individual target value of the total LTI for Corporate In 2023, RSUs served as a remuneration component
Executive Committee members of 133.33% of a for 24,395 eligible Roche employees.
base pay measured on 1 January of a year).
3.1.5 Indirect benefits
S-SARs entitle holders to benefit financially from As shown in 5.8 (5.3 [for the CEO Roche Group] and
any increase in the value of Roche’s non-voting 4.3 [for the Chairman], respectively), members of
equity securities between the grant date and the the Corporate Executive Committee additionally
exercise date. S-SARs granted all vest together received indirect benefits (pension funds / insurance
after four years and then have to be exercised contributions, Roche Connect, payments for foreign
within ten years of the grant date. Unexercised tax obligation and tax consulting services and
S-SARs lapse without compensation. The fair value annual expense allowances). Individual members
of S-SARs is calculated at the grant date using of the Corporate Executive Committee received
the trinomial model for American call options (for payments as shown in 5.9.
details see page 171).
S-SARs to the Corporate Executive Committee
are allocated individually at the Remuneration
Committee’s discretion.
In 2023 in total, 24,221 employees received S-SARs.160 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
3.2 Weighting (fixed / variable, long-term) of 2023 remuneration components (at target and as
percentage of total remuneration in 2023)
Board of Directors 100%
(including Chairman)
Corporate Executive Committee 33% 67%
(including CEO Roche Group)
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
fixed variable, long-term
The variable, long-term remuneration paid out to the members of the Corporate Executive Committee ranged from 57% to 84% of the
total compensation.
3.3 Ratio of variable remuneration components relative to fixed base pay of the Corporate
Executive Committee 2023
Ratio of variable remuneration components (bonuses, S-SARs and RSUs) relative to % of value of fixed base pay
LTI (long-term)
STI (variable) (total: 133.33%**)
Criteria Bonus S-SARs (80% of total LTI) RSUs (20% of total LTI)
Individual target value * 100% 106.66% ** 26.66% **
Minimum 0% 0% 0%
Maximum 200% 106.66% 26.66%
Performance criteria Group objectives (Group and divisional business Value development Value development
performance) and individual objectives; considering determined by determined by
core profits, sales growth at constant exchange rates, performance of performance (plus
Operating Profit After Capital Charge (OPAC) based NES after grant a value adjustment
on core operating profit, core earnings per share and for dividends) of
non-voting equity security (NES) growth at constant NES after grant
exchange rates, product development pipeline, diversity
of employees and managers, environmental goals
Split in %
a) Group objectives 70% n/a n/a
b) Individual objectives 30% n/a n/a
Weighting criteria / At the Remuneration Committee’s discretion
Decision on objectives
n/a – not applicable
* Assessed in consideration of the performance of competitors and the macroeconomic development
** Based on the already existing individual target value of the total LTI for Corporate Executive Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay measured on 1 January of a year
For all further details please refer to the following
sections of this Remuneration Report.9
9 See also in the Finance Report Note 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related parties’, page 140) and Note 6 to the Financial
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, page 191).4. Remuneration of the Board of Directors
4.1 Resolution and approval 4.2 Amount of remuneration to the members
Remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of of the Board of Directors
Directors and of members of the Board of Directors In 2023, the members of the Board of Directors10
is decided at the Remuneration Committee’s received remuneration and additional compensation
discretion. as shown in the ‘Remuneration of members of the
Board of Directors 2023’ table on page 162 for their
The remuneration is in the form of cash payments Board activities. Roche paid employer contributions
and is annually tracked against market data totalling CHF 139,063 (2022: CHF 201,074) to social
on directors’ pay at other leading global security agencies for the members of the Board of
pharmaceutical companies (see footnote 1) and Directors beside the legally required contributions
other major Swiss companies (see footnote 2), and separately stated for the incumbent and the
is assisted by the consultancy of PwC. resigned Chairman of the Board of Directors.
As in the previous years, the Board of Directors will The basic remuneration of the Board of Directors
submit the total aggregate bonus of the resigned (excluding the Chairman) has remained unchanged
Chairman of the Board of Directors for the 2023 since 2001.
financial year to the General Meeting 2024 for
retrospective binding approval. With the exception of the resigned Chairman of the
Board of Directors (bonus in the form of blocked
For the new, incumbent Chairman of the Board shares) and the incumbent Chairman of the Board
of Directors, from 2023 the base remuneration of Directors (award of blocked shares as part of
determined by the Remuneration Committee will the basic remuneration), members of the Board of
consist of a cash component and a new component Directors were not awarded any shares, non-voting
in the form of shares blocked for ten years. At the equity securities, S-SARs or RSUs.
same time, the bonus component will no longer
apply to the incumbent Chairman of the Board of There are no loans or credits granted to the
Directors from 2023. members of the Board of Directors.
The maximum amount of the total aggregate In 2023, for their advisory service on the Genentech
remuneration of the Board of Directors for the Scientific Resource Board, Prof. Dr Akiko Iwasaki
period between the ordinary General Meeting 2024 and Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton received honoraria
and the ordinary General Meeting 2025 will be amounting to USD 22,000 (CHF 19,773) and to
tabled separately in 2024 as in the previous years USD 22,000 (CHF 19,773), respectively.
for the General Meeting’s prospective binding
approval (see 2.2).
10 For a list of members, their positions and their committee memberships and chairmanships see page 129.
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 161DETIDUA
162 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2023 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration for Additional special Additional
Basic remuneration committee members/chairs 11 remuneration BVG costs * Total remuneration
S. Schwan, Chairman (See ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the incumbent and the resigned Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 12 – – 2,815 402,815
J. Duschmalé 300,000 60,000 – 4,592 364,592
P. Frost 300,000 60,000 – – 360,000
A. Hauser 300,000 60,000 – 6,293 366,293
A. Iwasaki (since March 202313) 250,000 22,500 19,773 – 292,273
see page 161
R. P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 19,773 – 349,773
see page 161
J. Mahmood 300,000 30,000 – – 330,000
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – – 330,000
M. Schneider (since March 202313) 250,000 22,500 – – 272,500
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 300,000 60,000 – 7,392 367,392
Total 14 3,000,000 375,000 39,546 21,092 3,435,638
Resigned member:
C. Franz (until April 2023) (See ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the incumbent and the resigned Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
* Costs under the provisions of the Swiss Federal Occupational Old Age, Survivors’ and Invalidity Pension Act (BVG). In accordance with the minimum requirements for insurance benefits
under BVG, half of the costs for four members of the Board of Directors who are subject to compulsory insurance are borne by the company.
11 With the exception of members of the Chairman’s Committee (Chairman, Vice-Chairman), Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve on and
CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
12 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board
13 P rorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2023
14 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 570,084 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2022 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration for Additional special Additional
Basic remuneration committee members/chairs 15 remuneration BVG costs * Total remuneration
C. Franz, Chairman (See Annual Report 2022, page 196, ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 16 – – 6,734 406,734
J. Duschmalé 300,000 30,000 – 4,475 334,475
P. Frost 300,000 60,000 – – 360,000
A. Hauser 300,000 30,000 – 6,159 336,159
R. P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 16,709 – 346,709
J. Mahmood (since March 202217) 250,000 22,500 – – 272,500
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – – 330,000
S. Schwan (See Annual Report 2022, page 200, ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a
member of the Corporate Executive Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as
CEO Roche Group is reflected in total remuneration for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 300,000 60,000 – 7,019 367,019
Members until March/
September 2022 18
P. Bulcke (until March 2022) 75,000 7,500 – – 82,500
H. Clevers (until March 2022) 75,000 7,500 – – 82,500
J. Brown (until September 2022) 225,000 45,000 – – 270,000
Total 19 2,825,000 322,500 16,709 24,387 3,188,596
* Costs under the provisions of the Swiss Federal Occupational Old Age, Survivors’ and Invalidity Pension Act (BVG). In accordance with the minimum requirements for insurance
benefits under BVG, half of the costs for four members of the Board of Directors who are subject to compulsory insurance are borne by the company.
15 W ith the exception of members of the Chairman’s Committee (Chairman, Vice-Chairman), Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve on and
CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
16 R emuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board
17 P rorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2022
18 Prorated remuneration for the period from January to March 2022 and from January to September 2022, respectively
19 A dditionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 461,365 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 1634.3 Total remuneration paid to the incumbent Since his election in March 2023, Dr Severin Schwan
and the resigned Chairman of the Board as incumbent Chairman received total remuneration
of Directors for 2023 as shown.
As resigned Chairman, Dr Christoph Franz received
total remuneration listed below until his resignation
in April 2023.
DETIDUA
Total remuneration paid to the incumbent Chairman of the Board of Directors Dr Severin Schwan (in CHF)*
2023 2022
Base salary n/a
– in cash 2,001,818 Dr Severin Schwan,
– in shares 1,564,910 ** executive member of the
Pension funds / insurances / annual expense allowances / children and education 976,660 Board of Directors, received
allowance (including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts) his remuneration in 2022 in
Total 20 4,543,388 his primary function as
CEO Roche Group.
n/a – not applicable
* Remuneration since April 2023 as Chairman of the Board of Directors; for remuneration as resigned CEO from January to March 2023 see 5.2, 5.4–5.10, respectively.
** In the form of shares blocked for ten years (calculation of number of shares based on the price at the date of transfer; calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value
due to blocking period of ten years [reduced market value: 55.839%])
20 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 224,367 was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUA
164 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Total remuneration paid to the resigned Chairman of the Board of Directors Dr Christoph Franz (in CHF)*
2023 2022
Base salary (in cash) 1,167,000 3,500,000
Bonus (subject to approval of the Annual General Meeting) 583,334 ** 1,750,000 **
Pension funds / insurances / annual expense allowances / other remuneration*** 328,398 669,777
(including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts)
Total 21 2,078,732 5,919,777
* Remuneration until April 2023 as Chairman of the Board of Directors: as per terms of his resignation agreement, Dr Christoph Franz remained at Roche until end of April to ensure a
smooth handover to his successor and received his remuneration until 30 April 2023.
** In the form of shares blocked for ten years (calculation of number of shares based on the price at the date of transfer in March 2024 and 2023, respectively, after approval at the
AGM 2024 / AGM 2023, respectively; calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of ten years [reduced market value: 55.839%]) to be submitted
for shareholder approval at the AGM 2024 / as approved at the AGM 2023, respectively
*** Including fee to Dr Christoph Franz in 2023 amounting to a total of JPY 15.47 million (CHF 98,971) received for serving as a member of the Board of Directors of Chugai
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
21 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 206,654 (2022: CHF 260,291) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee’s bonus proposal Both total remunerations are contained in the total
for the resigned Chairman in respect of the 2023 remuneration of the Board of Directors in 4.4.
financial year (in the form of shares blocked for
ten years, payable in March 2024) will be put for
shareholder binding vote at the 2024 ordinary
Annual General Meeting (see 4.6).4.4 Total remuneration paid to the Board 4.6.2 Submission of the Board’s total aggregate
of Directors future remuneration for the period between
For the 2023 calendar year the members of the the 2024 ordinary AGM and the 2025 ordinary
Board of Directors (including the incumbent AGM for a prospective binding shareholder
and the resigned Chairman of the Board of vote at the 2024 AGM
directors) received remuneration including The Board of Directors proposes that the 2024
bonus (for the resigned Chairman) and employer ordinary AGM approve Board remuneration totalling
contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts not more than CHF 12,000,000 (excluding legally
totalling CHF 10,107,396 (2022: CHF 9,150,679), required employer contributions to AHV/IV/ALV)
excluding additional employer contribution for the period between the 2024 ordinary AGM and
paid to social securities totalling CHF 570,084 the 2025 ordinary AGM. The compensation of the
(2022: CHF 461,365). members of the Board of Directors is paid in cash,
and for the Chairman of the Board of Directors,
4.5 Remuneration paid to the former members compensation consists of a component in cash
of the Board of Directors and a component in the form of shares blocked
No remuneration was paid. for ten years (calculation of value in consideration
of reduction of value due to blocking period of
4.6 Board remuneration subject to approval ten years [reduced market value: 55.839%]) as
at the Annual General Meeting determined by the Remuneration Committee.
4.6.1 Submission of the resigned Chairman’s 4.6.3 Reconciliation of the reported
total aggregate bonus for a binding remuneration with the shareholders’
retrospective vote at the Annual General prospectively approved remuneration for the
Meeting 2024 members of the Board of Directors
Remuneration to the resigned Chairman of the The 2022 ordinary AGM prospectively approved
Board of Directors includes a bonus award of Board remuneration totalling not more than
CHF 583,334, in the form of shares blocked for CHF 10,000,000 (excluding legally required
ten years as shown in the table in section ‘4.3 Total employer contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding
remuneration paid to the incumbent and the bonuses) for the period ending at the 2023 ordinary
resigned Chairman of the Board of Directors’. The AGM. For comparison, from the 2022 ordinary AGM
Board of Directors will submit the Remuneration to the 2023 ordinary AGM actual remuneration
Committee’s bonus proposal for the resigned amounted to CHF 7,859,786 (excluding legally
Chairman in respect of the 2023 financial year (in required employer contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
the form of shares blocked for ten years, payable and excluding bonuses) and remained within the
in March 2024, excluding legally required employer approved total remuneration limit.
contributions to AHV/IV/ALV) for retrospective
binding shareholder vote at the 2024 ordinary
Annual General Meeting (AGM).
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 165The 2023 ordinary AGM approved Board remuneration 4.7 Security holdings
totalling not more than CHF 10,000,000 (excluding Directors André Hoffmann and Dr Jörg Duschmalé
legally required employer contributions to and members of the founder’s families who
AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses) for the period are closely associated with them belong to a
ending at the 2024 ordinary AGM. contractually bound shareholder group with
pooled voting rights. At the end of 2023 this
With the change of the Chairman of the Board group held 69,318,000 shares (64.97% of issued
of Directors, the remuneration components have shares). Detailed information about this group can
been changed as of 2023 insofar as, on the one be found in the Finance Report, Note 32 to the
hand, there is no longer a bonus remuneration for Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
the Chairman of the Board of Directors, but on (‘Related parties’, page 140) and in Note 4 to
the other hand, the base compensation increases, the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd
which now consists of a component in cash and (‘Significant shareholders’, page 190).
a component in the form of shares blocked for
ten years (calculation of value in consideration In addition, as at 31 December 2023 (as at
of reduction of value due to blocking period of 31 December 2022, respectively) the members
ten years [reduced market value: 55.839%]) as per of the Board of Directors and persons closely
the Remuneration Committee’s decision (see 4.3). associated with them held Roche shares, non-
From the 2023 ordinary AGM to the 2024 ordinary voting equity securities (NES) and American
AGM actual remuneration (excluding legally required Depositary Receipts (ADRs***) as shown in the table
employer contributions to AHV/IV/ALV, including the ‘4.7.1 Security holdings (shares, NES, ADRs)’ below.
reduction for the blocking period) remained within
the approved total remuneration limit. As before,
detailed calculation will be made and reported
after the end of the aforementioned period.
4.7.1 Security holdings (shares, NES, ADRs)
(as at 31 December 2023) (as at 31 December 2022)
Non-voting Close Non-voting Close
equity relatives’ equity relatives’
securities Others security securities Others security
Shares (NES) (number/ holdings Shares (NES) (number/ holdings
(number) (number) type) (number/type) (number) (number) type) (number/type)
Board of Directors
S. Schwan 244,786 97,876 – – 215,956 91,966 – –
A. Hoffmann – * 200 – – – * 200 – –
J. Duschmalé – * – – – – * – – –
P. Frost 2,000 – – – 2,000 – – –
A. Hauser 3,000 150 – 20 NES 3,000 150 – 20 NES
A. Iwasaki – – – – n/a n/a n/a n/a
R. P. Lifton – – 300 ADRs*** – – – 300 ADRs*** –
J. Mahmood – – – – – – – –
B. Poussot 500 500 – – 500 500 – –
M. Schneider 2,500 2,500 – – n/a n/a n/a n/a
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff – 2,710 ** – – – 2,710 ** – –
Total 252,786 103,936 300 ADRs*** 20 NES 221,456 95,526 300 ADRs*** 20 NES
n/a – not applicable
* Shares held by the shareholder group with pooled voting rights not listed
** Jointly held with close relative
*** R oche’s ADR (American Depositary Receipt) listed on OTCQX (https://www.otcmarkets.com/stock/RHHBY/quote) International Premier under the symbol RHHBY, ISIN US771195104.
Traded in USD, eight (8) ADRs represent one (1) underlying NES.
DETIDUA
166 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration ReportAs Chairman, Dr Severin Schwan is not entitled
to receive new LTIs (S-SARs and RSUs). His LTIs
awarded in his former role as CEO are listed
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 167
below in the tables ‘4.7.2 Stock-settled Stock
Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)’ and ‘4.7.3 Restricted
Stock Units (RSUs)’.
4.7.2 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
Number of S-SARs held on 31 December 2023
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
S. Schwan (awarded in former role as CEO) 115,095 75,635 100,746 103,260 122,322 100,677 85,476
Price (CHF) 263.65 359.70 306.45 308.05 271.65 220.80 251.90
Market price per NES on
31 December 2023 (CHF) 244.50
Expiry date 10.3.2033 17.3.2032 18.3.2031 19.3.2030 15.3.2029 15.3.2025 16.3.2024
Grant value per S-SAR (CHF) 37.07 56.41 42.35 41.32 34.88 26.49 31.20
Since 1.1.2012:
– Trinomial model for American call options
4.7.3 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
Number of RSUs held on 31 December 2023
2023 2022 2021 2020
S. Schwan (awarded in former role as CEO) 4,046 2,965 3,481 3,463
Grant value per RSU CHF 263.65 CHF 359.70 CHF 306.45 CHF 308.05
(NES closing price (NES closing price (NES closing price (NES closing price
at grant date on at grant date on at grant date on at grant date on
10 March 2023) 17 March 2022) 18 March 2021) 19 March 2020)168 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
5. Remuneration of the Corporate
Executive Committee
5.1 Resolution and approval remuneration to the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration of the members of the Corporate and to the Board of Directors are outlined on
Executive Committee was decided at the page 152, ‘2. Remuneration decision process and
Remuneration Committee’s discretion, taking into approval framework’.
account market comparisons.
In 2023, members of the Corporate Executive
As in the previous years, in 2024 the Board of Committee received remuneration for their work
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate as shown in 5.4–5.10. The amount of remuneration
bonuses of the Corporate Executive Committee for for the CEO Roche Group, Dr Thomas Schinecker,
the 2024 financial year to the General Meeting for is explained in 5.3 in detail. Total remuneration
retrospective binding approval. of the Corporate Executive Committee in 2023 is
shown in 5.11.
The maximum amounts of the total other aggregate
remuneration of the Corporate Executive Remuneration in 2023 to Dr Severin Schwan in his
Committee for the period between the ordinary role as the resigned CEO Roche Group is reflected in
General Meeting 2024 and the ordinary General the remuneration components (see 5.4–5.10) and is
Meeting 2025 will be tabled separately in 2024 included and aggregated in the total remuneration
as in the previous years for the General Meeting’s of the Corporate Executive Committee (see 5.11).
prospective binding approval (see 2.2).
5.2 Amount of remuneration to members
of the Corporate Executive Committee
The general provisions assigning authority for
decisions on Corporate Executive Committee5.4 Base pay of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 169
5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to remuneration paid to a member of the Corporate
Dr Thomas Schinecker as a member of the Executive Committee as reflected in the following
Corporate Executive Committee chart and included in the total amount paid to the
As CEO Roche Group (including as ad interim CEO Corporate Executive Committee (see ‘5.11 Total
Roche Pharmaceuticals, January–March 2023), remuneration paid to the members of the Corporate
Dr Thomas Schinecker received the highest Executive Committee’, page 174).
Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Thomas Schinecker, incumbent CEO Roche Group, as a member of the Corporate
Executive Committee (in CHF)
2023 2022
Base salary 3,000,000 n/a
Bonus (subject to approval of the total aggregate bonuses for the Corporate Executive In 2022, Dr Thomas
Committee by the Annual General Meeting) 3,200,000 ** Schinecker received his
S-SARs 22 2,534,697 remuneration in his role as
RSUs 23 446,768 CEO Roche Diagnostics.
Roche Connect 32,499
Pension funds / insurances 341,490 *
Other payments incl. expense allowance / for tax consulting services 50,325
Total 24 9,605,779
n/a – not applicable
* Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
** In the form of shares (calculation of number of shares based on the price at the date of transfer in March 2024 after approval at the AGM 2024)
22 S -SARs 2023: number: 79,169, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 40.42. Trinomial model for American call options value as described in
‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’, page 170. S-SARs 2023 are blocked for four years and may
thereafter be exercised only, whilst non-voting equity securities resulting from exercise are automatically blocked for an additional four years (calculation of value of non-voting
equity securities in consideration of reduction of value due to additional blocking period of four years; reduced market value: 79.209%).
23 C alculation of RSUs value 2023: number of RSUs: 3,062, multiplied by grant value of CHF 261.30 (NES closing price at grant date on 16 March 2023) per RSU (calculation of value of
non-voting equity securities/shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of ten years; reduced market value: 55.839%).
24 Includes an annual expense allowance (CHF 30,000), payments for tax consulting services (CHF 7,215), family, children and education allowance (CHF 13,110). Additionally, employer
contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 280,852 was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
Base pay (in CHF)
2023 2022
T. Graham 1,250,000 n/a
A. Hippe 1,600,008 1,600,000
M. Sause 1,009,624 n/a
C. A. Wilbur 1,026,039 1,006,167
Total 4,885,671
n/a – not applicable
In his role as the CEO Roche Group in 2023,
Dr Severin Schwan received CHF 697,103 as
base salary.5.5 Bonuses of the other members receive the bonus 2023 as a 100% cash payment.
of the Corporate Executive Committee Dr Thomas Schinecker will receive the bonus in
The Remuneration Committee of the Board of the form of Roche shares. Bonus payment is due in
Directors determined the Corporate Executive March 2024.
Committee members’ bonuses based on the 2023
performance against the agreed objectives. The For his role as the CEO Roche Group in 2023,
Remuneration Committee uses its discretion Dr Severin Schwan will receive the bonus award
appropriately in the weighting of each criterion and of CHF 550,74125 in the form of Roche shares
in the bonus allocation. The total aggregate amount which are blocked for ten years. The bonus is part
of bonuses will be brought forward for a binding of the total aggregate amount of bonuses to the
vote by the Annual General Meeting 2024. Corporate Executive Committee which will be
brought forward for a binding vote by the Annual
Except for Dr Thomas Schinecker, all members General Meeting 2024.
of the Corporate Executive Committee will
Bonus (in CHF)
2023 2022
(Subject to approval of the total
aggregate bonuses of the Corporate
Executive Committee by the
Annual General Meeting 2024)
T. Graham 1,700,000 n/a
A. Hippe 2,000,000 2,000,000
M. Sause 1,200,000 n/a
C. A. Wilbur 1,350,000 1,300,000
Total 6,250,000
n/a – not applicable
DETIDUA
170 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights securities (NES) between the grant date and the
(S-SARs) of the other members of the exercise date. The strike price for S-SARs under
Corporate Executive Committee the terms of this multi-year plan is the closing
S-SARs to the members of the Corporate price for Roche NES at grant date. All S-SARs
Executive Committee are allocated individually since 2019 vest four (previously granted S-SARs
at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion. The three) years after the grant date. Vested S-SARs
S-SARs shown in the ‘5.15.2 Stock-settled Stock can be exercised (converted into NES) within ten
Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)’ table on page 177 (previously granted S-SARs within seven) years
entitle holders to benefit financially from any of the grant date. Unexercised S-SARs lapse
increase in the value of Roche’s non-voting equity without compensation.
25 Shares blocked for ten years (calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in March 2024 after approval at the AGM 2024).
Calculation of shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of ten years (reduced market value: 55.839%)26 For further information on the trinomial model for American call options: Please refer to Boyle, Phelim P.: ‘A lattice framework for option pricing with two state variables’, The Journal
of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Volume 23, Issue 1 (Mar 1988), 1–12, https://assets.cwp.roche.com/f/126832/x/e1222fd9e5/trinomial_model.pdf
27 S-SARs 2023 (see 4.7.2, page 167): number: 115,095, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 37.07. S-SARs 2023 are blocked for four years and
may thereafter be exercised only, whilst non-voting equity securities resulting from exercise are automatically blocked for an additional four years (calculation of value of non-voting
equity securities in consideration of reduction of value due to additional blocking period of four years; reduced market value: 79.209%).
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 171
Since 2019, the S-SARs proportion of the LTI of as compared to a ‘European’ option, which only
the Corporate Executive Committee is 80% (based allows exercise at its maturity date).26
on the already existing individual target value of
the total LTI for Corporate Executive Committee The numbers of S-SARs, the strike prices, expiry
members of 133.33% of a base pay measured on dates and grant values for S-SARs are shown below
1 January of a year). and in the ‘5.15.2 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation
Rights (S-SARs)’ table on page 177. The numbers
The fair value of the S-SARs is calculated at the of S-SARs as calculated at the time of issue have
grant date using the trinomial model for American been entered as values in the tables on page 169
call options. The trinomial model is an effective and below. In 2023 for his role as CEO Roche
method for valuation of American call options, as Group, Dr Severin Schwan received S-SARs totalling
it considers the possibility of exercising the option CHF 3,379,509.27
any time prior to maturity (called ‘American’ option,
Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
2023 2022
Grant value per Grant value per
Number S-SAR in CHF Value in CHF Number S-SAR in CHF Value in CHF
T. Graham 27,249 40.42 1,101,405 n/a n/a n/a
A. Hippe 42,224 40.42 1,706,694 30,255 56.41 1,706,685
M. Sause 26,389 40.42 1,066,643 n/a n/a n/a
C. A. Wilbur 26,390 40.42 1,066,684 18,910 56.41 1,066,713
Total 122,252 40.42 4,941,426
Price: CHF 261.30, expiry date: 16.3.2033 Price: CHF 359.70, expiry date: 17.3.2032
n/a – not applicable5.7 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) newly defined four-year vesting period plus a
of the other members of the Corporate value adjustment (being the amount equivalent to
Executive Committee the sum of the dividend paid during the vesting
Since 2019, the proportion of Restricted Stock Units period attributable to the number of non-voting
(RSUs) of the members of the Corporate Executive equity securities and/or shares for which an
Committee is 20% of the total LTI (based on the individual award has been granted). They will be
already existing individual target value of the total vested to the recipient for the Corporate Executive
LTI for Corporate Executive Committee members Committee after four years only. Thereafter,
of 133.33% of a base pay measured on 1 January resulting non-voting equity securities and/or
of a year). RSU awards are allocated individually shares may remain blocked for up to ten years. In
for the Corporate Executive Committee at the 2023 for his role as CEO Roche Group, Dr Severin
Remuneration Committee’s discretion. Schwan received RSUs totalling CHF 595,650.28
RSUs contain rights to receive non-voting equity
securities and/or shares after a since 2019
DETIDUA
172 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
2023 2022
Value at grant Value at grant
Number in CHF Value in CHF Number in CHF Value in CHF
T. Graham 1,054 261.30 275,410 n/a n/a n/a
A. Hippe 1,633 261.30 238,267 * 1,186 359.70 238,212 *
M. Sause 1,021 261.30 266,787 n/a n/a n/a
C. A. Wilbur 1,021 261.30 266,787 741 359.70 266,538
Total 4,729 261.30 1,047,251 *
n/a – not applicable
* Calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of ten years (reduced market value: 55.839%)
28 C alculation of RSUs value 2023 (see 4.7.3, page 167): number of RSUs: 4,046, multiplied by grant value of CHF 263.65 (NES closing price at grant date
on 10 March 2023) per RSU (calculation of value of non-voting equity securities / shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period
of ten years; reduced market value: 55.839%).5.8 Indirect benefits of the other members subject to a holding period, which is four years in
of the Corporate Executive Committee Switzerland.
Employer contributions made in 2023 to social
security schemes, pension plans and a Group-wide In addition, members of the Corporate Executive
employee stock purchase plan (Roche Connect) Committee received annual expense allowances
in respect of members of the Corporate Executive and some members payments for foreign tax
Committee are shown in the ‘Indirect benefits obligations and tax consulting services as shown in
(employer contributions)’ table below and in the the table below. Payments (employer contributions)
table on page 169. of indirect benefits (payments for pension funds,
insurances, expense allowance, family, children
Roche Connect is a voluntary stock purchase plan and education allowances, Roche Connect, tax
offering employees the opportunity to buy Roche consulting fees and including employer contribution
non-voting equity securities (NES) up to an amount of social securities’ beneficial parts) in 2023 to
equal to 10% of their annual base salary at a Dr Severin Schwan amounted to CHF 176,458.
20% discount. NES purchased under this plan are
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Indirect benefits (employer contributions) (in CHF)
2023 2022
Payments Payments
Annual for tax / tax Pension Annual for tax / tax
Pension funds / expense Roche consulting funds / expense Roche consulting
insurances * allowances Connect services insurances * allowances Connect services
T. Graham 285,757 25,000 7,000 37,921 n/a n/a n/a n/a
A. Hippe 435,864 30,000 39,996 4,136 425,494 30,000 39,996 10,884
M. Sause 341,490 30,000 – 29,904 n/a n/a n/a n/a
C. A. Wilbur 435,864 30,000 18,744 513,187 425,494 30,000 18,744 141,119
Total 1,498,975 115,000 65,740 585,148
n/a – not applicable
* Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 173
5.9 Other remuneration and loans of members The company granted no loans or credits to the
of the Corporate Executive Committee members of the Corporate Executive Committee.
To meet contractual obligations, in 2023 Roche
paid a total of CHF 37,328 for relocation costs. The maximum regular period of notice for members
of the Corporate Executive Committee is 12 months.
These additional payments are included in the There are no change-of-control clauses in the
total remuneration to members of the Corporate employment contracts.
Executive Committee.5.10 Remuneration to former members of the The Board of Directors proposes awarding the
Corporate Executive Committee members of the Corporate Executive Committee
In 2023, to meet legal and contractual obligations, bonuses (for Dr Severin Schwan as resigned CEO
Roche paid remuneration of CHF 771,776 in the form of Roche shares which are blocked for
(excluding legally required employer contributions ten years, for Dr Thomas Schinecker as the incumbent
to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 256,135) to Bill Anderson, CEO of the Roche Group in the form of shares and
who had resigned from the Corporate Executive for all other members of the Corporate Executive
Committee at the end of December 2022. Committee as a 100% cash payment, see 5.3 and
5.5) totalling CHF 10,000,741 in respect of the 2023
In 2023, no other payments to former members of financial year (2022: CHF 10,691,950), excluding
the Corporate Executive Committee were made. legally required employer contributions to social
security agencies, and will submit this proposed total
5.11 Total remuneration paid to the members amount to the ordinary Annual General Meeting (AGM)
of the Corporate Executive Committee 2024 for a retrospective approval vote.
For the 2023 calendar year, members of the
Corporate Executive Committee (including 5.12.2 Submission of the Corporate Executive
Dr Severin Schwan as resigned CEO) received Committee’s total future aggregate
remuneration (including bonuses, employer remuneration for the period between the
contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts) 2024 ordinary AGM and the 2025 ordinary AGM
totalling CHF 34,431,779 (2022: CHF 37,181,576), for a prospective binding shareholder approval
excluding additional employer contribution at the Annual General Meeting 2024
paid to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 1,104,210 The Board of Directors proposes that the 2024
(2022: CHF 1,819,906) that does not form part ordinary AGM approve remuneration for the
of remuneration. Corporate Executive Committee totalling not
more than CHF 38,000,000 (excluding legally
No additional remuneration other than the required employer contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
above-mentioned payments was paid to current and excluding bonuses) for the period between the
or former members of the Corporate Executive 2024 ordinary AGM and the 2025 ordinary AGM.
Committee.
The amount of the Corporate Executive
5.12 The Corporate Executive Committee’s Committee’s total future aggregate remuneration is
remuneration subject to approval at the composed of base pay, long-term incentives S-SARs
Annual General Meeting (calculated at grant value) and RSUs (see 3.1.4,
calculated at the time of reservation of non-voting
5.12.1 Submission of the Corporate Executive equity securities or shares), pension benefits
Committee’s total aggregate bonuses in (excluding legally required employer contributions
respect of the 2023 financial year for a to AHV/IV/ALV) as well as contributions for
retrospective binding approval at the Annual expenses, payments for foreign tax obligations,
General Meeting 2024 tax consulting services and Roche Connect.
DETIDUA
174 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration ReportRemuneration Report | Roche 175
5.12.3 Reconciliation of the reported option to partially reclaim distributed compensation
remuneration with the shareholders’ as a result of special circumstances (clawback).
prospectively approved remuneration for
the members of the Corporate Executive If the employee voluntarily serves notice of
Committee termination of employment, S-SARs (see 5.15.2) and
The 2022 ordinary AGM approved remuneration RSUs (see 5.15.3) which are unvested at the date
for the Corporate Executive Committee totalling of termination of employment lapse immediately
not more than CHF 38,000,000 (excluding legally without any compensation.
required employer contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at Upon termination of employment as a result of
the 2023 ordinary AGM. For comparison, from serious misconduct, all S-SARs and RSUs granted
the 2022 ordinary AGM to the 2023 ordinary AGM and outstanding, whether vested or unvested,
actual remuneration amounted to CHF 34,026,906 shall lapse immediately without any compensation.
(excluding legally required employer contributions According to the S-SARs plan rules, serious
to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses) in total and misconduct by the participant may include
remained within the approved total amount. (inter alia):
• activity leading to serious disciplinary action
As before, detailed calculation of the actual • repeated or willful failure to perform such duties
remuneration for comparison to the remuneration as have been reasonably assigned by Roche
for the Corporate Executive Committee approved • violation of any law or public regulation
at the 2023 ordinary AGM totalling not more • commission of a crime
than CHF 38,000,000 (excluding legally required • gross negligence or willful misconduct in
employer contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding employment
bonuses) for the period ending at the 2024 ordinary • engaging in conduct bringing disgrace or
AGM will be made and reported after the end of the disrepute to Roche and/or any of its subsidiaries
aforementioned period. • violation of any of Roche’s directives and
guidelines relating to business conduct
5.13 Clawback
In addition to applicable statutory provisions,
Roche’s long-term incentive plans include the5.14 Guidelines for security holdings five years from 15 March 2022 or, in the case of
Since 2012 members of the Corporate Executive new members, within five years from the start
Committee are required to hold Roche securities. of employment.
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee The requirement of Roche security holdings for
are required to hold Roche securities equivalent the CEO Roche Group remains unchanged at
in value to 200% of their respective annual base 500% of his annual base salary, without a five-year
salary. This requirement must be fulfilled within limitation (new).
Type of security Value to be acquired
CEO Roche Group Shares and/or NES 500% of annual base salary
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee Shares and/or NES 200% of annual base salary
5.15 Security holdings associated with them held securities as shown in
As at 31 December 2023 (as at 31 December 2022, the following tables ‘Shares and non-voting equity
respectively) the members of the Corporate securities (NES)’, ‘Stock-settled Stock Appreciation
Executive Committee and persons closely Rights (S-SARs)’ and ‘Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)’.
5.15.1 Shares and non-voting equity securities (NES)
(as at 31 December 2023) (as at 31 December 2022)
Shares NES Close relatives’ security holdings Shares NES Close relatives’ security holdings
(number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number/type)
Corporate
Executive
Committee Shares NES Shares NES
T. Schinecker – 3,599 – – – 2,752 – –
T. Graham – 6,459 – – n/a n/a n/a n/a
A. Hippe 6,970 43,124 – 21 6,970 40,390 – 21
M. Sause – 3,516 – – n/a n/a n/a n/a
C. A. Wilbur – 16,010 – – – 14,640 – –
Total 6,970 72,708 – 21 6,970 57,782 – 21
n/a – not applicable
DETIDUA
176 | Contents Letters to shareholders Sustainability Report How we contribute Corporate Governance Remuneration Report5.15.2 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
Number of S-SARs held on 31 December 2023
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Corporate Executive Committee
T. Schinecker 79,169 20,801 22,669 20,652 3,872 – –
T. Graham 27,249 4,412 13,344 14,180 8,960 8,304 3,975
A. Hippe 42,224 30,255 40,300 41,304 48,930 40,275 2,191
M. Sause 26,389 4,020 4,256 3,105 – – –
2,931
C. A. Wilbur 26,390 18,910 25,187 25,815 29,052 21,402 16,032
Total 201,421 78,398 105,756 107,987 90,814 69,981 22,198
Price (CHF) 261.30 359.70 306.45 308.05 271.65 220.80 251.90
335.45
Market price per NES on
31 December 2023 (CHF) 244.50
Expiry date 16.3.2033 17.3.2032 18.3.2031 19.3.2030 15.3.2029 15.3.2025 16.3.2024
30.4.2030
Grant value per S-SAR (CHF) 40.42 56.41 42.35 41.32 34.88 26.49 31.20
Since 1.1.2012: 44.71
– Trinomial model for American
call options
5.15.3 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
Number of RSUs held on 31 December 2023
2023 2022 2021 2020
Corporate Executive Committee
T. Schinecker 3,062 815 783 693
T. Graham 1,054 2,076 922 475
A. Hippe 1,633 1,186 1,392 1,385
M. Sause 1,021 1,890 1,176 555
521
C. A. Wilbur 1,021 741 870 866
Total 7,791 6,708 5,143 4,495
Grant value per RSU CHF 261.30 CHF 359.70 CHF 306.45 CHF 308.05
(NES closing price (NES closing price (NES closing price CHF 335.45
at grant date on at grant date on at grant date on (NES closing price
16 March 2023) 17 March 2022) 18 March 2021) at grant date on
19 March 2020 and
30 April 2020,
respectively)
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 177178
To the General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
Report on the Audit of the Remuneration Report
Opinion Our opinion on the Remuneration Report does not
We have audited the Remuneration Report of cover the other information and we do not express
Roche Holding Ltd (the Company) for the year any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
ended 31 December 2023. The audit was limited
to the information pursuant to Art. 734a–734f of In connection with our audit of the Remuneration
the Swiss Code of Obligations (CO) in the sections Report, our responsibility is to read the other
marked with a grey line and ‘audited’, including the information and, in doing so, consider whether
respective footnotes, on pages 148 to 177 of the the other information is materially inconsistent
Remuneration Report. with the audited financial information in the
Remuneration Report or our knowledge
In our opinion, the information pursuant to obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to
Art. 734a–734f CO in the accompanying be materially misstated.
Remuneration Report complies with Swiss law
and the Company’s articles of incorporation. If, based on the work we have performed, we
conclude that there is a material misstatement of
Basis for Opinion this other information, we are required to report
We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
law and Swiss Standards on Auditing (SA-CH).
Our responsibilities under those provisions and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities
standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s for the Remuneration Report
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Remuneration The Board of Directors is responsible for
Report’ section of our report. We are independent the preparation of a Remuneration Report in
of the Company in accordance with the provisions accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and
of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss the Company’s articles of incorporation, and for
audit profession, and we have fulfilled our other such internal control as the Board of Directors
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these determines is necessary to enable the preparation
requirements. of a Remuneration Report that is free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have The Board of Directors is also responsible for
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide designing the remuneration system and defining
a basis for our opinion. individual remuneration packages.
Other Information Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit
The Board of Directors is responsible for the other of the Remuneration Report
information. The other information comprises the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable
information included in the annual report, but does assurance about whether the information pursuant
not include the sections marked ‘audited’ in the to Art. 734a–734f CO is free from material
Remuneration Report, the consolidated financial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
statements, the stand-alone financial statements and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our
and our auditor’s reports thereon. opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level ofStatutory Auditor’s Report | Roche 179
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit • O btain an understanding of internal control
conducted in accordance with Swiss law and relevant to the audit in order to design audit
SA-CH will always detect a material misstatement procedures that are appropriate in the
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from circumstances, but not for the purpose of
fraud or error and are considered material if, expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
individually or in the aggregate, they could of the Company’s internal control.
reasonably be expected to influence the economic • E valuate the appropriateness of accounting
decisions of users taken on the basis of this policies used and the reasonableness of
Remuneration Report. accounting estimates and related disclosures
made.
As part of an audit in accordance with Swiss law
and SA-CH, we exercise professional judgement We communicate with the Board of Directors or
and maintain professional skepticism throughout its relevant committee regarding, among other
the audit. We also: matters, the planned scope and timing of the
• I dentify and assess the risks of material audit and significant audit findings, including any
misstatement in the Remuneration Report, significant deficiencies in internal control that we
whether due to fraud or error, design and identify during our audit.
perform audit procedures responsive to
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is We also provide the Board of Directors or its
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis relevant committee with a statement that we
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a have complied with relevant ethical requirements
material misstatement resulting from fraud regarding independence, and to communicate
is higher than for one resulting from error, as with them all relationships and other matters
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional that may reasonably be thought to bear on our
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override independence, and, where applicable, actions
of internal control. taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
KPMG AG
François Rouiller Paul Nichols
Licensed Audit Expert
Auditor in Charge
Basel, 29 January 2024
KPMG AG, Grosspeteranlage 5, CH-4002 Basel
© 2024 KPMG AG, a Swiss corporation, is a subsidiary of KPMG Holding AG, which is a member of the KPMG global organisation of independent member firms affiliated
with KPMG International Limited, a private English company limited by guarantee. All rights reserved.Imprint
Cautionary statement regarding The statement regarding earnings per share growth
forward-looking statements is not a profit forecast and should not be interpreted
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking to mean that Roche’s earnings or earnings per share
statements. These forward-looking statements may for 2023 or any subsequent period will necessarily
be identified by words such as ‘believes’, ‘expects’, match or exceed the historical published earnings
‘anticipates’, ‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘should’, ‘seeks’, or earnings per share of Roche.
‘estimates’, ‘future’ or similar expressions or by
discussion of, among other things, strategy, goals, plans All trademarks are legally protected.
or intentions. Various factors may cause actual results
to differ materially in the future from those reflected Links to third-party pages are provided for convenience
in forward-looking statements contained in this Annual only. We do not express any opinion on the content
Report, such as: (1) pricing and product initiatives of of any third-party pages and expressly disclaim any
competitors; (2) legislative and regulatory developments liability for all third-party information and the use
and economic conditions; (3) delay or inability in thereof.
obtaining regulatory approvals or bringing products to
market; (4) fluctuations in currency exchange rates and The Roche Annual Report is published in German
general financial market conditions; (5) uncertainties and English.
in the discovery, development or marketing of new
products or new uses of existing products, including Our reporting consists of the actual Annual Report and
without limitation negative results of clinical trials or of the Finance Report and contains the annual financial
research projects, unexpected side effects of pipeline statements and the consolidated financial statements.
or marketed products; (6) increased government pricing
pressures; (7) interruptions in production; (8) loss of or Printed on non-chlorine bleached, FSC-certified paper.
inability to obtain adequate protection for intellectual
property rights; (9) litigation; (10) loss of key executives
or other employees; and (11) adverse publicity and
news coverage.Key dates for 2024
Annual General Meeting
12 March 2024
First-quarter sales
24 April 2024
Half-year results
25 July 2024
Nine-month sales
23 October 2024
Published by
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
Group Communications
4070 Basel, Switzerland
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 11 11
www.roche.com
To order/download publications
Internet: www.roche.com/publications
E-mail: materials.management.mm1@roche.com
Fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
Media Relations
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 88
E-mail: media.relations@roche.com
Investor Relations
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
E-mail: investor.relations@roche.com
Group Sustainability
E-mail: corporate.sustainability@roche.comSharing his journey with multiple
sclerosis, Antoine helps us improve
care for people with MS. Since 2019,
serving as a patient expert, he has
brought a valuable perspective
to Roche, contributing to several
significant outcomes.
Read his story on page 98
of this Annual Report.
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
4070 Basel, Switzerland
© 2024
All trademarks are legally protected.
www.roche.com
77 265 745