WEIVER
NI
RAEY
A
0202“Roche has faced and weathered many challenges in
its nearly 125 years. The solidarity and community
we experience now in the fight against COVID-19
will significantly increase our collaboration, and
there is no doubt that we will come out of this
even stronger.”
Severin Schwan, CEO Roche Group
See video about
Roche in 2020#StrongerContents
4 A reliable partner
36 Management perspectives
56 Reporting and strategy
64 Supporting patients
110 Business review
118 Corporate Governance
1 38 Remuneration Report
#StrDoing now what
patients need next
#StrongerTogetherWe believe it is urgent to deliver medical solutions right now—
even as we develop innovations for the future. We are passionate
about transforming patients’ lives. We are courageous in both
decision and action. And we believe that good business means a
better world.
That is why we come to work each day. We commit ourselves
to scientific rigour, unassailable ethics, and access to medical
innovations for all. We do this today to build a better tomorrow.
We are proud of who we are, what we do, and how we do it.
We are many, working as one across functions, across companies,
and across the world.
We are Roche.RENTRAP
ELBAILER
A
ANOROC
EHT
GNIRUD
CIMEDNAPA reliable partner | Roche 5
The reports began to appear, somewhat quietly, in early 2020. But very soon,
the alarm began to ring loudly. A virus called SARS-CoV-2 was suddenly
dominating the headlines and threatening lives around the world. Roche
quickly realised the company had a new mission and a substantial list of
vital undertakings. That list included:
• Developing new diagnostic tools
• Determining if any existing medicines could combat the infection or ease its symptoms
• Developing entirely new medicines to treat the virus
• Joining forces with governments, other business partners and organisations to accelerate progress
• Securing employee safety while maintaining business continuity to ensure supplies of tests and medicines
reached patients in need6
Nikki is a student at the University of California, Berkeley. After
recovering from COVID-19 she is enjoying life again and spending
time on her favourite outdoor activities.
See more about
Nikki’s storyA reliable partner | Roche 7
“It doesn’t get any closer to home
than this.”
Nearly three years ago, Roche employee Michaela received a positive result. Nikki consulted with her
Hart’s daughter Nikki was diagnosed with a doctors using telemedicine, and travelling healthcare
significant illness. But in March 2020, after Nikki’s workers came to check her vitals and administer
latest hospital visit for treatment, something seemed treatments (including intravenous fluids) through
off in a new and very different way. her partially opened apartment door. Nikki’s main
concern, Michaela says, was to not infect others.
“It was Friday the 13th,” explains Michaela, Vice
President of Quality Systems and Compliance at “Taking charge of her own healthcare gave her a
Roche Diagnostics in Pleasanton, California. “Nikki sense of control,” Michaela says. “Being involved
started feeling sick. She had just been discharged and being her own medical sleuth gave her a way of
from the hospital yet again, so it could have been a owning her diagnosis, which is really important for
result of her ongoing treatments. But at this point, we patients.” With an underlying illness and repeated
had to face a new possibility: Could it be COVID-19?” episodes of severe dehydration, Nikki’s recovery has
been a long journey. But she is handling it well. What
When Nikki became too sick to continue her really struck Michaela was her daughter’s strength,
education at the University of California, Berkeley, and her trust in being part of the Roche family—both
the family moved her home. But, in hopes that as a patient, and as the daughter of an employee.
Nikki would soon return to school, they kept Nikki’s “Her mindset is so very positive and strong,”
off-campus apartment. Their goal was to keep Michaela says.
everything as normal as possible, and hope for
the best. Throughout her career, Michaela has remained
focused on being a champion for quality and on
“But she started feeling really sick, and not in the considering the voice and perspective of the
usual ways,” Michaela explains. “As hard as it was, customer and our patients in her daily workplace
I said to her, ‘because this could be COVID-19, decisions. “But in this moment,” Michaela said,
you’d better self-isolate in your apartment. If I get “I realised that this time I was the customer, and
sick, I can’t take care of you.’” so was my daughter. It does not get any closer
to home than this.”
Nikki returned to her apartment, and soon
became even sicker, with a high fever. Her doctor
recommended that she be tested for COVID-19. The
“Being involved and being her own
test came back negative. But Nikki was unconvinced.
She said to her mother, “I know it is COVID-19. I have
medical sleuth gave her a way of
had the flu before. I feel different, and this is a
different virus.”
owning her diagnosis, which is really
Nikki insisted on another COVID-19 test. After a
important for patients.”
few weeks of waiting and several phone calls, she8
“The future hinges on partnerships.”
Looking back on his experience with COVID-19 development goals. But through this experience,
is painful for Alain Bindels, Head of Innovation I have realised the importance of solidarity,
Facilitation & Digitalisation at Roche. As he explains, sustainability, and building ecosystems to make
“It was a very tough moment in my life. I really felt change happen.”
helpless, and realised how fragile life is. It was
really two weeks of not knowing what the outcome An opportunity to harness solidarity around
would be. Will I get better? Will I be able to see my the globe
family again?” The disease transformed Alain, as well as the
annual innovation summit he organises. As he
He did recover. But Alain says he is not the same observed the creativity and agility spurred by the
man he was before the virus. After 15 days on his pandemic, he recognised an opportunity to harness
back, a fever as high as 41.1 degrees Celsius and a solidarity around the globe. Alain saw the power
loss of 10% of the oxygen in his blood, he stumbled of uniting innovators across pharma, government,
out of bed with one word ever-present in his mind: academia, start-ups, non-profits and individuals to
solidarity. work together to deliver solutions that matter for
patients. “We had more than 2,500 registrations and
Missed connections became clear 150 external companies joining, including companies
After COVID-19, Alain began to see connections from the EUvsVirus hackathon, for which Roche was
in the world that he had missed before. He a sponsor partner to find solutions for COVID-19.”
realised the importance of sustainability as a
society, a community, and an individual. Alain “My wish for the future is that we will have built this
now firmly believes that the future—personally ecosystem of partnerships with start-ups, universities,
and professionally—hinges on partnerships. experts, private companies, even NGOs. And, we
will put the patient in the centre of all of that,” Alain
“I think the only way to go forward after COVID-19 says. “So the focus is now on determining how we
is through collaboration and helping each other,” can bring those worlds together into a functioning
Alain says. “To be honest, before I became sick, I ecosystem that’s centred around patient needs.”
was not focused on sustainability or on sustainable
Life is fragile
When asked what surprised him most about his
experience as a COVID-19 patient, Alain says it’s
the fragility of life, and the connections that his
The pandemic demonstrates the
vulnerability allowed him to see. “We all are part of
a big community in a big world, and we have to take
benefit of uniting innovators across
care of each other,” he says. “I think life is fragile,
societies are fragile, and if we really want to create
pharma, government, academia,
a positive future, a sustainable future for everybody,
we need to rethink how we are working as a society,
start-ups, non-profits and individuals.
as a community and also on a personal level.”A reliable partner | Roche 9
Alain, Head of Innovation Facilitation & Digitalisation at Roche,
states that he is not the same person as he was before contracting
the SARS-CoV-2 infection. He now has one word ever-present in his
mind: solidarity.
See more about
Alain’s story10
“To support the high demand for SARS-CoV-2 testing, we increased
production capacity to unparalleled levels. Our allocation strategy
ensures that these tests, consumables and systems are made
available where they are needed most and can be most effective.”
Thomas Schinecker, CEO Roche DiagnosticsA reliable partner | Roche 11
Researching the novel coronavirus in
the urgent search for solutions
Throughout human history, pandemics have Before the end of the first quarter, the first Roche
afflicted the world. In fact, they are an inevitable PCR diagnostic test to identify an active infection
part of life on earth. But, the global challenge of was approved and launched in record time, on a
COVID-19 is one of the worst in modern history. global scale.
That is why combating the virus demands a modern
approach. Joining forces
In an unprecedented show of solidarity and urgency,
A quick start in April 2020, a multinational group consisting of
The complete genome sequence of SARS-CoV-2 global health and regulatory agencies, more than
was determined and made public in January 2020, a dozen leading biotech companies, and many
almost immediately after the initial outbreak. Other renowned academic researchers banded together
virus genome sequences followed quickly, from all to battle a disease that knows no borders. The
over the world. collaboration is called Accelerating COVID-19
Therapeutic Interventions and Vaccines, or ACTIV.
Sequence availability provides a vital blueprint to
develop new tests to diagnose the virus, and drugs The effort, led by the National Institutes of Health
to fight it. (NIH) and the Foundation for the NIH, is a public-
private partnership of truly pandemic proportions.
Summoning resources It brings together a wide range of experts, including
Early on in the pandemic, Roche initiated internal industry R&D leaders, the director of the NIH, the
research programmes to develop SARS-CoV-2 director of the National Institute of Allergy and
tests and to discover potential drugs that combat Infectious Diseases, the Health and Human Services
the virus. Roche also established an internal Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness
review team to rapidly evaluate a large number of and Response, the Centers for Disease Control and
potential partnering opportunities to determine Prevention, the US Food and Drug Administration
which complemented our expertise and held the (FDA), and the European Medicines Agency (EMA).
most promise.
Roche also provided support to external
collaborators, including the Krogan Lab at the
The global challenge of COVID-19 is
University of California, San Francisco, to identify
possible new therapeutic approaches with existing
one of the worst in modern history. That
FDA-approved medicines. Another collaboration
with Calibr at Scripps Research, involved Roche
is why combating the virus demands a
providing several discovery stage compounds
for screening of potential antiviral activity against
modern approach.
SARS-CoV-2.12
Since April, the entire ACTIV group has gathered In addition, in 2018, Roche entered into a private-
on a weekly basis in one virtual room to share, public partnership with BARDA to advance the
align and develop a coordinated global response. development of medicines for infectious diseases
The goals of ACTIV are straightforward: prioritise for which there is a significant unmet need. As
the best vaccine and drug candidates, streamline part of the agreement, BARDA will provide funding
clinical trials and regulatory processes, and share that will support the development of baloxavir
knowledge and tools amongst all partners in order marboxil for severely ill hospitalised influenza
to respond to COVID-19—and future pandemics— patients, with the potential for funding of other
as quickly as possible. studies.
A key aspect of this approach is the willingness of Safeguarding ongoing clinical studies—and
people from industry, academia, government and their participants
even private foundations to work together to make In March, the steep rise in SARS-CoV-2 infections
a difference. The effort strives to break down the began to capture a great deal of attention and
traditional boundaries and silos that normally slow resources at Roche. At the same time, the company
progress. Openness, transparency, collaboration, took significant measures to ensure that ongoing
and the shared goal addressing this global health clinical studies for other conditions continued
crisis are the most important attributes of this uninterrupted. Because study participants,
unprecedented collaboration. especially in those cancer trials, are often in the
advanced stages of their disease, Roche went to
Roche is evaluating the safety and efficacy of great lengths to ensure they were as protected
Actemra/RoActemra in hospitalised adult patients as possible.
with severe COVID-19 pneumonia. Part of this effort
is a collaboration with the Biomedical Advanced The study teams were asked to be flexible, and
Research and Development Authority (BARDA), a empowered to take whatever steps necessary to
part of the US Department of Health and Human protect patients. While the approach was unusual,
Services. This collaboration is not the first time it was also effective. Across functions, teams
Roche has combined forces with BARDA. Back in developed multiple ways to protect patients,
2016, Roche entered into a multi-year, public-private without disrupting the studies. These methods
partnership with the federal authority in an effort were adjusted to meet specific needs, down to
to jointly combat the rise of antibiotic resistance the level of individual patient requirements. As
through development of new antibacterial drugs a result, planned pivotal trial starts, filings and
and point-of-care diagnostics. drug launches remain largely on track.A reliable partner | Roche 13
“COVID-19 has changed the way we do
many things, in lots of positive ways. It has
really given a huge sense of purpose and
mission on why we actually do science.”
William Pao, Head of Roche Pharma Research & Early Development (pRED)“The ongoing complexities of COVID-19 require multiple lines of
defence. By joining forces with other companies we hope to offer
additional treatment options for hospitalised and non-hospitalised
COVID-19 patients, and to ease the burden on hospitals during a
global pandemic.”
Bill Anderson, CEO Roche PharmaceuticalsA reliable partner | Roche 15
Partnerships—built by combining
strengths
Developing anti-COVID-19 medicines These partnership agreements are clear examples
As people around the globe continue to struggle of the amazing things we can accomplish when our
with the COVID-19 pandemic, it has become very efforts are aligned on a common vision, and when
clear that more solutions are needed, quickly. Since we keep the patient at the centre of everything
early 2020, Roche has focused relentlessly on doing we do.
everything possible to help people and communities
impacted by COVID-19. One of our efforts is a global Partnering on innovative drug discovery
partnership with Regeneron to collaborate on the platform technologies
development, manufacturing and distribution of their While working together with all stakeholders is
investigational COVID-19 antibody combination of crucial to combating the COVID-19 pandemic, it is
casirivimab and imdevimab. just as vital in fighting other, non-COVID-19-related
diseases. In spite of the pandemic, we succeeded
This antibody combination, currently in adaptive in establishing 92 new partnerships, all focused
studies, targets specifically against SARS-CoV-2. on developing the latest scientific innovations and
It consists of two non-competing, virus-neutralising bringing them to patients. Multiple collaboration
antibodies, casirivimab and imdevimab, that are agreements also support our efforts in increasing
administered together and bind to the critical efficiency in drug discovery across different
receptor-binding domain of the virus’s spike protein, therapeutic areas.
which may diminish the risk of viral escape.
Key partnership examples include:
Initial data of an ongoing study showed a reduction
in viral load and a decrease in medically attended Blueprint Medicines/Roche:
visits in non- hospitalised patients with COVID-19. In Licence and collaboration agreement on a new
November 2020, the FDA granted an Emergency personalised treatment, Gavreto (pralsetinib),
Use Authorization (EUA) for casirivimab and for patients with RET-altered non-small cell lung
imdevimab. cancer (NSCLC), medullary thyroid carcinoma, other
types of thyroid cancers, and other solid tumours.
A leading biotech manufacturer, Roche is well
placed to help bring this new therapy to patients.
As part of the global Regeneron partnership, we are
committing a significant amount of manufacturing
capacity, and are working to expand supply of
These partnership agreements are
this antibody combination beyond the US to as
many people as possible.
clear examples of the amazing things
In October, a partnership with Atea Pharmaceuticals
we can accomplish when our efforts
Inc. was announced to develop, manufacture and
distribute AT-527, Atea’s investigational oral direct-
are aligned on a common mission.
acting antiviral, to people around the globe.16
Reverie Labs/Roche/Genentech: Vividion/Roche:
Multi-target collaboration agreement to utilise Collaboration and licence agreement to develop
artificial intelligence (AI) in drug discovery. small-molecule medicines for difficult-to-drug
Reverie’s machine learning platform promises intracellular targets. Vividion’s proprietary drug
to augment and accelerate drug discovery by discovery platform will help address a range
increasing the power of predictive algorithms of targets of interest to pRED across oncology
for relevant small-molecule properties. Both pRED and immunology. Roche will provide binding
and gRED will leverage the platform for several ligands to defined targets nominated under the
small-molecule kinase programs, supporting collaboration.
Roche’s aim of delivering twice as many medical
advances to society at half the cost. In addition to new drug discovery technologies,
Roche entered into multiple new partnerships
Arrakis/Roche: ranging across different therapeutic areas and
Collaboration and licence agreement to develop modalities, these include:
RNA-targeted small molecules across several
disease areas. Arrakis has developed a pioneering Bicycle Therapeutics/Genentech:
drug discovery platform that integrates RNA Collaboration agreement to discover, develop and
bioinformatics and structural tools with a commercialise novel Bicycle Therapeutics based
comprehensive proprietary screening process. immuno-oncology therapies.
The platform can identify small molecules that
impact a broad set of targets across all pRED Forge/Roche:
disease areas. Arrakis will lead initial research Collaboration to identify and develop a novel
activities; Roche will conduct further R&D and antibiotic for treating serious lung infections
commercialisation. attributed to antibiotic-resistant Gram-negative
bacteria.
Samsung (Harman International)/Roche:
Collaboration and research agreement to develop
a digital therapeutics platform for autism and
other digital health products.
UCB/Genentech:
Development and commercialisation agreement to
develop, manufacture and commercialise UCB0107,
a mid-domain anti-Tau antibody, for the treatment
of Alzheimer’s disease.
These collaboration agreements also
Inflazome/Roche:
support our efforts to increase
Acquisition of oral small-molecule inhibitors
of NLRP3 that complement Roche’s existing
efficiency in drug discovery across
immunology and neuroscience portfolios and will
provide the potential for add-on or combination
multiple therapeutic areas.
with other products in development.A reliable partner | Roche 17
“In 2020, it became more obvious than
ever before that working together with all
stakeholders is crucial to combating the
COVID-19 pandemic and to ensuring we
are not slowing down innovation across
other disease areas.”
James Sabry, Global Head of Pharma Partnering18
Thanks to the hard work of our dedicated staff, Roche can deliver
high double-digit millions of tests per month.
See more about
SARS-CoV-2 diagnosisA reliable partner | Roche 19
Safeguarding operations
Scientists at Roche have continued to work reagents and consumables for SARS-CoV-2 testing
tirelessly throughout the year to develop an to laboratories for use on our MagNA Pure and
entire portfolio of tests and solutions to help LightCycler systems. Over the course of the year,
fight this pandemic. production output for PCR tests was increased
four-fold.
Stepping up for patients: swift development
of SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic solutions The PCR test was soon followed by the launch
Across all Roche Diagnostics manufacturing of our Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody test,
and distribution sites, rapid response teams which received an FDA EUA in May. This serology
worked around the clock to produce and deliver test is designed to help accurately assess prior
commercial tests to detect the novel coronavirus. infection with SARS-CoV-2 and determine if a
patient has developed antibodies against the
In March, our PCR-based cobas SARS-CoV-2 virus. This information is essential for epidemiologic
test received FDA EUA, the first in what would studies, ongoing surveillance and vaccine studies.
become a comprehensive portfolio of solutions We quickly began shipping the new antibody test
to help combat the pandemic. Within hours of to leading laboratories globally and ramped up
receiving this authorisation from the FDA, the production capacity to high double-digit millions
manufacturing team in Branchburg, New Jersey, per month to serve healthcare systems in the US
sent test kits out the door. Colleagues in the and in countries accepting the CE mark. Hospitals
Indianapolis distribution centre began shipments and reference laboratories can run the test on
within the US just two days later. Roche’s cobas e analysers, which are widely
available around the world.
From zero to 160 million in record time
Tremendous personal commitment, effort and
cross-functional collaboration made it possible
to develop, produce and distribute this first test
within weeks. Since approval, millions of tests
have been delivered globally, in accordance with
our allocation strategy of providing tests where
they are most needed and where they can be
Across all Roche Diagnostics sites,
most effective.
emergency response teams worked
To provide millions of tests per month for our
high-throughput cobas 6800/8800 systems,
around the clock to develop, produce
Roche Molecular Systems teams in Branchburg
worked around the clock. Multiple task forces were
and deliver diagnostic tests to be used
created to maximise production capacity while
maintaining the health and safety of manufacturing
to combat the pandemic.
personnel. In addition, we continued to supply20
Scaling up production of medicines to meet They were asked to conduct an inter-company
demand technology transfer—the precise process of
Producing biologics is complicated and time- transferring skill, knowledge, technologies and
consuming under the best circumstances. The methods for producing specific products and
process of persuading live cells to produce processes from one Roche manufacturing site to
biological medicine is exacting and highly technical. another. A transfer takes an incredible amount of
Most biologics are based on very large, complex planning, attention to detail and close coordination
proteins produced by cells. Because the cells to ensure that the production can be transferred
are living, each one needs careful tending, a from one site to another in alignment with rigorous
sterile environment, and constant monitoring, parameters, controls and quality systems, all with
all with strict documentation under government regulatory approval. But the move was vital to
regulatory rules. making sure enough medicines would be available
for patients.
In March, many countries were moving into lockdown
in response to the ever-widening pandemic. At the A technology transfer normally takes 12 to
same time, Roche expert teams around the world 18 months. The Hillsboro team completed the
were ramping up, with the goal of supplying needed process in just four weeks, without compromising
medicines for those who rely on them, and making on quality or safety. The secret to being quick and
as much medicine as possible for those who might nimble was giving teams a clear focus, defined
need it later on. goals and the power to make decisions.
In early March, a request came in to the team at Because the product had to be on a plane the day
the Genentech ‘fill and finish’ facility in Hillsboro, after it was manufactured, precise transportation
Oregon, where liquid biologic medicines are scheduling was crucial. But early in the transfer
transferred from large batches into smaller vials, process, the team quickly discovered only a few
then labelled, packed and prepared for shipping flights were available to get the medicines to
across the globe. their destinations, both within the US and around
the world. The Roche supply chain experts helped
the team track and target the flights they needed
to meet the demand, and the tight schedule.
An undertaking like this typically takes about
90 days from production planning to releasing
and shipping. The Hillsboro team completed
The team completed a complex task in
the job in just 22 days.
four weeks instead of 12 to 18 months,
Despite lockdown, social distancing, uncertainty,
and home schooling, and other challenges, the
without compromising on quality or
team worked nonstop, in shifts, seven days a week,
from mid-March to July. Finally, over the 4 July
safety.
holiday, they took a short break.
See more about
technology transferA reliable partner | Roche 21
“It has been the most rewarding six
months of my career, and we are proud of
the achievements made and the impact we
can make for patients, and for society.”
A Hillsboro employee on working nonstop, in shifts, seven days a week,
from mid-March to July 20202222
Throughout the course of the pandemic, Roche production and
logistics teams have repeatedly proven their expertise, excellence
and deep commitment to serving patients worldwide.A reliable partner | Roche 23
Tirelessly and tenaciously,
Keeping the system running
As many worked from home to curb the spread
manufacturing and logistics teams
of the coronavirus, Roche sites around the world
continued to operate uninterrupted, around
across the Roche organisation
the clock. Working tirelessly and tenaciously,
manufacturing and logistics teams across the
continued to produce and ship
organisation continued to produce and ship
urgently needed medicines and tests. While the
medicines and tests that people
everyday heroes at Roche have always understood
the importance of their work, they knew it was
needed urgently.
even more important during the pandemic, and
fully realised the gravity of their mission. Patients
with cancer, autoimmune diseases, heart disease,
and other rare conditions depended on them for
treatments.
Agility was crucial. Examples include a three-year The pandemic did present some supply and
old child with haemophilia, who was at risk of logistics challenges. But, thanks to the resilience
running out of vital Hemlibra supplies. Due to the of our global network, disruptions have been
lockdown, this medicine could not be delivered by minimal, and Roche has continued to deliver crucial
the regular cold-chain logistics companies. The tests and life-saving medicines to patients around
local Roche team took action, reviewing a range the world. Roche is working urgently to accelerate
of possible solutions and finding a way to ensure manufacturing capacity in order to maximise
the family received their medicine in time, and production of critical tests and medicines, with
treatment continued uninterrupted. the goal of increasing available supply globally.
Another illustrative example comes from the Roche is committed to delivering as many
combined efforts of highly motivated teams from coronavirus tests as possible to areas where
Roche Pharma Basel, Roche HUB in Singapore, they are most needed. Tests have been shipped
and Roche Diabetes Care. Thanks to their work, from Roche’s production sites to locations where
more than 25,000 units of medication and medical appropriate infrastructure is in place and testing
products were loaded onto a joint OneRoche can begin without delay.
charter flight, and delivered to Myanmar, which was
under lockdown and not accessible by commercial While Roche works to ensure a coordinated, global
flights or by road. This special solution helped to overview of additional supply requests, provision
save lives by providing medication patients needed, of medicines is managed on a country level, in
including Tecentriq, Kadcyla, Herceptin, and accordance with local rules and regulations and
Accu-Chek from Roche Diabetes Care. in close collaboration with local authorities.2244
As the pandemic spread across the globe, the research. On an operational level, finance performed
Roche Finance organisation kept watch over the all their tasks successfully, without any trial runs.
entire enterprise, providing the expertise needed That success was due to technology, automation,
to navigate the uncertainty and keep the company and, most importantly, the expertise, experience
on course. and unprecedented collaboration and teamwork
among affiliates, headquarters and service teams.
In a time of heightened need, the finance team
provided insights and transparency at record In procurement, teams partnered closely with
speed, supporting the unfolding strategic dialogue suppliers to work wonders. They accelerated
and decision-making across the organisation. The contracting to help set up COVID-19-related
strategic guidance kept funding flowing, helping Actemra/RoActemra trials in twelve days, as
to protect business continuity and ensure minimal opposed to six months. They sourced materials
impact to the R&D pipeline, while still being able to ensure business continuity, and procured time-
to invest with confidence in further long-term critical blood samples, essential for scientists to
develop the COVID-19 antibody assay.
Over five million personal protective equipment
items, including surgical face masks, were sourced
and delivered to over 60 organisations, including
The agile and flexible ways of working
suppliers and other companies in need. In the same
spirit, procurement provided 40% more supplier
demonstrated throughout the COVID-19
financing, making both established and newly
developed financial solutions available to partner
pandemic are now procurement’s
companies within days. The agile and flexible ways
of working demonstrated throughout the COVID-19
‘new normal’.
pandemic are now procurement’s ‘new normal’.A reliable partner | Roche 25
“Like many healthcare workers and others
who have responded to COVID-19, I’ve
struggled to balance work needs and the
needs of my family. I’m exhausted but very
proud to say that we were able to release
a test that’s going to be used in many
countries throughout the world to test
millions of people.”
A Pleasanton employee, Roche Molecular Systems, California26
“Countries recognise we are all in this together. There has been
a lot of effort on the regulatory front to improve access to
COVID-19-related products, not just for domestic consumption
but also for exports to support other economies.”
Harjit GillA reliable partner | Roche 27
“Technology is a critical factor in
containing an outbreak.”
As the world fights the pandemic, Harjit Gill, CEO have been scrambling to manage the outbreak,
of the Asia Pacific Medical Technology Association while the medical technology industry has doubled
(APACMed), shares lessons learned so far, and its efforts to ramp up production.1
explains the role of regulators in preparing the
region for challenges in the future. Harjit Gill describes the steps governments in
Asia-Pacific have taken to streamline regulatory
“Social distancing, self-isolation and ‘flattening processes to ensure the availability of important
the curve’ have slowly found a way into everyday resources to fight the growing pandemic. These
conversations. Yet, nothing could have prepared include accelerating approvals for medical
the world for the pandemic we are facing, that has products such as personal protective equipment
put a strain on our collective resources and way and diagnostic test kits and enabling EUAs of
of life,” explains Harjit Gill. While diagnostics is at unapproved products when approved alternatives
the core of sustainable healthcare, its role, now are not available.
more than ever, is critical in containing an outbreak.
By helping identify infected patients early, testing Taking advantage of digital technologies in
can prevent community-wide transmission and healthcare
ensure access to timely treatment. In a race to “We’ve seen both public and private sectors ramping
bring much-needed equipment, testing technologies up the adoption of digital technologies, such as
and treatments into countries, health authorities telehealth, case tracking and contact tracing,
are working around the clock to ensure regulations AI-assisted diagnosis software, and remote trainings.
can meet the needs in this constantly changing If we could push for wider and deeper utilisation
environment. of digital technologies in the entire ecosystem, we
would be much better prepared for the next crisis,”
The sudden emergence and rapid transmission states Harjit Gill.
of COVID-19 has devolved into a global health
crisis that current healthcare systems have
not faced before. The highly infectious nature
of the novel coronavirus has led to countries
taking drastic actions to prevent its widespread
transmission. While the emergence of the severe
While diagnostics is at the core of
acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), Middle East
respiratory syndrome (MERS), and more recently,
sustainable healthcare, its role, now
Ebola have highlighted the gaps plaguing healthcare
systems, not every outbreak has reached pandemic
more than ever, is critical in containing
level. With two-thirds of the world’s healthcare
systems ill-prepared for pandemics according to
an outbreak.
the Global Health Security Index report, hospitals
1 https://www.ghsindex.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/2019-Global-Health-Security-Index.pdf28
Utilising telemedicine to safely
help patients
Technology in medicine and pharmaceuticals has and safety. Adding artificial intelligence algorithms
never been more powerful, or more important. for whole slide image analysis offers the potential
These examples demonstrate how Roche is utilising to bring important new information to pathologists
new technologies to help patients safely. that can profoundly impact patients. These tools
do not replace pathologists—they enable them to
Digital pathology that serves patient and be more efficient and confident in their diagnoses.
clinician
The spread of COVID-19 has added new challenges, More precise diagnostics lead to more effective
as well as an element of actual physical danger treatment
to the practice of pathology. With physicians and Many new tissue tests for cancer require a high
their staffs at higher risk of exposure to the virus level of quantitation to determine the specific
while on site at the hospital or laboratory, digital subtype of the cancer and whether the patient
pathology that enables remote diagnoses has qualifies for a targeted therapy. These assays can
emerged as a vital technology. depend on tumour- and immune-cell counts, along
with precise estimates of the tumour area. In some
Roche now offers a comprehensive solution cases, combinations of biomarkers on the same
that supports pathologists in their transition into slide—or multiplex assays—give the pathologist
the digital era. The technology, which enables the ability to pinpoint the molecular drivers of the
pathologists to collaborate from anywhere in the cancer and raise the confidence of selecting the
world, is primed to make an important contribution best treatment plan for the patient. These complex
to telehealth now and in the future. assays are difficult to interpret manually and can
benefit greatly from image analysis algorithms to
The ability to diagnose patients from any location support the evaluation of the pathologist.
is particularly crucial during a global pandemic.
Digitising a glass slide with the powerful whole Lung cancer provides a helpful example. In the
slide scanner and integrating the result into a past, there have been few treatment options
workflow tool like uPath enterprise software for for patients with this disease. Today with more
collaboration can significantly boost efficiency therapies to treat the disease, it is more important
than ever for patients to get a precise diagnosis.
New tools and technologies—including the CE-IVD
uPath PD-L1 (SP263) image analysis algorithm
for NSCLC—aid medical teams in determining the
most effective treatment for each patient based
on more standardised, precise and consistent
The ability to diagnose patients from
methods. With an end-to-end solution from slide
scanning to full digital workflow and automated
any location is a particularly critical
image analysis, Roche Digital Pathology provides
a complete solution for healthcare providers
benefit during a global pandemic.
transitioning into the digital era.A reliable partner | Roche 29
People with underlying diseases face a higher risk of severe illness
in the course of COVID-19. To reduce this risk, social distancing
and telemedicine are important factors to avoid infection while
maintaining access to medical counselling and care.30
Bringing true relief through integrated Personalised Diabetes Management
Enabled by an open ecosystem
Assess needs Structured and therapy-adapted data monitoring
Assess effectiveness Structured documentation
Personalise treatment Collaborative reviewA reliable partner | Roche 31
Diabetes care had to change
significantly during the COVID-19
pandemic, and a boost in the adoption
of digital technologies was vital.
Seamlessly connecting people with diabetes
and healthcare professionals
While people with diabetes are at a similar risk of
contracting COVID-19 as the general population,
if they do become infected, they face a higher risk people with diabetes outside of conventional
of severe illness. Maintaining blood glucose levels health check-ups.
in the therapeutic target range—both short- and
long-term—is crucial to reducing the likelihood of In an effort to expand self-support capabilities for
serious COVID-19 disease. Against this background, people with diabetes worldwide, Roche decided
social distancing and limited access to healthcare early in the COVID-19 pandemic to provide free
posed additional challenges for the nearly half a access to the Pro version of its patient-facing mySugr
billion people living with diabetes worldwide. app. The app enables patients to share their data
with their healthcare professionals—which is even
Diabetes demands constant monitoring, and more important at a time when patients are spending
patients have to make numerous treatment decisions significantly less time with their physicians.
throughout their day regarding diet, exercise and
medication. Many of these decisions are made by The app is an integral part of the open ecosystem
the patients themselves, ideally in close coordination and offers features like structured logging and
with their physician. During the COVID-19 pandemic, documentation of therapy-relevant data, accurate
diabetes care had to change significantly, and a insulin dose calculations, reminders, engaging
boost in the adoption of digital technologies was challenges and coaching to help people better
essential. Roche was able to facilitate this shift manage their daily diabetes routine.
with a strategy of integrated Personalised Diabetes
Management (iPDM). In recent years, Roche has In December 2020, Roche announced a partnership
developed an open ecosystem for diabetes care with Diabeloop, a French medtech company.
that enables more meaningful interaction between Through this partnership, Roche has entered into
people with diabetes and their physicians. the field of automated insulin delivery to help
advance the management of insulin pump therapy.
In January 2020, Roche launched the The Accu-Chek Insight insulin pump will be Roche’s
RocheDiabetes Care Platform. This key component first pump that automatically doses insulin based
of the open ecosystem is utilised by healthcare on readings from a continuous glucose monitor,
professionals, and integrates data from more than thus lowering the burden for people with diabetes
140 devices and solutions from Roche, our partners in daily therapy management. Sharing diabetes-
and our competitors. The platform is designed to relevant data through integrated solutions has
contextualise data points through smart algorithms proven especially beneficial in a time when face-
and to provide actionable insights for a more to-face visits are limited and remote consultations
personalised approach to diabetes care. Several have become the preferred method of ensuring
additional solutions for the platform were introduced uninterrupted support. Through its systematic
throughout 2020. These included the RocheDiabetes approach of iPDM centred on physician-patient
InsulinStart service, which enables an easy transition interaction, Roche has strengthened the connection
to insulin therapy for people with type 2 diabetes, between patients and their care teams, helping
as well as the RocheDiabetes RemoteCare solution, people with diabetes to confidentially manage
which allows healthcare professionals to monitor their condition during the COVID-19 pandemic.32
New options for patients with
other diseases
While COVID-19 dominates the public discussion, estimates that 311,000 women globally die each year
many people are combating other serious diseases. from this disease, which is nearly 100% preventable
Roche continues its research and development with proper screening, vaccination and treatment.
activities in multiple disease areas, including Roche focuses on the science behind HPV, the known
oncology, immunology, infectious diseases, cause of almost all cases of cervical cancer, to help
ophthalmology and neuroscience. provide answers that aid clinical decision-making
around patient care.
New therapy for spinal muscular atrophy
Allie is a 39-year-old who lives with spinal muscular Advanced, objective p16/Ki-67 biomarker technology
atrophy (SMA) type 2 and has never been on treatment. is a next-generation triage solution for women who
She has a YouTube channel where she has chronicled test positive for high-risk HPV. The technology
her journey leading up to receiving Evrysdi. Her story offers significant improvement in risk stratification,
includes the FDA approval of Evrysdi and learning compared to traditional Pap cytology. The IMPACT
from her doctor that she was approved to receive (IMproving Primary screening And Colposcopy Triage)
the treatment. It culminates in a heart-warming video trial of nearly 35,000 women is a landmark cervical
of her taking her first dose and her experience going cancer screening study that supported multiple FDA
forward. The video shows her caregiver assisting her approvals received in 2020. These include CINtec
with administering Evrysdi, with Allie noting that this PLUS Cytology and cobas HPV for use on the cobas
treatment is a “big deal for her” and she is “hopeful” 6800/8800 Systems. The cobas HPV test identifies
and “thankful” that these scientific advancements women at risk for cervical cancer by detecting the
will allow her “to stay alive longer and live”. presence of high-risk HPV DNA in cervical samples.
Additionally, CINtec PLUS Cytology is the first
HPV testing to prevent cervical cancer triage test based on dual-stain technology using
In 2020, Roche made significant strides for women’s the biomarkers p16 and Ki-67 to identify women
health through improvements in cervical cancer at risk who may benefit most from immediate
screening, triage, and diagnostic testing. The WHO follow-up. Together with CINtec Histology, a p16
biomarker test used in cervical biopsies to provide
clear diagnostic confirmation of cervical lesions
due to HPV, these innovations advance the goal
of eliminating cervical cancer.
The WHO estimates that 311,000
The patient perspective also comes from within
women globally die each year from
Many Roche employees are also patients or
caregivers in their personal lives. They deal with
cervical cancer, which is nearly 100%
illnesses of all types, from COVID-19 to breast
cancer, diabetes to diseases of the central nervous
preventable with proper screening,
system, and many more. Through these experiences,
they have gained expertise in areas beyond their
vaccination and treatment.
regular work responsibilities.A reliable partner | Roche 33
The approvals of medicines for rare diseases make a meaningful
difference for people living with such conditions, those who
support them and physicians who treat them. They also exemplify
how patients, industry, academia and authorities can find
solutions together.34
Eva Joseph looks through a microscope at her own cancer tissue
sections on glass slides. These slides are explained to her by
Eric Walk, Chief Medical Officer, Roche Tissue Diagnostics, Tucson,
Arizona, during her site visit in November 2019.
See more about triple-
negative breast cancerA reliable partner | Roche 35
While COVID-19 dominates the
public discussion, many people are
combating other serious diseases.
To enable as many people as possible to benefit from
this substantial experience and expertise, CareRing
was established in 2020. This internal community HER2/neu—are not expressed in the tumour, making
provides a framework for Roche employees to share it difficult to treat.
experiences, support each other, and reassure other
colleagues fighting a disease that they are not alone. Fortunately, Eva’s oncologist told her about a new
CareRing is also an effective way to support our clinical study, and a chance for survival. She quickly
commitment to putting the patient at the centre of had a formidable team on her side. A Roche cancer
every effort. Through the programme, employees immunotherapy medicine and a Roche diagnostic
can share their insights and experiences with Roche test, along with a powerful collaboration between
business teams early in the product development the diagnostics and pharmaceuticals teams that
process. CareRing members also help to inform delivered both to the market, brought new hope to
strategy discussions and communication efforts, Eva, and other patients with her diagnosis. “This
including during the COVID-19 pandemic. is amazing,” said Eva, whose tumours have nearly
vanished. “I feel it’s a blessing that I am able to
In its first year, more than 700 employees around receive treatment that just wasn’t there for so many
the world joined CareRing. Members were active others before me.”
in more than 20 groups dedicated to an expansive
range of health issues. CareRing has been The results were quick, and promising. As Eva
recognised by the Reuters Pharma Awards Europe explains, “after several rounds of treatment, I began
as the Most Promising MVP/Pilot. The award to feel stronger and my scans showed that the
celebrates CareRing’s potential to disrupt the tumours in my lungs and sternum were shrinking. If
status quo and allow contact with real patients it weren’t for this treatment, I would not be here.”
in the early stages of projects and activities.
While it typically takes 24 weeks to submit a test
“If it weren’t for this treatment, I would not for FDA approval, the diagnostics team came
be here.” together to cut time to submission in half for
Retired business woman Eva Joseph had already this important test. Based on the study, the FDA
survived breast cancer once, nearly 20 years approved the Roche test and treatment, followed
ago. But it returned—with a vengeance. When Eva soon by other countries, making this the only test/
received a diagnosis of triple-negative breast cancer, therapy combination approved for triple-negative
and learned it had spread to her lungs and sternum, breast cancer globally. A remarkable partnership
she believed it was a certain death sentence. “I was between Roche’s Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
terrified,” Eva, 72, recalled of learning she was Divisions has led to better care for patients like Eva,
facing a highly aggressive disease that has a poor who is now passionate about spreading the word
prognosis. “I thought I would be dead in a week. about new testing and treatment options. Eva and
I didn’t know anyone who survived stage IV cancer.” her husband Dwight have also rallied in support of
cancer research funding.
Each year, about 300,000 people are diagnosed
with triple-negative breast cancer, worldwide. “I want to tell everyone I can that there is help and
This diagnosis means that the three most common there is hope,” Eva said. “I can help others. I can give
proteins associated with breast cancer growth— information, and that gives hope to people like me
oestrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and with triple-negative breast cancer. We have hope.”TNEMEGANAM
SEVITCEPSREPManagement perspectives | Roche 37
With our strong focus on collaboration and sharing knowledge, the
lockdown measures introduced across the globe meant that Roche
had to find smart new ways to ensure we could continue our research,
produce medicines and diagnostic tests without interruption, and work
with partners to keep supply chains moving.38
A. Hoffmann PP.. BBuullcckkee
JJ.. DDuusscchhmmaalléé P. Frost
A. Hauser R. Lifton
B. Poussot H. Clevers
J. Brown S. Schwan
C. Franz C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff
Roche Board of Directors on 31 December 2020.
Dr Christoph Franz (1960) Chairman, C, D*, E, G | André Hoffmann (1958) Vice-Chairman, Representative of the shareholder group with pooled voting rights,
A*, C*, D, E, G | Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E, G | Dr Jörg Duschmalé (1984) Representative of the shareholder group with pooled voting rights, B, E, G |
Dr Patrick Frost (1968) B, E, G | Anita Hauser (1969) A, E, G | Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953) C, E, G | Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E, G |
Prof. Dr Hans Clevers (1957) A, E, G | Julie Brown (1962) B*, E, G | Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F | Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967) A, E, G
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee | B Audit Committee | C Remuneration Committee | D Chairman’s/Nomination Committee |
E Non-executive director | F Executive director | G Independent member of the Board of Directors | * Committee chairpersonChairman’s shareholder letter | Roche 39
Dear Shareholders,
In 2020, the coronavirus pandemic dominated for efficacy in patients severely affected by
world affairs like no other event in recent history. COVID-19, and have launched new research
It placed tremendous demands on all of us—some projects. We are working in partnership with others
of them excessive. For this reason, we at Roche on all levels—including within the pharmaceutical
are grateful to be part of the front-line effort to industry—more intensively than ever before.
overcome the pandemic. In particular, we developed In times of crisis in particular, solidarity and
extremely reliable diagnostic tests in record time cooperation are the keys to success. (For more on
and—thanks to close, trusting relationships with this, see the interview with CEO Severin Schwan
governments and authorities—have been able to on page 43).
deploy them where they can offer the greatest
benefit. The COVID-19 crisis has led to fewer patients
seeing their doctors for a routine check-up, or to
I am very proud of what our more than start a new therapy. Moreover, three of our most
100,000 employees around the world are important cancer treatments are now facing
accomplishing in this difficult situation. Not only competition from biosimilars in the USA. Despite
have they given their utmost in dealing with that competition, ongoing strong demand for our
COVID-19, but they have also done everything in new medicines Tecentriq (cancer immunotherapy),
their power to ensure that patients have reliable Hemlibra (haemophilia) and Ocrevus (multiple
supplies of medicines and diagnostic tests for sclerosis), and for our new molecular tests, led to
conditions of all types. After all, serious diseases a slight sales increase of 1%** to CHF 58.3 billion.
do not simply disappear just because a new virus IFRS net income increased by 17% (7% in Swiss
has emerged. Roche employees have ensured francs) to CHF 15.1 billion mainly due to the lower
that vital continuity persists, despite a shortage of goodwill write-offs compared to the previous
transport capacity and the difficulties associated year. In view of the positive overall result and our
with consulting with doctors. outstanding prospects, we will be proposing a
further dividend increase to CHF 9.10 per share.
The value of a strong infrastructure for diagnostics Subject to your approval, this will be the
has increased substantially during the pandemic. 34th consecutive dividend increase.
Broad access to molecular diagnostic tests is
essential to controlling new and recurring infectious One major reason for our confidence is the
diseases. But these tests can also help prevent impressive progress we have made in our product
other conditions, such as cervical cancer and pipeline. Last year, we were granted authorisations
liver cancer due to hepatitis C. State-of-the-art for four new medicines, and we have a record
diagnostics make early identification or prevention number of 19 new compounds in registrational
possible for a growing number of diseases which, in studies or filed for approval.
turn, helps to improve health outcomes and boost
cost-effectiveness in the healthcare system. Here I would like to mention two newly approved
medicines used to treat rare diseases: Evrysdi
In Pharmaceuticals, we have worked closely with for hereditary SMA, a disease that causes muscle
health authorities to test several of our medicines weakness, and Enspryng, a major milestone
** Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2019).40
in the treatment of a genetic disorder in which increase our already record level of research and
the nerve cells are attacked by the body’s own development spending.
immune system.
I would like to thank all our employees for their
Rest assured, the COVID-19 crisis will pass. But exceptional commitment in these challenging times,
there still are plenty of other serious illnesses, and our partners for their greatly valued cooperation,
Roche will continue to combat them. In the nearly and you, dear shareholders, for your confidence
125 years since its founding, Roche has repeatedly in and loyalty to our company.
reinvented itself in order to seize opportunities and
help more people. Thanks also to our proactive
commitment to digitalisation, your company is in
excellent shape for the future, and well positioned
to achieve medical breakthroughs—well beyond
the coronavirus—through outstanding scientific Dr Christoph Franz
performance. To this end, we will once again Chairman of the Board of Directors
Christoph Franz on a visit to Roche Diagnostics, Penzberg, Germany.
In conversation with employees, he informs himself on site about the
challenges and the contributions in R&D, production and logistics in
connection with the SARS-CoV-2 tests.Chairman’s shareholder letter | Roche 41
“I am very proud of what our employees
are doing in this difficult situation.
Because one thing is clear: none of the
serious or life-threatening diseases
simply disappears just because there
is a new virus.”
Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Board of Directors42
S. Schwan
B. Anderson T. Schinecker A. Hippe C. A. Wilbur A. Regev
W. Pao J. H. Sabry B. Schädler C. Böckstiegel
Roche Corporate Executive Committee on 31 December 2020.
Dr Severin Schwan (1967), CEO Roche Group | Bill Anderson (1966), CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals | Dr Thomas Schinecker (1975), CEO Roche Diagnostics |
Dr Alan Hippe (1967), Chief Financial and Information Officer | Cristina A. Wilbur (1967), Chief People Officer | Dr Aviv Regev* (1971), Head Genentech Research & Early
Development (gRED) | Dr William Pao* (1967), Head Roche Pharma Research & Early Development (pRED) | Dr James H. Sabry* (1958), Global Head Pharma Partnering |
Barbara Schädler* (1962), Head Group Communications | Claudia Böckstiegel* (1964), General Counsel
* Member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive CommitteeInterview with the CEO Roche Group | Roche 43
Severin Schwan, did the coronavirus pandemic Partnership has suddenly become important
take you by surprise? within the industry, too; competitors are
Yes, like a lot of people, I was surprised that working together to help fight COVID-19...
the pandemic grew to such a scale more or Companies working jointly or with universities or
less overnight. But pandemics are hardly a new research centres is nothing new. Roche is regarded
phenomenon. We are by no means the first to live as a pioneer in the field and is very much in demand
through such difficult times, and coronavirus will as a partner. What is new, though, is the global
not be the last pandemic either—unfortunately. scale of activities such as development, data
sharing, and production. I have never seen anything
How did Roche fare? like it before.
I have been hugely impressed with the way our
people responded to the crisis. We developed What has happened to make everyone join
tests in record time, got production up and running, forces all of a sudden?
and many teams are working around the clock. In The urgency of finding a medical solution and
addition to huge commitment, I am also seeing the realisation that we will emerge from the crisis
far-reaching changes in the way we work. We have significantly faster if we work together.
all become more agile and more courageous.
Could you give us an example?
We can also see how effective our decentralised Global production capacity for antibody treatments
decision-making structures are. They have been for COVID-19 is extremely limited and will take time
key to act so quickly. to build up. This is where Roche, the world’s leading
biotech company, has stepped in, partnering with
More agile and more courageous—what do Regeneron to produce their antibody treatment and
you mean by that? make it available to patients worldwide.
Let me give an example. Increasing individual
responsibility has been one of my concerns for Apart from research, development and
several years now, and it is one our workforce shares production, where else does Roche have
with me. However, this is easier said than done in a partnerships?
large, complex organisation such as Roche. Pretty much everywhere! You can actually achieve
more by working together, for example when it
Working together to beat the coronavirus has comes to giving people around the world access
speeded up the process. Almost every day, I hear to our medicines and diagnostics. Making sure that
of cases where people have simply taken the our coronavirus tests end up where they are most
initiative and acted on their ideas without waiting urgently needed was a particularly important issue
for the green light from ‘above’. It is the kind of thing in 2020—an enormous challenge that we cannot
you see in small start-up companies, and I think it overcome alone.
is fantastic. We are also completely changing the
way we work with external partners. The changes The same goes for climate change, where we
that Roche is going through will be lasting. want to reduce our environmental impact by
half over the next decade. We are looking at our
What is new about the way you work with products’ environmental footprints at all stages
partners outside the company? of the value creation and supply chain. This is
Never before has knowledge been shared so another area in which we are working closely
quickly and transparently, including communication with our business partners. On this point, I am
with the regulatory authorities. What used to take obviously delighted that we have once again—
months or years now takes just weeks or even days. for the eleventh time—been ranked the world’s
most sustainable healthcare company in the
We are hoping that this speed and trust will continue Dow Jones Sustainability Indices.
in the ‘post-coronavirus era’ so that millions of
people will benefit from them.44
COVID-19 is turning the world upside down. was discovered, we have a wide range of antibiotics
That has meant that the fight against other at our disposal. The only thing is, we have to use
diseases or antibiotic resistance is losing them sparingly. This is especially true of the more
momentum somewhat. Do you see it like that? recent reserve antibiotics, which should only be used
Yes, unfortunately. If there is one thing the world when existing antibiotics do not work. There’s one
should have learnt from this pandemic, it is that simple reason for that: the fewer reserve antibiotics
being prepared can save people’s lives and is more we use, the lower the risk of bacteria becoming
cost-efficient in the long term. resistant to them. However, the quantities sold of
these reserve antibiotics are very small: something
Antibiotic-resistant bacteria are already claiming that needs to be reflected in the reimbursements.
700,000 lives every year, and numbers are rising. Otherwise, the investment in research and
It is a major threat, but far too little is being development is just not worthwhile.
done about it. We are one of the few companies
still working on infectious diseases, even though At some point the pandemic will end. What
the financial incentives to do so are virtually consequences will that have for Roche?
non-existent. That has to change. The pandemic has thrown the value of diagnostics
and digitalisation into sharp relief. Diagnostics will
What exactly needs to change? get a boost, and we will continue to systematically
Well, antibiotics revolutionised 20th-century expand our digital healthcare business. This is where
medicine. Today, almost a century after penicillin the future of the Roche Group and the future of
healthcare lie.
Let us assume for a minute that this future
were already reality. What would have been
different?
Just imagine that the treatments used in recent
With a live projection on its building 1 in Basel Roche expressed months and the data obtained had been
a big ‘thank you’ to all those doing their part to help during the systematically logged by computer. And, imagine
COVID-19 crisis. we were able to continuously evaluate and analyse
this immense ‘treasure trove of data’—in anonymised
form, of course. Then we would be able to get a
much better view of how patients respond to the
various treatments in a much shorter time, and
the research and development of medicines
for COVID-19 would be at a substantially more
advanced stage.
I regard this ‘real-world data’—patient data from
routine clinical practice—as the next big topic in
medicine. Such data would be hugely valuable not
only for COVID-19, but also for many other diseases.
And what will your biggest personal takeaway
from the pandemic be?
The lockdown gave us time to reflect on the things
that are truly important in life. Family, friends, and
our own health, of course, but also solidarity with
others in challenging times. The crisis has shown
us how much we need each other—and that we are
stronger together.Interview with the CEO Roche Group | Roche 45
“I am very impressed with the way
our employees have managed this crisis.
We have all become more agile and
courageous.”
Severin Schwan, CEO Roche Group46
“Now, more than ever,
At the time of the initial outbreak of the pandemic,
little was known about the new coronavirus and the
patients need us to deliver
disease it causes. I am so grateful to colleagues
around the world who have stepped up to fight
innovative medicines across
the pandemic, ensuring continuity of patient care
across all disease areas, while addressing medical
multiple disease areas.”
questions about the implications of COVID-19.
More than ever, we have been called upon to deliver
Bill Anderson, CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals innovative medicines across multiple disease areas,
to overcome unprecedented supply chain and
logistics hurdles, and to help meet the demands
of the pandemic. This experience has reminded us
of the crucial role of robust clinical trials, which
help answer some of the most pertinent scientific
questions. It has also demonstrated the importance
of reliable health systems. And it has encouraged
parties across the healthcare continuum to work
with greater speed, efficiency and collaboration.
It has been proven that being there for each other
with care and compassion is not just for lockdown,
but for life.Corporate Executive Committee | Roche 47
“We are providing millions
The COVID-19 pandemic clearly demonstrates the
value and importance of diagnostics, and we have
of tests per month to help fight
been at the very forefront in the fight against this
global healthcare crisis.
the pandemic and reduce the
In record time, we have developed a comprehensive
burden on healthcare systems.”
testing portfolio for this new viral disease. We
have significantly ramped up our manufacturing
capacities, and are providing millions of tests per
month to help fight the pandemic and reduce the Thomas Schinecker, CEO Roche Diagnostics
burden on healthcare systems. At the same time,
we have been able to continue making substantial
contributions to healthcare through new tests
and solutions for cancer, HIV, women’s health,
and more.
The exceptional challenges of 2020 demanded an
exceptional response, and I am intensely proud of
the commitment and resilience demonstrated across
our organisation. Our agile, open and collaborative
mindset helps us to continue addressing the
challenges healthcare faces and to do what is
right for our patients and our customers.48
“Our finance, procurement and
As the pandemic spread across the globe, our
finance, procurement and IT colleagues provided
IT expertise helped to navigate
the expertise needed to navigate the uncertainty
and keep the company on course. Roche Finance
the uncertainty and keep the
provided insights and transparency at record speed.
This enabled us to keep funding flowing, protecting
company on course.”
business continuity, and upholding our ability to
invest with confidence in further long-term research.
Alan Hippe, Chief Financial and Information Officer Our procurement colleagues partnered closely with
suppliers on many business-critical issues. These
included accelerating contracting on COVID-19-
related Actemra/RoActemra trials and procuring
time-critical blood samples, which are essential to
developing the COVID-19 antibody assay.
Our IT organisation kept our business systems up and
running and our people connected. When COVID-19
hit, over 95% of our more than 100,000 employees
across the globe shifted to remote working, almost
overnight! We fared very well, thanks to our cloud
and platform-as-a-service strategy, forward-thinking
and focused investments in our infrastructure, and
dedicated people around the world. I am so incredibly
grateful and immensely proud of all three groups.Corporate Executive Committee | Roche 49
“Our shift to a more agile way
Upon sensing the accelerated pace and
unpredictable nature of change, we began to
of working has proven especially
consciously shift to a more agile way of working
a few years ago.
effective in a year like 2020.”
A key aspect of this transition was embracing a
mindset that looks at every situation and challenge
as an opportunity to add value for patients and Cris Wilbur, Chief People Officer
all our stakeholders. With this mindset in place,
leaders have enabled people to connect and work
in more self-sufficient, creative and networked
ways that are driven by capabilities and outcomes,
rather than hierarchy or established paradigms.
This new approach proved especially effective in
a year like 2020.
No one could have predicted how dramatically this
pandemic would impact our lives. The response
from colleagues across Roche was impressive, and
further demonstrated how we are able to make the
seemingly impossible possible.
I am inspired and incredibly proud of our people,
our special culture, and our deep commitment to
our purpose.50
“We have launched trials in
Even before I joined Genentech Research & Early
Development in August 2020, the clear focus
COVID-19 pneumonia in a matter
of my colleagues was on doing all we can in the
fight against the pandemic. We are learning that
of weeks, rather than months.”
COVID-19 has several different phases, and different
treatments may be appropriate for each. gRED
embarked on the early development of therapeutics
Aviv Regev, Head of Genentech Research & to help COVID-19 patients, and we have launched
Early Development (gRED) several trials to study the impact of some of our
medicines on COVID-19 pneumonia. These trials
were launched in a matter of weeks, rather than
the more typical months—without compromising
on scientific rigour.
The goal of one of these studies (the COVASTIL trial)
is to see if we can potentially prevent progression
of tissue damage in the lung due to the COVID-19
infection, and help patients with lung tissue damage
recover more quickly.
I am thrilled to continue our transformative scientific
efforts for seriously ill patients, in collaboration with
many great colleagues and partners.Corporate Executive Committee | Roche 51
“We focused on maintaining as
In addition to ensuring the health and safety
of everyone in pRED, our early research and
much momentum as possible
development focused on protecting the lives
of patients in our trials, maintaining as much
on our discovery and clinical
momentum as possible on our discovery and
clinical portfolios, continuing to bring in external
portfolios.”
opportunities, and ensuring ethical treatment of
animals.
We also prioritised combating COVID-19. Experts William Pao, Head of Roche Pharma Research &
from across pRED led or joined key international Early Development (pRED)
collaborations across industry and academia.
Internally, many supported the Actemra/RoActemra
trials and/or the scientific evaluation of external
opportunities, such as the Regeneron collaboration
agreement. Others from the pRED team pitched
in to help Roche Diagnostics accelerate launch
timelines for COVID-19 tests, shared desperately
needed lab supplies with local hospitals, and
enabled patients in local communities to receive
Actemra/RoActemra.
I am very proud of, and grateful to, all the pRED
employees who went above and beyond during
this time to do now what patients and humankind
need next.52
“When we emerge from this
In 2020, it became more obvious than ever before
that working together with all stakeholders is
pandemic, I am convinced that
crucial in combating a pandemic like COVID-19,
while ensuring we do not slow down innovation in
we will have established closer
other disease areas.
connections with stakeholders
Working together with our partners and scientists
across the organisation, we entered into 92 exciting
across the industry.”
new collaborations, 90% of them signed during
the global pandemic. In the fight against COVID-19,
we collaborated closely with consortia and
James Sabry, Global Head of Pharma Partnering authorities to share our broad expertise with the
goal of accelerating the development of potential
treatments. In addition, our new partnerships with
Gilead, Regeneron, and Atea Pharmaceuticals
allowed us to further develop, manufacture, and
distribute molecules that potentially can both
treat and prevent SARS-CoV-2 infections.
When we emerge from this pandemic, I am convinced
that we will have established closer connections
with stakeholders across the industry that will
enable us to bring forward the best new treatments
for patients now and in the future.Corporate Executive Committee | Roche 53
“One thing that I am particularly
Reflecting on 2020, I am struck by the sheer
intensity and relentless nature of these
glad to see is the passion with
transformative and volatile times. The COVID-19
pandemic impacted everything from travel to
which Roche employees pursue
business to our daily interactions as human beings.
our mission.”
Beyond ensuring business continuity,
communications has been heavily engaged in
staying on top of the global changes in the pandemic
situation, in order to enable a smooth transition Barbara Schädler, Head of Group Communications
both into and out of lockdowns. We also facilitated
communication activities around launches of our
SARS-CoV-2 tests, the commencement of clinical
trials, and other company milestones.
One thing that I have been particularly glad to
see is the passion with which Roche employees
pursue our mission of delivering better healthcare
for patients, with many reaching out to communities
to offer help. In a year of extremes, solidarity has
been a critical factor in retaining and validating the
trust that is placed in us by patients, partners, and
the wider world. We truly are #StrongerTogether.54
“Our concern has always been
When I took over as General Counsel, Switzerland
had just gone into lockdown. My attention inevitably
to keep our employees safe
focused on the legal support for all of our company’s
efforts to maintain business continuity.
and healthy, ensuring business
Roche’s concern has always been to keep our
continuity.”
employees safe and healthy, whether they work
from home, or on-site in business-critical functions
that ensure the uninterrupted manufacturing of
Claudia Böckstiegel, General Counsel medicines and diagnostics.
As a team, we leveraged our expertise in safety,
health, and environment to ensure that we continued
to supply patients with much-needed medicines,
every day. While we were fortunate to have pandemic
plans in place, it is not possible to be prepared for
every potential situation. The extent of the crisis
required an extraordinary commitment from all the
people involved.
I wish to express my deep and wholehearted thanks
to all my teams, and the many Roche employees
who worked so hard to make this happen.Corporate Executive Committee | Roche 55
Celebrating 125 years of Roche
Life is at the core of everything we do at Roche. Each day, our employees and
partners dedicate our bold science, innovative diagnostics and breakthrough
medicines to improving the lives of the people we serve. This is both our
125-year legacy and our promising future.
In 2021, as we celebrate where we have been, what we are doing and where
we are going, what we are really celebrating is life. Life—in its beauty and its
complexity, as moments to be experienced, shared and remembered, as the
possibilities beyond the horizon. Life—transformed by science from despair
to hope.
In 2021, we celebrate life.DNA
GNITROPER
YGETARTSReporting and strategy | Roche 57
Transparent reporting, engaging with our stakeholders, and a focus on
developing new medicines and diagnostic solutions are core components
of our business approach.58
Material topic
· Personalised healthcare
Our reporting approach
Roche is committed to transparent reporting, and we endeavour to drive
our economic, social and environmental performance with the same
diligence as our financial performance.
Reporting scope and boundaries is discussed annually with the Corporate Executive
Our financial and non-financial reporting consists Committee and reviewed by the Board of Directors.
of the Annual Report, the Finance Report and The effectiveness of the Group Risk Management
the online report. It includes the annual financial Process is regularly monitored by the Group Risk
statements, consolidated financial statements and Advisory team and the overall process reviewed
non-financial performance indicators. It covers by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors,
all regions and divisions of the Roche Group from and as well reviewed externally when appropriate.
1 January to 31 December, 2020. The financial Risk management is embedded at all levels of
reporting scope is defined and outlined in our the Group. Our Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
Finance Report, and there have been no significant Divisions and global functions conduct a formal
changes in scope in 2020 compared to 2019. risk and opportunity assessment process at least
once a year and must develop response plans for
GRI standards and materiality their most material risks and opportunities.
We have followed the GRI (Global Reporting
Initiative) G4 guidelines since 2014, and have Read more in ‘Corporate Governance’ on page 118.
transitioned to the GRI Standards in 2017. By using
the GRI guidelines, we disclose the most critical We also identify long-term business sustainability
impacts of our activities on the environment, society trends with associated risks and opportunities on
and the economy. To this end, we conducted a an annual basis and integrate these into our existing
first materiality analysis at the corporate level in Group risk management process. Each year, emerging
2014. In 2018/2019, we conducted a second global trends (including associated risks and opportunities)
materiality assessment including expert interviews are identified from internal and external sources.
and feedback from more than 600 stakeholders.
The results of this assessment are featured on Based on these findings the Corporate Sustainability
pages 60 and 61 of this report, and are also Committee prioritises and selects the top business
published on our website (see link on page 60). sustainability trends. Among the trends identified
are healthcare evolution and rising chronic and
Risk management infectious diseases.
Our Risk Management Policy sets out Roche’s
approach to identifying, analysing, managing UN Sustainable Development Goals
and reporting internal and external risks and We support the United Nations Sustainable
opportunities. A consolidated Group Risk Report, Development Goals (SDGs) within the sphere of our
which covers all material risks and opportunities, corporate business strategy. We contribute to a
Report 2020: ar20.roche.com | roche.com/ar20e.pdf | roche.com/fb20e.pdf
Risk management: roche.com/risk-management | Key Performance Indicators: roche.com/performanceReporting and strategy | Roche 59
Business sustainability trends
number of the SDGs and are particularly pleased
to see a dedicated goal on Health (SDG 3). This Healthcare evolution
goal is closely connected with the achievement of The healthcare evolution develops towards a continuum of
universal health coverage, which goes hand in hand care approach, including prevention, treatment and cure,
with better access to quality essential medicines offering a wider range of solutions (products and services).
and diagnostics. This fits in perfectly with our vision This is a unique opportunity to accelerate delivery of truly
to improve and save lives. Since 2016, the SDGs integrated, patient-centric and personalised healthcare
have been an integral part of our annual reporting. solutions. For example, we have introduced our Navify
Symptom Tracker, which offers remote monitoring of COVID-19
Examples of our contribution to the UN goals are symptoms. We are also developing cloud-enabled integration
listed on our UN SDG webpage (see link on page 60) engines to support digital health ecosystems, and mobile apps
and are mapped to our material topics as featured for patients and healthcare professionals, like the mySugr
on page 61. app to monitor and manage diabetes on a smartphone. The
risks and opportunities associated with this new digital health
External assurance arena are assessed and managed through the Group Risk
Our non-financial reporting has been verified Management Process.
by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG (PwC), an
independent third party. PwC focused on the Rising chronic and infectious diseases
materiality determination process, the design of the Increasing rates of chronic conditions—such as diabetes or
sustainability risks, the opportunities determination cardiovascular diseases—are putting a lot of pressure on
process and the figures in the areas of Safety, the healthcare system, leading to rising costs of long-term
Security, Health, and Environmental protection, treatment and threatening recent societal gains in life
people and contributions. Since 2019, and as a result expectancy and quality. In addition, outbreaks of infectious
of Roche’s strengthened control framework, review diseases are on the rise. The COVID-19 pandemic that we are
procedures and reporting aspects, the figures currently experiencing has demonstrated the significant social
related to our grants, donations and sponsorships and economic impact of pandemics. It has also exacerbated
to healthcare and patient organisations are subject the need to work in closer collaboration with global institutions,
to reasonable assurance performed by PwC. These governments and other partners to develop new drugs and/
figures are disclosed on the non-financial reporting or innovative products. It has encouraged us to explore new
key performance indicators webpage, including the approaches driven by the urgency, for example to speed up
PwC assurance report. the drug development process.
See ‘Independent Assurance Report’ on page 168.60
Materiality assessment and
stakeholder engagement
Engaging with our stakeholders is essential to building trust and an
understanding of their expectations. By embedding their feedback in our
strategy and our daily business, we are able to jointly address our common
issues and develop long-term solutions.
In order to identify the topics that are particularly institutions, peers, suppliers, contract research
relevant to Roche, its stakeholders, and society organisations, universities, and investors. We
at large and to deliver lasting shared value, also collected over 600 external and internal
in 2018 and 2019 we conducted an in-depth, stakeholder views via an online survey to identify
corporate-level materiality assessment among our the most important and pressing issues that Roche
key stakeholders. This assessment built on the first should address in the next three to five years.
materiality analysis (conducted in 2014) by adding
an external perspective, gaining critical insights In the final step, we analysed the various insights
into what is important to our stakeholders, and and identified 19 material topics that stood out as
learning what they consider to be emerging trends highly relevant to us and to our key stakeholders.
and topics. To properly address these topics, we aligned
them with our current goals and are measuring
Our approach performance through our defined set of indicators.
Our approach to materiality assessment is
integrated—building on our Group Risk Management In addition, the materiality assessment has been
Process—and inclusive, being designed in shared internally with the functions in charge
collaboration with colleagues across multiple of managing respective topics. The assessment
functions (Risk Advisory, Human Resources, has also informed discussions on defining our
Investor Relations, Compliance, Finance, Safety, new corporate goals, subsequent sustainability
Security, Health and Environmental Protection objectives, and the communications priorities
and Communications). that have been rolled out as of 2020. Finally, the
outcomes of the materiality assessment have been
We used the outcomes of our Group Risk integrated into our 2020 Group Risk Management
Management Process as a starting point to identify Process.
the key emerging trends relevant to the Roche
Group. We then conducted qualitative interviews The process and the results of our materiality
with more than 30 experts across broad stakeholder analysis have been endorsed by the Roche
categories, including patient organisations, global Corporate Sustainability Committee.
Materiality: roche.com/materiality | Key performance indicators: roche.com/performance | Our contribution to the UN SDGs: roche.com/un-sdgsMateriality | Roche 61
Our 19 material topics
We are committed to delivering sustainable value to all stakeholders by addressing the following material topics:
Our commitment Our performance Our material topics Supporting
UN SDGs
Innovating for patients • 2 8.9 million patients treated with Roche • Sustainable healthcare systems
We are committed to developing medicines • Availability of healthcare
medicines and diagnostics that • 2 3.4 billion tests conducted with Roche • Affordability of healthcare
significantly improve people’s lives, Diagnostics products • Personalised healthcare
and to delivering rapid, broad, • 3 7 BTDs (breakthrough therapy designations) • Real-world data
sustainable patient access to our awarded by the FDA since 2013 • Patient centricity
products. • 3 2 Roche medicines on the WHO Model List • R&D efficiency
of Essential Medicines • Preparedness for aging society
• Product safety
• Product quality
Being a trustworthy partner • 1 31 new partnerships in Pharmaceuticals • Human rights
We are committed to establishing and Diagnostics • Ethics and transparency
mutually beneficial, long-term • 30% of business critical suppliers audited • Compliance
relationships with our partners. • Product safety
• Product quality
• Cybersecurity
• Data privacy
• Real-world data
Providing a great workplace • 3 2% of key leadership roles held by women • Talent attraction and retention
We are committed to providing a work • 68% employee engagement • Organisational agility
environment where our employees are • Preparedness for aging society
encouraged to build their careers and
pursue their passions.
Protecting the environment • 1 9% decrease in energy consumption per • Energy efficiency
We are committed to minimising our employee since 2015 • Long-term mindset
environmental impact in our operations • 26% decrease in general waste per
and in the use of our products. employee since 2015
Delivering continued growth • + 1%* in Group sales • Long-term mindset
We are committed to creating value • + 4% in core operating profit
continuously for our stakeholders • 21% of sales invested in R&D
and achieving sustainable, high
profitability.
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2019).62
Our strategy
We focus on finding new medicines and diagnostics and on establishing
data-based insights that evolve the practice of medicine and that help
patients live longer, better lives.
Our business environment is undergoing tremendous an exceptionally broad and deep understanding
change. We are facing new challenges due to the of disease biology; the seamless integration of our
complexity of care and increasing pressure on capabilities in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics;
healthcare budgets. At the same time, we see new a diversity of approaches to maximise innovation;
opportunities arising from major advances in life and a long-term orientation.
sciences and from digitalisation in healthcare.
Our delivery is to create value for all our
In these turbulent times, we are guided by our stakeholders: being a partner of choice; bringing
common purpose: Doing now what patients significant medical benefit for patients, doctors
need next. Our company has been bringing novel and payers; offering a great place to work for
diagnostics and treatments to patients for nearly employees; delivering a sustainable positive
125 years. Patients are and will remain at the core contribution to society; and earning competitive
of what we do. They are the reason we come returns for our investors.
to work every day.
How we do it
What we do Ultimately, delivering on our commitments takes
We focus on our vision of fitting treatments to people with integrity, courage, and a passion for
patients: providing the right therapy for the right making a difference for patients. Our people are
patient to ensure the best response at the right proud to say: We are Roche.
time for the right value. Our approach combines our
rich expertise in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics Our leadership inspires outcomes that matter
with expanded data science capabilities to drive by embracing diversity and inclusion. Different
more effective and efficient research and to backgrounds, perspectives and experiences, across
enable better therapeutic decisions for patients. the entire organisation, foster innovative solutions
for the benefit of patients. Our ways of working
Working in partnership with third parties, we enable agile and networked responses to the ever-
offer integrated solutions with improved medical, increasing pace of change by balancing the needs
health, and economic benefits. We work with many for stability, speed and flexibility.
different stakeholders in the healthcare ecosystem
to broaden access to our offerings for people who Our set-up is designed for innovation. Our
need them and, ultimately, to provide a seamless autonomous research and development centres
patient journey. We will continue to concentrate and alliances with more than 200 external partners
our energies on prescription medicines and in vitro foster a diversity of scientific approaches and agility.
diagnostics, rather than diversify into other sectors Our global geographical scale and reach enables
like generics, biosimilars or over-the-counter us to attract talent in the leading global science
medicines. Our pursuit of excellence in science, clusters and to quickly bring our solutions to people
our distinctiveness, rests on four key elements: who need them.Our strategy | Roche 63
What we do How we do it
Our focus Our leadership
Fitting treatments to patients Inspiring outcomes that matter
Our distinctiveness Our ways of working
Excellence in science Agile and networked
Our delivery Our set-up
Value for all stakeholders Built for innovationGNITROPPUS
STNEITAPSupporting patients | Roche 65
For COVID-19 and other severe diseases: We are developing a broad
portfolio of diagnostic solutions and new medicines—within Roche and
jointly with a number of partners across the industry.66
Diagnostic solutions—the backbone
of treatment decisions
Reliable testing to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and to
support the development of effective and safe medicines and vaccines.
In response to this ongoing public health crisis, patients have already been infected with the
Diagnostics has drawn on the strength of our virus, and therefore have antibodies. This test
global network across multiple sites in an ongoing was launched in partnership with SD Biosensor,
effort to increase production of our SARS-CoV-2 Inc., South Korea, with whom Roche has a global
portfolio. We have made substantial investments distribution agreement.
in building the additional manufacturing capacity
that will enable us to increase production of tests, In September, Roche launched the Elecsys
as well as the instruments on which those tests Anti-SARS- CoV-2 S antibody test for markets
are performed. accepting the CE mark, which targets antibodies
against the spike protein. In November, we received
In February of 2020, we began working with the US an FDA EUA for this test. It can also be used to
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to produce a quantitatively measure antibodies in people who
coronavirus test under Emergency Use Authorization have been exposed to SARS-CoV-2, and can play an
(EUA) guidance. In March, we launched the ground- important part in characterising a vaccine-induced
breaking cobas SARS-CoV-2 test, which is run on immune response. The majority of current candidate
the widely available, high-volume cobas 6800/8800 vaccines aim to induce an antibody response
systems. This molecular test received FDA EUA, and against the spike protein of the virus.
is also available in countries accepting the CE mark.
In December, we announced a partnership with
Less than two months later, we received FDA EUA for Moderna, Inc. to use the Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2 S
the high-volume Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody antibody test in Moderna’s mRNA-1273 vaccine
test. This serology (blood) test has a specificity research trials. This will facilitate quantitative
greater than 99.8%, and 100% sensitivity 14 days measurement of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies and help
post-PCR confirmation. The test can help assess to establish a correlation between vaccine-induced
a patient’s immune response to the virus. We also protection and levels of anti-receptor binding
launched Viewics LabOPS COVID-19 for efficiency domain antibodies.
improvements in laboratories in May.
Also in September, Roche received EUA from the
The SARS-CoV-2 rapid antibody test, launched in FDA for the cobas SARS-CoV-2 & Influenza A/B test
July, is intended for qualitative detection of IgM for use on the cobas 6800/8800 systems. This test is
and/or IgG antibodies to the virus in a person’s intended for the simultaneous qualitative detection
blood (serum, plasma or whole blood). This means and differentiation of SARS-CoV-2, influenza A
that the test can be used to determine whether and influenza B in patients suspected of havingDiagnostics | Roche 67
A total of 15 solutions for SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis were developed in
record time in 2020, including both molecular and immunodiagnostic
solutions for clinical laboratory and point-of-care settings—along
with an unparalleled ramp-up of our production capacities. Our
solutions can help better contain the community spread of the virus.68
Providing quality, high-volume testing will help healthcare systems
respond more effectively to the pandemic. A broad portfolio of
diagnostic solutions was developed and launched in 2020.
a respiratory viral infection. It is also available in
markets accepting the CE mark.
For urgent and emergency care settings, Roche
also received an EUA from the FDA in September
for the cobas SARS-CoV-2 & Influenza A/B test on
the cobas Liat System. This test provides results
in just 20 minutes.
Roche also launched in collaboration with SD
Biosensor, Inc. the SARS-CoV-2 rapid antigen test
in markets accepting the CE mark and will file for
an EUA from the FDA in the first quarter of 2021.
The SARS-CoV-2 rapid antigen test is for use on
symptomatic people in point-of-care settings. The
test can help healthcare professionals identify
a SARS-CoV-2 infection in people suspected of
carrying the virus, with results typically ready
in 15 minutes. In addition, it serves as a valuable
initial screening test for individuals who have
been exposed to SARS-CoV-2-infected patients
or have been in a high-risk environment.
In December, Roche launched a high-volume
Elecsys SARS-CoV-2 antigen test to aid in the
diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection. The test is
available in countries accepting the CE mark, and
Roche has filed for an FDA EUA. Performed by
healthcare professionals, the test uses swab
samples from patients with signs and symptoms
suggestive of COVID-19, or from people with either
known or suspected exposure to SARS-CoV-2.
Changing the standard of care to benefit
patients
Apart from SARS-CoV-2 tests, Roche introduced
several other important diagnostic advancements
for customers and patients in 2020. These include
a broader test menu for the cobas 6800/8800
systems. Currently, more than 1,000 of these
instruments are in place, and almost twice the
number projected for the year were installed inDiagnostics | Roche 69
Through advanced and accurate
2020. This expansion will help laboratories meet
the global need to rapidly boost testing due to
testing, laboratories have the
COVID-19, and it will help increase patient access
to our solutions and drive future growth in our
capability to predict the onset of
molecular business.
disease, and to detect who needs
The cobas Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and BK virus (BKV)
tests, both aimed at transplant patients, are run on
intervention at the individual or
the cobas 6800/8800 systems. After first granting
a breakthrough device designation (BDD) for these
population level.
tests, the FDA then approved the EBV test in August
and the BKV test in September. These are fast,
reliable tools that enable healthcare professionals
to monitor and treat patients at risk for the common—
but life-threatening—consequences of EBV and
BKV infections after transplantation of solid organs
and/or stem cells. Apps and algorithms
Three image analysis algorithms launched in 2020
In September, the first test for the qualitative are helping pathologists deliver more rapid and
detection of HIV-1 and HIV-2 infections on the accurate test results in oncology: our uPath PD-L1
cobas 6800/8800 systems received FDA approval. (SP263) algorithm in non-small cell lung cancer
Worldwide, most HIV infections are HIV-1, with HIV-2 diagnosis and our uPath HER2 Dual ISH algorithm in
infections largely limited to people in or from West HER2-positive breast cancer diagnosis.
Africa. However, HIV-2 infections have been steadily
increasing in the US and Europe due to immigration. Another example is cobas prime, which we launched
Both types of the virus have the same routes of in the US and in countries accepting the CE mark. This
transmission, and both can cause AIDS. Knowing is the first and only fully automatic, pre-analytical
the specific strain helps healthcare providers system to prepare the variety and volume of samples
confidently treat patients with the most effective labs receive for molecular testing, which helps to
therapy, and guides their approach to monitoring reduce manual work in molecular labs.
and clinical management. Also in September, we
launched the FDA-approved Elecsys HIV Duo As part of the fight against COVID-19, Roche
immunoassay. launched the decision support solution Navify
Remote Monitor, enabling businesses and schools
The FDA also approved the addition of the CINtec to restore operations. Consisting of a mobile app
PLUS Cytology test to the cobas 6800/8800 for students and employees and a web portal for
systems in September. It is the first triage test organisations, this solution collects self-reported
based on biomarker technology for women whose risk factors and displays recommendations based
cervical cancer screening results are positive for on official guidelines to facilitate decisions on
high-risk types of human papillomavirus (HPV). This returning to work or school.
advancement will help drive a life-saving revolution
in cervical cancer prevention and treatment. Meeting the needs of today—anticipating the
needs of tomorrow
In December, we launched the cobas PIK3CA COVID-19 has already demonstrated how innovative
mutation test in countries accepting the CE mark for testing helps spearhead innovative approaches to
patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer. patient care and healthcare systems management.
The test, which detects 17 mutations in the PIK3CA Through advanced and accurate testing, laboratories
gene, can help clinicians identify patients who may have the capability to predict the onset of disease,
benefit from targeted therapy as supported by and to detect who needs intervention at the
medical guidelines. individual or population level.70
Drug development during the
pandemic
Despite the massive disruption of a global pandemic, our commitment
to developing new medicines remained unbroken in 2020.
Thanks to a range of innovative approaches, The phase III Empacta study met its primary
our development efforts became even more endpoint, showing that patients with COVID-19-
effective in 2020. This improvement resulted associated pneumonia who received Actemra/
in nine new molecules moving to pivotal clinical RoActemra plus standard of care were 44%
studies in 2020, compared to approximately three less likely to progress to mechanical ventilation
per year over the last four years. Additionally, or death, compared to patients who received
significant increases in our partnering efforts a placebo plus standard of care. There was no
provided access to four late-stage medicines statistical difference in mortality between patients
in 2020, about four times the average of recent who received Actemra/RoActemra or placebo by
years. In 2020, we were granted authorisations day 28. The study enrolled patient populations
for four new medicines, and we have a record that are often underrepresented in clinical studies
number of 19 new compounds in registrational and have been disproportionately affected by the
studies or filed for approval. COVID-19 pandemic. The trial was conducted in
Brazil, Kenya, Mexico, Peru, South Africa and the US.
Searching for COVID-19 treatments
Early in the pandemic, Roche initiated several Remdacta, a global phase III, randomised, double-
approaches: an internal early research programme blind, multicentre study, was initiated to evaluate
focused on the discovery of medicines for COVID-19, the safety and efficacy of Actemra/RoActemra
testing of Roche medicines already approved for plus the antiviral remdesivir, versus placebo plus
other diseases, and a large number of potential remdesivir in hospitalised patients with severe
collaborations. COVID-19 pneumonia. The study is being conducted
in collaboration with Gilead Sciences, Inc., and
The phase III Covacta study of Actemra/RoActemra enrolment began in June.
did not meet its primary endpoint of improved
clinical status in hospitalised adult patients with In August, Roche and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals,
severe COVID-19-associated pneumonia. In addition, Inc. joined forces to help address the COVID-19
the key secondary endpoints, which included the pandemic to develop, manufacture and distribute
difference in patient mortality at week four, were Regeneron’s investigational antibody combination.
not met; however, there was a positive trend in It consists of two non-competing, virus-neutralising
time to hospital discharge in patients treated with antibodies, casirivimab and imdevimab. In November,
Actemra/RoActemra. the FDA granted an Emergency Use AuthorizationPharmaceuticals | Roche 71
Our continued investments in R&D are essential to overcoming the
many devastating diseases currently without options for patients.
In 2020, approvals were granted for two medicines to treat two rare
diseases, demonstrating important progress.72
(EUA) for Regeneron’s antibody combination. Inital did not have medicines specifically tested and
data from a phase II portion of an ongoing study designed to treat the condition. Today, 40% of those
showed a reduction in viral load and a decrease with the condition remain untreated, and many are
in medically attended visits in non-hospitalised misdiagnosed. The importance of this development
patients with COVID-19. Additional data from this can be better understood by a hypothetical example.
study are expected in early 2021. We are working Think about a woman in her mid-thirties—perhaps
with health authorities and global health institutions established in her career, starting a family, or with
in a concerted, collective response, with the aim of young children. She is living her life to its fullest,
achieving approvals. until she begins to experience symptoms of NMOSD.
Her prognosis becomes grim when we overlay
In October, Roche and Atea Pharmaceuticals, Inc. these statistics:
entered a partnership to develop, manufacture • 30% of people living with the condition are
and distribute AT-527, Atea’s investigational oral frequently misdiagnosed with multiple sclerosis.
direct-acting antiviral targeting COVID-19, to • 46% of people with NMOSD that drove a car
people around the globe. AT-527 acts by blocking stopped after their first episode.
the viral RNA polymerase enzyme needed for viral • After onset, 83% either stopped work or needed
replication and is currently being studied in a phase II to reduce their working hours.
clinical trial for hospitalised patients with moderate • 50% of patients require a wheelchair or become
COVID-19. A phase III clinical trial, expected to start functionally blind within only five years.
in the first quarter of 2021, will explore the potential
use in patients outside the hospital setting. Enspryng, which was designed by Chugai, a member
of the Roche Group, builds upon the work conducted
New medicines for rare diseases of the CNS at Roche to develop first-in-class treatments for
Two FDA approvals offer meaningful benefits for neuroimmunological diseases. It is a great example
patients living with rare disorders of the central of our commitment to following the science in order
nervous system (CNS) which previously had limited to deliver groundbreaking medicines for the most
treatment options: Enspryng (satralizumab-mwge) complex and difficult-to-treat conditions. After
for the treatment of a rare disorder of the CNS years of dedicated effort and collaboration, the
(neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder, NMOSD); FDA approval of Enspryng exemplifies how patients,
and Evrysdi (risdiplam) for people with spinal industry, and academia can work together to find
muscular atrophy (SMA). solutions.
Enspryng is the first and only subcutaneous A significant breakthrough for patients
treatment for adults living with NMOSD. This Evrysdi was approved for the treatment of spinal
condition primarily damages the optic nerve(s) and muscular atrophy (SMA) in adults and children two
spinal cord, causing blindness, muscle weakness, months of age and older. Throughout their lives,
and paralysis. It often is misdiagnosed as multiple many people with SMA may lose their ability to
sclerosis. Until recently, people living with NMOSD perform critical physical movements, such as sitting
upright. This loss of function can impact the ability
to independently participate in aspects of daily life,
and can even be life-altering. Without treatment,
around half of the babies with type 1 SMA, the most
severe form, will die by the age of two.
In clinical studies, Evrysdi showed clinically
Today, 40% of people living with
meaningful improvements in motor function in
people of varying ages and differing levels of SMA
NMOSD remain untreated, and many
severity, including types 1, 2 and 3. Infants achieved
the ability to sit without support for at least five
are misdiagnosed.
seconds, a key motor milestone not normallyPharmaceuticals | Roche 73
achievable in the natural course of the disease.
Evrysdi also improved survival without permanent
ventilation at the ages of 12 and 23 months,
compared to natural history. A liquid medicine,
Evrysdi is administered daily at home. It was
developed in collaboration with the SMA Foundation
and PTC Therapeutics.
The Evrysdi accomplishment also achieved two
other significant scientific breakthroughs: The study
was the first placebo-controlled trial in adults with
SMA. And, the development of this medicine shows
that we can interfere with biology at the deepest,
most fundamental level, targeting a small molecule
with a degree of precision that we previously did
not think was possible.
Expanding the portfolio of cancer medicines
Gavreto (pralsetinib) received FDA approval for the
treatment of adults with metastatic RET-altered
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), as detected
by an FDA-approved test. This once-daily, oral
precision therapy was designed to selectively target Victoria, school student: “I am a child in a wheelchair, but I am not ill.
RET alterations, including fusions and mutations. I live with spinal muscular atrophy.”
RET-activating fusions and mutations are key disease
drivers in many cancer types, including NSCLC and
medullary thyroid cancer, and treatment options
that selectively target these genetic alterations
are limited. In NSCLC, RET fusions represent
approximately 1–2% of patients.
be administered by a single injection. Administration
Gavreto is a perfect fit with our personalised can take approximately eight minutes for the initial
healthcare strategy, and an excellent example of the loading dose, and approximately five minutes
practice of delivering targeted cancer medicines for each subsequent maintenance dose. This is
based on genomic alterations. The success of Gavreto compared to approximately 150 minutes for a
demonstrates the power of understanding each sequential infusion of a loading dose of Perjeta
person’s unique disease, as well as the critical role and Herceptin using the standard intravenous
next-generation sequencing and insights like those formulations, and between 60 and 150 minutes
provided by Foundation Medicine, a member of the for subsequent maintenance infusions of the two
Roche Group, play in achieving better outcomes. medicines.
Phesgo received FDA approval for the treatment of The European Commission granted conditional
early and metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer. marketing authorisation for Polivy (polatuzumab
This fixed-dose combination of Perjeta and Herceptin vedotin) in combination with bendamustine and
with hyaluronidase is administered by subcutaneous MabThera/Rituxan for the treatment of people with
injection, and is used in combination with intravenous relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma,
chemotherapy. who are not candidates for a haematopoietic stem
cell transplant. Polivy represents a new off-the-shelf
Phesgo is the first medicine developed by Roche and much-needed treatment option for people with
that combines two monoclonal antibodies, and can this aggressive form of lymphoma.74
PHC—across the care continuum
When the availability of personalised care increases, both individual
patients and society benefit.
The Roche approach to personalised healthcare However, no organisation can achieve better
(PHC) is rooted in a combination of advanced outcomes for patients and society working
diagnostics, medicine, data, analytics, and digital alone. A collective effort that includes patients,
technology, all with the goal of serving both providers, payers, policymakers, regulators,
patients and society at large. This requires a holistic biopharma companies and technology companies
perspective of the entire healthcare system. enables everyone to contribute their unique
perspective, expertise and experience. At Roche,
Instead of viewing the individual components of we are confident that the combination of our deep
the patient care continuum—prevention, diagnosis, scientific expertise, a holistic healthcare system
treatment and monitoring—separately, Roche approach, and close collaboration with partners
approaches them as a comprehensive system across the ecosystem will make personalised care
of integrated healthcare solutions. Our goal is a reality for patients worldwide.
to reduce complexity and costs while optimising
patient and societal outcomes. The COVID-19 pandemic has been a wake-up
call for healthcare systems, exposing systemic
Putting the patient at the centre of the care gaps and weaknesses. At the same time, it has
continuum establishes a high bar for scientific demonstrated what can be achieved when
research, which is driven by data and technology. individual contributors join forces to drive
When data become insights, systems learn, change and innovation collaboratively. For
outcomes improve, and lives benefit. example, Roche has partnered with local service
providers in Canada, Italy and Spain to establish
The use of data and technology for scientific mobile blood draw facilities, providing patients
research relies on the trust of patients. We are with safe and timely comprehensive genomic
committed to transparency and integrity in our profiling, despite the breakdown of healthcare
data privacy practices. And, we work to advance infrastructure and the inability of local facilities
inclusive research around the globe to ensure to provide sufficient care.
our scientific insights are truly representative and
result in new solutions that address the needs The pandemic caused a significant decrease in
of broad and diverse populations. Furthermore, the number of in-person doctor visits, threatening
Roche has invested in new clinical trial designs the health of patients managing diseases of all
that generate insights from the real world. These types, including neovascular age-related macular
insights improve patient outcomes, as well as degeneration, an eye disease that causes severe
the overall care experience. vision loss. To help ensure patients managing theScience and Innovation | Roche 75
UN SDGs
Material topics
· Patient centricity
· R&D efficiency
· Personalised healthcare
· Real-world data
· P reparedness for
aging society
Due to COVID-19 regular health checks, and medical appointments
for follow-up treatments were often declined or delayed. This
affected a range of disease areas, including cancer, diabetes,
diseases of the central nervous system, diseases of the eye, and
many more.76
New technologies help patients receive uninterrupted counselling
safely, while also reducing the risk of exposure for physicians
and their staff, especially during the pandemic. Digital pathology,
diabetes management and MS are just a few examples of conditions
now being treated through new technology.
disease could continue their care, Roche partnered
with Moorfields Eye Hospital in the United Kingdom
to launch a pre-commercial trial of the Home Vision
Monitor App. Patients can access the app on their
smart devices from the safety of their own homes,
to test for changes in their vision function once or
twice weekly. The care team can remotely monitor
each patient’s disease progression and detect
those who need clinic visits.
Roche is a founding member of INSIGHT—the health
data research hub for eye health in the United
Kingdom, which aims to build one of the world’s
largest data resources in ophthalmology. When this
data is combined with advanced analytics, the result
can transform how eye diseases are diagnosed and
managed. Data from INSIGHT are already being
used to understand the impact of COVID-19 on
patients with these conditions.
In addition to helping ensure patients with
life-threatening or chronic diseases receive
uninterrupted care, a team of Roche data scientists
and epidemiologists created a novel data and
analytics tool to develop an understanding of the
relationship among mobility, infection and morbidity
of SARS-CoV-2. This tool is being made available
to local hospitals and testing facilities to enable
them to allocate resources more effectively.
The pandemic has accelerated this new era of
PHC and enabled new avenues for Roche to put
this new paradigm into practice today. It has served
as a powerful catalyst for accelerating the use of
telemedicine and other digital tools, which allow
patients to get the care they need while minimising
the risk of exposure and reducing the burden on
overloaded healthcare facilities.
See more about the
Navify Tumor BoardScience and Innovation | Roche 77
Oncology partnerships lay the
Making PHC a reality through global
partnerships
groundwork for personalised
Our vision of personalised healthcare measures
success by the level of improvement in treatment
healthcare options in diverse
access and patient care experience. This includes
creating an adaptive learning ecosystem, which can
healthcare systems worldwide.
only be achieved through collaborative partnerships
based on a shared vision and purpose.
In Australia, Roche has partnered with the Ministry
of Health and several clinical networks to fight
one of the most aggressive types of cancer. A
clinical trial, specifically designed for a specific
form of lung cancer, increases patient access to
comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) of their
cancer and, if applicable, targeted therapy, based
on their test results. The trial has the potential to
improve patients’ prognoses and can also serve
as a blueprint for making personalised healthcare
part of clinical practice for patients in Australia. collaborates with a range of partners across
the healthcare sector, each of which contributes
Roche and the Belgian Society of Medical Oncology unique expertise to the advancement of patient
(BSMO) joined forces to transform cancer care care. In 2020, Roche invested in advancing remote
through personalised diagnosis and treatment. At monitoring tools needed to improve disease
the core of the programme is a study in which up to management, make more timely care decisions
1,000 patients with solid tumours will receive CGP and enable more efficient use of resources.
to show the value of CGP, linked to therapy access
and the use of molecular tumour boards. The goal is Research shows that nearly half of chemotherapy
to sustainably deliver better outcomes to patients patients in the US experience unplanned emergency
through establishing new pathways of funding for department visits and hospital inpatient stays
innovative care. during cancer treatment. These events are largely
due to inadequately controlled symptoms and
Together with public and private sector partners, side effects of treatment, including pain, nausea
Roche Denmark has built a secure virtual platform and dehydration.1 To help address this important
of encrypted and anonymised data from health issue, Roche collaborated with the Fred Hutchinson
records. The OSCAR platform supports faster Institute for Cancer Outcomes Research to develop
and sustainable access to personalised care and a digital remote monitoring system for patients.
serves as a self-sustaining learning platform for The system has the potential to greatly reduce
the healthcare system. unplanned emergency visits and inpatient stays
by enabling earlier intervention and improved
Similar efforts in Canada, Hong Kong, South Korea, outpatient management.
Singapore, Switzerland, Taiwan, UAE, the US, and
several other countries are demonstrating the Roche also entered into a partnership with Harman
effectiveness of comprehensive, interconnected International, a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics
solutions that include testing, clinical decision Co., Ltd., to create a digital therapeutic platform
support tools for physicians, access to the right that leverages virtual reality technology to assist
therapies, and innovative funding models. individuals with autism spectrum disorder. This
partnership combines technology and device
In addition to public-private cancer-care experience with deep knowledge of neuroscience
partnerships across the globe, Roche also in an effort to develop innovative medicines.2
1 Hutchinson Institute for Cancer Outcomes Research (HICOR) at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center
2 https://news.harman.com/releases/releases-2020050178
New insights developed by connecting
example, Flatiron Health data was used to evaluate
the risks faced by HER2-positive breast cancer
diverse real-world datasets can
patients taking Kadcyla who had a specific pre-
existing heart problem. This analysis provided critical
support research and development and
insights that suggested Kadcyla does not worsen
these cardiac issues for these patients, supporting
optimise clinical decision-making.
a product label update in the European Union to
inform prescribers and patients of this important
information.
Over the last few years, Flatiron Health and
Foundation Medicine have partnered on an ambitious
project to combine a subset of their data into the
first-of-its-kind clinico-genomic database, or CGDB.
This rapidly growing, continuously updated real-
Accelerating research and development world data set serves as a key source for data-driven
through data medicine, as it offers high-quality, longitudinal
Every day, data necessary for optimal care of clinical data, combined with high-quality genomic
patients are collected, creating a large pool of diagnostic data. The insights derived from this
information known as real-world data. However, database have the potential to transform the field
these data reside within individual patients’ with new research, have regulatory and patient
records and are not organised or structured access applications and can facilitate new care
in a way that allows healthcare providers to options.
discern actionable insights to improve care
broadly for all of their patients. Turning that CGDB in action
real-world data into ‘meaningful data at scale’ Currently, Roche researchers are leveraging
is key to generating new insights to inform novel CGDB data to understand the relationship of
transformative diagnostics, therapeutics and tumour-genomic features with clinical outcomes
tools to support clinical decision-making, and across a wide range of tumour types and clinical
to creating healthcare ecosystems that can settings. These insights may be important when
continuously learn from each patient encounter. considering targets for therapeutic development,
specific patient populations that may selectively
Foundation Medicine and Flatiron Health, members benefit from a therapy, the choice of combination
of the Roche Group, have been at the forefront therapy approaches, and additional development
of this effort. Foundation Medicine has created a opportunities for a given molecule.
genomic database, and Flatiron Health developed
a process for curating and harmonising clinical data The CGDB may also serve as a source for an external
from the electronic health records of more than two (or virtual) control arm in tumour-agnostic settings,
million patients. The result is the creation of some where a single drug is used to treat all cancer
of the largest, most representative deidentified types that have the genetic mutation or biomarker
clinical data sets in the US. These innovative tools, that is targeted by the drug. In certain situations,
and the insights derived by the scientists and conducting a randomised, placebo-controlled trial
engineers who have created them, are currently that includes both an active (experimental) and a
in use by cancer researchers worldwide. traditional control arm can be very difficult. This
new type of external control arm was used in the
Real-world data from Flatiron Health was utilised development of the cancer medicine Rozlytrek,
to evaluate the benefit/cost ratio of treatment and supported its regulatory approval in Japan.
with Perjeta in a first-line treatment setting. These
data helped to contextualise the value of Perjeta In the future, information from new data types,
treatment in early-stage breast cancer. In another including imaging data, digital pathology, andScience and Innovation | Roche 79
A FoundationOne test helped to identify the mutation that had
caused this patient’s bladder cancer—an aberration typical in breast
cancer patients. Treatment with a combination of two targeted
therapies was successful.
data from wearables and mobile phone apps, can be
combined with clinical or clinico-genomic databases
to yield further insights that can help accelerate
and improve clinical trial programmes and delivery
of patient care. Furthermore, this type of data holds
the potential to support access and reimbursement
decisions so patients can benefit from innovative
treatments sooner.
Liquid biopsy advancing personalised care
In August 2020, the FDA approved FoundationOne
Liquid CDx, Foundation Medicine’s comprehensive
pan-tumour liquid biopsy test for patients with
solid tumours. Through a simple blood draw, the
test identifies circulating tumour DNA for more
than 300 cancer-related genes. This allows
more patients with advanced cancer to benefit
from comprehensive genomic profiling insights,
particularly when a tissue biopsy is not possible or
recommended. These insights can help physicians
to determine a personalised treatment plan for
each individual patient, based on the specific
mutations identified.
Roche’s contributions to advancing personalised
healthcare in 2020 show that through a
comprehensive system approach and purposeful
partnerships, patients worldwide can receive better
care through the combined advances in diagnostics,
medicines, data, and digital technologies. Roche
continues to serve as a connector and catalyst,
seeking purposeful partnerships across society to
establish integrated healthcare solutions and help
global health systems work better for individuals,
healthcare providers, payers and society at large.80
“When I talk to patients and when I talked
to Jennifer about the genomic profiling, we
spoke about this idea of having a toolbox,
and wanting to use the right treatments
at the right time during the course of
treatment for her disease.”
Dr Jeffrey Rothenstein, Medical Oncologist at the Durham Regional
Cancer Centre, Oshawa, Canada
Read more about
Jennifer’s storyScience and Innovation | Roche 81
Pharmaceuticals clinical pipeline
Phase I Phase II Phase III Registration
Oncology 1
7
3
28
Inflammation/ 2
Immunology 5
6
Neuroscience 2
3
5
6
Infectious diseases 2
3
3
Ophthalmology 1
1
4
6
Metabolics
2
Others 2
Our pipeline of 92 new molecular entities covers a broad range of diseases, and highly innovative technologies are applied to create and produce the active molecules.82
Access—for everybody—worldwide
The pandemic has proven that it has never been more important, or more
urgent, to work closely with external partners to improve access to medicines.
We have a crucial role to play in supporting our • We are an active member of the industry’s
stakeholders all over the world, many of whom were Access Accelerated initiative, which is focused
already facing budget and resource constraints, on non-communicable diseases (NCD) care in
and now need to factor in economic recovery low- and lower-middle-income countries (LMICs).
post-COVID-19. • Our partner, the City Cancer Challenge, is making
significant progress in building capacity at a
Life-changing innovation in medicine is only city level and is now working with nine cities with
meaningful if it reaches those who need it. Our populations over one million across the world.
goal is to work in partnership to develop tailored • More than 510,000 people are on Roche patient
access solutions that create rapid, broad and support programmes.1 In 14 LMICs, we have
sustainable access. But there are many reasons achieved a 60% increase in population with
why innovations do not reach those who need access to the cancer medicines Herceptin
them. Because our portfolio consists primarily and MabThera/Rituxan, and now reach almost
of hospital-administered treatments which often 700 million.
require specialist skills and infrastructure, we • We have set a goal to increase patient access to
truly understand the multi-dimensional nature the breast cancer combination therapy Herceptin
of the access challenge. When translating our plus Perjeta in 15 emerging markets growing from
global strategy to a country level, we make sure 5,900 patients in 2017 to 35,700 by 2022.
we understand the key barriers that may keep • The Global Access Program for HIV testing
patients from benefiting from our innovations. has seen a fourfold increase in tests run since
Our access strategy is focused on four key pillars: its launch in 2014, and has been expanded
beyond HIV to include tests for Mycobacterium
• Affordability tuberculosis (MTB), hepatitis B and C (HBV and
• Capacity HCV) and human papillomavirus (HPV) for LMIC
• Outcomes certainty programmes.2
• Value
Another significant priority for Roche is measuring
We work across the healthcare spectrum—from our impact. In 2020, we joined forces with Boston
governments and payers to NGOs, multilaterals, University to create a Roche Monitoring and
and insurance companies. And, as these specific Evaluation Framework. This framework provides us
examples show, we are making significant progress with a consistent methodology to evaluate the social
at both local and international levels: and patient impact of our access programmes.
1 Roche, data on file
2 https://www.roche.com/media/releases/med-cor-2019-07-22b.htmAccess to healthcare | Roche 83
UN SDGs
Material topics
· S ustainable healthcare
systems
· Availability of healthcare
· Affordability of healthcare
Working in collaboration with global partners across the healthcare
spectrum has enabled us to increase access to screening, diagnosis,
and treatment, while also improving the capacity of local healthcare
systems.84
Next-generation medicines and new diagnostic solutions represent
important options for patients, and highlight the need to increase
access to these therapies.
Working with Boston University’s School of Public
Health gives us an objective perspective, and the
assessment tool will be used across the world to
quickly understand where access initiatives are
having real impact, to ensure we are addressing
the right challenges and to understand where we
need to think differently.
Supporting Universal Health Coverage
Roche is committed to supporting Universal
Health Coverage (UHC), which means that any
patient anywhere can access essential quality
health services without facing financial hardship.
We recognise UHC as an important vehicle for
addressing inequalities and promoting access
to quality medicines. We see an urgent need to
address the huge inequities in access to healthcare
around the world—particularly in LMICs. We stand
ready to play our part in advancing UHC by working
in partnership with multiple stakeholders on
tailored solutions to create broad, rapid access.
In an effort to address health coverage inequality,
we are partnering with stakeholders across the
supply chain, and at different health service
delivery points, to execute our tailored solutions.
Our focus is in four key areas:
• Supporting resilient healthcare systems—we
actively support governments’ efforts to build
strong and resilient healthcare systems.
• Ensuring access to essential medicines and
diagnostics—32 Roche medicines are on the WHO
Essential Medicines List and Roche provides
more than 90 tests that are on the WHO Essential
Diagnostics List.
• Delivering tailored pricing solutions—we address
affordability and budget constraints with different
pricing models and work with insurers to help
introduce broader benefit packages that protect
patients, particularly those affected by NCDs.
• Assisting vulnerable groups in high-income
countries—we create programmes and patient
support programmes to enhance access.Access to healthcare | Roche 85
We are committed to ensuring our
A responsible approach to pricing
We are committed to ensuring our innovations reach
innovations reach patients today,
patients today, while continuing to invest in medical
advances to meet patients’ needs tomorrow. In
while continuing to invest in medical
collaboration with our healthcare system partners,
we use tailored pricing solutions to ensure as many
advances to meet patients’ needs
patients as possible have access to our innovations.
These solutions include:
tomorrow.
• Finance-based agreements, such as price
volume, cost sharing, and capping, which
address concerns about affordability and budget
uncertainty.
• Performance-based agreements that utilise
real-world data to mitigate uncertainty about the
benefit and impact of our medicines. Payment is
made according to the level of clinical or health
benefit achieved.
• Patient-support programmes that are designed to the value for patients with limited or no options is
support patients in managing out-of-pocket costs. measurable. The launch of several new medicines
• The International Differential Pricing (IDP) for some very rare diseases of the CNS in 2020 is
approach, which has been recently updated. a clear demonstration of these benefits.
This approach provides a framework for aligning
the prices a public health system pays for our Innovative medicines are helping to cure, stop, or
innovative new medicines with the country’s slow disease progression, improve quality of life,
relative income. It takes into account the country’s reduce medical complications, avoid hospitalisations,
GDP, as well as its public healthcare investment reduce the need for surgery and prevent disability.
and the UN’s Human Development Index. We Specific examples include:
expect this to ensure broader and faster access • A dramatic reduction in AIDS-related deaths due
to our medicines in countries with constrained to HIV treatments.3
economies. • Enormous developments in cancer care enabling
50% of cancer patients to survive more than
Evolving pricing models to meet needs 10 years—an illness that used to be a death
The focus on developing new pricing models for sentence.4
innovative medicines is increasing. These models • A full 95% of viral hepatitis C cases can now
can differ widely from country to country, and be cured.5
from health system to health system. We know that
there is concern around whether they improve the Alliance for access to COVID-19 therapies
overall affordability of medicines. Our approach Global pharmaceutical and diagnostics companies
to pricing is fair and responsible, based on three have issued a joint statement, in collaboration with
key determinants—firstly, the benefit the medicine the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, to ensure that
brings to patients, families and society; secondly, the world’s population has access to COVID-19
the local healthcare system, reimbursement and diagnostics, as well as future vaccines and medicines.
regulatory context; and thirdly, to allow us to In a communiqué published on 30 September 2020, a
continue sustainable long-term innovation for total of 16 companies, including Roche, emphasised
patients in the future. their commitment to ensuring that poorer countries
can afford the products they need, including through
Our innovation business model is built to allow us donations and the distribution of products at cost.
to continue to take the R&D risks needed to develop The joint declaration of the life sciences companies
more innovative medicines. Tackling some of the is signed by their respective CEOs or heads of
most complex disease areas carries high risk, but pharmaceuticals.
3 https://www.who.int/news/item/09-12-2020-who-reveals-leading-causes-of-death-and-disability-worldwide-2000-2019
4 https://www.cancerresearchuk.org/health-professional/cancer-statistics/survival
5 https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/hepatitis-c86
Our partnerships and innovative
Fighting HIV/AIDS
In 2020, Roche continued its support of HIV
solutions are helping to break down
programmes through partnerships with global
funders. We also provided innovative laboratory
barriers to care and improve patient
solutions, and worked with donors towards more
effective use of resources in order to reach more
health outcomes in areas with the
patients in more places. To expand awareness,
Roche partnered with the non-profit organisation
greatest need.
(RED)6 to emphasise the importance of HIV
diagnostics in reaching the UNAIDS goal of an
AIDS-free generation by 2030.
It is estimated that each year, around 13 million HIV
viral-load tests are provided to help patients monitor
their antiretroviral therapy in eligible countries. In
addition, more than 1,800 laboratory professionals
in Africa have received training in collaboration
with our Roche Scientific Campus in Johannesburg,
South Africa.
Roche developed solutions specifically for resource-
limited countries. These include the cobas Plasma
Separation Card, an easy-to-use sample collection
Our portfolio of cervical cancer solutions and automated testing device that increases access in remote areas. And
platforms demonstrates our commitment to providing clinicians and the mobile health application iThemba Life, which
laboratories with the best tools possible to protect women’s health. delivers HIV test results, education, treatment, and
appointment reminders directly to a phone.
In India, Roche formed a private-public partnership
focused on building disease awareness, improving
testing quality and maintaining turnaround time.
Through the programme we worked with experts
from organisations such as the Clinton Health
Access Initiative (CHAI) and Metropolis to partner
with The National AIDS Control Programme and
share diagnostics expertise. By establishing central
labs and building transport partnerships, we
increased both the capacity and quality of testing
capabilities in 2020.
Working to eliminate the hepatitis C virus
infection
Egypt has one of the highest numbers of hepatitis C
virus (HCV) infections in the world—6% of the
population are infected. In early 2018 the country
launched a massive effort to eliminate the disease
by 2023 through a nationwide screening and
treatment initiative.7 Roche worked with Egypt’s
government officials and healthcare agencies to
provide robust and dependable HCV diagnostic
See more about
cervical cancerAccess to healthcare | Roche 87
solutions to help manage and achieve this ambitious
goal. Roche provided modern diagnostic systems
and trained about 100 healthcare workers to
ensure the efficiency and reliability of the screening
programmes. Of a target population of 62.5 million,
Egypt had screened more than 49 million people.8
More than one million tested positive for HCV RNA
and began treatment.
Eliminating cervical cancer
Cervical cancer remains one of the leading causes of
death for women. In August 2020, the World Health
Organization (WHO) launched a global strategy to
accelerate the effort to eliminate cervical cancer as
a public health problem. The strategy included the
90:70:90 target: vaccinate 90% of women against
HPV, screen 70% of women aged between 35 to
45 for cervical cancer and provide care to 90% of
women diagnosed with cervical cancer.
With new recommendations and policies in place,
Roche has begun working with multiple NGOs and
other partners to deliver reliable and clinically
validated HPV and cancer screening tools in sub-
Saharan Africa, and is working closely with Ministries
of Health in Kenya, Namibia, Nigeria and South Africa
to change guidelines and policies.
In Latin America, local Roche teams developed
comprehensive disease management solutions
to support local cervical cancer programmes.
Two examples illustrate the success of the effort:
In Chile, only 52% of women were screened for
cervical cancer, resulting in many cases going
undetected, and many women developing advanced
cancer. Roche partnered with the Ministry of Health
and other stakeholders to generate value-based
evidence around the use of HPV screening. Ten
centres for HPV screening were established, more
than 2,000 healthcare professionals (HCPs) were
educated (90% of all primary care HCPs in Chile),
and more than 100,000 women have been screened.
In Brazil, Roche worked with the University of
Campinas and the Indaiatuba municipality to
demonstrate the value of HPV screening. This
formed the basis for new HPV testing guidelines
rolled out to 40,000 HCPs. As a result, the city has
increased screening of women aged between 25 to
64 from 30% to more than 80% within 18 months.
6 (RED) is a division of the ONE campaign, a global movement to end extreme poverty and preventable diseases by 2030.
7 Ministry of Health and Population [Egypt], El-Zanaty and Associates [Egypt], ICF International. Egypt Health Issues Survey 2015. Cairo, Rockville, MD: Ministry of Health
and Population, ICF International; 2015.
8 Waked I et al. Screening and Treatment Programme to Eliminate Hepatitis C in Egypt. N Engl J Med. 2020 Mar 19; 382(12): 1166–117488
Supporting a nurturing, diverse and
inclusive working environment
Addressing the needs of our diverse employee population while inspiring
solidarity and unlocking the potential of all our people.
New ways to work Diversity and Inclusion
The COVID-19 pandemic has amplified our agility Roche has never, and will never, tolerate
journey and changed the way we work at Roche. discrimination in any form. We embrace the unique
We have become faster, more flexible and bolder, attributes of our people, including age, gender,
while also deepening our connection to our purpose physical ability, nationality, sexual orientation,
and the special facets of our culture. Addressing culture, life experience, working or thinking styles,
the multiple challenges resulting from the pandemic capabilities, preferences, and/or needs.
required high personal engagement, innovation and
co-creation, and we are proud of the contributions At the highest level, diversity refers to ‘the mix’—
we have achieved together. In several ways, dealing the wide range of visible and invisible differences
with this unprecedented situation fostered the among people—and inclusion means making the
acceleration of our transformation. Novel ways mix work. This is done by proactively sensing and
to successfully manage enormous tasks were implementing initiatives that create an environment
implemented rapidly and systematically. Our people where people feel a strong sense of belonging,
were not constrained by hierarchical boundaries, are treated fairly and respectfully, have equal
and were empowered to put ideas into practice, access to opportunities and resources, and can
leveraging their vast breadth of capabilities. be themselves while contributing fully to the
organisation’s success.
Critical results were immediately evident: The
transition to working from home (WFH) was made In 2011, the UN Guiding Principles on Business
within days, and new collaboration tools became and Human Rights (UNGPs) identified the three
an integral part of working across all of Roche; pillars of ethical, human-centric business practices
highly accurate SARS-CoV-2 tests were developed, as: ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy.’ Roche fully
manufactured and launched in amazingly short supports and implements the UNGPs1, and is equally
time frames; and R&D efforts identified possible committed to supporting:
COVID-19 solutions for patients. • The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
• The 10 UN Global Compact Principles
This difficult time has confirmed our belief that our • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights
people are our greatest asset. We remain steadfast • The International Labour Organization Declaration
in our commitment to ensuring the environment on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work
we provide for our people is nurturing, diverse • The UN Global LGBTI Business Standards (Roche
and inclusive. Group endorsed these standards in 2020)
1 https://www.roche.com/sustainability/approach/human_rights.htmOur people | Roche 89
UN SDGs
Material topics
· Talent attraction and
retention
· Organisational agility
· Patient centricity
At Roche, we are committed to ensuring the environment we
provide is nurturing, diverse, and inclusive. We embrace our people’s
visible and invisible differences and support them in unfolding their
capabilities.90
We work to stay in step with—and often ahead a rapid and massive transition to working virtually,
of—current D&I standards. This is not only the right while also ensuring the protection of employees
thing to do; it also prepares us for the way business working on site or with customers, and instituting
is changing. Trends indicate that more than 80% safety and health protocols for business interactions
of our tertiary educated workforce is women and with others. We also offered the Roche Elecsys
people with different ethnic backgrounds. By 2025, Anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody test to all Roche
millennials will make up 75% of the workforce, employees around the world.
bringing even more change to the way we work.
Working hard during a pandemic, be it from home
At Roche, we view D&I as an engine of innovation or on site, can have a significant impact on people’s
and a key to our success. That is why we are aiming well-being. These impacts can range from a feeling
to reflect this diverse workforce in our leadership, of isolation to combating the distractions that come
further deepening our global commitment to D&I. We with a lack of control over the work environment at
strive to achieve representation of global society by home. As part of Roche’s Global Live Well activities,
employing people from a wide range of backgrounds special focus was given to health and well-being
and cultures. in the time of COVID-19. Additionally, a wide range
of employee assistance programmes were offered
As part of our commitment to being a great place to globally, including general tips on WFH, ergonomics,
work and to driving innovation, Roche is dedicated mental health, fitness, mindfulness/resilience,
to supporting D&I, and works in accordance with nutrition and social well-being.
UN SDG 5: ‘Achieve gender equality and empower
all women and girls.’ Roche promotes equal Because Roche is a networked organisation, our
opportunities and measures how many women local and regional experts were already empowered
reach leadership positions, which is a key step to find and implement localised solutions that
towards equality. aligned with local needs, situations and constraints
(eg, laws and regulations). Working as a global
Fostering a safe and healthy workplace during network, we were able to scale and apply those
the pandemic solutions quickly.
When the COVID-19 alarm went off, we benefited
from our business continuity and pandemic/influenza The significant adaptations we made to our ways of
preparedness processes, which we initiated in the working also enabled us to keep making a positive
recent past. This prior planning enabled us to make difference for patients. Thanks to these measures,
we managed to protect business continuity at all our
sites and did not experience any massive disruptions
in our production lines. This ensured continuous
development and delivery of medicines and
diagnostics solutions to patients.
Tomorrow’s leadership
We are committed to carrying the positive elements
of this unprecedented experience into our own
Our ambition is to reflect our global workforce demographics ‘new normal’, while ensuring the health and safety
in our senior leadership. We will translate this effort into of our employees remains a top priority by:
annual goals, which will dynamically consider the changes in • Striving to maintain a healthy workplace for
our global workforce. In 2020, we focused on two dimensions: employees by encouraging flexible working
increasing the number of women in key leadership positions arrangements to the maximum extent possible
and increasing the number of people in key leadership within the local legislative environment
positions with nationalities from under-represented regions. • Continuing to learn what we can do better,
building a network of respective experts at all
our sites and empowering those experts to be
even more active in the futureOur people | Roche 91
Guided by our purpose, we made
• Being part of local benchmark groups in order
to exchange information and share learnings and
significant adaptations to our ways
best practices with other companies
of working to keep making a positive
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we
conducted a Global Employee Opinion Survey
difference for patients.
(GEOS) in April 2020. The goal of this pulse survey,
focused on the impact of the pandemic only, was
to understand how everyone was doing and what
Roche could do to better support our employees
in these challenging times. Here are some of the
impressive results: Safety is everyone’s responsibility. It rests with all
• 71% of all eligible employees gave their feedback levels of management and with each employee. As a
• 91% of all participants said they felt supported result of our established practices, we have reached
by Roche when it came to their well-being all our safety goals during the last five-year period
• 96% said they felt proud to work for Roche (see graph).
Occupational health and safety With a mindset of continual improvement, we are
While the COVID-19 pandemic significantly building on this path of success, including setting a
increased our focus on health and safety, we have series of new five-year health and safety goals that
been unwavering in ensuring our employees—and are both feasible and ambitious. For a complete
everyone we work with—are protected. Roche’s breakdown of these new goals, please visit our
view, both in our own workplaces as well as in those website.2
of our third-party manufacturers and suppliers, is
clear: All categories of work and their tasks must
be safe and healthy. In order to consistently fulfil
this commitment, we have established safe working
practices through proper procedures and clear
Employee health and safety
direction for all employees. A fatal contractor
accident happened at Roche in Basel. It has not
yet, however, been clarified whether this was an 0.150 0.179 0.173 0.174 0.158 <0.32
0.127
occupational accident. Our feelings are with the
family of the victim. 0.062 0.061
0.059 0.053 0.047 0.045 <0.06*
Prevention of overexposure to substances is a
cornerstone of the protection of the health of 0.436 0.445 0.430 0.411 <0.5*
0.385
Roche’s employees and others who handle our 0.354
substances. To define the necessary measures, 393 400
we need to know the potency/toxicity of each 348 346 334
277
substance and the level of exposure caused 6,396
6,298
by each operation. Over the years, Roche has 4,828 4,773
assessed and established levels of acceptable 4,397 4,369
exposure for approximately 2,000 substances,
and applied them systematically to ensure that 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2020 Goal
they do not exceed the established standards.
With this data in place, we can ensure protection Lost-time illness rate Roche accident rate
from overexposure through engineering controls. Lost-time accident rate Number of work-related accidents
When needed, new processes are designed to meet Working days lost per year due to accidents * Three-year average
these criteria and existing ones are modified to
meet the most current standards of containment.
2 https://www.roche.com/environment/our_she_goals_and_performance92
During extraordinary times, people make the difference—those who
make sure that others who are ill with the coronavirus, or any other
disease, continue to receive the care, tests and medicines they need.
These stories spotlight just a few of the remarkable contributions of
many outstanding employees.
Now, more than ever, we rely on each other.
We are #StrongerTogether.
See more about our
everyday herosOur people | Roche 93
Everyday heroes
Putting patients first with Flexcare transport, which enabled us to get
The COVID-19 pandemic had a detrimental effect on patients from wherever they were to their doctor,
many patients’ ability to receive treatment. Multiple to their care. Next, we started talking with doctors
efforts were undertaken to help ensure that patients and patients about what more we could do. From
can continue their treatment without interruption. there, we built upon the idea of having alternative
Here are just a few examples that represent a wide sites where patients can be treated outside of
range of such efforts. the hospital setting. Because a lot of them have
an understandable fear of going to hospitals, this
Lara Stallard-Taylor, Roche Australia was an important effort.”
“This country has one of the highest populations of
people with MS. Because MS patients are already Volunteering in COVID-19 treatment centre
immuno-compromised, going into hospital to receive Colleagues from Roche Hungary, trained as
Ocrevus treatment actually presents a higher risk doctors, volunteered at Hungary’s biggest COVID-19
of becoming infected with SARS-CoV-2. As a result treatment centre and inspired others to do whatever
of that increased risk, patients were electing to they can.
delay their Ocrevus treatment. Those delays meant
a patient’s MS would no longer be under control. Levente Molnar, Roche Hungary
It quickly became clear an alternative treatment “The doctors and nurses were grateful for any
option was needed to help keep patients with MS kind of help they could get during these extremely
safe and ensure their treatment was not interrupted. stressful times. They provided regular and quick
We quickly decided to develop a home-treatment feedback, so you could learn and do better every
programme and bring the Ocrevus infusion directly day. After a month of being at the pulmonology
to the patient. Immediately, a core project group centre, I realised that I could help not only with my
was formed, and through significant networking medical knowledge, but also with things that I had
and collaboration, the programme came together learned during our agile transformation process in
quickly. Rather than the six months typically required Roche over the past year. This included visualising
for such an effort, the project began in just over and summarising problems and procedures, IT
two months.” solutions and connecting colleagues in Diagnostics
with local doctors.”
Faith Morilla, Edgar DeLasAlas, Roche Philippines
“Many of the patients we serve were experiencing Janos Santha, Roche Hungary
some sort of disruption in their care. What really took “While I worked in a hospital previously as a medical
us aback was seeing that a number of physicians doctor, I was in a different speciality altogether.
had actually had at least one patient deteriorate I arrived at the hospital two weeks after Levente
or die during that period when they weren’t able and he was able to highlight areas on which I could
to seek care. That was a huge call to action for focus my attention. This freed up the time of the
our team. We immediately jumped in and started specialists in the ICU.”94
Protecting the environment
Over the years, society has come to expect more from corporations,
particularly in the areas of social responsibility and transparency.
Today, stakeholder groups expect corporations inspects our facilities’ environmental performance
to maximise their environmental responsibility and evaluates their implementation of our SHE policy
throughout their entire supply chain. At Roche, as well as their compliance with legal requirements
corporate social responsibility, ethical conduct and internal standards. The team uses the results of
in business, respect for human rights, and a these evaluations to stipulate future improvements.
commitment to protecting the environment have We audit both our pharmaceutical and diagnostic
been top priorities for many years. facilities regularly, and review those that present
increased risk with greater frequency.
For decades, we have firmly believed that
environmental responsibility is an integral element of Standards for the entire supply chain
good business behaviour. Our mature environmental Roche developed the Supplier Code of Conduct
management system (EMS) ensures we maintain the to hold its suppliers to its own high standards of
highest standards of environmental responsibility responsible business. To ensure compliance, our
both internally, and across our supply chain. own inspectors, or third-party auditors managed
by us, examine the operations of all relevant
Internal operations—prevention is key suppliers and, where necessary, recommend
As a company with global production operations, improvements.
Roche is exposed to risks that could possibly damage
people, goods, the environment and our reputation. In alignment with our own internal standards, we
Our mature EMS, combined with professional risk have established detailed performance expectations
management, minimises these risks substantially. Our for our third-party suppliers. Individual Roche
local sites and business areas serve as the first line departments act as the first line of control, utilising
of control. They are responsible for implementing audits and assessments to confirm all contract
standards and setting up programmes, procedures, manufacturers, suppliers and service providers
inspections, self-assessments, and corrective and meet expectations.
preventive actions. Local safety, security, health
and environmental protection (SHE) officers act as As with the internal process, the second line
advisors to Roche business unit managers, ensuring of control for suppliers sits at the Group level,
that we meet local regulations and adhere to which defines and controls the audit strategy.
corporate standards. In the event of non-compliance, we may either
terminate a contract, refuse to renew it or request
The second line of control lies at the group level, improvements, which we may actively assist the
where an audit team, working with SHE specialists, supplier in implementing.Environment | Roche 95
UN SDGs
Material topics
· Energy efficiency
· Long-term mindset
Roche aims to maximise efficient energy usage, cut energy
consumption and increase the use of sustainable energy sources,
all while continuing to expand its global business. We therefore
implement innovative technologies and continuously upgrade our
infrastructure to improve energy efficiency.96
Our expectations for suppliers are clearly Our aim for 2020 was to improve our eco-balance
communicated and thoroughly enforced. It is not by 6%, as compared to 2019. Both the COVID-19
uncommon for Roche to terminate a collaboration pandemic as well as our improvements in decreasing
when a partner does not operate in a responsible energy consumption, air emissions, as well as in
manner, or does not work to minimise adverse reducing the weight of both general and chemical
impacts on the environment. waste, led to a further improvement of approximately
25% in our eco-balance.
Continually minimising our ecological footprint
Roche has been monitoring and actively minimising The last five-year goal period concluded at the
its environmental impact for many years. We use the end of 2020, and our successes in reaching those
concept of ‘eco-balance’ to measure the ecological environmental goals contributed significantly to
footprint resulting from our business activities. This the decrease in our environmental footprint (see
system allocates points for ecologically relevant graph on page 100). Roche and its stakeholders
parameters (eg, emissions, contamination, resource are clear on the company’s long-term future, and
consumption, waste, etc.)1 and provides us with we are committed to upholding our environmental
a global view of how we are impacting the Earth’s responsibility. To support that commitment, we
ecosystems. By measuring the point totals against have set a new series of five-year environmental
the size of our workforce, we are able to monitor goals, which are both ambitious and feasible.
our environmental impact down to the level of For a complete breakdown of our new goals for
small organisational units. 2020–2025, please visit our website.2
1.7 %
1.3 %
9.0%
Water consumption
Noise pollution
Energy consumption
80.6 %
5.5 %
Roche
Emissions to air
Emissions to water
eco-balance
2020
1.9%
Landfilled waste
1 Developed by the Swiss Federal Office for the Environment; we are compliant with their latest guidelines.
2 https://www.roche.com/sustainability/environment/our_she_goals_and_performance.htmEnvironment | Roche 97
Our aim is to reduce emissions at their
A responsible approach to energy usage and
sustainability
source. Since most of our emissions
Roche is committed to a sustainable energy future,
and has made huge improvements in this area in
originate from the transformation and
recent years, for example by increasing the share of
renewable energy. Our aim is to maximise efficient
use of energy, we focus our actions on
energy usage, cut energy consumption and increase
the use of sustainable energy sources, all while
all issues surrounding energy usage.
continuing to expand our global business. To help
us reach this goal, we have set up energy-saving
action plans at individual sites. These plans include
the implementation of innovative technologies and
continuous upgrading of infrastructure to improve
energy efficiency.
Roche’s commitment to sustainable energy even
extends to our individual customers. We work to
help them increase their own energy efficiency by aim is to reduce emissions at their source. We are
designing our diagnostic instruments to utilise as reducing our carbon footprint by purchasing energy-
little energy as possible. efficient equipment and by increasing sustainable
energy supplies. We are also monitoring employee
Converting Roche’s suppliers to renewable travel needs and work processes. The approach
energy is having an impact. Since 2004, the company has
We set high expectations for our suppliers’ energy reduced GHG emissions by approximately 74%.
sustainability, encouraging them to conserve
natural resources and even helping them convert Improving water stewardship
to sustainable energy. Along with energy, water is one of the major
commodities used by the pharmaceutical industry.
Our procurement organisation is in the process of Around the world, poor water quality is resulting
implementing a pilot project in the UK to convert in higher purification costs and increased risk of
our suppliers to 100% renewable energy by sharing product contamination. As a responsible user of
Roche’s electricity rate, which is obtained through a water, Roche upholds its corporate sustainability
corporate Power Purchase Agreement for offshore values by contributing to the well-being of the
wind turbine energy. All we ask of our suppliers ecosystems and communities in which it operates.
is that they provide us with their Greenhouse Gas
Protocol scope 2 emissions, both before converting At the same time, some Roche operations remain
to 100% renewable energy and after. This will exposed to a number of associated risk factors.
allow Roche to measure the exact carbon footprint Many of Roche’s sites are affected by physical water
reduction. supply risks such as water stress and drought, as
well as regulatory risks that can impact business
In the next five years (2020–2025), we aim to reduce continuity.
scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions in the supply
chain by 15%. Roche Global Procurement has also One of our new environmental goals is to reduce
set a divisional goal to increase the number of risk-weighted water consumption per employee.
“Green Suppliers” by 50% over the next five years. Roche established this goal to combat the multitude
of water risk factors, beyond water stress. To track
Phasing out greenhouse gases progress against this 2025 goal, Roche is developing
Most of the energy used by Roche comes from the a water risk metric that will account for the most
burning of fossil fuels, which releases carbon dioxide, significant physical, regulatory and reputational
a greenhouse gas (GHG), into the atmosphere. Our risk factors.98
Promoting responsible waste management
Our commitment to product stewardship
demonstrates our concern about the waste
generated by patients and customers using our
products, and we actively support the responsible
management of such waste at the products’ end
of life.
Our Diagnostics Division has assembled a team
to provide guidance relating to operational waste
generated on our production sites as well as liquid
wastes, consumables, and packaging resulting from
the operation of our diagnostics instruments.
The team also looks at best ways to decommission
instruments at end of life. Examples of recent
guidance for decommissioning include:
• Detailed information on components that require
special handling from a safety and environmental
standpoint.
• A template contract for instrument recycling
vendors to ensure Roche requirements are applied
uniformly, worldwide.
• A process for evaluating recycling vendors to
ensure they are capable of responsibly managing
the recovery, recycling, and disposal processes.
While delivering innovative tests, we take responsibility, along In the Pharmaceuticals Division, Genentech
with other stakeholders, to minimise the impact of our diagnostic manages the US Product Take-Back Council (PTC),
products on safety, security, health and the environment throughout in partnership with the Diagnostics Division and
the entire product life cycle. the Diabetes Care business. PTC covers take-back
programmes for unused medicines and used
medical ‘sharps’: the lancets and needles that are
used in disease management. Beyond regulatory
compliance, the PTC has established criteria to
help product teams understand the key elements
of ‘good’, ‘better’, and ‘best’ take-back programmes,
and guide them in delivering higher levels of patient
support for their products.
To promote safe disposal of sharps, Diabetes
Care participates in, and financially supports, a
collaborative effort with other pharmaceutical and
medical device manufacturers and a non-profit
We actively support the responsible
organisation. This collaboration has resulted in
significant improvements in the accessibility and
management of our products’ end
quality of information about proper disposal to
patients and caregivers, and is changing behaviour
of life.
towards the responsible disposal of sharps.Environment | Roche 99
Becoming EverGreener
Roche’s environmental goals (2015–2020) have now Like many industries in the past, Roche and its
come to a close. With success in all areas, it is a clear affiliated companies used landfills to dispose of
sign that Roche takes environmental responsibility chemical and solid wastes. Since the 1970s, Roche
seriously. Ever since the founders set us on course has advocated incineration of hazardous wastes as
for a greener future, we have kept the momentum a more suitable alternative. Today, Roche affiliates
going—with a proactive mindset Roche becomes ever around the globe are directed to refrain from
greener. Our performance since the early 2000s is a sending any organic chemical wastes or potentially
clear demonstration of our commitment to success. harmful substances to landfills.
Since 2004, we have reduced our energy All our actions aim to reduce our environmental
consumption (scope 1 and 2) by approximately 54% impact to a minimum. We are committed to operating
per employee. Driven by the decrease in energy within or below the ‘budget of nature’ and leaving
consumption and a parallel decrease in the use of behind a stable living environment for future
fossil fuels, our CO emissions have consequently generations. To help make this journey a success,
2
decreased by approximately 74% per employee in Roche sites worldwide are developing roadmaps
the same period. Our strategy was clear then and towards a sustainable energy future, and we
is clear now: We put our own business in order first, continually set and monitor challenging but realistic
by reducing energy intensity (energy usage per environmental goals. We will be monitoring our new
employee) and then, we substitute the remaining environmental goals (2020–2025) very carefully.
energy with the energy generated from sustainable
sources. With this strategy almost 70% of the
electrical power consumed by Roche now comes
from sustainable sources. By taking this approach,
Roche positions itself ahead of the climate change
scenarios published by the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change.
Looking forward, Roche’s long-term goal is
to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
from owned or controlled sources or from the
generation of purchased energy to zero by 2050.
Most GHG emissions at Roche originate from the
transformation and use of energy. Therefore, to
Ever since the Roche founders set
lower GHG emissions, Roche opts for energy-
efficient technology. For example, our headquarters
us on course for a greener future.
in Switzerland have integrated thermal networks in
the new buildings that use rejected, or otherwise
#EverGreener
wasted heat.100
Five-year goals (2015–2020)
>20%
Share of sustainable energy
29.3%
24.1%
21.3%
18.5%
15.0% 16.2%
867
324 319
+167.6%
48 14 4 -50% Landfilling of organic chemicals
-1.5% (tons)
-85.2% -95.7% -98.8%
6.97
6.43
5.60 5.50
-7.7% 4.80 4.30 -15% Greenhouse gas emissions
-19.7% -21.1% (tCOeq [scope 1 + 2] per employee)
-31.1% -38.3% 2
9.7
8.7 7.4 7.5
6.5
5.5 -20% Halogenated hydrocarbons from
-10.3% -23.7% -22.7% -33.0% Roche legacy sites (tons)
-43.3%
173
167
158 156
-3.5% 152
-8.7% -9.8% -12.1% 140 -15% E (Gn Je [r Fg FEy * c ]/o en ms pu lom yep et )ion
435 455 -19.1%
422
395
+4.6% 388
-3.0%
-9.2% -10.8% 321 -10% General waste
(kg/employee)
533
-26.2%
481
477
464
-9.8% -10.5% 408
-12.9% 381 -10% Water consumption
(1,000 m3/employee)**
-23.5%
-28.5%
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Goal
* FFE: Fossil Fuel Equivalent | ** Weighted by water stress | Changes in % related to 2015
Energy consumption in terajoules
2020 2019 2018 2017
Total (scope 1 and scope 2) 8,420 8,983 9,185 9,219
Energy (scope 1 and scope 2) consumption (GJ/employee*) 81 89 91 91
* Data collected by Group SHE | GJ = gigajouleEnvironment | Roche 101
CO₂-equivalent emissions in tonnes
2020 2019 2018 2017
Scope 1*
Fuel combustion 251,943 282,184 284,890 291,850
Halogenated hydrocarbons 4,872 5,973 4,746 3,469
Scope 2**, # 189,003 195,766 263,973 270,123
Scope 3***
Business flights 56,937 201,522 195,530 203,814
* Scope 1: Direct emissions generated within own facilities | ** Scope 2: Indirect emissions from purchased energy |
*** Scope 3: Indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) in the value chain | # Market-based data
Halogenated hydrocarbons in tonnes*
2020 2019 2018 2017
Inventory 92.0 90.8 91.3 114.3
Consumed | released 1.5 2.2 2.2 1.3
* Global inventory including Chugai, Genentech and Ventana
Emissions into the air in tonnes
2020 2019 2018 2017
VOCs* 73 85 85 101
Particulates 16 13 20 20
Nitrogen oxides 113 133 201 232
Sulphur dioxide 3 4 5 7
* Volatile organic compounds
Water usage and discharge
2020 2019 2018 2017
Water withdrawn (million m3) 14.9 15.9 16.6 15.9
Water consumed (million m3) 2.8 3.1 3.4 3.0
Organic matter discharged to waterways after treatment (t) 76 127 185 144
Heavy metals discharged to waterways after treatment (kg) 174 228 149 129
Landfilled and incinerated waste in tonnes
2020 2019 2018 2017
General waste generated 11,139 10,500 11,183 12,478
Chemical waste generated 13,332 17,422 13,563 17,245
Contaminated soil 38* 91,951 77,681 108,766
Construction waste 5,919 14,360 8,443 16,189
* Less contaminated soil was removed in 2020 due to reduced remediation activities at the Kesslergrube, Germany.102
Supporting communities during
the pandemic
Roche philanthropy helped communities where we live and
work—and beyond—face the COVID-19 crisis.
Roche has a long history of philanthropic As a result, 203,870 people were screened for
engagement, with a clear strategy and focus. the virus. In addition, the Phelophepa healthcare
Throughout 2020, we remained strongly committed staff ran 3,000 mental health workshops to help
to our partners and the communities we serve across the communities cope with the mental stress, fear
our four philanthropic pillars: humanitarian aid, and anxiety stemming from the pandemic.
environment, education and the arts.
Emergency appeals
In 2020, we continued to fulfil our commitments, According to the United Nations High Commissioner
supported changes in focus related to COVID-19 and for Refugees (UNHCR), Kenya is host to the fifth
increased our support in the areas we could have highest number of refugees in Africa, with a refugee
the largest impact. Because this year’s extraordinary population of almost half a million people. Most
conditions have greatly increased the importance of the refugees live in the Dadaab and Kakuma
of community support, we also responded to global camps, which are located in isolated parts of
appeals and supported new humanitarian projects. the country that have insufficient national health
system capacity. When COVID-19 arrived in the
Prevention first region, concern for the safety of these individuals
Roche has been the main external sponsor of South increased considerably.
Africa’s Phelophepa healthcare trains for over
25 years. We were proud to continue to support this The UNHCR issued a global emergency appeal for
programme, which served as an important element funds to protect the refugees. Roche responded
of South Africa’s response to the COVID-19 crisis. with a donation which went to both refugee camps,
The trains operate through a partnership between as well as to urban areas hosting refugees. The
the South African Ministry of Health and Transnet, funds were used to provide a range of much-needed
the country’s main freight and logistics company. materials, including soap, sanitisers, PPE and
medical supplies. A portion of the donation also
In addition to our annual sponsorship, Roche made went to improving water, sanitation and hygiene
a donation through the Friends of Phelophepa, an facilities, training rapid response teams, raising
employee foundation, to provide personal protective awareness about hand hygiene and setting up
equipment (PPE) and sanitising equipment to keep isolation centres.
the trains’ healthcare workers as safe as possible.
We also donated masks and hygiene campaign Roche also responded to emergency appeals from
material for the staff to use in their community several smaller non-governmental organisations
outreach efforts. (NGOs) that have been making a significantCommunity | Roche 103
UN SDGs
Material topics
· Long-term mindset
· Availability of healthcare
Prior to the pandemic, the primary services offered on the
Phelophepa healthcare trains were optical, dental, wellness and
psychology. These services were halted in 2020 in order to focus on
stopping the spread of the virus in underserved and rural areas.
See more about the
Phelophepa healthcare trains104
Through Re&Act, our employee foundation, we began a new
project with the NGO Child’s Dream, supporting quality education in
Cambodia. Despite the pandemic, Roche employees found creative
and safe ways to keep our annual tradition of fundraising for youth
and education—the Children’s Walk—going.
impact. For example, the Foundation Esther Fayulu
requested funding for Kimbondo, one of the largest
orphanages in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Our support helped to provide for disinfection
of the premises, the purchase and distribution of
masks and hygiene equipment, and even food for
100 infants and children for six months.
Digital and hardship relief for students
For young people studying in developing
countries, poor internet bandwidth and limited
access to computers make online learning even
more challenging. Roche helps meet the needs of
hundreds of students around the world through
our emerging market scholarship programme.
One of our education partners, Fundación Educación,
supports university students in Colombia, El Salvador,
Guatemala and Peru. The organisation took on the
challenge through a ‘digital relief fund’ designed
to build a technical infrastructure to digitise their
education programmes. Roche contributed to this
fund, which lends laptops and prepaid mobile cards
to ensure students can access their online courses.
In addition, we supported a ‘hardship relief fund’
to support students struggling to cover their basic
needs during these difficult times.
In 2020, we also provided hardship relief to many
other partners. These included the Maharishi
Institute, which provides holistic university education
to students in Johannesburg, South Africa; the
Kiran Children’s Village, which supports the higher
education of students from very poor families in
India; and the Roger Federer Foundation, which
provided 6,900 children attending Early Childhood
Development Programmes in Malawi with food and
information about COVID-19 prevention.Community | Roche 105
We remained strongly committed to
A walk like never before
Every year since 2003, Roche employees across
our partners and communities during
the globe have come together to participate
in our global fundraising event, the Roche
the pandemic—supporting a wide range
Children’s Walk. The event supports the Roche
Employee Action and Charity Trust (Re&Act)
of response plans.
and local children’s charity projects. Due to
gathering restrictions, employees from 133 sites
in 63 countries found creative ways—ranging from
virtual auctions to walking in place—to continue
to join forces and raise money for charity.
Most of our Re&Act partners continued
supporting their children’s projects during the
crisis. The employee foundation also began a new
partnership with Child’s Dream, which supports
children and youths in Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar
and Thailand. Through our five-year commitment,
we are helping to improve access to education
in Cambodia by providing quality school buildings,
which will benefit 3,000 students, as well as
computer lab facilities for 2,000 students, and
scholarships for 175 marginalised high-school
After disaster, helping communities
students. In 2020, Child’s Dream built a new
school with 12 classrooms, completed a new to rebuild
computer lab facility for 251 students and
provided 35 scholarships. As part of our commitment to society, Roche philanthropy
supports communities in their rebuilding efforts after
We also began supporting a new project with the significant disasters. Here are two examples from 2020.
1,000 Days Fund, a Jakarta-based NGO, to reduce
stunting among children in Indonesia. It is designed Following the explosion in Lebanon on 4 August 2020, we
to reduce stunting by 5–10% as well as build contributed to a broad spectrum of relief efforts across
evidence for the best ways of sustainably tackling the country. After confirming the safety of our 90 employees
the problem. and ensuring they had the immediate assistance they needed,
we contributed to a number of emergency response and
Secondments go digital rebuilding initiatives. We donated Rocephin, a Roche antibiotic,
The global philanthropic secondment programme to hospitals and healthcare centres experiencing shortages;
allows us to share our company and employee replaced damaged diagnostic laboratory equipment;
expertise with NGOs that are helping to improve supported the International Committee of the Red Cross with
global health and education in communities around a donation for emergency medical supplies; made donations
the world. B360 Education and Partnerships, a to rebuild severely impacted healthcare institutions; and
Swiss-based NGO promoting knowledge exchange provided support to local NGOs and cancer funds.
between companies in Europe and universities
in Africa, began offering a virtual career starter In January 2020, Australia faced unprecedented and
programme in 2020. We arranged for two Roche unrelenting bushfires. Roche made a donation to the
employees—from Global Insights & Digital Australian Red Cross Disaster Relief and Recovery Fund, which
Engagement and People & Culture in Nigeria and helped to provide over 50,000 people living in evacuation
Ghana—to coach four recent graduates from the centres with food, water and other basic necessities.
Namibia University of Science and Technology
and the University of Namibia.106
Meeting high standards of
business ethics
We can only provide meaningful benefits to society if we uphold the high
standards for ethics, integrity, and sustainability.
At Roche, we are convinced that integrity is Fostering a culture of integrity
and will remain the basis of our sustainable and In the updated CoC, we incorporated topics of
successful business. Today, our employees, emerging interest to Roche and our stakeholders.
investors, customers, and other stakeholders view These topics include digitalisation, personalised
topics such as ethics, integrity and sustainability healthcare, information governance, real-world
as increasingly vital. Every employee has the data, and human rights. Throughout 2020, Roche
responsibility to behave with integrity and to act conducted several activities designed to inform,
in accordance with our shared company values. educate and foster the spirit of the key messages
This goes far beyond complying with laws and included in the CoC. Each month, we focused on a
regulations. It is about making a positive impact specific compliance topic, such as discrimination
on society with our business endeavours. and harassment, data privacy, or conflict of
interest. The activities provided information on the
Our efforts include strengthening stakeholders’ topic through a variety of tools, including quizzes,
understanding of—and trust in—our business. In this infographics and animations. In order to increase
respect, we remain independent of any political the acceptance and to empower our people, we
affiliation. In 2020, we spent CHF 11.4 million in fostered an inclusive approach: All activities and
Switzerland, which included payments to industry material were co-created with affiliates and across
associations and various chambers of commerce, functions, reflecting the diversity and inclusion of
financial assistance for trade unions, and donations our organisation. This way, we were able to devise
to political parties at cantonal and federal level. activities tailored and addressed to local needs. In
Donations to political parties were each in the low addition to increasing awareness and understanding
double-digit thousand range in Swiss francs, and of compliant business behaviour, employees were
together accounted for approximately 2% of the encouraged to speak up about any potential
total contributions and donations. violation of our CoC they might encounter. They
can share these concerns through multiple lines,
In 2020, we launched our updated Roche Group such as their managers, compliance officers, or
Code of Conduct (CoC), which clearly defines our through the Roche Group SpeakUp Line. (See the
expectations for business behaviour, and provides box on the next page for more details.)
practical guidance and clear examples. The CoC
serves as our ‘business card’, and specifies our Adapting policies to meet changing needs
commitment to making a valuable, significant, and Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have
sustainable impact on society. received an increasing number of requests to deliverBusiness ethics | Roche 107
UN SDGs
Material topics
· Human rights
· Ethics and transparency
· Patient centricity
· Availability of healthcare
· Compliance
At Roche, we are convinced that integrity is and will remain the
basis of our sustainable and successful business. This includes
safeguarding high-quality supplies and requiring all our suppliers
and service providers to protect and support human rights.108
Jointly enhancing sustainable value
We require all our business partners, eg,
distributors, suppliers and service providers, to
meet our integrity standards. Before entering into
a business relationship, we perform risk-based due
diligence with the potential partner. Suppliers must
successfully complete the due diligence process
and commit to Roche’s principles for ethics and
sustainability, as defined in the Supplier Code of
Conduct (SCoC). While we conduct onsite audits
to ensure that all high-risk suppliers adhere to
our SCoC, we pay particularly close attention to
those in industries known to employ vulnerable
populations, as well as high-volume suppliers, and
suppliers in high-risk locations.
Roche updated the SCoC in 2020 to ensure it is
in alignment with the CoC. In this context, we also
put greater emphasis on sustainability: We expect
our suppliers to help foster social, environmental
and economic development, and to contribute to
the sustainability of the communities in which they
operate. An illuminating example of our sustainability
efforts on a local level is found in medical waste
recycling in Shanghai, China.
China has become the world’s second largest medical
Roche’s biggest IT workforces are still located in San Francisco device market. Because improper medical waste
and Basel. management can cause environmental pollution,
Roche, in collaboration with a third-party company,
developed and implemented an innovative process
for the safe disposal of used diagnostic instruments.
This sustainable medical waste treatment process
our medicines and diagnostics free of charge, and has since been adopted by competitors. Through
to donate personal protective equipment, food this successful collaboration, Roche has set the
and other essential items. We believe we can find medical device industry benchmark for sustainable
sustainable solutions that best serve patients by used medical instrument disposal.
working alongside healthcare stakeholders.
Another example of successful local efforts comes
In light of the current global crisis, we added from information technology (IT). While many large
specific guidance for COVID-19-related requests to companies outsource IT jobs to far-flung parts of
our principles in order to address the most urgent the world, two of Roche’s biggest IT workforces
questions and issues. In these unprecedented are still located in San Francisco and Basel. When
times, we wanted to ensure we could help in a timely we created shared service centres within Roche, we
manner, while always maintaining compliance. The did so in places like Kuala Lumpur, Budapest, and
guidance helps to understand which activities—and San Jose. These centres are run by internal Roche
in particular those related to fair distribution and employees or small key partnerships. This structure
allocation of products—are allowed and which still puts us in a better position to protect human rights
infringe regulations. Actions are always subject to and, at the same time, develop talent locally in
local law, as well as our internal policies. those countries.Business ethics | Roche 109
Suppliers have to commit to our
Managing risk and opportunities
We have expressly committed ourselves to the UN
sustainability principles in order to
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
And we enforce that commitment with our affiliates
work with us.
and suppliers, worldwide.
Roche is proud to be a part of the Pharmaceutical
Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI). This group of
pharmaceutical and healthcare companies is
committed to improving the social, health, safety
and environmental outcomes in the communities time records or other deficiencies of management
where suppliers are located. Within the framework systems; findings related to emergency exits and
of the PSCI, Roche was a driving force behind lack of fire drills conducted.
the development of an industry-wide process to
better identify and prevent violations of human This example illustrates how we partner with our
rights or environmental standards among suppliers. suppliers to help increase human rights standards:
We expect our suppliers to comply with our quality Because truckers may be forced to perform their
standards and strict principles regarding ethics, jobs in unsafe conditions for employers who do
working conditions, environmental protection, not obey labour laws, we performed an SSAV at
health and safety. We also require them to deal the trucking company of one of our major logistics
with risks appropriately and to ensure their suppliers. We were able to interview employees
business continuity. from the sub-supplier without management present.
The result was positive, with no human rights
Supplier risk is embedded throughout the supplier violations found. Based on the successful pilot,
life cycle. We tailor our risk management approach we plan to perform more audits of truck drivers.
to the supplier and the type of risk present. This The audit findings will be used to support a petition
means that certain high-risk suppliers are assessed from different companies to governments in various
more frequently. countries to build safe rest stops for truckers.
We regard our suppliers and service providers
as partners, and go beyond the traditional audit
concept to ensure standards are upheld. We
conduct Supplier Sustainability Assurance Visits
(SSAVs) with the goal of creating mutual trust
and adding value. This goal stands in contrast to
conventional audits, which are often regarded as
monitoring missions. Roche works with its suppliers
Compliance
to bring them into compliance with our standards.
If, after attempts have been made to bring the
supplier into compliance, the supplier remains In 2020, 181 employees used the Roche Group SpeakUp
unable to meet Roche’s minimum requirements, we Line, operated by an external provider, which is available in
will reconsider the engagement with that supplier, 53 languages in 103 countries. The Chief Compliance Officer
up to and including termination of the business received 646 reports of alleged violations of the Code of
relationship. Conduct via the Business Ethics Incident Reporting system.
Of these, 214 were unfounded, 263 were founded, and 169 are
In 2020, we conducted 60 SSAVs and Safety, still under investigation. As a result, 178 employment contracts
Security, Health and Environment (SHE) audits and 5 agreements with business partners were terminated
worldwide. The main findings related to excessive on grounds of unethical behaviour.
overtime and/or inadequate compensation for
overtime; ineffective maintenance of employeeSSENISUB
ECNAMROFREPBusiness performance | Roche 111
Group sales increase 1% at constant exchange rates (CER); 5% decline in
Swiss francs, as a result of continued appreciation of the Swiss franc
against most currencies.Sales in 2020 (CHF millions)
58,323
+1%
Roche Group
44,532
-2%
Roche Pharmaceuticals
13,791
+14%
Roche Diagnostics
PUORG
EHCOR
112
UN SDG
Material topic
· Long-term mindsetBusiness performance | Roche 113
In 2020, Group sales rose 1%* (-5% in CHF) to medicines where regular visits to health practices
CHF 58.3 billion. The core operating profit increased or hospitals are needed (ie, for infusions), as many
4% (-4% in CHF), reflecting the underlying business people continue to avoid visits to doctors. This
performance, and core EPS grew 4% (-5% in CHF), was partly compensated by additional sales of
ahead of sales. The appreciation of the Swiss franc Actemra/RoActemra (+32%) mostly due to treatment
against almost all currencies had a significant of patients with severe COVID-19-associated
adverse net impact on the results expressed in pneumonia.
Swiss francs compared to constant exchange rates.
The Diagnostics Division reported strong sales
The IFRS net income increased 17% (7% in CHF). growth of 14% to CHF 13.8 billion. This growth is
This increase is mainly due to the lower goodwill primarily due to our world-leading portfolio of new
write-offs compared to the previous year. COVID-19 tests. Molecular Diagnostics was the
main growth contributor (+90%), driven by molecular
Sales in the Pharmaceuticals Division decreased COVID-19 tests.
2% to CHF 44.5 billion, mainly due to stronger
than expected biosimilars competition and the Sales of diagnostics for SARS-CoV-2, developed only
COVID-19 pandemic. The new medicines (launched this year, and emergency testing clearly exceeded
since 2012) continued their strong growth (+32%, COVID-19-related declines in routine diagnostics
or +CHF 4.7 billion). In 2020, they generated sales sales. Additional product launches in the fourth
of CHF 18.4 billion, thus already contributing more quarter, such as the spike antibody test, which is
than 40% to the division’s total sales. used in several COVID-19 vaccine trials, further
underlines Roche’s speed and innovation power.
While sales of the new medicines grew strongly,
the impact of the competition from biosimilars for Outlook for 2021
the established medicines Herceptin, Avastin and Despite the continued strong impact of biosimilars,
MabThera/Rituxan was significant, with an estimated sales are expected to grow in the low- to mid-single
combined CHF 5.1 billion of sales reduction in the digit range, at constant exchange rates. Core
US, Europe and Japan. earnings per share are targeted to grow broadly
in line with sales, at constant exchange rates.
The COVID-19 pandemic also had an overall negative Roche expects to increase its dividend in Swiss
impact on the division’s sales in 2020, especially for francs further.
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2019).Top-selling product portfolios in 2020 (CHF millions)
SCITSONGAID
114
3,874
-6%
cobas
Immunodiagnostics
1,708
+180%
cobas
Virology
850
+5%
Ventana
Advanced staining
306
-8%
cobas
Blood screening
1,670
-5%
Accu-Chek
Diabetes CareBusiness performance | Roche 115
Apart from SARS-CoV-2 tests, Roche
Growth was reported in EMEA (+19%), North America
(+26%), Latin America (+14%) and Japan (+5%). The
introduced several other important
sales decrease in Asia-Pacific (-3%) was driven by
China (-11%) due to the decrease in routine testing
diagnostic advancements for
following severe COVID-19 pandemic restrictions.
customers and patients in 2020.
In addition to our broad new COVID-19 testing
portfolio, Roche introduced several other important
diagnostic advancements for customers and
patients.
These include the cobas prime (the first fully testing products (such as our SARS-CoV-2 Rapid
automatic, pre-analytical system to prepare Antigen test), while in North America, this decline
the variety and volume of samples labs receive was offset by the Roche CustomBiotech business
for molecular testing) and three next-generation (products and solutions for diagnostics and biotech
uPath image analysis algorithms for rapid and manufacturers).
accurate test results in oncology (digital pathology:
automated analysis of scans generated from Sales in Molecular Diagnostics increased 90%.
tissue samples). The strong sales growth was driven by the segments
virology (predominantly SARS-CoV-2, such as the
Other Roche market firsts include the cobas first high-throughput PCR test launched in March),
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and BK virus (BKV) tests, LightMix systems (pathogen detection panel) as well
which were approved by the FDA mid-year. Both as point-of-care molecular diagnostics.
tests had previously received breakthrough device
status. These fast, reliable tools (both performed Diabetes Care sales decreased 5% due to patients
on our high-throughput cobas 6800/8800 systems) switching to continuous glucose monitoring systems.
enable healthcare professionals to monitor and treat The COVID-19 pandemic also had a negative impact.
patients at risk for the common, but life-threatening, The decrease was reflected mainly in the EMEA
consequences of EBV and BKV infections after region. Demand for digital diabetes management
transplantation of solid organs and/or stem cells. solutions (RocheDiabetes Care Platform, mySugr
and Accu-Chek SugarView) continued to be strong.
Centralised and Point of Care Solutions sales
declined by 1%; its immunodiagnostics business Tissue Diagnostics sales increased 5%, due to
was strongly impacted by the decline in routine growth in advanced staining instruments sales and
testing worldwide, but particularly in China, due to recovery from manufacturing delays in the prior year,
the COVID-19 pandemic. In EMEA, the decline of the as well as increased sales in companion diagnostics.
routine testing has been more than compensated This was partially offset by lower testing volume due
by the sales growth of the point-of-care COVID-19 to the COVID-19 pandemic.SLACITUECAMRAHP
116
Incremental sales in 2020 (CHF millions)
1,027
Tecentriq
Oncology
932
Hemlibra
Haemophilia
874
Ocrevus
Neuroscience
732
Actemra/RoActemra
Immunology
623
Perjeta
Oncology
472
Kadcyla
Immunology
350
Alecensa
Oncology
116
Gazyva/Gazyvaro
OncologyBusiness performance | Roche 117
Despite the massive disruption of a
In the United States, sales decreased by 6%, as a
result of the increasing competition from biosimilars
global pandemic, our commitment to
for MabThera/Rituxan, Herceptin and Avastin
(combined: -38%). This was partially offset by sales
developing new medicines remained
of Ocrevus, Hemlibra, Tecentriq and Actemra/
RoActemra. Ocrevus sales were driven by both new
unbroken in 2020.
and returning patient demand, partly dampened by
COVID-19 effects. Tecentriq sales increased mainly
due to growth in the new indications (certain forms
of lung, breast and liver cancer).
In Europe, sales grew by 1% with new product
sales more than compensating for the biosimilar
competition to Herceptin, MabThera/Rituxan
and Avastin (combined: -37%) and impacts of the Perjeta (first approved in 2012; CHF 3.9 billion,
COVID-19 pandemic. Tecentriq sales continued +18%). HER2-positive breast cancer. The increased
to grow strongly following successful launches. patient demand for this medicine was mostly driven
Hemlibra and Ocrevus also showed strong uptake. by the International region, mainly in China (in both
early breast cancer and metastatic breast cancer
In Japan, sales decreased by 6%, as a result of settings).
the considerable competition from biosimilars and
government price cuts. This decline was partially Tecentriq (first approved in 2016; CHF 2.7 billion,
compensated for by recently launched products +55%). Cancer immunotherapy for various types of
including Tecentriq and Hemlibra. Perjeta sales cancer (either alone or in combinations), ie, certain
grew due to the launch of an additional indication types of lung, bladder, breast and liver cancer.
for early breast cancer. Strong sales growth reported by all regions, notably
in the US, where higher sales were driven by the
In the International region, sales growth (+7%) new indications for extensive-stage small cell lung
was mostly driven by China and Russia. China cancer, PD-L1-positive triple-negative breast cancer
saw a strong uptake of Perjeta and Alecensa; this and unresectable or metastatic hepatocellular
was partially offset by the impact of the National carcinoma.
Reimbursement Drug List update and COVID-19.
Hemlibra (first approved in 2017; CHF 2.2 billion,
Ocrevus (first approved in 2017; CHF 4.3 billion, +68%). Haemophilia A with and without factor VIII
+24%). Relapsing and primary progressive forms inhibitors; only prophylactic treatment that can be
of multiple sclerosis; shorter 2-hour infusion. The administered subcutaneously once weekly, once
strong demand for this treatment in both indications every two weeks or once every four weeks. Sales
has continued, while the COVID-19 pandemic has continued to show a strong uptake, especially in
had a certain negative impact. In the US, growth the US and Europe, despite COVID-19 restrictions
was driven both by new and returning patients. having some impact on potential new patients.ETAROPROC
ECNANREVOGCorporate Governance | Roche 119
This Corporate Governance Report sets out the structures, processes
and rules which Roche takes as the basis for well-functioning corporate
governance.120
Material topic
· Compliance
Principles
Business activities with a focus on sustainable particular with all applicable laws, the Swiss Stock
value creation and innovation, a management Exchange (SIX Swiss Exchange) directives and
culture conforming to recognised standards the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate
of good corporate governance and a policy of Governance promulgated by the Swiss business
transparent communication embody Roche’s federation ‘economiesuisse’. The company’s internal
corporate governance principles, which build the governance framework, particularly its Articles
basis for the successful implementation of Roche’s of Incorporation and Bylaws, embodies all the
commitment to serving all its stakeholders. principles needed to ensure that the company’s
businesses are managed and supervised in a manner
A strong Board of Directors, which represents consistent with good corporate governance,
the interests of the shareholders and all other including the necessary checks and balances.1
stakeholders, and highly skilled managers who
act with integrity are extremely important. The printed Annual Report contains selected links
to the Roche website (https://www.roche.com).
For the eleventh time, in 2020 Roche ranked the Readers are thus provided not only with a ‘snapshot’
most sustainable company in the Pharmaceuticals of our company at the reporting date but are also
index of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices directed to sources which they can consult at any
(DJSI). This recognition is based on an in-depth time for up-to-date information about corporate
analysis of economic, social and environmental governance at Roche. Whereas each annual report
performance. The DJSI serve as a benchmark for covers a single financial year ending 31 December,
investors who integrate sustainability considerations our website contains information of a more
into their portfolios. Sustainability is at the core of permanent nature, as well as the latest Roche news.
our business practices and this award reflects our The company’s Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws
commitment to running our business in a way that and the curricula vitae of current and former (status
is ethical, responsible and creates long-term value as per end of term and as at the reporting date on
for stakeholders. 31 December of each year, at least of the last five
years) members of the Board of Directors and the
This Corporate Governance Report sets out the Corporate Executive Committee are published on
structures, processes and rules which Roche our website.
takes as the basis for well-functioning corporate
governance. In doing so, Roche complies with all For further details please refer to the following
relevant corporate governance requirements, in report.
1 https://www.roche.com/about/governance.htmCorporate Governance | Roche 121
Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
and Board Committees Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
CEO CEO CEO Chief Financial and Chief People
Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Information Officer Officer
Enlarged Corporate Executive Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Committee gRED pRED Partnering Communications General Counsel122
Board of Directors
Due to the Federal Council’s declaration of an Dr Andreas Oeri and Prof. Sir John Bell retired as
‘extraordinary situation’ based on Article 7 of long-standing members of the Board of Directors
the Epidemics Act of 28 September 2012 and and Dr Jörg Duschmalé, new representative of
pursuant to Ordinance 2 on Measures to Combat the the shareholder group with pooled voting rights,
Coronavirus (COVID-19 Ordinance 2, amendment and Dr Patrick Frost were elected as additional
of 16 March 2020), the 102nd Annual General new members of the Board of Directors for a term
Meeting (AGM) of Roche Holding Ltd was held on of one year.
17 March 2020 without the physical participation
of shareholders. Shareholders had been requested In addition, the AGM elected Dr Christoph Franz,
to exercise their rights via the independent proxy, André Hoffmann, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton and
Testaris AG. Bernard Poussot as members of the Remuneration
Committee.
At the AGM of Roche Holding Ltd, on 17 March 2020,
shareholders re-elected Dr Christoph Franz as At its organising meeting immediately following
Chairman of the Board of Directors. the AGM, the Board of Directors determined
the structure and composition of its remaining
Furthermore, the AGM re-elected André Hoffmann, committees as shown on page 123 (see also page
Julie Brown, Paul Bulcke, Prof. Dr Hans Clevers, Anita 38 and page 128 ‘Board of Directors and Corporate
Hauser, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, Bernard Poussot, Executive Committee’).
Dr Severin Schwan and Dr Claudia Suessmuth
Dyckerhoff as members of the Board of Directors Roche’s Honorary Chairman, Dr. h. c. Fritz Gerber,
for a term of one year as provided by the Articles died on 10 May 2020 at the age of 91 years. For
of Incorporation. more than two decades, he had shaped Roche’s
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
and Board Committees Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability CommitteeCorporate Governance | Roche 123
development into a leading global healthcare P. Lifton and Bernard Poussot for re-election as
company in an exceptionally successful dual role members of the Remuneration Committee at the
as Group CEO (1978–1998) and Chairman of the AGM in 2021.
Board of Directors (1978–2001).
The Board of Directors nominates Testaris AG for
On 16 March 2021, at the forthcoming AGM the election as independent proxy by the AGM in 2021
Board of Directors nominates the Chairman and all for the period from 2021 until the conclusion of
remaining members of the Board of Directors for the 2022 ordinary AGM of shareholders.
re-election.
Moreover, the Board of Directors nominates
Dr Christoph Franz, André Hoffmann, Prof. Dr Richard
Composition as at 31.12.2020 Name (year of birth) First elected
Board of Directors Dr Christoph Franz (1960) C, D *, E, G Chairman 2011
André Hoffmann (1958) (representative of the A*, C *, D, E, G Vice-Chairman 1996
shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Dr Jörg Duschmalé (1984) (representative of the B, E, G 2020
shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Julie Brown (1962) B*, E, G 2016
Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E, G 2011
Prof. Dr Hans Clevers (1957) A, E, G 2019
Dr Patrick Frost (1968) B, E, G 2020
Anita Hauser (1969) A, E, G 2017
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953) C, E, G 2015
Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E, G 2015
Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F 2013
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967) A, E, G 2016
Secretary to the Dr Annette Luther (1970), since 1 April 2020
Board of Directors
Curricula vitae (CVs) of members of the Board of Directors:
a) current members: https://www.roche.com/about/governance/board_of_directors.htm
b)former members (at least of the last five years): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/ec_bod_former.htm
c) information of CVs at the reporting date on 31 December of each year (at least of the last five years):
https://www.roche.com/about/governance/archiv_former_cvs.htm
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee B Audit Committee C Remuneration Committee
D Chairman’s/Nomination Committee E Non-executive director F Executive director
G Independent member of the Board of Directors * Committee chairperson124
Corporate Executive Committee
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller, General Counsel, member of Effective 1 August 2020, Dr Aviv Regev, former
the Corporate Executive Committee and Secretary Chair of the Faculty, Core Institute member, and
to the Board of Directors, retired after 35 years member of the Executive Leadership Team of the
with Roche at the end of March 2020. Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, as well as
Professor of Biology at MIT and Investigator of the
The Board of Directors has appointed Claudia Howard Hughes Medical Institute, joined Genentech
Böckstiegel, former Head of Legal for the as the new Head of gRED. She reports as a member
Diagnostics Division, to the position of General of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee to
Counsel as of 1 April 2020. She reports as a Dr Severin Schwan.
member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive
Committee to Dr Severin Schwan. Information on each member of the Corporate
Executive Committee and of the Enlarged Corporate
In parallel, Dr Annette Luther, former General Executive Committee is listed on page 125 (see
Manager of Roche Diagnostics International Ltd, also page 42 and page 128 ‘Board of Directors and
Rotkreuz, Switzerland, became Secretary to the Corporate Executive Committee’).
Board of Directors. She reports to Dr Christoph
Franz.
Effective 31 July 2020, Dr Michael Varney, Head of
Genentech Research & Early Development (gRED)
and member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive
Committee, retired from the company after more
than 15 years.
Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
CEO CEO CEO Chief Financial and Chief People
Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Information Officer Officer
Enlarged Corporate Executive Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Committee gRED pRED Partnering Communications General CounselCorporate Governance | Roche 125
Composition as at 31.12.2020 Name (year of birth) Position Since
Corporate Executive Committee Dr Severin Schwan (1967) CEO Roche Group 2008
Bill Anderson (1966) CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals 2019
Dr Thomas Schinecker (1975) CEO Roche Diagnostics 2019
Dr Alan Hippe (1967) Chief Financial and Information Officer 2011
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967) Chief People Officer 2016
Enlarged Corporate Dr Aviv Regev (1971) Head Genentech Research & 2020
Executive Committee Early Development (gRED)
Dr William Pao (1967) Head Roche Pharma Research & 2018
Early Development (pRED)
Dr James H. Sabry (1958) Global Head Pharma Partnering 2018
Barbara Schädler (1962) Head Group Communications 2019
Claudia Böckstiegel (1964) General Counsel 2020
Secretary to the Corporate Per-Olof Attinger (1960) 2010
Executive Committee
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (reporting years 2004–2008)
of Roche Holding Ltd KPMG AG (since 2009)
Auditor in charge: J ohn A. Morris (2004–2010)
Ian Starkey (2011–2017)
Mark Baillache (as of business year 2018)
Chief Compliance Officer Pascale Schmidt (1973) 2020
Curricula vitae (CVs) of the members of the Corporate Executive Committee and the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee:
a) current members: https://www.roche.com/about/governance/executive_committee.htm
b)former members (at least five years back): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/ec_bod_former.htm
c) information of CVs at the reporting date on 31 December of each year (at least of the last five years):
https://www.roche.com/about/governance/archiv_former_cvs.htm126
Group structure and shareholders
In 2020, Roche’s operating businesses are organised shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pages 99 and
into two divisions: Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. 138), and in Note 4 to the Financial Statements
The Pharmaceuticals Division comprises the of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Significant shareholders’,
two business segments Roche Pharmaceuticals page 184). In addition, significant shareholders are
and Chugai, whereas Genentech as the former published on the relevant webpage (see link below*)
third segment has been integrated into Roche of the disclosure office of SIX Exchange Regulation.
Pharmaceuticals. The Diagnostics Division consists
of the following four business areas: Centralised André Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman of the Board of
and Point of Care Solutions, Molecular Diagnostics, Directors, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Tissue Diagnostics and Diabetes Care. and of the Board’s Corporate Governance and
Sustainability Committee and member of the Board’s
Business activities are carried out through Group Chairman’s/Nomination Committee, and Dr Jörg
subsidiaries and associated companies. Detailed Duschmalé, member of the Board of Directors and of
information on Roche Holding Ltd and on significant the Board’s Audit Committee, serve in their respective
subsidiaries and associated companies (including capacities on the Board and its committees as
company name, listing information, domicile, share representatives of the shareholder group with
capital and equity interest) is listed in the Finance pooled voting rights and receive the remuneration
Report, Note 33 to the Roche Group Consolidated set forth in the Remuneration Report on page 150
Financial Statements (‘List of subsidiaries and and in the Finance Report, Note 32 to the Roche
associates’, page 141). Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related
parties’, page 138). No other relationships exist
Major shareholders are listed in the Finance Report, with the shareholders with pooled voting rights.
Notes 22 and 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated
Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche There are no cross-shareholdings.
Roche Pharmaceuticals (incl. Genentech)
Pharmaceuticals
Chugai
Centralised and Point of Care Solutions
Molecular Diagnostics
Diagnostics
Tissue Diagnostics
Diabetes Care
Composition as at 31.12.2020
* SIX Exchange Regulation: https://www.ser-ag.com/en/resources/notifications-market-participants/significant-shareholders.html#/Corporate Governance | Roche 127
J. Duschmalé A. Hoffmann
Dr Jörg Duschmalé, member of the Audit Committee, and André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
and of the Remuneration Committee.
Capital structure
Information on Roche’s capital structure is In addition, 702,562,700 non-voting equity securities
provided in the Finance Report, Notes to the (NES) have been issued in bearer form. They do not
Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd form part of the share capital and confer no voting
(page 183). Additional details are contained in the rights. Each NES confers the same rights as one
Articles of Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.2 share to participate in available earnings and in any
liquidation proceeds following repayment of the
Movement in recognised amounts during the last share capital. Roche’s NES and the rights pertaining
three financial years are detailed in the Finance thereto (including the provisions protecting the
Report, Notes to the Financial Statements of Roche interests of NES holders) are described in §4 of the
Holding Ltd (page 183). Articles of Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.
The company has a share capital of Information on debt instruments which have been
CHF 160,000,000, divided into 160,000,000 fully issued and on outstanding bonds is provided in
paid bearer shares with a nominal value of CHF 1 the Finance Report, Note 21 to the Roche Group
each. There are no restrictions on the exercise of Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Debt’, page 95).
the voting rights of these shares. Upon deposit,
shares can be voted without any restrictions. Information on employee stock options is provided
in the Finance Report, Note 27 to the Roche
There is no authorised or conditional capital. Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity
2 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm128
compensation plans’, page 112), including detailed Note 27 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial
information on the Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Statements (‘Equity compensation plans’, page 112)
Rights (S-SARs) Plan, the Restricted Stock Units and options issued in connection with debt
(RSUs) Plan, the Performance Share Plan (PSP), instruments.
Roche Connect and the Roche Option Plan.
Neither the options awarded to employees nor the
Roche has issued no options apart from employee debt instruments which have been issued have any
stock options as described in the Finance Report, effect on Roche’s share capital.
Board of Directors and
Corporate Executive Committee
Information on each member of the Board of With the exception of Dr Severin Schwan none
Directors and on each member of the Corporate of the members of the Board of Directors in
Executive Committee is listed on pages 123 and 125. office at the end of 2020 has been a member
Members of the Board of Directors have no age limit of Roche’s Corporate Executive Committee or
or restriction on their term of office. served in an executive capacity at any Group
subsidiary during the five financial years preceding
Curricula vitae (CVs) of all current and former the current reporting period and they are for
members (of at least the last five years) of both lack of existing business connections with any
bodies and other information (including information Group subsidiary independent. Roche’s Board of
on the years of their first election, additional Directors’ independence definition is based on the
positions, memberships and activities) are available definition in the Swiss Code of Best Practice for
and continuously updated on the Internet. In Corporate Governance of ‘economiesuisse’ and
addition, the status of the CVs of both bodies at the is complemented by specific preceding criteria
relevant reporting date on 31 December (of at least (see https://www.roche.com/about/governance/
the last five years) is separately available too.3 board_of_directors.htm).
Rules pursuant to article 12 para. 1 point 1 VegüV The Principles of Governance (principles of
on the number of permitted activities of the Board of delegation and competence, reservation of powers
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee and management of a group of companies) of the
members are outlined in §22.4 of the Articles of executive bodies of the company include economic,
Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.4 environmental and social topics. The principles
together with the internal organisation of the
Since 2014, the Annual General Meeting has elected Board of Directors, the division of authority and
all members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman responsibilities between the Board and management,
of the Board of Directors and the members of the remits of the Board Committees, and the
the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis information and control mechanisms available to the
in elections in which each nominee is voted on Board in its dealings with corporate management,
separately (see §18 of the Articles of Incorporation are governed by the Bylaws.6
of Roche Holding Ltd4 and the Minutes of the 102nd
Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, held The Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd is
on 17 March 20205). organised so as to ensure that the Group conducts
3 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/board_of_directors.htm and https://www.roche.com/about/governance/executive_committee.htm
4 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
5 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/annual_general_meetings.htm
6 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htmCorporate Governance | Roche 129
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
and Board Committees Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
CEO CEO CEO Chief Financial and Chief People
Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Information Officer Officer
its businesses responsibly and with a focus on • Report on operating and financial risks (risk
long-term value creation. To this end, the Roche management system)
Board has delegated certain responsibilities The Roche Group has established a risk
to several committees.7 Their composition and management process covering the entire company
chairpersons as at 31 December 2020 are described with a system in place to identify and manage all
on page 38 and 123. Each committee’s authorities types of risks potentially affecting its business
and responsibilities are defined in detail in the (including economic, environmental and social
Bylaws of the Board of Directors.8 impacts, risks and opportunities and stakeholder
input).
All the committees are chaired by independent The Board of Directors is the highest governance
directors. body involved. Roche’s Risk Management Policy
sets out the approach and accompanying
According to the Bylaws of the Board of Directors, responsibilities. The Pharmaceuticals and
a Board meeting may be convened without the Diagnostics Divisions and global functions conduct
Chairman present at the request of any of its a formal risk assessment process at least once
members. The Roche Board meets once a year to a year and must develop risk plans for their most
assess the Chairman’s performance. This meeting, material risks. These are monitored and deviations
which is not attended by the Chairman, is chaired reviewed in regular performance dialogues.
by the Vice-Chairman. The consolidated Group Risk Report including
target risk profile is discussed by the Corporate
As part of the Management Information System (MIS), Executive Committee and approved together
the Board of Directors is regularly informed about with the Group Business Plan. All material risks
the most important issues, sales performance, etc. are reviewed by the Board on a yearly basis. The
The Board has access to an electronic information effectiveness of the risk management process
platform which provides timely information to the is monitored by the Group Risk Advisory team
Board of Directors and the Board Committees as and the overall process is regularly reviewed by
does the system of controls as set forth below. external auditors, with findings presented to the
Audit Committee and the full Board.
The Board of Directors has established a system For details on risk management, including risk
of controls which is continuously monitored by the factors and the Risk Management Policy, see
Audit Committee, by the Corporate Governance ‘Risk Management’ on our website.9 Financial
and Sustainability Committee and by the Board of risk management is specifically described in the
Directors and consists of the following elements: Finance Report.10
7 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/committees.htm
8 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
9 https://www.roche.com/sustainability/approach/risk-management.htm
10 Additional information is provided in the Finance Report, Note 31 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements, ‘Risk management’, page 125.130
• System of internal controls over financial reporting Directors for, and report in person on, those agenda
(see page 156 of the Finance Report) items concerning them. When the situation warrants,
• Internal audit members of the Enlarged Corporate Executive
Group Audit reports to the General Counsel, Committee may also be invited to attend. The Board
has direct access and gives regular briefings Committees invite the Chairman of the Board and
to the Audit Committee and to the Corporate Corporate Executive Committee members to deliver
Governance and Sustainability Committee about reports at committee meetings and may elect to
ongoing activities and audit reports. The Chief commission independent expert reports and call
Audit & Risk Advisory Executive attends the Audit on the services of consultants.
Committee and partly the Corporate Governance
and Sustainability Committee meetings, as do the Each year several black-out periods are imposed
external auditors. Group Audit is an independent during which members of the Board of Directors
appraisal function which evaluates and reviews and senior employees are prohibited from trading
the Group’s activities as a service to the Board of in company stock. The following black-out periods
Directors and to management. The annual audit are in effect for 2021:
plan with yearly defined focus areas (eg, market 26 December 2020 to 4 February 2021
access, third-party management) is validated by 1 April to 21 April 2021
Senior Management and approved by the Audit 26 June to 22 July 2021
Committee. The Roche Group is committed to 1 October to 20 October 2021
maintaining a high standard of internal control Black-out periods can be changed by the Chairman
throughout its worldwide operations. Management of the Board of Directors if circumstances warrant.
is responsible for assessing the business risks in
all aspects of its operation and for implementing In 2020, the Board of Directors met for 13 meetings,
effective and efficient processes and controls generally each from 3 to 6 hours in length, including
whilst ensuring compliance with internal and a full-day meeting. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic,
external rules and regulations. the Board of Directors held several additional
By conducting operational audits, Group Audit extraordinary meetings (which are included in the
determines management’s response to the risks above-mentioned figure). A planned 4-day visit to
surrounding business processes and systems, and a major subsidiary by the Board of Directors had
evaluates the appropriateness, completeness to be cancelled.*
and efficiency of the processes and controls.
Action plans to implement necessary changes and The Board Committees met as follows in 2020:
enhancements are developed together with the • Chairman’s/Nomination Committee: 8 meetings
business/auditee and are tracked to completion. (approx. 2 hours each*)
• Statutory auditors, see page 134 • Remuneration Committee: 2 meetings14 (approx.
• Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance Officers 2 to 3 hours each*)
in subsidiaries, see page 137 • Audit Committee: 5 meetings (approx. 3 to 4 hours
• Safety, Health and Environmental Protection each*)
Department11 • Corporate Governance and Sustainability
•Corporate Sustainability Committee12 Committee: 3 meetings (approx. 3 hours each*)
• Science and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG), for
issues relating to genetic engineering13 The Board of Directors regularly conducts an
assessment (self-assessment/assessment by
The members of the Corporate Executive Committee third parties via electronical survey and personal
are invited to attend meetings of the Board of interviews) of its performance.
11 https://www.roche.com/sustainability/environment.htm
12 https://www.roche.com/sustainability.htm
13 https://www.roche.com/research_and_development/who_we_are_how_we_work/ethics_in_rd/ethical_conflicts.htm
14 Remuneration Committee members recuse themselves from deliberations and decisions on matters that affect their interests.
* These figures indicate the actual length of meetings and do not include the directors’ extensive pre-meeting preparations and post-meeting follow-up activitiesCorporate Governance | Roche 131
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee
have a maximum ordinary notice period of twelve
months. There are no change-of-control clauses
in the employment contracts.
There are no management contracts which fall
within the scope of Subsection 4.4 (annex) of the
SIX Directive on Information relating to Corporate
Governance.
André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee.
Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings in 2020
Corporate
Governance
Chairman’s/ and
Nomination Remuneration Audit Sustainability
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 13 8 2 5 3
C. Franz 13 8 2 – –
A. Hoffmann 13 8 2 – 3
J. Brown 13 – – 5 –
P. Bulcke 13 – – 5 –
H. Clevers 12 – – 1** 2*
J. Duschmalé 12* – – 4* –
(member of the Board since March 2020)
P. Frost 12* – – 4* –
(member of the Board since March 2020)
A. Hauser 13 – – – 3
R.P. Lifton 12 – 2 – –
B. Poussot 13 – 2 – –
S. Schwan 13 – – – –
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 13 – – 1** 3
J. Bell (retired in March 2020) 1** – – – –
A. Oeri (retired in March 2020) 1** – – – 1**
– Not a member of that committee
* Member since March 2020
** Member until March 2020132
Remuneration, shareholdings
and loans
All details regarding remuneration, shareholdings Rules in Aol 15 for
and loans (content and method of determining the Content Board CEC
compensation and the shareholding programmes, Rules on the principles §25.1–6 §25.1–6
basic principles and elements of compensation and applicable to performance-
shareholding programmes for serving and former related pay
members of the Board of Directors and Corporate Rules on the principles to the §25.7 §25.7
Executive Committee, together with a description of allocation of equity securities,
the authorities and procedure for determining such) convertible rights and options
are set forth in the separate Remuneration Report Additional amount for §24.5
on pages 138 to 165 and in the Finance Report, payments to members of
Notes 22 and 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated the Executive Committee
Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche appointed after the vote on
shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pages 99 pay at the Annual General
and 138), and are listed in Note 6 to the Financial Meeting of Shareholders
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Rules on loans, credit facilities §25.1 and 3 §25.2 and 3
Executive shareholdings’, page 185). and post-employment benefits
Rules on the vote on pay at §24 §24
The following rules on remuneration, shareholdings the AGM
and loans for the Board of Directors (Board) and the
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) are set forth
in the Articles of Incorporation (AoI)15:
15 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htmCorporate Governance | Roche 133
Participatory rights of shareholders
The participatory rights of shareholders are defined Under §10.2 of the Articles of Incorporation,
in Roche’s Articles of Incorporation.16 As Roche shareholders representing shares with a nominal
shares are issued to bearer, there are no restrictions value of at least CHF 1 million can request the
on admission to Annual General Meetings, with the placement of items on the agenda of an Annual
exception that shares must be deposited within a General Meeting. This must be done no later
specified period before the date of a meeting and an than 28 days before the date of the meeting.
admittance card must be issued in the shareholder’s
name, as provided in §12 of the Articles of The rules on the issue of instructions to the
Incorporation. Any shareholder can elect to be independent proxy and rules on the electronic
represented by a third party at an Annual General participation in the Annual General Meeting are
Meeting. laid down in the corresponding invitation to the
Annual General Meeting and are not regulated
The Articles of Incorporation contain no restrictions in the Articles of Incorporation.
on the exercise of voting rights, and the only
quorum requirements are those stipulated in §16,
in conformity with the Swiss Code of Obligations.
Change of control and defensive measures
The Articles of Incorporation contain no provisions non-voting equity securities would be terminated
on the mandatory bid rule. Swiss law applies. in the event of an acquisition, and vesting period
restrictions on pre-existing awards would be
There are no change-of-control clauses. Those removed, so that all such options could be exercised
components of remuneration based on Roche immediately.
16 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm134
Relationship to statutory auditors
At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd other services are agreed by the Audit Committee.
on 17 March 2020, the shareholders voted to Each potential non-audit service engagement is
appoint KPMG AG (KPMG) as statutory auditors. reviewed against this policy before any authority
to proceed is given.
Based on the existing legal requirements of
the Swiss Code of Obligations (Article 730a) The auditors have direct access to the Audit
concerning the maximum term of office of seven Committee and its chair as well as the Head of Group
years of the auditor in charge, Mark Baillache Audit to discuss relevant issues.
has been the auditor-in-charge since business
year 2018 (information on how long the auditors The reports of the statutory auditor on the
and auditor-in-charge have been serving in these Consolidated Financial Statements and on the
capacities is provided on page 125). The statutory Financial Statements can be found on pages 157
auditors participate in Audit Committee meetings. and 188, respectively, of the Finance Report.
They prepare written and oral reports on the results
of their audits. The Audit Committee oversees and KPMG received the following remuneration for their
assesses the auditors and makes recommendations services as statutory auditors of Roche Holding
to the Board (for information on the authorities Ltd and as the auditors of other Roche companies
and responsibilities of the Audit Committee, see (including Chugai):
Article 8.1 of the Bylaws17). The statutory auditors
participated in all five meetings of the Audit 2020 2019
Committee in 2020. (millions of CHF)
Auditing services 19.8 21.7
The performance of KPMG is assessed based on Audit-related services
different elements such as affiliate surveys (to – Assurance 0.9 0.1
evaluate the service level at the country level), – Non-statutory audits – –
interviews with Roche key stakeholders and the Tax services 2.9 1.9
self-evaluation of the KPMG internal processes to Other services 0.1 0.4
ensure compliance with the Federal Audit Oversight Total 23.7 24.1
Authority (FAOA) Audit Committee Guide.
KPMG’s independence is ensured by limiting The audit fee is reviewed by the Head of Group Audit
KPMG from providing certain non-audit services. and approved by the Audit Committee every year
Furthermore, permitted services cannot exceed in and takes into consideration changes in Roche’s
total 20% of the audit fee unless they are explicitly business, as well as changes in financial reporting
rewieved and approved by the Audit Committee. and audit standards and regulations.
The company has a formal policy governing the
engagement of the statutory auditor for non-audit The statutory auditors are elected each year by the
services of which limits for certain permitted Annual General Meeting.
17 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htmCorporate Governance | Roche 135
Auditing services are provided as legally required. Tax services include services with respect to
compliance, tax returns and tax advice except
Audit-related services include assurance and those services related to the audit of tax.
accounting services provided by auditors but which
are not necessarily provided by the statutory Other services include advice relating to process
auditor. These services, which go beyond the legal improvements, regulations and trainings.
requirements, could include other attestation
services, comfort letters, consents and consultations.
Relationship to the independent proxy
Since 2019, Testaris AG served as the independent Meeting 2021 for the period from 2021 until the
proxy and at the Annual General Meeting on conclusion of the 2022 ordinary Annual General
17 March 2020, shareholders elected Testaris AG Meeting of Shareholders.
as the independent proxy for the period from 2020
until the conclusion of the 2021 ordinary Annual The rules on the issue of instructions to the
General Meeting of Shareholders. Testaris AG was independent proxy and rules on the electronic
paid for its services for the Annual General Meeting participation in the Annual General Meeting are
2020 according to expenditure totalling CHF 26,429 laid down in the corresponding invitation to the
(2019: CHF 14,939). Annual General Meeting and are not regulated in
the Articles of Incorporation.
The Board of Directors nominates Testaris AG for
election as independent proxy by the Annual General136
Information policy
As provided by §34 of the Articles of Incorporation18, presentations to analyst and investor conferences
corporate notices are published in the Swiss Official are available on the Internet. Further publications
Gazette of Commerce and in other daily newspapers are available on
designated by the Board of Directors (‘Basler https://www.roche.com/publications.htm
Zeitung’, ‘Finanz und Wirtschaft’, ‘L’Agefi’, ‘Le Temps’, or can be ordered by e-mail:
‘Neue Zürcher Zeitung’). basel.warehouse-services@roche.com
or fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
Roche reports its half-year and full-year results in
business reports (published in print and/or online The contact address for Investor Relations is:
formats) and at media events. In addition, detailed F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations,
first-quarter and nine months sales figures are Group Finance, 4070 Basel, Switzerland
published each year in April and October. The tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
most current list of publication dates is available fax: +41 (0)61 691 00 14
in English and German on the Internet.19
Additional information, including details on specific
All relevant information and documents, including contact persons, is available on the Internet.21
all media releases, investor updates20 and
18 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
19 https://www.roche.com/media.htm
20 https://www.roche.com/investors.htm
21 https://www.roche.com/investors/contacts.htmCorporate Governance | Roche 137
Chief Compliance Officer and
Compliance Officers network
The Chief Compliance Officer with the Compliance This compliance tool furthermore serves as a
Officers network is committed to ensuring that the platform for ideas and suggestions concerning
Roche Group Code of Conduct22 is consistently those documents.
complied with throughout the Roche Group. The
Chief Compliance Officer also serves as a contact In addition, Roche has established a Business Ethics
person for shareholders, employees, business Incident Reporting (BEIR) system which enables
partners, customers, suppliers and the general the Chief Compliance Officer to capture, track and
public on issues relating to the implementation of monitor alleged violations, from initial reports by
and compliance with this Code. local Compliance Officers or the Group Internal
Investigations department through to resolution.
Employees and other parties who become
aware of violations of the Roche Group Code Business ethics incidents are recorded in the system
of Conduct can bring them to the attention when the Group Internal Investigations department
of their managers or supervisors, to the local or the regional/local management receives specific
Compliance Officer or report them to the and concrete information about an alleged violation
Chief Compliance Officer23 (Ms Pascale Schmidt, of the Roche Group Code of Conduct in one of
e-mail: pascale.schmidt@roche.com, certain pre-defined categories.24 The Corporate
tel.: +41 (0)61 688 48 90). Such disclosures will be Governance and Sustainability Committee and
treated confidentially. In addition, employees may the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors are
anonymously report irregularities or complaints in informed of substantial violations and management’s
their mother tongue via a ‘SpeakUp Line’. In case of corrective actions taken.
questions or uncertainties about the interpretation
of the Roche Group Code of Conduct and its The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the General
reference documents, employees may reach out to Counsel and also submits regular reports to the
their line managers, the local Compliance Officer Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
or the Chief Compliance Officer, or contact the and as needed to the Audit Committee of the Board
Roche Group Code of Conduct Help & Advice Line. of Directors.
Non-applicability/negative disclosure
It is expressly noted that any information not a negative declaration (as provided in the SIX Swiss
contained or mentioned herein is either non- Exchange Corporate Governance Directive and the
applicable or its omission is to be construed as Commentary thereto).
22 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/code_of_conduct.htm
23 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/code_of_conduct/compliance_officer.htm
24 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/code_of_conduct.htmNOITARENUMER
TROPERRemuneration Report | Roche 139
A performance- and success-based, transparent and market competitive
remuneration is an important factor for a globally operating company
like Roche.140
1. Principles
Roche is an innovative and agile company whose along with a performance- and success-based,
success depends substantially on the expertise, transparent compensation structure. To ensure that
motivation and performance of its employees. This compensation packages are competitive, both the
conviction forms the basis of our compensation policy. structure and individual components are regularly
benchmarked based on the relevant Swiss, European
Roche aims to remunerate all employees fairly, and international market criteria. Our remuneration
transparently and in line with market conditions, guidelines and their underlying principles are also
to enable them to participate appropriately in subject to regular outside comparisons.
the company’s success. We pursue this goal by
providing equitable, competitive, performance- However, compensation policy is only one factor
based and results-oriented compensation. in safeguarding Roche’s future success. The key
element is a corporate culture that offers employees
We strive for a balanced mix of fixed and variable conditions in which they can make their best
compensation components geared to each possible contribution to the shared corporate goal
employee’s position and management responsibility. of improving healthcare to patients. This includes
a sound and a sustainability-oriented value system
Firstly, the variable components are intended to that is based on integrity, courage and passion.
create additional financial incentives to achieve At the same time, our decentralised management
corporate goals and to keep innovation at a approach plays a major role with its wide scope for
consistently high level while increasing the value individual decision-making, respectful interactions,
that the company creates for all stakeholder openness to diversity, wide-ranging training and
groups. Secondly, in order to allow employees and development opportunities and an attractive
managers to participate in the company’s business working environment. A unidimensional diminishment
success, adequate compensation measures are to questions on remuneration would fall by far
key. Both objectives are incentivised by annual too short.
bonus payments and long-term securities-based
programmes. Roche is committed to a fair, performance-based
and results-oriented compensation policy that links
For a global company like Roche, market- employees’ interests with those of various other
competitive remuneration plays a key role stakeholder groups.
Compensation policy: https://www.roche.com/careers/for_employees/rewards.htm
Sound value system: https://www.roche.com/careers/for_employees/living_our_values.htmRemuneration Report | Roche 141
2. Remuneration decision process
and approval framework
2.1 Overview Chairman, Group CEO and all other members of the
Each year the Remuneration Committee of Roche’s Group’s Corporate Executive Committee must not be
Board of Directors decides the remuneration of present when the Remuneration Committee decides
Board members and the members of the Group’s their corresponding compensation and have no right
Corporate Executive Committee. to a say in decisions. The decision right is reserved to
Remuneration Committee members only.
Remuneration decision process and approval framework as of 2020
Beneficiary
Remuneration Board of Directors (BoD) Corporate Executive Decision by Approval by
components Chairman (C) Committee (CEC) incl.
CEO Roche Group
Base pay/remuneration √ √
Bonus √ (C only) √
Stock-settled Stock – √ Remuneration Committee
Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) – √
Annual General
Performance Share Plan (PSP) – √ Board of Directors upon
Meeting
(last expired plan: recommendation from
PSP 2018–2020, see 3.1.5) Remuneration Committee
(for the last time at the end
of 2020)
Decisions on pension √ (C only) √ Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee tracks market data Bylaws of the Roche Board of Directors3 and in the
on salaries at other leading global pharmaceutical Articles of Incorporation.4 They are also outlined
companies1 and at major Swiss companies2 and in the sections below on the principles governing
reports its findings to the full Board. The external specific remuneration components (see 3.).
consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC)
assists the Remuneration Committee of Roche in As of the end of 2018, no new awards are granted
performing market comparisons and in advising. under the Performance Share Plan (PSP). Acting
PwC has been awarded additional mandates in the upon recommendations from the Remuneration
Roche Group. Information on the Remuneration Committee, at the end of 2020 the Board of
Committee’s remit, powers and procedures for Directors determined the payment of the last
making remuneration decisions can be found in the expired PSP 2018–2020 (see 3.1.5).
1 Peer set 2020: Abbott Laboratories, AbbVie, Amgen, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., Novartis, Pfizer,
Sanofi, Takeda (no change in composition of peer set compared to 2019).
2 ABB, Credit Suisse, LafargeHolcim, Nestlé, Sonova, Straumann, Swiss Re, UBS, Zurich Insurance (no change in composition of peer set compared to 2019).
3 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
4 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm142
Since 2014, total aggregate amounts that are Aktiengesellschaften [VegüV]). The General Meeting
based on these decisions have been submitted to shall vote annually and with binding effect on the
the General Meeting for approval implementing approval of the remuneration (that the Board of
the ‘Ordinance against excessive compensation at Directors has resolved) of the Board of Directors
listed joint-stock companies’ (Verordnung gegen and the Corporate Executive Committee (for details
übermässige Vergütungen bei börsenkotierten see 4. and 5.).
Abbott Laboratories
AbbVie
Amgen Peer set for 2020
Astellas
AstraZeneca ABB
Bayer Credit Suisse
Bristol-Myers Squibb LafargeHolcim
Eli Lilly Nestlé
Roche
GlaxoSmithKline Sonova
Johnson & Johnson Straumann
Merck & Co. Swiss Re
Novartis UBS
Pfizer Zurich Insurance
Sanofi
Takeda
Peer set for 2020
Market comparison companies for salary assessment
Pharma peer set Major Swiss companies
2.2 Procedure for submitting total Board Retrospective approval
and Executive remuneration for shareholder Total aggregate bonus amounts for the Corporate
approval at the Annual General Meeting Executive Committee and the Chairman of the Board
Each year at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Directors for the financial year just ended will be
shareholders approve the total remuneration for the submitted retrospectively at each ordinary AGM for
Board of Directors and for the Corporate Executive separate and binding approval.
Committee as decided by the Board of Directors’
Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors, Prospective approval
respectively. All other Board and Executive aggregate
remuneration will be submitted prospectively to
According to the approval at the AGM 2014, the AGM for separate and binding approval for
Roche has committed itself to obtaining separate the period between two ordinary AGMs.
and binding shareholder approvals of the total
remuneration paid to the Board of Directors and to
the Corporate Executive Committee as follows:Remuneration Report | Roche 143
André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Approval of total remuneration at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 2021 Financial year 2020 Financial year 2021
Retrospective:
C
Bonus
Chairman (C) of the Board of Directors (BoD):
•Bonus for financial year 2020 (total amount)
CEC
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including CEO Roche Group: Bonus
•Bonus for financial year 2020 (total amount)
Prospective:
BoD
Base pay/remuneration
Board of Directors (BoD) including Chairman (C):
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2021–AGM 2022)
•Base pay/remuneration
CEC
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including CEO Roche Group: Base pay
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2021–AGM 2022) S-SARs
•Base pay RSUs
•Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) Indirect benefits
•Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
•Indirect benefits
AGM 2020 AGM 2021 AGM 2022
1.1.2020 1.1.2021 1.1.2022144
3. Remuneration components
3.1 Overview of remuneration elements already existing individual target value of the total
Since 2019, for the Corporate Executive Committee LTI for Corporate Executive Committee members
and the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee of 133.33% of a base pay measured on 1 January of
the composition of the remuneration components a year). Vesting and expiration periods are aligned
of the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) has been changed. for any newly issued S-SARs and RSUs (see below).
The LTI of the Corporate Executive Committee Unlike all other participants of the two programmes,
and the Enlarged Corporate Executive members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Committee has been complemented with have no choice in determining the mix of RSUs
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and is composed and S-SARs, which as of 2019 have a four-year
of 80% S-SARs and 20% RSUs (based on the cliff vesting.
Corporate Executive Committee LTI
Mix (S-SARs/RSUs) fixed Base for calculation Vesting period Cliff vesting Expiration period
Based on the individual
80% S-SARs target value of the total LTI 4 years 4 years 10 years
for Corporate Executive
Committee members of
133.33% of a base pay
20% RSUs measured on 1 January of 4 years 4 years –
a year
Since 2019, remaining participants of the S-SARs years. This gives participants an additional three
and RSUs programmes are offered on a yearly years to exercise vested S-SARs. In parallel, the
basis a choice of three combinations to determine vesting schedule for any newly issued RSUs since
the mix of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock- 2019 was changed from three-year cliff vesting
settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs, options to four-year annual vesting. Each year, unlike
are used instead of S-SARs in some countries). for the Corporate Executive Committee and the
The following options are available: Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee, 25%
of the granted RSUs will vest and will become
Choice 1 Choice 2 Choice 3 available to participants. The vesting schedule
80% S-SARs 50% S-SARs 20% S-SARs for S-SARs, three-year annual vesting, was also
20% RSUs 50% RSUs 80% RSUs aligned with a four-year annual vesting schedule
for any new grants.
Offering this level of choice empowers participants
to engage more fully in their total rewards, enables This attractively designed Roche Long-Term
them to better understand a critical element of Incentive programme enables Roche to attract,
their compensation and increases the value of the motivate and retain the best talent and keep it
programme. aligned with the company’s long-term success.
The expiration period for any newly issued S-SARs
since 2019 was extended from seven years to tenRemuneration Report | Roche 145
The remuneration to the members of the Board of The remuneration components are linked to the
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee employees’ performance, the company’s financial
is composed of the following elements (for concrete performance and non-financial success and thus
composition see chart below: ‘Composition of align the interests of Roche and its employees with
remuneration to the Board of Directors and the those of shareholders. Societal and environmental
Corporate Executive Committee’): objectives are also taken into account.
The fixed base salary is complemented with the The LTI remuneration components are intended
annual variable bonus as Short-Term Incentive to sustainably, homogenously and in a long-term-
(STI) and with perennial remuneration elements oriented perspective align management’s interest
(S-SARs, RSUs) as Long-Term Incentive (LTI). with those of shareholders and holders of non-voting
equity securities and to give participating managers
Since the end of 2018, no new Performance Share an additional incentive to achieve sustainable
Plan (PSP) awards have been granted. Acting shareholder value growth.
upon recommendations from the Remuneration
Committee, at the end of 2020 the Board of
Directors determined the payment of the last,
expired PSP 2018–2020.
Composition of remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
Annual
remuneration elements Description C BoD CEO Roche Group CEC
Base pay/ Monthly payment √ √ Q uarterly √ √
remuneration (see 3.1.1 below) payments
Bonus Annual payment √ F or 10 years – √ F or 10 years √ Cash
(see 3.1.2 below) blocked non-voting blocked non-voting
equity securities equity securities
and/or shares and/or shares
Pensions etc. (see 3.1.6 below) √ – √ √
Perennial
remuneration elements
Stock-settled Stock (see 3.1.3 below) – – √ F or 4 years √
Appreciation Rights additionally
(S-SARs) blocked non-voting
equity securities
after exercise
Restricted Stock (see 3.1.4 below) – – √ F or 10 years √
Units (RSUs) blocked non-voting
equity securities
Performance Share (see 3.1.5 below) – – √ F or 10 years √
Plan (PSP) blocked non-voting
(last expired plan: equity securities
PSP 2018–2020) and/or shares146
Fixed
Base salary
Indirect benefits (employer contribution):
•Pensions and insurance contributions
STI: Roche
•Roche Connect
•Bonus
remuneration •Tax consulting services
LTI: components
Expense allowances
•Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
•Restricted Stock Units
Others:
•Performance Share Plan (until 2020)
•Children’s schooling costs
•Foreign tax obligation
Variable, long-term
•AHV/IV/ALV*
* Employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
3.1.1 Base pay (fixed) rates, Operating Profit After Capital Charge (OPAC)
Base pay (cash payment) is determined for each based on core operating profit, core earnings per
position based on salary market data of other leading share and non-voting equity security (NES) growth
global pharmaceutical companies (see footnote 1) at constant exchange rates, product development
and of other major Swiss companies (see footnote 2) pipeline, diversity of employees and managers and
and reflects individuals’ abilities, experience and environmental goals. Additionally, they are linked
performance over time. Pay adjustments are to the achievement of measurable and qualitative
likewise linked to individual performance and take individual or functional performance objectives.
into account prevailing market conditions and the For competitive reasons, Roche does not disclose
company’s overall financial situation. the individual performance objectives of members
of its Corporate Executive Committee and of its
The Remuneration Committee makes and reviews Chairman.
the final decision on the individual base pay paid to
the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members In December at the end of a reporting year or in
of the Corporate Executive Committee and on the January following a reporting year, the Remuneration
remuneration of the other members of the Board. Committee decides on the bonuses and their
amounts payable to the Chairman of the Board and
3.1.2 Bonuses (variable) the members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Bonuses are annually awarded for individual in respect of the relevant reporting year, based on
contributions of value creation in a business year and performance against the aforementioned objectives.
are meant to be an incentive to strive for outstanding At the same time, the Remuneration Committee
results and to create new business opportunities. also decides in what form bonuses will be awarded,
Bonus amounts are linked to Group and divisional ie, cash payments and/or blocked (if applicable)
core profits, sales growth at constant exchange non-voting equity securities and/or shares.Remuneration Report | Roche 147
The Remuneration Committee uses its discretion defined) four-year vesting period plus a value
appropriately in the weighting of each criteria and adjustment (being the amount equivalent to the
in the bonus allocation. sum of the dividend paid during the vesting period
attributable to the number of non-voting equity
In 2020 in total, around 74,900 employees were securities and/or shares for which an individual
eligible for a bonus under the Roche Bonus Program. award has been granted). They will be all vested to
the recipient for the Corporate Executive Committee
3.1.3 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights after four years only. Thereafter, resulting non-voting
(S-SARs) (long-term) equity securities and/or shares may remain blocked
Since 2019, the S-SARs proportion of the LTI for up to ten years.
of the Corporate Executive Committee is 80%
(based on the individual target value of the total In 2020, RSUs served as a remuneration component
LTI for Corporate Executive Committee members for 22,156 eligible Roche employees.
of 133.33% of a base pay measured on 1 January
of a year). 3.1.5 Performance Share Plan (PSP) (long-term)
The PSP was established in 2002 for periods
S-SARs entitle holders to benefit financially from any of three years each and based on a three-year
increase in the value of Roche’s non-voting equity comparison of the Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
securities between the grant date and the exercise with 15 peer companies (see footnote 1). The plan’s
date. Since 2019, S-SARs granted all vest together key performance metric for an award, the TSR,
after four years and then have to be exercised within was calculated as a three-month moving average
ten years of the grant date. Unexercised S-SARs rate before the start of and before the end of the
lapse without compensation. Since 2012, the fair performance cycle.
value of S-SARs has been calculated at the grant
date using the trinomial model for American call No new PSP awards have been granted since the
options (for details see page 158). end of 2018. Therefore, in 2020, there was only
one performance cycle PSP 2018–2020 left, which
S-SARs to the Corporate Executive Committee closed on 31 December 2020 and about which
are allocated individually at the Remuneration the Board of Directors at its discretion, acting
Committee’s discretion. upon recommendations from the Remuneration
Committee, determined the payment at the end
In 2020 in total, 22,022 employees received S-SARs. of 2020 (see 5.8).
3.1.4 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) (long-term) 3.1.6 Indirect benefits
As of 2019, the proportion of Restricted Stock Units As shown in 5.9 (5.3 [for the CEO Roche Group]
(RSUs) of the members of the Corporate Executive and 4.3 [for the Chairman], respectively), members
Committee is 20% of the total LTI (based on the of the Corporate Executive Committee additionally
individual target value of the total LTI for Corporate received indirect benefits (payments in pension
Executive Committee members of 133.33% of a funds, insurances, Roche Connect, payments for
base pay measured on 1 January of a year). RSU foreign tax obligation and tax consulting services
awards are allocated individually for the Corporate and annual expense allowances). As shown under
Executive Committee at the Remuneration 5.10, individual members of the Corporate Executive
Committee’s discretion. Committee received payments for family, children
and education allowances and for schooling costs
RSUs contain rights to receive non-voting equity for their children.
securities and/or shares after a (since 2019 newly148
3.2 Weighting (fixed/variable, long-term) of 2020 remuneration components (at target and as
percentage of total remuneration in 2020)
83% 17%
Chairman
100%
Board of Directors
Corporate Executive Committee 38% 62%
(including CEO Roche Group)
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
fixed variable, long-term
The variable, long-term remuneration paid out to the members of the Corporate Executive Committee ranged from 46% to 66% of the
fixed compensation.
3.3 Ratio of variable remuneration components relative to fixed base pay of the Corporate Executive
Committee 2020
Ratio of variable remuneration components (bonuses, S-SARs and RSUs) relative to % of value of fixed base pay
LTI (long-term)
STI (variable) (total: 133,33%**)
Criteria Bonus S-SARs (80% of total LTI) RSUs (20% of total LTI)
Individual target value * 100% 106.66% ** 26.66% **
Minimum 0% 0% 0%
Maximum 200% 106.66% 26.66%
Performance criteria Group objectives (Group and divisional business Value development Value development
performance) and individual objectives considering determined by determined by
core profits, sales growth at constant exchange performance of NES performance (plus
rates, Operating Profit After Capital Charge (OPAC) after grant a value adjustment
based on core operating profit, core earnings per for dividends) of NES
share and non-voting equity security (NES) growth after grant
at constant exchange rates, product development
pipeline, diversity of employees and managers,
environmental goals
Split in %
a) Group objectives 70% n.a. n.a.
b) Individual objectives 30% n.a. n.a.
Weighting criteria/ At the Remuneration Committee’s discretion
Decision on objectives
n.a. – not applicable
* Assessed in consideration of the performance of competitors and the macro-economic development
** Based on the already existing individual target value of the total LTI for Corporate Executive Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay measured on 1 January of a year
For all further details please refer to the following
sections of this Remuneration Report.5
5 See also in the Finance Report Note 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related parties’, page 138) and Note 6 to the Financial
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, page 185).4. Remuneration of the Board of Directors
4.1 Resolution and approval of Directors 2020’ table on page 150 for their Board
Remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of activities. Roche paid legally required employer’s
Directors and of members of the Board of Directors contributions totalling CHF 117,846 to Swiss social
was decided at the Remuneration Committee’s security programmes providing retirement, disability
discretion, taking into account market comparisons. and unemployment benefits (AHV/IV/ALV) for the
members of the Board of Directors beside the legally
The remuneration is in form of cash payments required contributions separately stated for the
and is annually tracked against market data on Chairman of the Board of Directors.
directors’ pay at other leading global pharmaceutical
companies (see footnote 1) and other major Swiss The basic remuneration of the Board of Directors
companies (see footnote 2), and is assisted by the (excluding the Chairman) has remained unchanged
consultancy of PwC. since 2001.
As in the previous years, in 2021, the Board of With the exception of the Chairman of the Board
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate of Directors (bonus in form of blocked shares) and
bonus of the Chairman of the Board of Directors to Dr Severin Schwan as an executive member of the
the General Meeting for the 2020 financial year, for Board, members of the Board of Directors were not
retrospective binding approval. awarded any shares, non-voting equity securities
or S-SARs.
The maximum amounts of the total other aggregate
remuneration of the Board of Directors for the period There are no loans or credits granted to the members
between the ordinary General Meeting 2021 and the of the Board of Directors.
ordinary General Meeting 2022 will be separately
tabled in 2021 as in the previous years for the In his capacity as a member of the Chugai
General Meeting’s prospective binding approval International Council (CIC) of Chugai Pharmaceutical
(see 2.2). Co., Ltd. André Hoffmann received in 2020 honoraria
amounting to a total of USD 40,000 (CHF 37,568).
4.2 Amount of remuneration to the members of
the Board of Directors In 2020, for their advisory service on the Genentech
In 2020, the members of the Board of Directors6 Scientific Resource Board, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton
received remuneration and additional compensation received honoraria amounting to a total of
in the form of quarterly fixed cash payments as USD 10,000 (CHF 9,392) and Prof. Hans Clevers
shown in the ‘Remuneration of members of the Board USD 26,358 (CHF 24,756), respectively.
6 For a list of members, their positions and their committee memberships and chairmanships see page 123.
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 149Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2020 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration Additional special
Basic remuneration for committee members/chairs 7 remuneration Total remuneration
C. Franz, Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 8 – 37,568 437,568
(see page 149)
J. Brown 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
H. Clevers 300,000 30,000 24,756 354,756
(see page 149)
J. Duschmalé (since March 20209) 250,000 22,500 – 272,500
P. Frost (since March 20209) 250,000 22,500 – 272,500
A. Hauser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
R.P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 9,392 339,392
(see page 149)
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
S. Schwan (see ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group is reflected in total
remuneration for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
J. Bell (until March 202010) 75,000 – – 75,000
A. Oeri (until March 202010) 75,000 15,000 – 90,000
Total 11 3,150,000 300,000 71,716 3,521,716
7 With the exception of members of the Chairman’s Committee (Chairman, Vice-Chairman) Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve on and
CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
8 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
9 Prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2020.
10 Prorated remuneration for the period from January to March 2020.
11 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 354,578 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUA
150Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2019 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration Additional special
Basic remuneration for committee members/chairs 12 remuneration Total remuneration
C. Franz, Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 13 – 39,753 439,753
J. Bell 300,000 7,500 – 307,500
J. Brown 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
H. Clevers (since March 201914) 250,000 22,500 – 272,500
A. Hauser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
R.P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 9,938 339,938
A. Oeri 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
S. Schwan (see ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group is reflected in total
remuneration for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P.R. Voser (until end of June 201915) 150,000 15,000 – 165,000
Total 16 3,200,000 345,000 49,691 3,594,691
12 With the exception of members of the Chairman’s Committee (Chairman, Vice-Chairman) Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve on and
CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
13 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
14 Prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2019.
15 Prorated remuneration for the period from January to end of June 2019.
16 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 340,551 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman (in form of shares blocked for ten years, payable in
of the Board of Directors March 2021) will be put for shareholder binding vote
As Chairman, Dr Christoph Franz received total at the 2021 ordinary Annual General Meeting (AGM).
remuneration for 2020 as shown below. The
Remuneration Committee’s bonus proposal (adopted The Chairman’s total remuneration is contained in the
in late 2020) in respect of the 2020 financial year total remuneration of the Board of Directors in 4.4.
Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors (in CHF)
2020 2019
Base salary (in cash) 3,500,000 3,500,000
Bonus (subject to approval of the Annual General Meeting) 837,585 * 558,390 *
Pension funds/insurances/annual expense allowances 676,710 ** 1,674,159
(including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts)
Total 17 5,014,295 5,732,549
* In form of shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the price at the date of transfer in March 2021 and 2020, respectively, after approval at the
AGM 2021/AGM 2020, respectively), calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market value: 55.839%) to be submitted
for shareholder approval at the AGM 2021/as approved at the AGM 2020, respectively
** Agreed reduction of pension fund contributions upon reaching the age of 60 in 2020
17 A dditionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 236,732 (2019: CHF 230,767) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 1514.4 Total remuneration paid to the Board 4.6 Board remuneration subject to approval
of Directors at the Annual General Meeting
For the 2020 calendar year the members of
the Board of Directors received remuneration 4.6.1 Submission of the Chairman’s total
including bonuses and employer contribution aggregate bonus for a binding vote at the
of social securities’ beneficial parts totalling Annual General Meeting
CHF 8,580,399 (2019: CHF 9,405,725), excluding Remuneration to the Chairman of the Board of
additional employer’s contribution paid to AHV/IV/ Directors includes a bonus award of CHF 837,585
ALV totalling CHF 354,578 (2019: CHF 340,551) in form of shares blocked for ten years as shown
that does not form part of remuneration. in the table in section ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid
to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’. The
4.5 Remuneration paid to the former members Board of Directors will submit the Remuneration
of the Board of Directors Committee’s bonus proposal (adopted in late 2020)
Former member of the Board of Directors Dr Franz B. for the Chairman of the Board, Dr Christoph Franz,
Humer in 2020 received fees amounting to a total of in respect of the 2020 financial year (payable in
USD 40,000 (CHF 37,568) for serving as a member March 2021, excluding legally required employer’s
of the Chugai International Council (CIC) of Chugai contributions to AHV/IV/ALV) for the shareholder
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. binding vote to the 2021 ordinary Annual General
Meeting.
Former member of the Board of Directors William
M. Burns in 2020 received honoraria amounting to a
total of USD 40, 000 (CHF 37,568) in his capacity as
a member of the Chugai International Council (CIC)
of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
No additional remuneration was paid.
Retrospective approvals of the Chairman’s total aggregate bonus (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2021 AGM 2020 AGM 2019
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2020 financial year 2019 financial year 2018
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 837,585 ** 558,390 ** 558,390 **
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
** Bonus award (in form of shares blocked for 10 years [calculation of number of shares based on the price at the date of transfer in March 2021/March 2020/March 2019,
respectively, after approval at the AGM 2021/AGM 2020/AGM 2019, respectively], calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years
[reduced market value: 55.839%] to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2021/as approved at the AGM 2020 and AGM 2019, respectively)
DETIDUA
152Remuneration Report | Roche 153
4.6.2 Submission of the Board’s total aggregate Dr Severin Schwan’s remuneration as shown
future remuneration for a binding shareholder in 5.3 which he receives in his function as CEO
vote Roche Group and member of the Corporate
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2021 Executive Committee is not included here but
ordinary AGM approve Board remuneration totalling is part of the Corporate Executive Committee’s
not more than CHF 10,000,000 (excluding legally total remuneration.
required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at
the 2022 ordinary AGM.
Prospective approvals of the Board’s total aggregate future remuneration (in CHF)*
Proposal AGM 2021 AGM 2020 AGM 2019
Aggregate amount Aggregate amount Aggregate amount
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2021–AGM 2022 AGM 2020–AGM 2021 AGM 2019–AGM 2020
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
4.6.3 Reconciliation of the reported excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the
remuneration with the shareholders’ approved 2020 ordinary AGM.
remuneration for the members of the Board
of Directors For comparison, from the 2019 ordinary AGM
The 2019 ordinary AGM approved Board to the 2020 ordinary AGM actual remuneration
remuneration totalling not more than amounted to CHF 8,597,609 (excluding legally
CHF 10,000,000 (excluding legally required required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and and excluding bonuses).
Prospectively approved total remuneration for the members of the Board of Directors in comparison to the actual total
payments made (in CHF) *
Total remuneration Total remuneration Total remuneration
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2020–AGM 2021 AGM 2019–AGM 2020 AGM 2018–AGM 2019
Maximum of total remuneration approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000
Actual total remuneration paid Calculation at end of period 8,597,609 8,694,022
Within the approved limit Calculation at end of period Yes Yes
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses154
4.7 Security holdings Statements (‘Related parties’, page 138) and
Directors André Hoffmann and Dr Jörg Duschmalé in Note 4 to the Financial Statements of Roche
and members of the founders’ families who Holding Ltd (‘Significant shareholders’, page 184).
are closely associated with them belong to a In addition, as at 31 December 2020 (as at
contractually bound shareholder group with 31 December 2019, respectively) the members
pooled voting rights. At the end of 2020 this of the Board of Directors and persons closely
group held 72,018,000 shares (45.01% of issued associated with them held Roche shares,
shares). Detailed information about this group non-voting equity securities (NES) and American
can be found in the Finance Report, Note 32 Depositary Receipts (ADRs***) as shown in the
to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial table ‘Security holdings’ below.
Security holdings (shares and NES)
(as at 31 December 2020) (as at 31 December 2019)
Non-voting Non-voting Close
equity Close relatives’ equity relatives’
securities security Others securities security Others
Shares (NES) holdings (number/ Shares (NES) holdings (number/
(number) (number) (number/type) type) (number) (number) (number/type) type)
Board of Directors
C. Franz 23,210 4,810 – – 19,771 4,810 – –
A. Hoffmann – * 200 – – – * 200 – –
J. Brown 729 – – – 729 – – –
P. Bulcke – 4,000 – – – 4,000 – –
H. Clevers – 750 – – – – – –
J. Duschmalé – * – – – n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
P. Frost 1,000 – – – n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
A. Hauser 3,000 150 20 NES – 3,000 150 20 NES –
R.P. Lifton – – – 300 ADRs*** – – – 300 ADRs***
B. Poussot 500 500 – – 500 500 – –
S. Schwan (see ‘5.16 Security holdings’ (see ‘5.16 Security holdings’
Corporate Executive Committee on page 164) Corporate Executive Committee on page 164)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff – 2,100 ** – – – 2,100 ** – –
Total 28,439 12,510 20 NES 300 ADRs*** 24,000 11,760 20 NES 300 ADRs***
n.a. – not applicable
* Shares held by the shareholder group with pooled voting rights not listed
** Jointly held with close relative
*** R oche’s ADR (American Depositary Receipt) listed on OTCQX (https://www.otcmarkets.com/stock/RHHBY/quote) International Premier under the symbol RHHBY, ISIN US771195104.
Traded in USD, eight (8) ADRs represent one (1) underlying NESRemuneration Report | Roche 155
5. Remuneration of the Corporate
Executive Committee
5.1 Resolution and approval 5.2 Amount of remuneration to members of
Remuneration of the members of the Corporate the Corporate Executive Committee
Executive Committee was decided at the The general provisions assigning authority for
Remuneration Committee’s discretion, taking decisions on Corporate Executive Committee
into account market comparisons. remuneration to the Remuneration Committee and
to the Board of Directors are outlined on page 141,
As in the previous years, in 2021, the Board of ‘2. Remuneration decision process and approval
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate framework’.
bonuses of the Corporate Executive Committee to
the General Meeting for the 2020 financial year for In 2020, members of the Corporate Executive
retrospective binding approval. Committee received remuneration for their work
as shown in 5.3–5.12. The amount of remuneration
The maximum amounts of the total other aggregate for the CEO Roche Group, Dr Severin Schwan, is
remuneration of the Corporate Executive Committee explained in 5.3 in detail.
for the period between the ordinary General Meeting
2021 and the ordinary General Meeting 2022 will Payments to Dr Gottlieb Keller, who retired from
be tabled in 2021 as in the previous years for the the Corporate Executive Committee and from
General Meeting’s prospective binding approval Roche at the end of March 2020, in 2020 are
(see 2.2). included and aggregated in the total remuneration
of the Corporate Executive Committee (see 5.12).5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to highest total remuneration paid to a member of the
Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive Committee (see below) and
Corporate Executive Committee included in the total amount paid to the Corporate
Dr Severin Schwan, executive member of the Board Executive Committee (see ‘5.12 Total remuneration
of Directors, received his remuneration in his primary paid to the members of the Corporate Executive
function as CEO Roche Group. It is reflected as the Committee’, page 161).
Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive Committee (in CHF)
2020 2019 19
Base salary 3,500,000 18 4,000,000
Bonus (subject to approval of the total aggregate bonuses for the Corporate Executive Committee
by Annual General Meeting) 2,791,950 20* 2,791,950 *
S-SARs 21 3,379,613 3,379,524
RSUs 22 595,678* 595,673 *
Roche Connect 100,008 100,008
Pension funds/insurances 581,106 ** 580,843 **
Other payments incl. expense allowance/for tax consulting services 85,324 68,856
Total 23 11,033,679 11,516,854
18 In light of the overall economic impact of the Corona pandemic, Dr Severin Schwan waived the amount of CHF 500,000 from his contractual base salary in 2020.
19 For detailed calculation of the remuneration for 2019 and 2018 see Annual Report 2019, page 138.
20 Shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in March 2021 after approval at the AGM 2021).
21 S -SARs 2020: Number: 103,260, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 41.32. Trinomial model for American call options value as described
in ‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’, page 158. S-SARs 2020 are blocked for 4 years and may
thereafter be exercised only, whilst exercising resulting NES are automatically blocked for additional 4 years (calculation of value of non-voting equity securities in
consideration of reduction of value due to additional blocking period of 4 years, reduced market value: 79.209%).
S-SARs 2019: Number: 122,322, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 34.88. Trinomial model for American call options value as described
in ‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’, page 158. S-SARs 2019 are blocked for 4 years and may
thereafter be exercised only, whilst exercising resulting NES are automatically blocked for additional 4 years (calculation of value of non-voting equity securities in
consideration of reduction of value due to additional blocking period of 4 years, reduced market value: 79.209%).
22 Calculation of RSUs value 2020: number of RSUs (3,463) multiplied by grant value of CHF 308.05 (NES closing price at grant date on 19 March 2020) per RSU;
calculation of RSUs value 2019: number of RSUs (3,927) multiplied by grant value of CHF 271.65 (NES closing price at grant date on 15 March 2019) per RSU.
23 Includes an annual expense allowance (CHF 30,000), payments for tax consulting services (CHF 42,626; 2019: CHF 28,056), family, children and education allowance (CHF 12,698;
2019: CHF 10,800). Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 625,415 (2019: CHF 495,882 ) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities/shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market value: 55.839%)
** Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
DETIDUA
1565.4 Base pay of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Base pay (in CHF)
2020 2019
B. Anderson 2,141,652 1,804,301
A. Hippe 1,600,000 1,600,000
T. Schinecker 879,425 608,704
C. A. Wilbur 1,007,256 989,156
Total 5,628,333 5,002,161
Base pay to Dr Gottlieb Keller until his retirement a bonus of CHF 350,000 is being proposed. It is
from Roche at the end of March 2020 is included included and aggregated in the total remuneration
and aggregated in the total remuneration of the of the Corporate Executive Committee (see 5.12).
Corporate Executive Committee (see 5.12). The total aggregate amount of bonuses will be
brought forward for a binding vote by the Annual
5.5 Bonuses of the other members of the General Meeting 2021.
Corporate Executive Committee
The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Except for Dr Severin Schwan, all members of the
Directors determined the Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee will receive the
Committee members’ bonuses based on the bonus 2020 as a 100% cash payment. Dr Severin
2020 performance against the agreed objectives. Schwan will receive the bonus in form of Roche
The Remuneration Committee uses its discretion shares which are blocked for ten years (see
appropriately in the weighting of each criteria page 156). Bonus payment is due in March 2021.
and in the bonus allocation. For Dr Gottlieb Keller
Bonus (in CHF)
2020 2019
(Subject to approval of the
total aggregate bonuses of the
Corporate Executive Committee by the
Annual General Meeting 2021)
B. Anderson 2,400,000 2,500,000
A. Hippe 2,000,000 2,000,000
T. Schinecker 1,300,000 500,000
C. A. Wilbur 1,200,000 1,200,000
Total 6,900,000 6,200,000
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 1575.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights the total LTI for Corporate Executive Committee
(S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate members of 133.33% of a base pay measured on
Executive Committee 1 January of a year).
S-SARs to the Corporate Executive Committee
are allocated individually at the Remuneration The fair value of the S-SARs is calculated at the grant
Committee’s discretion. The S-SARs shown in the date using the trinomial model for American call
5.16.2 ‘S-SARs’ table on page 165 entitle holders to options. The trinomial model is an effective method
benefit financially from any increase in the value of for valuation of American call options, as it considers
Roche’s non-voting equity securities (NES) between the possibility of exercising the option any time prior
the grant date and the exercise date. The strike price to maturity (called ‘American’ option, as compared
for S-SARs under the terms of this multi-year plan to a ‘European’ option, which only allows exercise at
is the closing price for Roche NES at grant date. All its maturity date).24
S-SARs since 2019 vest four (previously granted
S-SARs three) years after the grant date. Vested The numbers of S-SARs, the strike prices, expiry
S-SARs can be exercised (converted into NES) within dates and grant values for S-SARs are shown below
ten (previously granted S-SARs within seven) years and in the 5.16.2 ‘S-SARs’ table on page 165. The
of the grant date. Unexercised S-SARs lapse without numbers of S-SARs as calculated at the time of issue
compensation. have been entered as values in the table below and
on page 156.
Since 2019, the S-SARs proportion of the LTI of
the Corporate Executive Committee is 80% (based For 2020, no S-SARs were granted to Dr Gottlieb
on the already existing individual target value of Keller.
5.7 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) of the individually for the Corporate Executive Committee
other members of the Corporate Executive at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion.
Committee
Since 2019, the proportion of Restricted Stock Units RSUs contain rights to receive non-voting equity
(RSUs) of the members of the Corporate Executive securities and/or shares after a since 2019 newly
Committee is composed of 20% of the total LTI defined four-year vesting period plus a value
(based on the already existing individual target value adjustment (being the amount equivalent to the
of the total LTI for Corporate Executive Committee sum of the dividend paid during the vesting period
members of 133.33% of a base pay measured on attributable to the number of non-voting equity
1 January of a year). RSU awards are allocated securities and/or shares for which an individual
24 For further information on the trinomial model for American call options: Please refer to Boyle, Phelim P.: ‘A lattice framework for option pricing with two state
variables’, The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Volume 23, Issue 1 (Mar 1988), 1–12, https://www.roche.com/dam/jcr:1a6a5a5c-7b9f-4019-810a-
7b57c4b89eac/en/trinomial-model.pdf
DETIDUA
158
Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
2020 2019
Grant value per Grant value per
Number S-SAR in CHF Value in CHF Number S-SAR in CHF Value in CHF
B. Anderson 46,467 41.32 1,920,016 55,045 34.88 1,919,970
A. Hippe 41,304 41.32 1,706,681 48,930 34.88 1,706,678
T. Schinecker 20,652 41.32 853,341 7,744 34.88 270,111
C. A. Wilbur 25,815 41.32 1,066,676 29,052 34.88 1,013,334
Total 134,238 41.32 5,546,714 140,771 34.88 4,910,093
Price: CHF 308.05, expiry date: 19.3.2030 Price: CHF 271.65, expiry date: 15.3.20295.8 Performance Share Plan (PSP) of the Committee, determined the payment at the end
other members of the Corporate Executive of 2020.
Committee
The PSP was established in 2002 for periods Under the provisions of this plan, a number of
of three years each and based on a three-year non-voting equity securities (NES) or shares have
comparison of the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) been reserved for the participants in each cycle. The
with 15 peer companies (see footnote 1). The plan’s number of securities actually awarded will depend on
key performance metric for an award, the TSR, whether and to what extent an investment in Roche
was calculated as a three-month moving average securities (shares and NES) outperforms the average
rate before the start of and before the end of the return on an investment in securities issued by a set
performance cycle. of peer companies (see footnote 1). Comparisons are
based on the securities’ market prices and dividend
No new PSP awards have been granted since the yields, ie, on Total Shareholder Return (TSR). To
end of 2018. Therefore, in 2020, there was only reduce the effect of short-term market fluctuations,
one performance cycle PSP 2018–2020 left, which security prices are averaged over the three months
closed on 31 December 2020 and about which (October to December) prior to the start of a
the Board of Directors at its discretion, acting performance cycle and over the three months
upon recommendations from the Remuneration (October to December) at the end of the cycle.
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 159
award has been granted). They will be vested to the For 2020, Dr Gottlieb Keller received no RSU awards.
recipient for the Corporate Executive Committee
after four years only. Thereafter, resulting non-voting
equity securities and/or shares may remain blocked
for up to ten years.
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
2020 2019
Value at grant Value at grant
Number in CHF Value in CHF Number in CHF Value in CHF
B. Anderson 1,558 308.05 479,942 1,767 271.65 480,006
A. Hippe 1,385 308.05 238,237 * 1,571 271.65 238,300 *
T. Schinecker 693 308.05 169,094 ** 994 271.65 213,880 **
C. A. Wilbur 866 308.05 266,771 933 271.65 253,449
Total 4,502 308.05 1,154,044 5,265 271.65 1,185,635
* Calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 10 years, reduced market value: 55.839%
** Calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 4 years, reduced market value: 79.209%DETIDUA
160
If Roche securities perform better than the average 5.9 Indirect benefits of the other members of
of the peer set, the Board of Directors can elect to the Corporate Executive Committee
increase the NES or shares award. The maximum Employer contributions made in 2020 to social
award is double the original-level reserved target security schemes, pension plans and a Group-wide
number of NES or shares according to the PSP (plus employee stock purchase plan (Roche Connect)
a value adjustment being the amount equivalent in respect of members of the Corporate Executive
to the sum of the dividend paid during the vesting Committee are shown in the ‘Indirect benefits
period attributable to the number of non-voting (employer contributions)’ table below and in the
equity securities or shares for which an individual table on page 156.
award has been granted) and requires that Roche
securities perform as well as or better than those of Roche Connect is a voluntary stock purchase
75% of the peer set. In the event that an investment plan offering employees the opportunity to buy
in Roche securities underperforms the average Roche non-voting equity securities (NES) up to an
return delivered by the peer companies, fewer or amount equal to 10% of their annual salary at a
no NES or shares will be awarded. 20% discount. NES purchased under this plan are
subject to a holding period, which is four years in
At the end of the PSP 2018–2020 cycle (based on Switzerland.
a three-month average) with distributed dividends
totalling CHF 22.426 billion (2020: CHF 7.763 billion; In addition, members of the Corporate Executive
2019: CHF 7.504 billion; 2018: CHF 7.159 billion), Committee received annual expense allowances
according to the terms of the plan, the participants and some members payments for foreign tax
received 200% of the originally targeted NES obligations and tax consulting services as shown
awarded. At the end of the PSP 2018–2020 cycle, in the table below.
35,718 NES of the 32,535 originally targeted NES
(incl. NES of the Group CEO) as outlined on pages Payments (employer contributions) of indirect
141 and 138 in the Annual Report 2018 taking benefits to Dr Gottlieb Keller until his retirement
into account retired members of the Corporate from Roche at the end of March 2020 are included
Executive Committee were awarded. and aggregated in the total remuneration of the
Corporate Executive Committee (see 5.12).
Bill Anderson and Dr Thomas Schinecker were not
participating in the PSP programme.
Indirect benefits (employer contributions) (in CHF)
2020 2019
Payments Payments
Annual for tax/tax Annual for tax/tax
Pension funds/ expense Roche consulting Pension funds/ expense Roche consulting
insurances * allowances Connect services insurances * allowances Connect services
B. Anderson 331,106 30,000 – 758,279 330,843 30,000 – 127,525
A. Hippe 331,106 30,000 39,996 16,535 330,843 30,000 39,996 11,142
T. Schinecker 327,928 30,000 3,000 25,102 141,796 12,500 3,000 32,967
C. A. Wilbur 331,106 30,000 18,744 60,073 330,843 30,000 18,744 100,153
Total 1,321,246 120,000 61,740 859,989 1,134,325 102,500 61,740 271,787
* Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial partsDETIDUA
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 161
5.10 Other remuneration and loans of members contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
of the Corporate Executive Committee and all payments to Dr Gottlieb Keller until his
To meet legal and contractual obligations, in 2020 retirement at the end of March 2020) totalling
Roche paid a total of CHF 100,674 to individual CHF 33,488,192 (2019: 37,952,012), excluding
members of the Corporate Executive Committee additional employer’s contribution paid to AHV/IV/
for family, child and education allowances and their ALV totalling CHF 2,090,167 (2019: CHF 1,628,429)
children’s schooling costs. that does not form part of remuneration.
All aforementioned additional payments are No additional remuneration other than the
included in the total remuneration to members of above-mentioned payments was paid to current
the Corporate Executive Committee. or former members of the Corporate Executive
Committee.
In 2020, there were no loans or credits granted to
the members of the Corporate Executive Committee. 5.13 Executive remuneration subject to approval
at the Annual General Meeting
The maximum regular period of notice for members
of the Corporate Executive Committee is 12 months. 5.13.1 Submission of Executive total aggregate
There are no change-of-control clauses in the bonuses for a binding vote at the Annual
employment contracts. General Meeting
The Board of Directors proposes awarding the
5.11 Remuneration to former members of the members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee bonuses (for Dr Severin Schwan in form of Roche
No additional remuneration other than the shares which are blocked for ten years, for all other
above-mentioned payments was paid to former members of the Corporate Executive Committee
members of the Corporate Executive Committee. as a 100% cash payment, see 5.5) totalling
CHF 10,041,950 in respect of the 2020 financial
5.12 Total remuneration paid to the members year (2019: CHF 11,141,950), excluding legally
of the Corporate Executive Committee required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV,
For the 2020 calendar year, the members of and will submit this proposed total amount to the
the Corporate Executive Committee received ordinary Annual General Meeting (AGM) 2021 for
remuneration (including bonuses, employer a binding vote.
Retrospective approvals of the members of the Executive Committee’s total aggregate bonuses (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2021 AGM 2020 AGM 2019
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2020 financial year 2019 financial year 2018
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 10,041,950 11,141,950 9,291,950
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV162
5.13.2 Submission of Executive total future incentives S-SARs (calculated at grant value
aggregate remuneration for a binding without considering reductions of value due to
shareholder vote blocking periods if applicable) and RSUs (see 3.1.4,
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2021 calculated at the time of reservation of non-voting
ordinary AGM approve remuneration for the equity securities or shares, without considering
Corporate Executive Committee totalling not reductions of value due to blocking periods),
more than CHF 36,000,000 (excluding legally contributions to pension benefits (excluding legally
required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV)
and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at as well as contributions for expenses, payments
the 2022 ordinary AGM. for foreign tax obligations, tax consulting services
and Roche Connect.
The amount of Executive total future aggregate
remuneration is composed of base pay, long-term
Prospective approvals of the members of the Executive Committee’s total future aggregate remuneration (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2021 AGM 2020 AGM 2019
Aggregate amount Aggregate amount Aggregate amount
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2021–AGM 2022 AGM 2020–AGM 2021 AGM 2019–AGM 2020
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 36,000,000 37,000,000 38,000,000
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
5.13.3 Reconciliation of the reported and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at
remuneration with the shareholders’ the 2020 ordinary AGM.
prospectively approved remuneration for
the members of the Corporate Executive For comparison, from the 2019 ordinary AGM to
Committee the 2020 ordinary AGM remuneration amounted
The 2019 ordinary AGM approved remuneration to CHF 26,904,810 (excluding legally required
for the Corporate Executive Committee totalling employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and
not more than CHF 38,000,000 (excluding legally excluding bonuses. PSP: assumption of maximum
required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV value).Remuneration Report | Roche 163
Prospectively approved total remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee in comparison to actual total
remuneration effected (in CHF) *
Amount for the period Amount for the period Amount for the period
AGM 2020–AGM 2021 AGM 2019–AGM 2020 AGM 2018–AGM 2019
Maximum of total remuneration prospectively
approved by the AGM 37,000,000 38,000,000 41,000,000 **
Total remuneration calculated at end of Calculation at the end of
corresponding AGM–AGM period period AGM 2020–AGM 2021 26,904,810 33,139,195 **
Actual total remuneration realised
(for corresponding AGM–AGM period based on (Calculated at the (Calculated after the
the actual amount calculated retrospectively end of period end of the PSP cycle
after the end of the corresponding PSP cycle/as Calculation at the end of AGM 2019–AGM 2020) 2018–2020)
of 2019 grant value of RSUs) period AGM 2020–AGM 2021 26,904,810 33,139,195 ***
Within the approved limit Calculation at end of period Yes Yes
Additional amount paid for new members of the
Corporate Executive Committee after approval by
the AGM and not within the approved total amount No No No
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
** Including assumption amount of 200% (maximum possible award) of shares/non-voting equity securities of the corresponding PSP cycle
*** R esulting amount due to the 200% award of the originally targeted NES under the PSP 2018–2020 cycle
5.14 Clawback •activity leading to serious disciplinary action
In addition to applicable statutory provisions, • repeated or willful failure to perform such duties
Roche’s long-term incentive plans include the as have been reasonably assigned by Roche
option to partially reclaim distributed compensation •violation of any law or public regulation
as a result of special circumstances (clawback). •commission of a crime
• gross negligence or willful misconduct in
If the employee voluntarily serves notice of employment
termination of employment, S-SARs (see 5.16.2) • engaging in conduct bringing disgrace or disrepute
and RSUs (see 3.1.4) which are unvested at the date to Roche and/or any of its subsidiaries
of termination of employment lapse immediately • violation of any of Roche’s directives and guidelines
without any compensation. relating to business conduct
Upon termination of employment as a result of serious According to the regulations of the PSP programme,
misconduct, all S-SARs and RSUs granted and the originally targeted but not awarded NES or
outstanding, whether vested or unvested, shall lapse shares shall lapse without any compensation upon
immediately without any compensation. According notice of termination of employment being given
to the S-SARs plan rules, serious misconduct by the for any reason other than redundancy, disability
participant may include (inter alia): or retirement.164
5.15 Guidelines for security holdings these holdings for as long as they serve on the
In 2012, the Board of Directors decided that Corporate Executive Committee. With the exception
the CEO Roche Group and other members of the of Bill Anderson and Dr Thomas Schinecker, who
Corporate Executive Committee must acquire joined the Corporate Executive Committee in 2019
shares and/or NES equivalent to two annual base and who must fulfil the requirement by the end of
salaries (CEO Roche Group since 2018 equivalent 2024, all other members of the Corporate Executive
to five annual base salaries) and one annual base Committee fulfil this requirement.
salary, respectively, by the end of 2016 and retain
Type of security Value to be acquired
CEO Roche Group Shares and/or NES 5 × annual base salary
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee Shares and/or NES 1 × annual base salary
5.16 Security holdings associated with them held securities as shown in
As at 31 December 2020 (as at 31 December the following tables ‘Shares and non-voting equity
2019, respectively) the members of the Corporate securities (NES)’, ‘S-SARs’ and ‘Restricted Stock
Executive Committee and persons closely Units (RSUs)’.
5.16.1 Shares and non-voting equity securities (NES)
(as at 31 December 2020) (as at 31 December 2019)
Close relatives’ Close relatives’
Shares NES security holdings Shares NES security holdings
(number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number/type)
Corporate
Executive
Committee Shares NES Shares NES
S. Schwan 196,789 50,176 – – 191,595 35,273 – –
B. Anderson – 4,547 – – – 1,986 – –
A. Hippe 6,970 27,579 – – 6,970 20,830 – –
T. Schinecker – 737 – – – 155 – –
C. A. Wilbur – 8,491 – – – 4,315 – –
Total 203,759 91,530 – – 198,565 62,559 – –Remuneration Report | Roche 165
5.16.2 S-SARs
Number of S-SARs held on 31 December 2020
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Corporate Executive Committee
S. Schwan 103,260 122,322 100,677 85,476 89,517 59,997 29,864
B. Anderson 46,467 55,045 43,929 35,925 – – –
A. Hippe 41,304 48,930 40,275 34,191 – – –
T. Schinecker 20,652 7,744 6,288 1,608 – – –
C.A. Wilbur 25,815 29,052 21,402 16,032 15,339 4,164 5,754
Total 237,498 263,093 212,571 173,232 104,856 64,161 35,618
Price (CHF) 308.05 271.65 220.80 251.90 251.50 256.10 263.20
Market price per NES on 309.00
31 December 2020 (CHF)
Expiry date 19.3.2030 15.3.2029 15.3.2025 16.3.2024 3.3.2023 5.3.2022 6.3.2021
Grant value per S-SAR (CHF) 41.32 34.88 * 26.49 * 31.20 * 29.79 * 43.34 * 47.75 *
Since 1.1.2012:
– Trinomial model for American
call options
* Values according to corresponding
annual reports
5.16.3 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
Number of RSUs held on 31 December 2020
2020 2019 2018
Corporate Executive Committee
S. Schwan 3,463 3,927 n.a.
B. Anderson 1,558 1,767 5,270
A. Hippe 1,385 1,571 n.a.
T. Schinecker 693 745 1,131
C. A. Wilbur 866 933 n.a.
Total 7,965 8,943 6,401
Grant value per RSU CHF 308.05 CHF 271.65 CHF 220.80
(NES closing price at grant date (NES closing price at grant date (NES closing price at grant date
on 19 March 2020) on 15 March 2019 on 15 March 2018)
n.a. – not applicableStatutory Auditor’s Report | Roche 167
To the General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
We have audited the accompanying assurance about whether the Remuneration
Remuneration Report of Roche Holding Ltd Report complies with Swiss law and articles
for the year ended 31 December 2020. The 14–16 of the Ordinance.
audit was limited to the information according
to articles 14–16 of the Ordinance against An audit involves performing procedures to
excessive compensation at listed joint-stock obtain audit evidence on the disclosures made
companies (the Ordinance) contained in the in the Remuneration Report with regard to
sections marked as ‘audited’ with a grey line, compensation, loans and credits in accordance
including the respective footnotes, on pages 138 with articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. The
to 165 of the Remuneration Report. procedures selected depend on the auditor’s
judgement, including the assessment of the risks
Responsibility of the Board of Directors of material misstatements in the Remuneration
The Board of Directors is responsible for the Report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit
preparation and overall fair presentation of the also includes evaluating the reasonableness
Remuneration Report in accordance with Swiss of the methods applied to value components of
law and the Ordinance. The Board of Directors is remuneration, as well as assessing the overall
also responsible for designing the remuneration presentation of the Remuneration Report.
system and defining individual remuneration
packages. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide
Auditor’s Responsibility a basis for our opinion.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
the accompanying Remuneration Report. We Opinion
conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss In our opinion, the Remuneration Report for the
Auditing Standards. Those Standards require year ended 31 December 2020 of Roche Holding
that we comply with ethical requirements and Ltd complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable of the Ordinance.
KPMG AG
Mark Baillache Marc Ziegler
Licensed Audit Expert Licensed Audit Expert
Auditor in Charge
Basel, 1 February 2021
KPMG AG, Viaduktstrasse 42, PO Box 3456, CH-4002 Basel
KPMG AG is a subsidiary of KPMG Holding AG, which is a member of the KPMG network of independent firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’),
a Swiss legal entity. All rights reserved.168
Independent Limited Assurance Report
on the 2020 non-financial reporting to the Corporate Governance and
Sustainability Committee of Roche Holding AG, Basel
We have been engaged to perform assurance •the figures on the Roche Group level in relation
procedures to provide assurance on the aspects to the payments and donations, disclosed on
of the 2020 non-financial reporting of Roche page 106 of the Report; and
Holding AG, Basel and its consolidated subsidiaries •the management of reporting processes with
(‘Roche’) included in the Annual Report 2020 respect to SHE, payments and donations and
(‘Report’). contributions key figures as well as the related
control environment in relation to the data
Scope and Subject matter aggregation of these key figures.
Our assurance engagement relates to limited level
of assurance focused on the data and information Criteria
for the year ended 31 December 2020 disclosed in The management reporting processes with respect
the Report of Roche. to the non-financial reporting and key figures were
prepared by Roche based on the policies and
We have not carried out any work on data reported procedures as set forth in the following:
for prior reporting periods and in respect of •the Roche Group guideline ‘Grants donations
projections and targets. and sponsorship (GSD) data collection process’
disclosed on the website;
The following specified data and information •the Roche Group internal non-financial reporting
published in the Report is within the scope of our guidelines based on the ‘Responsible Care
limited assurance engagement: Health, Safety and Environmental Protection
•the materiality determination process of Roche at reporting guidelines’ published by the European
Group level according to the requirements of the Chemical Industry Council CEFIC and the
‘GRI Standards’ and as disclosed on page 60 of ‘GRI Standards’ published in October 2016 by
the Report; the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI);
•the design of the sustainability risks and •the Roche Group internal Corporate Reporting
opportunities determination process based on Manual ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidance –
Roche Group level activities, disclosed on page Economic Performance’ issued 30 March 2020;
58 in the paragraph ‘Risk management’ of the •the Roche materiality determination process
Report; at Group level based on the ‘GRI Standards’
•the Safety, Security, Health and Environmental published in October 2016 by the Global Reporting
protection (‘SHE’) key figures (including Initiative (GRI); and
greenhouse gas emissions for scope 1 & 2 and •the defined guidelines, by which SHE, payments,
scope 3 resulting from business flights) in the donations and contributions key figures, and
tables and graphs on page 91 and page 94 to 101 sustainability risks and opportunities are internally
of the Report; gathered, collated and aggregated.
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zurich
Telephone: +41 58 792 44 00, Telefax: +41 58 792 44 10, www.pwc.ch
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity.Independent Limited Assurance Report | Roche 169
Inherent limitations requirements, professional standards and
The accuracy and completeness of non-financial applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
indicators are subject to inherent limitations
given their nature and methods for determining, Our responsibility
calculating and estimating such data. GHG Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance
quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty, engagement and to express conclusion on the
because of the incomplete scientific knowledge aspects of the 2020 non-financial reporting of
used to determine emissions factors and the values Roche. We planned and performed our procedures
needed to combine emissions of different gases. in accordance with the International Standard on
Our assurance report should therefore be read Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) (Revised)
in connection with Roche’s guidelines, definitions ‘Assurance engagements other than audits or
and procedures as well as on the above third-party reviews of historical financial information’ and, in
guidelines used to present the selected non- respect of greenhouse gas emissions, with the
financial reporting performance. International Standard on Assurance Engagements
(ISAE 3410) ‘Assurance Engagements on
Roche’s responsibility Greenhouse Gas Statements’, issued by the
The Roche Corporate Governance and International Auditing and Assurance Standards
Sustainability Committee is responsible for both Board. These standards require that we plan and
the subject matter and the criteria including the perform our procedures to obtain limited assurance
selection, preparation and presentation of the on whether the specified non-financial information
selected information in accordance with the prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance
criteria. This responsibility includes the design, with Roche’s policies and procedures, as well as
implementation and maintenance of related internal the management and reporting processes together
control relevant to this reporting process that is free with the related control environment in relation to
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud the data aggregation work as designed and form
or error. an appropriate basis for reporting and follow GRI
Standards for the non-financial performance of
Our independence and quality controls Roche in focus.
We are independent of Roche Holding AG
in accordance with the International Code of A limited assurance engagement is substantially
Ethics for Professional Accountants (including less in scope than a reasonable assurance
International Independence Standards) issued engagement in relation to both the risk assessment
by the International Ethics Standards Board for procedures, including an understanding of internal
Accountants (IESBA Code). We have fulfilled our control, and the procedures performed in response
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the to the assessed risks. Consequently, the nature,
IESBA Code. timing and extent of procedures for gathering
sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG applies International limited relative to a reasonable assurance
Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly engagement and therefore less assurance is
maintains a comprehensive system of quality obtained with a limited assurance engagement
control including documented policies and than for a reasonable assurance engagement.
procedures regarding compliance with ethical170
The procedures selected depend on the assurance requirements addressing the soundness of the
practitioner’s judgement. identification process, determination of impacted
stakeholders, peer and competition review,
Summary of the work performed integration of relevant regulatory requirements,
Our assurance procedures included, amongst integration of key organisational values and
others, the following work: objectives and report prioritisation of material
•Review of the application of Roche Group aspects;
guidelines Inspecting the integration of the sustainability risks
Reviewing the application of the Roche Group and opportunities in the Group Risk Management
non-financial reporting and contributions Process and its adherence to the internal
guidelines; guidelines;
•Site visits and management inquiry •Assessment of the processes and data
Remotely visiting selected sites of Roche’s consolidation
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics divisions in Reviewing the management and non-financial
the USA, Switzerland, China and Indonesia. reporting processes for SHE, payments and
The selection was based on quantitative and donations, and contributions key figures; and
qualitative criteria; Assessing the aggregation process of data at
Interviewing personnel responsible for internal Roche Group level.
non-financial reporting and data collection at the
sites we visited and at the Roche Group level We have not conducted any work on data other
to determine the understanding and application than outlined in the subject matter as defined
of Roche’s non-financial and contributions above. We believe that the evidence we have
guidelines; obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide
•Assessment of the key figures a basis for our assurance conclusion.
Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence
supporting selected SHE, payments and Limited assurance conclusion
donations and contributions (e.g. Roche accident Based on our work performed nothing has come
rate, energy consumption, CO-equivalent to our attention causing us to believe that, in all
2
emissions, water usage and discharge, donations material aspects:
to political parties in Switzerland) concerning •the Roche materiality determination process at
completeness, accuracy, adequacy and Group level as disclosed does not adhere to the
consistency; principles and guiding factors (e.g. soundness,
•Review of documentation and analysis of relevant stakeholder determination, peer review, relevance
policies and principles of regulatory environment, integration of key
Reviewing relevant documentation on a sample organisational values and objectives) defined
basis, including Roche Group non-financial within the ‘GRI Standards’;
reporting policies, management of reporting •the design of the sustainability risks and
structures and documentation; opportunities determination process at Group
Reviewing the principles of the Roche level as disclosed does not function as designed;
materiality process providing the definition •the selected key figures mentioned in the scope
for the development of its adherence to GRI’s disclosed within the non-financial reporting in
environmental, social and economic reporting
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zurich
Telephone: +41 58 792 44 00, Telefax: +41 58 792 44 10, www.pwc.ch
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity.Independent Limited Assurance Report | Roche 171
the Roche Annual Report 2020 are not stated
in accordance with the reporting criteria; and
•The management and reporting processes to
collect and aggregate the SHE, payments and
donations and contributions key figures as well
as the control environment in relation to the data
aggregation are not working as designed.
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
Christophe Bourgoin Helene Baron
Zurich, 01 February 2021172
Published by
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
Group Communications
4070 Basel, Switzerland
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 11 11
www.roche.com
Key dates for 2021
To order/download publications
Internet: roche.com/publications
Annual General Meeting E-mail: basel.warehouse-services@roche.com
16 March 2021 Fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
First-quarter sales Media Relations
21 April 2021 Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 88
E-mail: media.relations@roche.com
Half-year results
22 July 2021 Investor Relations
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
Nine-month sales E-mail: investor.relations@roche.com
20 October 2021
Corporate Sustainability Committee
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 40 18
E-mail: corporate.sustainability@roche.comImprint | Roche 173
Cautionary statement regarding forward- All trademarks are legally protected.
looking statements
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking Links to third-party pages are provided for
statements. These forward-looking statements may convenience only. We do not express any opinion on
be identified by words such as ‘believes’, ‘expects’, the content of any third-party pages and expressly
‘anticipates’, ‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘should’, ‘seeks’, disclaim any liability for all third-party information
‘estimates’, ‘future’ or similar expressions or by and the use thereof.
discussion of, among other things, strategy, goals,
plans or intentions. Various factors may cause The Roche Annual Report is published in German
actual results to differ materially in the future from and English.
those reflected in forward-looking statements
contained in this Annual Report, such as: (1) pricing Our reporting consists of the actual Annual Report
and product initiatives of competitors; (2) legislative and of the Finance Report and contains the
and regulatory developments and economic annual financial statements and the consolidated
conditions; (3) delay or inability in obtaining financial statements. With regards to content,
regulatory approvals or bringing products to market; the Management Report as per the Articles of
(4) fluctuations in currency exchange rates and Incorporation consists of both aforementioned
general financial market conditions; (5) uncertainties reports with the exception of the Remuneration
in the discovery, development or marketing of new Report.
products or new uses of existing products, including
without limitation negative results of clinical trials Printed on non-chlorine bleached, FSC-certified
or research projects, unexpected side effects paper.
of pipeline or marketed products; (6) increased
government pricing pressures; (7) interruptions
in production; (8) loss of or inability to obtain
adequate protection for intellectual property
rights; (9) litigation; (10) loss of key executives or
other employees; and (11) adverse publicity and
news coverage.
The statement regarding earnings per share growth
is not a profit forecast and should not be interpreted
to mean that Roche’s earnings or earnings per share
for 2021 or any subsequent period will necessarily
match or exceed the historical published earnings
or earnings per share of Roche.REHTEGOTREGNORTS#
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
4070 Basel, Switzerland
© 2021
All trademarks are legally protected.
www.roche.com
7 001 036