Annual ReportKey Figures 2012
45,499 +4%
Group sales millions of CHF (CER) 1
17,160 +11%
Core operating profit millions of CHF (CER)
13.62 +10%
Core earnings per share CHF (CER)
15,389 +10%
Operating free cash flow millions of CHF (CER)
8,475 +2%
R & D investment millions of CHF (CER)
7.35 +8%
Dividend 2 CHF (CER)
Total Shareholder Return 2012
The value of CHF 100 3 invested 1/1/2012, for the period ending 31/12/2012
125
121
120
118
117
115
110
105
100
95
90
Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec
2011 2012
Roche GS, Price = 184.00 Roche B, Price = 186.90 Peer Set Index
326,642 +10.4%
Patients on clinical trials patients
82,089 +2.4%
Number of employees 4 employees
1 CER: Constant exchange rates (average full-year 2011).
2 Proposed by the Board of Directors.
3 Prices translated at constant CHF exchange rates:
USD=0.90; EUR=1.20; 100 JPY=1.10; GBP=1.40.
4 Full-time equivalents.3%
yaD’O
leinaD
nnamleggiD
dnaloR
Key Events 2012
Roche Group
At the Roche Annual General Management changes:
Meeting in 2012, shareholders Daniel O’Day, former Head
authorised a 3% dividend of Roche Diagnostics, was
increase to CHF 6.80 per appointed the new Head of
share and non-voting equity. Roche Pharma. Roland
It was the company’s 25 th Diggelmann has assumed
dividend increase in as many the position of Head of
years. Roche Diagnostics.
Roche continued to streamline Our late­stage pipeline
its research and develop­ made considerable progress
ment activities, taking the in 2012, with 11 out of 14 clini-
decision to close its site in cal trials delivering positive
Nutley, New Jersey, USA. results, underpinning the
The respective R & D activities strength of our innovation
are being consolidated in strategy.
Switzerland and Germany.
Pharmaceuticals
The FDA approved The FDA approved Perjeta
Erivedge (vismodegib), (pertuzumab) for patients
a first-in-class Hedgehog with HER2-positive meta-
Pathway Inhibitor for static breast cancer. This new
adults with advanced personalised medicine gives
basal cell carcinoma. patients more time without
their disease worsening.
New data from the Phase III After the second interim
EMILIA study showed that data analysis of the
Roche’s trastuzumab dal-OUTCOMES trial, Roche
emtansine (T–DM1) decided to discontinue the
significantly improved survival development of dalcetrapib,
of people with HER2-positive a medicine to lower cardio-
metastatic breast cancer. vascular risks.
Roche has filed for approval
at the FDA and the EMA.Corporate Sustainability
In 2012 we reduced our The second Transnet­
water consumption by 8.6% Phelophepa Healthcare
and our greenhouse gas Train was inaugurated in
emissions by 2.6%. With this, South Africa. Roche doubled
we are well on track to reach its support, now reaching
our five-year goal of a 10% over 550,000 people a year in
improvement in efficiency by rural South Africa through
2014. the train’s various services.
Roche has been recognised Roche has been named
as a great place to work, Healthcare Supersector
achieving top rankings in Leader in the Dow Jones
prestigious award listings Sustainability Indexes (DJSI)
worldwide in 2012. for the fourth consecutive
year. The ranking is a confir-
mation of Roche’s commit-
ment to long-term sustainable
value creation.
Diagnostics
New US guidelines recognise The FDA cleared the
the benefit of genotyping Accu­Chek Combo
the human papillomavirus system, Roche’s new inter-
(HPV) 16 and 18, the active insulin pump system
principal causes of cervical for people with diabetes,
cancer in women. and the Accu-Chek Nano
SmartView system.
Roche Applied Science Roche launched GUIDE­IT,
and Diabetes Care initiated a clinical trial involving the
restructuring measures cardiac marker NT-proBNP
to sustain long-term profit- to guide therapy in heart
ability. failure patients.The value
of innovationROCHE AT A GLANCE
Who we are
At Roche, we focus on fitting treatments to patients through innovative
medicines and diagnostic tests.
A global leader in innovation A sustainable company A great workplace
Roche is a leader in research-focused We are committed to sustainability and to We are driven by a shared set of stan-
healthcare with combined strengths in running our business in a way that is dards of integrity, the courage to reach
pharmaceuticals and diagnostics. ethical, responsible and creates long-term beyond boundaries and a passion for
value. what we do.
150+ 18,000,000 82,089
countries patients treated 1 employees 2
18 326,642 26
research centres patients in clinical trials manufacturing sites
#1 #1 #1 #1
in biotech in oncology in in vitro diagnostics in hospital market
What we do
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics
We are the world’s largest biotech company with a product We are the global leader in in vitro diagnostic testing for
portfolio of truly differentiated therapies and a robust pipeline early detection, evaluation and monitoring of disease.
of investigational new medicines. We are also a frontrunner in the management of diabetes.
Sales by therapeutic area 2012 (CER) 3 Sales by business area 2012 (CER) 3
61% Oncology (+9%) 51% Professional Diagnostics (+8%)
9% Virology (+14%) 25% Diabetes Care (–4%)
Inflammation/Autoimmune/
9% Transplantation (+5%) 11% Molecular Diagnostics (+4%)
5% Metabolism/Bone (–23%) 7% Applied Science (–3%)
4% Ophthalmology (–8%) 6% Tissue Diagnostics (+12%)
3% Respiratory diseases (+9%)
3% Cardiovascular diseases (+6%)
2% Renal anemia (–16%)
2% Central nervous system (+1%)
1% Infectious diseases (–1%)
1% Other therapeutic areas (–14%)
35.2 10.3
Pharmaceuticals Sales billion CHF Diagnostics Sales billion CHF
45.5
Roche Group Sales billion CHF
1 With one of Roche’s 25 top-selling products. 2 Full-time equivalents (FTE). 3 CER: Constant Exchange Rates (average full-year 2011).Our strategic priorities
Patients in need
29
We strive to help patients in need with truly differ- million cancer
entiated diagnostics and medicines. Our focus
70
lies in five disease areas with unmet medical need, million hepatitis C
oncology, inflammation, infectious disease,
24
metabolism and the central nervous system. million schizophrenia
235
million asthma
346
million diabetes
Personalised Healthcare
Personalised Healthcare at Roche is about providing
the right therapy for the right group of patients at
PERSONALISED
the right time. We provide medicines and diagnostics Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics
HEALTHCARE
that optimise patient care, enabling tangible improve-
ments in health, quality of life and survival.
Excellence in science
Roche is a highly innovative healthcare company, IN-HOUSE CUTTING EDGE SCIENCE
with a robust R & D foundation. We have three autono-
mous research units, as well as 150 partnerships
OPTIMAL RESOURCE ALLOCATION
all over the world, to foster diversity of research and
translate science into medicines.
EXTERNAL INNOVATION
Innovative pricing models
ESTAbLISHED
Roche aims to bring its medicines and diagnostic MARkETS
Pressure from more
tests to as many patients in need as possible. active payers
To do this, we explore innovative pricing models
and patient access schemes targeted to
individual markets. EMERGING MARkETS
Build-up of healthcare systems
with tight cost parameters
Stakeholder value
By discovering and developing innovative products, PATIENTS EMPLOYEES
we aim to provide value to all our stakeholders,
be they patients, doctors, employees, investors or
VALUE fOR
society as a whole. ALL STAkEHOLDERS
SHAREHOLDERS PROVIDERSTOP-SELLING PHARMACEUTICALS
in millions of CHF
6,707 5,889 5,764 1,649 1,523
Product
MabThera/ Herceptin Avastin Pegasys Xeloda
Rituxan
Sales growth (CER) 1
+9% +11% +6% +12% +9%
Active substance
rituximab trastuzumab bevacizumab peginterferon alfa-2a capecitabine
Indications
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, HER2-positive breast colorectal cancer, breast hepatitis B and C colorectal cancer,
chronic lymphocytic cancer, advanced HER2- cancer, non-small cell colon cancer,
leukemia, rheumatoid positive stomach cancer lung cancer, kidney breast cancer
arthritis, ANCA-asso- cancer, ovarian cancer,
ciated vasculitis glioblastoma
1 CER: Constant exchange rates (average full-year 2011).TOP-SELLING DIAGNOSTICS
in millions of CHF
Accu-Chek Nano SmartView cobas e 602 cobas c 502 cobas TaqMan 48 Ventana IHC reagents
2,346 2,321 1,514 562 518
Product
Accu-Chek cobas e modules, cobas c modules, Cobas AmpliPrep/ immunohistochemistry
monitoring systems Modular Analytics, Modular Analytics, Cobas TaqMan and in situ hybridisation
Elecsys Cobas Integra
Sales growth (CER) 1
–5% +15% +5% +2% +13%
Market segment
Blood glucose monitoring Immunoassays Clinical chemistry Virology (hepatitis B, Advanced tissue staining
hepatitis C, HIV)
Business area
Diabetes Care Professional Diagnostics Professional Diagnostics Molecular Diagnostics Tissue DiagnosticsThe Value of Innovation
Roche is a global leader in innovation for medicines and diagnostic testing. This annual report highlights how inno-
vation brings value to patients, prescribers, healthcare reimbursement and society as a whole.
16 58 70
A possible new medicine Actemra/Roactemra High-sensitivity
for HER2-positive meta- Relief for the agony of childhood cardiac test
static breast cancer arthritis Precise testing for life or
A new generation of cancer death decisions
treatment
78 88 98
Accurate diagnosis and Working with the insurance cobas HPV and CINtec
personalised healthcare industry in China tests
Focusing healthcare budgets Improving health insurance Better screening for cervical
on targeted treatments coverage for cancer patients cancer
106 120
Special Feature
The fight against
cancer goes on
From mining to biotech - Innovation in the pharma- 50 years of cancer research at Roche
R I lono cn aoc lvh eae cti ooP nne o cn mrz e yb ae tir ng g value for the c A we olau rs lt dti ic n ha g e al c li ton hnd tu ribst ur ty ion to OArifcu RacsH5tscna he ekde o an -on en gr ia F vy nr em, c sc ide ,s s ed l csoo uh no (p rwy e i ehn sv oen eaon ae l re eat ab r nnts t r h ovt sr e c s eo dyht j ei ia -u eh dr2t l r p u cl s i g ls ie ei5ie n elsn s roi st e d c0 e b a c .t nes t ro c t he ch o pp o u sfdon e ie f fa d ilr re i r ee m dd nf ol e (a oflo f c e5ei i)lem yd mf eip ta r n ff r sFi le f ei tl o ts e dgce r Uhr de tn botn .ue a he ha w ) m et W l tt e ,t t e as i h clo ti o R e etl eyo al o Nf Un b a of lp o uud lbi d r n cnut roe o sge eur ei hd its efe nv vv h at l f e e h e ea ge ra k,ha i’ o yrut trs l i t c ao s ,spn h gi m 5 afsu vp ih i itt rr t0 tn re r ha o yot ta soe c h an a uyu r tb cf a coa m er t gp ace o en ct kfat nh e ae lhmc ac so rlW taclne s ne a lf iaa s c bb e yr cnd ia ti i . as o u o n d ec gad i nc tf t trs e re r o hfu i haoc ce ener ,r r et en a r ht e iili Ra un oe ris sl ef s l to, insg ni dl a ie n e a msi bct rnv a , ld t t w u ta ede d eh rr h. sgu ci r. i i , e c yy sW t tds .hO hi t ne ir Ae Di tc l an hy t a fdl eC lho ug cie as tsf lher she be a nt lpo s c os ut s aoy dc efi ih u. a r sm s zea t ta liS g neeh h t enn cke i dd dhoe ce s- - - -. FAwtc SRt CoDreh er a fio as ei n reo mt c nc esh c m aa y at h pcs e n ut i ceew i rt nh d tm the a r ese ahi e pts b co n toh tu a ire eu os nd s eil f t lt rm t e g le mt ba so, e i wr , et teR et o rt s h u r e a, nfo de m ee n o r r dpc ol a rl ffu es y o o, shr nt d r ie m r uade eb ha i tfn s cee ueea til m d i a opr s ng nnee t rati epf cce nw n o,f t sr ooer n et goa o i mcn i a lad rfs nv yt es tnl e , bigl s et e d sy do av . as n sq e r eg t,a d e u d il re tnd co i e e ha in d a nvp tn pg ie na ho sve t n r n r ec ecl od iy oa nc net l tt os i se ro rs tfi tn i eir ee f v dirt s cg arh eev ia a ota e e s ac mt —t unrh e g iht na sd e aer e ti gl e e n hr dnpc c vsa te it aa yu i h st os ynm ttt e c . f igo dc e aace ct o in s eo sgn aln et casx nrt sd . e ois to c n ewuao v ef r ct e5rc ri e t ,t r- sa hd er mF twn r d abeU uuc a gf e ce g bf yei tin hr ys s- - ..
50 years of cancer research at Roche 27
The fight against cancer goes on
Special Feature |Roche Business Report 2012 27
03_99_Roche_AR12_Onco_Feature_ENG.indd 27 23.01.2013 15:01:39Contents
inside cover Key Figures 2012 Roche at a Glance
Key Events 2012 8 Letter from the Chairman
10 Letter from the CEO
12 Management
Business Review 18
20 Group results and outlook
23 Market Environment and Group Strategy
Research and Development 36
38 Highlights of 2012 47 Accessing external innovation
46 Improving R&D productivity 50 Pharmaceuticals pipeline
Manufacturing and Procurement 60
63 Pharmaceuticals manufacturing 66 Quality and compliance
65 Diagnostics manufacturing 68 Procurement
Marketing and Distribution 72
74 Tailored market strategies
75 Innovative pricing models
Responsible Business 80
82 Code of conduct 84 Patient safety
83 Stakeholder engagement 87 Contributing to public policy
Our People 90
92 Building a great workplace 94 Learning and career development
94 Attracting and retaining top talent 95 Embracing diversity
Community Involvement 100
103 Humanitarian and social projects 104 Arts and culture
104 Science and education 105 Community and environment
Safety, Security, Health and Environment 108
110 Improving and monitoring performance 117 Safeguarding employees and property
112 Minimising our environmental footprint 118 Pharmaceuticals in the environment
Corporate Governance, Remuneration Report 122
124 Corporate Governance
132 Remuneration Report
Independent Assurance Report
146Letter to
Shareholders from
Franz B. Humer
Dear Shareholders
High levels of public debt, especially in Europe and the United States, and
the continued strength of the emerging economies were the two dominant
influences on the healthcare sector in 2012, bringing both challenges
and opportunities. Overall, it was a demanding year for the industry and
one where cost pressure in many markets continued to increase.
Notwithstanding these challenges, Roche again posted very good results
for the year, with a firm strategy of developing medically differentiated
medicines and diagnostic products for diseases in areas of high unmet
medical need.
Group sales increased 4%, at constant exchange rates, to ing emerging market nations in Asia and Latin America, where
45.5 billion Swiss francs (+7% in Swiss francs), with both the Roche already records a fifth of its sales. Cancer and cardio­
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions growing faster vascular disease are now among the leading causes of death
than their respective markets. Roche delivered strong growth in emerging economies and demand for our medicines is rising
in the United States and the emerging markets, whilst in as a result. We are actively expanding our position in Asia and
Europe we continued to feel pricing pressure from healthcare Latin America, thereby improving global access to our medi­
budget cuts. Our focus on high­value medicines and diagnos­ cines and diagnostics products.
tic tests, however, meant that, relative to the rest of the indus­
try, our sales in Europe held up well. We have optimised our organisational structure over the past
year, adapting our processes to this changing market environ­
In general, what we are seeing is an increasing shift from the ment. A notable move was the closure of the Roche site in
established markets, especially in Europe, to the faster grow­ Nutley, New Jersey in the United States as part of the conso­
8
Roche Business Report 2012 | Letters to Shareholderslidation of research and early­stage development activities. As previously announced, Prof. Bruno Gehrig and Lodewijk
Closing the site was not an easy decision. Nutley has played a J. R. de Vink (both members of the Board of Directors since
pivotal role in the company’s success over the past 80 years. 2004) have decided not to stand for re­election to the Board of
Directors at our next Annual General Meeting. During their
Core operating profit for 2012 again improved significantly, many years of service, both have made exceptionally valuable
while net income was slightly higher at 9.8 billion Swiss francs, contributions to the growth of our company. We owe them
as the good operating performance was offset by costs associ­ a debt of gratitude.
ated with a number of major restructuring programmes and a
higher tax rate. On a comparable basis, core net income was up The Board of Directors proposes the election of Dr Severin
10% over the previous­year period at constant exchange rates Schwan, CEO of the Roche Group, as a new member of the
(+11% in Swiss francs). Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd. This will enable the
Board of Directors and Corporate Executive Committee to
Another highlight for the year was the Dow Jones Sustainability work together even more closely, which will help promote the
Indexes naming Roche Supersector Leader for the fourth con­ growth of the company in today’s challenging market environ­
secutive year, ranking us as the world’s most sustainable ment.
healthcare company.
The two new Corporate Executive Committee members
Leading the way in personalised healthcare announced in the second half of 2012 were recruited from
As a leader in personalised healthcare, Roche is uniquely posi­ within the company: Daniel O’Day, former Chief Operating
tioned to develop treatments that raise current standards of Officer (COO) of the Diagnostics Division, was appointed COO
care and extend and improve the lives of patients. Some 60% of the Pharmaceuticals Division effective 1 September 2012.
of the projects in our pharmaceuticals pipeline are being devel­ Roland Diggelmann, former Head of the Asia—Pacific region
oped in conjunction with companion diagnostic tests. In 2012 within Roche Diagnostics, was appointed as a new member
we further strengthened Personalised Healthcare, launching of the Corporate Executive Committee and Daniel O’Day’s
the cancer medicines Perjeta, for breast cancer and Zelboraf, successor as COO of the Diagnostics Division.
for melanoma, alongside their companion diagnostics.
In its newly constituted form, the Corporate Executive Com­
Medical innovation not only benefits patients, but also our mittee will continue to progress the Group’s current strategic
partners in the healthcare market, payers, the economy and course and sustainably drive Roche’s success as a global
society in general. Regrettably, in Europe in particular, there leader in healthcare. Clinical differentiation is the key to serving
continues to be too much focus on costs and short­term think­ patients’ medical needs in a better, safer and more cost­effec­
ing, which harbours the risk of missing longer­term opportuni­ tive way, which is even more crucial in this increasingly cost­
ties for our economy and society. This longer­term perspective sensitive environment.
tends to be neglected in the discussions about rising health­
care costs, as does the contribution that pharmaceuticals and Roche will continue to advance its successful strategy of
diagnostics make to medical progress. focus and innovation — for the benefit of patients, physicians,
employees and you, our shareholders.
Sustainable success — and this applies not only to Roche but
to business generally — requires long­term thinking and for­
ward­looking investments. Innovation is, and will continue to
be, the motor driving our long­term success. This success
story must be continued through open dialogue between poli­
ticians and industry.
Franz B. Humer
Board to propose 7.35 Swiss francs dividend for 2012
Chairman of the Board
In view of these good results, the Board of Directors is propos­
ing an 8% dividend increase, to 7.35 Swiss francs per share
and non­voting equity security (2011: 6.80 Swiss francs). More
than half of net income will be distributed to shareholders as
dividends. Subject to your approval, this will be our 26 th divi­
dend increase in as many years.
9
Letters to Shareholders | Roche Business Report 2012Letter to
Shareholders from
Severin Schwan
Dear Shareholders
In a difficult market environment, your company delivered a strong
performance in 2012, continuing the positive growth trend of recent years.
We met all our sales and earnings targets, and importantly, made
significant strides in product development. Three new Roche cancer
medicines have been approved in the last 18 months and a new
cancer drug has also been filed for approval.
Before I expand on our advances in research and develop­ Core operating profit increased 11% (at constant exchange
ment, I would first like to summarise our key financial results. rates) to 17.2 billion Swiss francs, outpacing sales growth
significantly. The Group core operating profit margin rose
Sales in the Pharmaceuticals Division rose 5% at constant 2.1 percentage points to 37.7%, driven mainly by productivity
exchange rates to 35.2 billion Swiss francs (+7% in Swiss gains and cost savings.
francs), with growth driven by cancer medicines Herceptin,
MabThera/Rituxan, Avastin and Zelboraf; as well as our rheu­ Core earnings per share — a key metric of underlying business
matoid arthritis drug Actemra/RoActemra, Pegasys, our hepa­ performance, which excludes items such as global restruc­
titis C medicine, and Tamiflu. turing charges, amortisation and impairment of intangible
assets — increased 10% at constant exchange rates, above
The Diagnostics Division consolidated its global market lead­ original expectations.
ership with sales up 4% to 10.3 billion Swiss francs (+5% in
Swiss francs), driven by strong demand from clinical laborato­ In achieving these results, I would like to thank our employees
ries. Immunoassays, sophisticated blood tests to diagnose a for their hard work, commitment and professionalism. Their
range of diseases, also performed very well, continuing a more efforts continue to make Roche one of the world’s most suc­
than decade­long trajectory of double­digit growth. cessful healthcare companies.
10
Roche Business Report 2012 | Letters to ShareholdersBringing innovation to patients Maximising R & D productivity
Our development pipeline, a key foundation for Roche’s future, Operationally, we are restructuring our pharmaceutical re­
also showed healthy growth in 2012 and now has 72 new search and development activities in order to better allocate
molecular entities in clinical development. Overall, we had resources and further improve our efficiency. This has resulted
posi tive data from 11 trials for drugs in late­stage clinical test­ in the difficult decision to close the Roche site in Nutley, New
ing, strengthening our business with innovative products and Jersey. The resulting savings from the site consolidation and
securing our future for years to come. The Diagnostics pipeline related infrastructure costs will allow us to reallocate resources
remains solid, with 55 new products launched in key markets to our growing number of clinical programmes, whilst main­
in 2012. taining stable R & D expenditure overall. I am aware of the
impact this has had on all the employees affected by the
A significant highlight of 2012 was the extension of Roche’s closure, and on their families. We are providing the affected
product portfolio for treating the highly aggressive HER2­posi­ employees with financial support and professional advice to
tive form of breast cancer. Backed by decades of research, help prepare them for new job opportunities.
Roche is currently leading a wave of innovative developments
to combat these severe tumours. Our new breast cancer drug We will establish a Translational Clinical Research Center in
Perjeta was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration New York, keeping our presence on the East Coast of the
in June 2012 after priority review. Therapy combinations United States. The Center will accommodate over 200 employ­
designed to overcome treatment resistance whilst targeting ees and support clinical trials and early development pro­
multiple pathways in cancer are becoming more and more grammes, as well as continue collaborations with academic
important. Clinical trials show that patients treated with institutions and biotech companies.
Perjeta, Herceptin and chemotherapy live significantly longer
than those receiving standard therapy and with our companion Going forward, I am convinced that we have taken the right
diagnostic tests, patients who are likely to respond to these measures and we will continue to see the benefits coming
targeted medicines can be quickly identified. through. Overall, for 2013, we are expecting to achieve sales
growth at constant exchange rates in line with the Roche
Adding to this group of medicines, we have filed for regulatory Group’s results for the previous year. We target core earnings
approval of a new drug, an antibody–drug conjugate known as per share to grow ahead of sales. Based on this outlook, we
trastuzumab emtansine (T–DM1). Roche is at the forefront of antici pate being able to raise our dividend again in 2013.
developing antibody–drug conjugates (ADCs), nine of which
are currently in clinical development. ADCs combine the speci­
ficity of antibodies with the power of chemotherapy, targeting
the cancer cells directly and significantly reducing the side
effects of systemic chemotherapy. The risk of death for breast
cancer patients receiving T–DM1 was shown in trials to be
32% lower than for those receiving standard treatment.
Severin Schwan
Chief Executive Officer
Promising drugs are also currently being studied in global pro­
grammes in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and non­Hodgkin’s
lymphoma. They have the potential to improve on MabThera/
Rituxan, the current standard of care in fighting hematological
tumours.
In addition to oncology, Roche is also focusing on other dis­
ease areas of high unmet medical need, in the field of neurosci­
ence for Alzheimer’s disease and schizophrenia, as well as on
metabolic, inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Despite
the recent decision to terminate the dalcetrapib clinical pro­
gramme, Roche remains committed to developing medicines
for patients with cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Dis­
covering and developing new drugs means taking calculated
risks — there is no other road to real innovation.
11
Letters to Shareholders | Roche Business Report 2012Board of Directors
Dr Franz B. Humer Prof. Bruno Gehrig André Hoffmann
Dr Andreas Oeri Prof. Pius Baschera Prof. Sir John Irving Bell
Paul Bulcke William M. Burns Lodewijk J. R. de Vink
Dr Christoph Franz Dame DeAnne Julius Dr Arthur D. Levinson
Board of Directors
per 31 December 2012
Peter R. Voser Prof. Beatrice Weder di Mauro
12
Roche Business Report 2012 | ManagementBoard of Directors
Name (year of birth) Term ends First elected
Board of Directors Dr Franz B. Humer (1946) D *, E Chairman 2014 1995
Prof. Bruno Gehrig (1946) C *, D, E Vice-Chairman 2013 2004
André Hoffmann (1958) A, C, D, E Vice-Chairman 2014 1996
Prof. Pius Baschera (1950) A, E 2013 2007
Prof. Sir John Irving Bell (1952) B, E 2014 2001
Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E 2013 2011
William M. Burns (1947) A, E 2013 2010
Lodewijk J. R. de Vink (1945) B, E 2013 2004
Dr Christoph Franz (1960) C, E 2013 2011
Dame DeAnne Julius (1949) B *, E 2013 2002
Dr Arthur D. Levinson (1950) C, E 2013 2010
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) A *, E 2013 1996
Peter R. Voser (1958) C, E 2013 2011
Prof. Beatrice Weder di Mauro (1965) B, E 2013 2006
Secretary to the
Board of Directors Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
Honorary Chairman
of the Board
of Directors Dr Fritz Gerber (1929)
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee.
B Audit Committee.
C Remuneration Committee.
D Presidium/Nomination Committee.
E Non-executive director.
* Committee chairperson.
Board of Directors
At the 94 th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Roche Holding Ltd, on
6 March 2012, shareholders re-elected John I. Bell, André Hoffmann
and Franz B. Humer as members of the Board of Directors for the
term of two years as provided by the Articles of Incorporation.
13
Management | Roche Business Report 2012Corporate Executive Committee
Dr Severin Schwan Daniel O’Day Roland Diggelmann
Dr Alan Hippe Silvia Ayyoubi Dr Gottlieb A. Keller
Dr Richard Scheller Dr Mike Burgess 1 Dr Sophie Kornowski-Bonnet
Corporate Executive Committee
per 31 December 2012
Osamu Nagayama Dr Stephan Feldhaus
14
Roche Business Report 2012 | ManagementCorporate Executive Committee
Name (year of birth) Position
Corporate Executive Committee Dr Severin Schwan (1967) CEO of the Roche Group
Dr Alan Hippe (1967) Chief Financial and IT Officer
Daniel O’Day (1964) COO Division Roche Pharmaceuticals
Roland Diggelmann (1967) COO Division Roche Diagnostics
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954) General Counsel
Silvia Ayyoubi (1953) Head Group Human Resources
Enlarged Corporate Executive Osamu Nagayama (1947) Chairman and CEO Chugai
Committee Dr Richard Scheller (1953) Head Genentech Research and
Early Development (gRED)
Dr Mike Burgess 1 (1962) Head Roche Pharma Research and
Early Development (pRED) (ad interim)
Dr Stephan Feldhaus (1962) Head Group Communications
Dr Sophie Kornowski-Bonnet (1963) Head Roche Partnering
Secretary to the Corporate
Executive Committee Per-Olof Attinger (1960)
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (reporting years 2004–2008)
of Roche Holding Ltd KPMG AG (since 2009)
Auditor in charge: John A. Morris (2004–2010)
Ian Starkey (since 2011)
Chief Compliance Officer Dr Urs Jaisli (1956)
1 John C. Reed will assume the position of Head of Pharma Research and Early Development (pRED) on 2 April 2013 and will become
a member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee.
Corporate Executive Committee
Sophie Kornowski-Bonnet was appointed Head of Roche Partnering
and joined the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee on 1 Febru-
ary 2012.
Mike Burgess assumed the ad-interim position of Head of Pharma
Research and Early Development (pRED) on 1 July 2012 and became
a member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee.
Daniel O’Day was appointed COO of the Roche Pharmaceuticals
Division and Roland Diggelmann, COO of the Roche Diagnostics
Division. Both appointments were effective from 1 September 2012.
15
Management | Roche Business Report 2012The value of innovation
A possible new medicine for HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer
A new generation
of cancer treatment
When treating cancer, oncologists are looking for medicines that will deliver the best results
with the fewest side effects. An advance in this area could mean that physicians may soon
be able to prescribe a treatment that is even more effective and better tolerated than existing
therapies. Our late-stage drug candidate, trastuzumab emtansine (T–DM1), is able to deliver
a potent dose of chemotherapy to the cancer cells because the chemotherapy is linked to
an active antibody. This could potentially reduce the side effects of traditional therapy. Devel-
oping a drug that can limit the impact of chemotherapy provides true value for both pre-
scribers and patients.
Prof. Paul Ellis, Guy's Hospital, was an
investigator in the EMILIA trial:
‘I very much hope that our patients will
actually need less of the traditional systemic
cytotoxic chemotherapy and as such be
exposed to less in the way of the debilitating
side effects normally associated with those
agents. I think apart from the effectiveness
that is one of the real legacies of these
new types of treatments, such as T–DM1.’
How the T–DM1 T–DM1
antibody–drug 1
conjugate works: Potent cytotoxic
agent (DM1)
The drug is made up of tras-
tuzumab¹, a chemotherapy Stable linker
called DM1, and a linker.
The linker connects trastu- Monoclonal
zumab and DM1. T–DM1 antibody 2
(trastuzumab)
binds to the HER2-positive
cancer cells, and is thought
to block out-of-control
signals that make the cancer
grow while also calling on T–DM1 1 binds to the HER2 receptor on the
the body’s immune system tumour cell surface, initiating several antitu-
to attack the cancer cells. mour activities before being absorbed into the
Once T–DM1 is absorbed cell. Once inside the cell, T–DM1 breaks down
into those cancer cells, it is and releases the active form of DM1 2 . DM1
designed to destroy them then binds to a protein structure that plays 3
by releasing the DM1. a key role in cell division 3. This prevents the
cell from dividing and ultimately results in
cancer cell death.
More on the web:
http://www.roche.com/valueofinnovation
1 Trastuzumab is the active ingredient in Herceptin.
16
Roche Business Report 2012 | The value of innovation
TDM1_EN.indd 25 29.01.13 10:31Evolution of therapy for HER2-positive
metastatic breast cancer
Chemotherapy Targeted therapy Highly targeted
and chemotherapy antibody-drug
conjugates
TDM1_EN.indd 26 29.01.13 10:31Swiss francs
core earnings per share
18
Roche Business Report 2012BUSINESS REVIEW
Reached financial targets for 2012.
Delivered strong growth in the US and emerging markets.
Strengthened operating free cash flow, lowered net debt.
Improved R & D efficiency.
19
Roche Business Report 2012Business Review
Key figures
45,499 +4%
Group sales millions of CHF (CER) 1
17,160 +11%
Core operating profit millions of CHF (CER)
9,773 +1%
Net income millions of CHF (CER)
In millions of CHF % changes As % of sales
2012 2011 CER CHF USD 2012 2011
Group sales 45,499 42,531 4 7 1 100 100
— Pharmaceuticals Division 35,232 32,794 5 7 2 77 77
— Diagnostics Division 10,267 9,737 4 5 0 23 23
Core operating profit 17,160 15,149 11 13 37.7 35.6
— Pharmaceuticals Division 15,488 13,406 13 16 44.0 40.9
— Diagnostics Division 2,187 2,178 -2 0 21.3 22.4
Operating free cash flow 15,389 13,733 10 12 33.8 32.3
Core earnings per share (CHF) 13.62 12.30 10 11
Group results and outlook
Roche delivered a strong performance in 2012, reaching its emerging clinical product pipeline. The Group’s core operating
financial targets for the year. Group sales increased 4% 1 to margin further improved by 2.1 percentage points to 37.7%.
45.5 billion Swiss francs (+7% in Swiss francs). This reflected
strong demand for oncology products, as well as for clinical The Group’s core earnings per share (EPS), which excludes
laboratories diagnostic products. The US and emerging non-core items such as global restructuring charges and
markets, especially China and Brazil, were the main regional amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets,
growth drivers. In Western Europe, however, despite some rose 10%.
resilience to pricing pressure, sales were slightly lower and
there was additional pressure from generic competition. In 2012 Roche took the decision to restructure Pharma
Research and Early Development, and to make more resources
Group core operating profit rose 11% to 17.2 billion Swiss available for the growing number of products in late-stage
francs due to a solid sales performance combined with pro- development by closing the Nutley site. This process is well
ductivity improvements that lowered the cost of sales ratio. underway. Restructuring measures were also taken in the
R & D costs were stable, and savings from the closure of the Diabetes Care and Applied Science businesses to enable
Nutley site in New Jersey, USA were reinvested into our strong, these units to better adapt to increasingly challenging market
conditions.
The cost of these restructuring activities, together with a num-
1 Unless otherwise stated all growth rates are calculated using constant
exchange rates (CER). ber of other one-time items, resulted in a slightly higher net
20
Roche Business Report 2012 | Business Reviewincome on an IFRS basis of 9.8 billion Swiss francs (+2% at Pharmaceuticals Division — sales by region
Swiss francs).
39%
United States (+7%)
Pharmaceuticals — 22%
Western Europe (–2%)
strong growth from oncology
12%
Japan (+2%)
Sales for the Pharmaceuticals Division rose 5% in 2012 to
35.2 billion Swiss francs with robust demand for the three top- 27% International (+9%)
selling products MabThera/Rituxan, Herceptin and Avastin.
Avastin is also now back into growth, supported by its launch At constant exchange rates (average full-year 2011).
in ovarian cancer in Europe.
The division additionally benefited from strong demand for
rheumatoid arthritis medicine Actemra/RoActemra, which The HER2 product group was further strengthened by the
showed superiority in monotherapy against adalimumab in the launch of Perjeta and the filing of trastuzumab emtansine
ADACTA trial, as well as for hepatitis C drug Pegasys. Newly- (T–DM1), a new generation of cancer treatment, for approval
launched skin cancer medicine Zelboraf also performed well in Europe and the US. Perjeta and T–DM1 will allow Roche to
during the year. build on the long-term success of Herceptin as the standard of
care for women with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer,
Herceptin, MabThera/Rituxan, Avastin, Actemra/RoActemra, a particularly aggressive form of the disease.
Zelboraf and Pegasys, which together represent 60% of the
portfolio, generated 2.4 billion Swiss francs in additional sales The pipeline remained robust, delivering 11 positive results out
for the year. of 14 late-stage studies in 2012, including strong results for
Avastin in platinum-resistant recurrent ovarian cancer in the
Two new cancer drugs were also launched in 2012: Perjeta for AURELIA trial.
breast cancer and Erivedge for advanced basal cell carcinoma,
a type of skin cancer. Initial uptake for both products was
positive.
Sales of eye medication Lucentis for wet age-related macular Pharmaceuticals Division —
degeneration (wAMD) fell in 2012, as competitive pressure sales growth in E7 leading emerging markets
intensified, however the uptake of Lucentis to treat another
+11%
indication, diabetic macular edema, has been strong. Bonviva/ Brazil
Boniva and CellCept sales were also lower due to ongoing
+27%
generic erosion, particularly in Western Europe. China
–23%
Regionally, US sales (+7%), along with the key seven emerging India
markets (+14%) 2 were the main growth drivers with strong
–4%
demand for oncology products, as well as increased health- Mexico
care spending in a number of markets. Sales in Western Europe
+14%
(–2%) were impacted by generic competition and continued Russia
price pressure. However, the major products, including
+21%
Herceptin, MabThera/Rituxan and Avastin continued to grow, South Korea
and Zelboraf emerged as a key growth driver. Japan posted
+15%
sales growth of 2% for the year, with Mircera, Avastin and Turkey
MabThera performing strongly.
At constant exchange rates (average full-year 2011).
2 Roche’s key seven emerging markets, also referred to as the E7 key
emerging markets, are Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Russia, South Korea
and Turkey.
21
Business Review | Roche Business Report 2012The Pharmaceuticals Division core operating profit increased Diagnostics Division — sales by region
13% to 15.5 billion Swiss francs, as a result of strong sales and
efficiency gains. Core operating profit margin increased 3.1% 46% Europe, Middle East
to 44.0%. and Africa (EMEA) (–1%)
26%
North America (+3%)
Diagnostics —
14%
Asia—Pacific (+15%)
strong clinical labs sales
8%
Diagnostics sales increased 4% to 10.3 billion Swiss francs, Latin America (+15%)
continuing to grow faster than the global IVD market which 6%
showed a slowdown in 2012. 3 With 20% market share, Roche Japan (+7%)
solidly maintained its market leadership. Divisional sales were
driven by the business with clinical laboratories, particularly At constant exchange rates (average full-year 2011).
Professional Diagnostics (+8%), which grew twice as fast as
the global market, as well as Tissue Diagnostics (+12%) and
Molecular Diagnostics (+4%). near patient testing and diabetes management, as well as
further expanding test menus. The division also made further
The largest overall product contributor to growth was the progress with its Personalised Healthcare strategy, with over
immunoassay business (+15%), which helps diagnose various 200 ongoing biomarker and companion diagnostics projects
diseases through highly automated immunochemical blood with Roche Pharmaceuticals and 12 new agreements con-
testing. cluded with external pharmaceutical companies.
The Diabetes Care and Applied Science businesses faced a Core operating profit in the Diagnostics Division fell 2% to
challenging year. Reimbursement cuts for blood glucose moni- 2.2 billion Swiss francs, reflecting increased price pressure in
toring products in Europe, along with intensified price pres- Diabetes Care. The margin was 21.3%, above that achieved in
sure impacted sales in the Diabetes Care business (–4%). The the first six months of the year, however 1.1 percentage points
decline in sales in the Applied Science business (–3%) was a lower than in 2011.
result of lower public research funding and competition in
gene sequencing. Both businesses undertook restructuring
during the year to sustain long-term profitability and to refocus Strong Group operating free cash
their portfolios for future growth. flow and improved net debt position
The division consolidated or expanded its leading market posi- Operating free cash flow remained strong in 2012, rising 10%
tion in all regions. In Asia—Pacific and Latin America, Profes- to 15.4 billion Swiss francs and contributing to the lower net
sional Diagnostics remained the main growth driver, with debt position of 10.6 billion Swiss francs at the end of 2012,
strong contributions from Diabetes Care in Latin America. The down from 15.6 billion francs at the start of the year. As a result
clinical laboratories business was the key growth driver in of the strong cash flow, bonds totalling a nominal value of
North America, and the launch of over 40 major products in the 1.6 billion euros were bought back early in 2012.
US in 2012 started to create further growth momentum. In the
EMEA region (Europe, Middle East and Africa) austerity mea-
sures and pricing pressure had an impact on sales, particularly Outlook 2013
in Diabetes Care. In Japan, sales grew at three times the rate
of the market, driven by Professional Diagnostics. Roche expects Group sales in 2013 to increase in line with the
sales growth recorded in 2012 at constant exchange rates.
The division launched 55 major products in key markets over Core EPS is targeted to grow ahead of sales. Roche expects to
the year, representing important advances in lab automation, further increase its dividend for 2013.
3 Estimated IVD market growth is 3% (source: company and independent
reports, to end of September 2012).
22
Roche Business Report 2012 | Business ReviewMarket Environment
and Group Strategy
The healthcare market continues to be driven by the compet- Challenges in 2012
ing pressures of supply of financial resources and an ever
increasing demand for better healthcare outcomes. Cost- Rising life expectancy and higher incidences of chronic dis-
effective, targeted medicines and diagnostics like those eases have significantly increased the need for rapid scientific
produced by Roche have a key role to play in tackling these and technological advances for better health outcomes.
challenges.
Market Trends
affluent west: they constitute the fastest growing public
health problems in developing countries.
Despite advances in modern medicine the need for improved
healthcare and treatments remains enormous. Over 3,000 of Pharmaceutical market
all known diseases — about two-thirds — remain untreatable Pharmaceutical markets are continuing to expand world-
or lack satisfactory treatment. A growing and ageing world wide, although the pace of growth is slowing, with more and
population, meanwhile, is accelerating demand: the 65- more medicines going off patent. Global sales are forecast
and-older population is forecast to triple to 1.5 billion by to reach more than a trillion Swiss francs in 2013.
2050, giving rise to more age-related, chronic diseases such
as cancer, diabetes and Alzheimer’s disease. Ageing and Emerging markets are showing the most robust growth, cre-
lifestyle-related diseases are no longer just a problem in the ating new opportunities for the pharmaceutical industry, as
governments invest in public healthcare systems. China is
expected to be the main contributor to global growth by 2015.
Regional market share of global pharma sales 2016 *
Growth in developed markets, however, is expected to stay
30% modest at best. The US is the largest healthcare market, but
USA
growth rates there are forecast to slow, with lower GDP
18% growth and increasing generic competition.
Europe
12% Speciality pharmaceutical markets are the largest and among
China
the fastest growing healthcare segments, with a total market
11% share of 22% [2011 data; source: IMS], with the largest share
Japan
of growth in the US. Key growth areas are oncology and
9% Brazil, Russia, autoimmune disease, and in general the hospital and biolog-
India
ics segments — where Roche is the global leader.
2%
Canada
Diagnostics market
10% The global in vitro diagnostics market, estimated at approxi-
Rest of the World
mately 50 billion Swiss francs, has grown at a slower pace
8% in 2012, but is expected to grow on average by about 5%
Rest of emerging markets
annually over the longer term [source: independent IVD
consultancy]. The highest growth rates are forecast for
* IMS Health Market Prognosis, April 2012 emerging markets and for molecular and tissue diagnostics.
23
Business Review | Roche Business Report 2012As the global need for new and better treatment options The Diagnostics Division is working to support the develop-
increases, so too does the pressure to control healthcare ment of reimbursement programmes that accurately assess
costs. In the US and Europe in particular, economic conditions the validity of advanced diagnostic testing.
are driving cost efficiency measures and putting pressure on
the healthcare industry to deliver innovative solutions at lower
costs. Our Business Model: Changing the
practice of medicine
In the US, additional conditions were introduced to the regula-
tory process for approval of new medicines. New legislation For over a decade, Roche has maintained its strategic focus
now encourages the comparison of medical treatments, not on innovative diagnostics and therapeutics. Today, we are
only on the basis of safety and efficacy, but additionally on intensifying our commitment to develop personalised health-
cost. The increasing influence of non-prescribing decision care and other medically differentiated products — medicines
makers is evident in other markets such as the UK and Ger- and diagnostics that create superior value for our patients,
many, where state-run organisations are reviewing the clinical customers and society. To advance this goal, we focus exclu-
and wider economic benefit of new medicines in comparison sively on prescription pharmaceuticals and in vitro diagnostics,
with established products on the market. Health technology following a business model that drives medical innovation
assessments are becoming more common in Europe and the along three dimensions:
US, to evaluate reimbursement decisions on medical evidence. • Fitting treatments to patients
This comes frequently with value-based pricing systems, • Pursuing excellence in science
where payment is structured around treatment outcome. • Delivering value to all stakeholders
Health systems around the globe generally are increasing their
focus on clinical outcome and real world evidence data that Fitting treatments to patients
enable the real value of new medicines to be assessed after Eighteen million patients were treated with Roche medicines
product launch. The pharmaceutical industry is also active in last year, and over 500,000 patients participated in clinical
working with health authorities to structure clinical trials to trials of new drugs we are developing. The patient frames our
provide evidence of medical value more quickly, so that inno- strategy for discovering and developing new medicines and
vative medicines can reach the patients more quickly. diagnostics — from deciding what molecules we research to
how we design our clinical trials.
Focusing on innovation New diagnostic techniques have enabled us to develop thera-
pies that can increasingly be targeted at particular patient
As a research-based healthcare company, Roche focuses on populations. Two patients can have the same diagnosis yet
innovation, investing significantly in R & D to develop highly dif- respond in different ways to the same medicine. One patient
ferentiated and effective treatments to help people live longer may be helped by treatment, while the other experiences
and healthier lives. Personalised Healthcare at Roche is one unwanted side effects without the desired clinical benefit.
example of this strategy — pinpointing exactly which patients Mostly, this variability is due to genetic and other biological
will respond to a particular therapy, ensures that patients differences between patients.
receive the right treatment at the right time and without wast-
age of healthcare budgets. This targeted approach delivers Drawing on insights into these differences at the molecular
value to all healthcare stakeholders — patients, providers, reg- level, we can now develop treatments and tests tailored to
ulators and payers. Effective diagnostic testing also plays an the needs of specific patient populations. This personalised
important role in increasing the overall efficiency of healthcare approach has enormous potential to make healthcare better,
delivery. Although spending on in vitro diagnostics only repre- safer and more cost-effective. Additionally, these medically
sents around 2% of healthcare expenditure, 70% of all medical differentiated products are more likely to obtain regulatory
decisions depend on accurate and fast diagnosis, which in approval and be accepted by patients, physicians and payers.
turn, can reduce healthcare costs considerably.
Owing to their significant clinical benefits, Roche’s new cancer
Demonstrating this value is a strategic priority for Roche. We medicines Erivedge, Zelboraf and Perjeta received accelerated
collaborate extensively with healthcare providers, insurers and approval in their first markets, the latter two approved with a
other payers, in particular, on the value of timely and accurate companion diagnostic. Today, roughly half the new molecular
diagnosis, which is not always fully recognised. entities in our late-stage portfolio are tailored to subsets of
24
Roche Business Report 2012 | Business Reviewpatients who can be identified using the diagnostic tests that productivity of research and development. Over the last two
are central to Personalised Healthcare. years, Roche has achieved 26 out of 32 positive late-stage
trials — a success rate clearly above industry-average.
Pursuing excellence in science
Excellence in science through discovery and innovation is our We combine our strong in-house research capabilities with the
answer to the medical challenges the world faces. By continu- latest advances in science at other biotech companies through
ously investing in research and development, we seek to gain about 150 partnerships. Today, about one-third of our pipeline
a better understanding of disease and harness the potential and our marketed products originated from this external net-
of modern biological sciences in treating those diseases. That work. We also foster innovation by interacting with academic
is why Roche has invested more than 75 billion Swiss francs institutions and universities worldwide.
in R & D over the past ten years — more than most other com-
panies in the world. Delivering value to all stakeholders
Since its formation in 1896, Roche’s most valuable contribution
Science’s rapidly expanding knowledge of disease biology and to society has been the discovery and development of novel
the causes of disease hold particular promise for transforming therapies that improve health and help patients live longer,
the practice of medicine. While this knowledge is leading to better lives.
dramatic improvements in identifying biological targets to fight
many diseases, the complexity in research is rising signifi- Our continued success hinges largely on our ability to combine
cantly. This is resulting in lengthy and costly R & D cycles for social and environmental responsibility with a focus on sus-
new products of up to 12 years and approximately 1.5 billion tainable economic growth. Roche is convinced that sustain-
Swiss francs, on average, to obtain approval for a new drug. At able corporate policies and practices promote innovation and
the same time, increasingly stringent regulation is slowing the create long-term value among all stakeholders:
approval of new molecular entities for the industry as a whole. • Patients and doctors, by ensuring product quality and
safety, improving access to medication, enabling medical
Only by excelling in science can we achieve the breakthroughs laboratories to work more efficiently and helping to contain
in science and technology needed to speed the discovery, healthcare costs.
development and approval of new medicines. Interweaving • Employees, by giving our people opportunities to make their
the knowledge of our Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divi- mark and improve lives, by creating great places to work and
sions throughout the value chain increases the efficiency and by embracing diversity across the organisation.
Roche strategy: Leveraging Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
Throughout discovery market
Pharmaceuticals
Research Development Commercialisation
Unrestricted know-how More efficient Faster adoption of PHC solutions
and IP exchange development (medicine and test)
Technically validated Clinically validated
Research assay
IVD assay IVD assay
Diagnostics
25
Business Review | Roche Business Report 2012• Investors, by ensuring transparency and achieving superior Our Structure: Built for innovation
valuations to our industry peers, aiming to provide them with Mastering the complex biology of the various diseases and
a Total Shareholder Return in the top quartile of our industry pathways is our biggest challenge in developing new diagnostic
peer set. tests and medicines. To overcome this challenge, we not only
• Communities, by stimulating engagement in science, pro- encourage our people to consider different perspectives and
moting cultural activities and tackling social causes that approaches in drug research and early development, but we
make a lasting impact. also structure our business to foster creativity and excellence
• Society at large, by conducting businesses responsibly with in science.
a view to having a positive influence on society and minimis-
ing our impact on the environment. Roche was recognised as Our two complementary in-house research and early develop-
the Supersector Leader in Healthcare for the fourth time in a ment arms, pRED and gRED, as well as Roche Diagnostics and
row in 2012 in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes. Chugai, each operate independently within the Group. We
believe that this decentralised approach combines the critical
mass of the Roche Group with the flexibility, creativity and
Our Management Model: Enabling entrepreneurial spirit that are common among smaller busi-
an innovation-driven culture nesses. At the same time we consolidate and coordinate
Group-wide activities in clinical development, manufacturing,
Our management model is aimed at enabling a culture of inno- marketing and commercial operations to make the best use of
vation by embracing a diversity of approaches. Like our busi- our global scale and reach.
ness model, it has three dimensions:
• Inspiring integrity, courage and passion among our people
• Encouraging accountable and transparent decision making
• Structuring our business to capitalise on innovation
Our People: Integrity. Courage. Passion.
Our ability to leverage our combined expertise in pharmaceu-
ticals and diagnostics ultimately depends on our people. Rep-
resenting virtually every country on the globe, our more than
82,000 employees bring to their work a diversity of perspec-
tives and experiences that stimulates creativity and innovation.
We respect, embrace and value diversity as actively as we fos-
ter high standards of integrity, the courage to reach beyond
boundaries and a passion to improve patients’ lives. Integrity,
passion and courage are the values that we seek as a company
and that bind us together as a team to constantly grow further.
Our Decision Making: Accountable and transparent
We believe that good leadership is not a question of hierarchy,
but a function of effective decision making. Given our highly
networked organisation and the complex nature of our busi-
ness, decisions must be informed by a dialogue that is system-
atic, fact-based, open and transparent. Every decision requires
a single, accountable decision maker who collects and criti-
cally reviews information and competing views. Empowerment
is essential, which is why we delegate decision making, as
much as possible, to the lowest qualified level in the organi-
sation.
26
Roche Business Report 2012 | Business ReviewSpecial Feature
The fight against
cancer goes on
50 years of cancer research at Roche
One in three people will develop cancer during their lifetime. From the start, our aim was to advance the treatment of cancer.
And yet the challenge to find a cure remains elusive. One of the As a result, Roche later developed several successor drugs
reasons it is so difficult to treat is that cancer is, strictly speak- with the aim of preferentially generating the cytotoxin 5-FU in
ing, not just one disease but a group of different diseases. So the tumour itself, and consequently of achieving greater effi-
far, over 250 different types have been identified. What can- cacy with fewer side effects.
cers have in common though, is that they are all caused by the
uncontrolled proliferation of human cells. Since those early beginnings, cancer research conducted by
Roche and others has provided doctors and patients with bet-
Roche has been at the forefront of cancer research for dec- ter and better medicines and diagnostic agents.
ades and is today the leading pharmaceutical and diagnostic
company in the field. Well over 50 years ago, Robert Duschin- Cancer cells, unfortunately, are inventive — they discover ways
sky (see picture) from Nutley, in collaboration with Charles of escaping treatment, often reproliferating at a later stage.
Heidelberger from the University of Wisconsin, synthesized Despite tremendous progress in the treatment of cancer, much
5-Fluoro-uracil (5 FU), Roche’s first anticancer drug. Although remains to be done to combat this insidious disease.
this was considered a breakthrough at the time, it caused
severe side effects because it attacks both healthy cells and
cancer cells.
27
Special Feature | Roche Business Report 2012The long-running battle against cancer
and our contributions
1960s and 1970s 1980s 1990s
• Diagnostic tumour markers • Global guidelines for pain • Cancer mortality starts to decline
in the blood management • Intensive exposure to sunlight
• Radiotherapy and chemotherapy • Treatment of early-stage colon recognised as a cause of skin
• CAT scan cancer cancer
• Viruses can cause cancer (HPV) • Medicines for increasing red • Natural cytostatics used for
• Breast-conserving surgery blood cell production in patients cancer treatment
with anemia • First targeted biopharmaceuticals
• First cancer medicines produced • Relationship demonstrated
by biotechnology between obesity and cancer
• Foundations of molecular • Molecular diagnostic tests advance
diagnostics cancer detection
1962: 5-Fluoro-uracil 1983: First enzyme immunoassay from 1990: Epoetin beta
(5-FU), a synthetic substance Roche for the detection of tumour antigens. (NeoRecormon®), for
that inhibits cell growth and treatment of chemotherapy-
is administered intravenously. induced anemia.
Causes tumours to shrink, 1986: Alpha-interferon (Roferon®-A),
but attacks all dividing cells, Roche’s first biotechnological
including healthy ones. product approved for the treatment of 1991: Filgrastrim (Neupogen®),
a previously fatal form of blood cancer, prevents white blood cell depletion and the
with a positive response rate of about 90% risk of infection after chemotherapy.
1965: Procarbazine (Natulan®) for the of all cases.
treatment of lymph tissue tumours. The 1995: Retinoic acid (Vesanoid®),
active substance interferes with the genetic for the treatment of acute promyelocytic
material (DNA) and in so doing disrupts 1987: Doxifluridine leukemia.
cell division. (Furtulon®), a further devel-
opment of 5-FU, designed 1997: Rituximab
to generate active 5-FU prefer- (MabThera®), first tar-
entially in tumours, resulting geted, biotechnologically
in fewer side effects. produced drug, used for
treatment of non-Hodgkin’s
1970: 5-Fluorodeoxyuridine lymphoma (blood cancer)
(Floxuridine®), a 5-FU derivative. and other indications.
1998: Capecitabine
(Xeloda®), orally adminis-
tered, inactive precursor of
5-FU; designed to generate
1971: Efudix, a cream containing 5-FU for doxifluridine after it is absorbed
the local treatment of skin tumours. from the gut, thereby reducing
the risk of intestinal damage.
1973/74: The world’s first immuno- 1998: Trastuzumab
diagnostic test for a tumour marker (Herceptin®), biotechnologi-
(CEA: carcinoembryonic antigen). cal drug for the treatment of a
particularly aggressive (HER2-
positive) form of breast cancer,
accounting for 15–20% of
all breast cancers. High HER2
protein levels must first be
detected by a companion diag-
nostic test before treatment;
first example of a medicine
geared to the needs of
a specific patient group
(personalised healthcare).
28
Roche Business Report 2012 | Special Feature2000s 2010
• Decoding of the human genome • Record number of cancer survivors
• Cancer cells become resistant to first-line drugs • Breakthrough medicines against skin cancer
• Combination treatments with targeted drugs • New drug class of antibody–drug conjugates
• First medicine to inhibit tumour blood supply • Personalised cancer therapies with
• Cervical cancer vaccine companion diagnostic tests
• Genetic and tissue cancer tests • Combination treatments against resistance
2004: Bevacizumab (Avastin®), first biotech- 2011: Vemurafenib (Zelboraf®) and its compan-
nological cancer drug to block angiogenesis, ion BRAF-V600E mutation detection test.
in other words, the formation of blood vessels that A mutated form of the BRAF protein occurs in about
supply cancer tissue with nutrients and oxygen. half of all melanoma patients. After the companion
It specifically blocks the naturally occurring protein test identifies patients with this specific mutation,
VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor), an Zelboraf launches a targeted attack against the
important mediator of angiogenesis. Avastin pos- tumour, making it the first treatment for this aggres-
sesses a novel mechanism of action and is used sive skin cancer to considerably improve quality
in several types of tumours. of life and prolong survival.
2005: Erlotinib (Tarceva®), an oral lung cancer 2011: Eight important new oncology tests,
drug that inhibits tumour development by attacking including cobas HPVin the US to detect women at
the HER1/EGFR protein which is important for cell increased risk of cervical cancer.
growth.
2012: Vismodegib (Erivedge®), an oral, targeted
drug for the treatment of advanced (inoperable
and metastatic) basal cell carcinoma. Erivedge specifi-
cally blocks a mediator of a hyperactive signal path-
way in these cancer cells.
2012: Pertuzumab (Perjeta®), a biotechnological
drug for the treatment of a particularly aggressive
form of breast cancer (HER2 positive) in combination
with chemotherapy and Herceptin. The dimerisation
inhibitor is designed specifically to prevent the HER2
receptor from pairing with other HER receptors.
29
Special Feature | Roche Business Report 2012Cancer: a growing global challenge
Cancer remains unconquered — only cardiovascular disease Cancer-related deaths
claims more victims. Each year, almost 12 million people world- (worldwide, 2008)
wide are diagnosed with cancer. Around eight million people
die annually from some form of cancer. In developing coun-
tries, which account for about half of all cases, cancer kills 1,370,000 Lung
more people each year than AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis
combined. 736,000 Stomach
Cancers are on the increase chiefly because of a growing and 695,000 Liver
ageing world population. Breast, lung and prostate cancers are
those most frequently diagnosed in industrialised countries. 608,000 Colorectal
Unhealthy lifestyle choices are also contributing to an increase 458,000 Breast
in cancers. It is estimated that 30% of all cancers could be
prevented by avoiding behaviours such as smoking or alcohol 3,860,000 Other
abuse and conditions like being overweight.
Recent progress in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer has
contributed to encouraging overall improvement in survival Medically promising approaches include better early detection
rates, even in advanced cases. Survival for breast cancer and the combination of treatment regimens with different
patients, for example, has almost tripled. effects to attack the tumour from new angles. Today targeted
medicines with effects adapted to the genetic changes in
tumours are ushering in a new era of cancer therapy.
Currently every year over 12 million people are diagnosed with cancer
< 103.1
< 128.9
< 162.0
< 224.4
< 321.1
Estimated Age Standardised incidence rate per 100,000. All cancers (excluding non-melanoma skin cancer) both sexes, all ages.
Reference: WHO International Agency for Research on Cancer Globocan Cancer Fact Sheet, 2008. Accessed online at http://globocan.iarc.fr (04/05/2011).
30
Roche Business Report 2012 | Special FeatureGaining a better understanding
of this insidious disease
Why is cancer so difficult to control? An important finding of Those signal chains whose function is disrupted by mutations
research at the molecular level, is that cancer is a collective of the corresponding genes are often those involving antennas
term for more than 250 tumours. These can affect all of the in the cell membrane. These cell surface receptors, which are
body’s tissues and can occasion a multitude of signs, symp- partly responsible for controlling the signal pathways trigger-
toms and late effects. ing cell division and multiplication, become hyperactive, lead-
ing to uncontrolled cell division. The proliferating cells then
Ultimately, all types of cancer are due to damage to the DNA displace and damage healthy tissue.
and hence to changes in genes. The genetic defects that cause
tumours are to some extent inherited. Often, however, they Researchers at Roche are working on identifying characteris-
are acquired over the course of life from cancer-engendering tic changes in the genome and in the signalling pathways for
substances, such as tobacco, viruses or radioactive rays, that each particular tumour. The aim is to combat cancer more
damage genes and hence cells’ blueprints. effectively by blocking those overactive mechanisms.
Tumours develop mainly from a few cells displaying gene
changes or mutations. These changes affect important cellular
mechanisms that normally control cell proliferation.
Signal pathways triggering cell division and proliferation; in cancer these pathways are often disrupted
RTK
PIP
2 PIP
3
PTEN
Ras p110a p85
PI3K TSC1
Raf AKT TSC2
MEK
ERK Cyclin D1 Forkhead Bad mTOR
cell cycle: Protein-synthesis
p27 FasL Bcl-2
progression and and growth
proliferation
Survival
31
Special Feature | Roche Business Report 2012Improving survival benefits for
cancer patients
Advances in cancer medicine in the last ten years have pro- The survival benefits of new cancer medicines may be better
longed life and improved quality of life considerably for cancer than indicated, however. New treatments are initially used only
patients. Ten years ago, patients with advanced breast cancer in advanced stages of the disease. Unfortunately, patients in
lived 22 months from diagnosis, on average. Today they live this situation have often already experienced a series of treat-
almost three times as long. ment failures, which can lead to an understatement of the sur-
vival benefits of some new medicines.
Progression of overall survival (average in months) in advanced cancers in the last decade
Lung cancer
Glioblastoma
Colon cancer
Kidney cancer
Gastrointestinal stromal tumours
Breast cancer
Ear, nose and throat cancer
Multiple myeloma
Malignant B-cell lymphomas
Months 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
Year 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Old treatments New treatments Average values of a variety of treatments
1 Source: Prof Christoph Zielinski, University of Vienna, March 2010.
‘Optimising outcome in the treatment of malignant disease using modern
treatment strategies: Impact on cancer patient survival’,
http://www.onkologie-wien.at/forschung-und-lehre/positionspapier
32
Roche Business Report 2012 | Special FeaturePromising research into cancer
treatments of the future
At Roche, we direct more than four billion Swiss francs annually • gearing the human immune system to attack tumour cells
to oncology research — 50% of our entire expenditure in R & D. more effectively with our PD-L1 antibody, which blocks the
PD-L1 protein found in many tumours that prevents immune
By pursuing a variety of strategies, we are gaining an increas- system cells from destroying malignant cells
ingly better molecular understanding of cancer that is leading • our glyco-engineered antibody GA101 that first binds to
to improved detection and new and broader treatments. Our tumour cells, then attracts immune system cells, such as
recent advances include: T-lymphocytes and natural killer cells, which then destroy
• drug combinations that block an array of signal pathways the flagged tumour cells
that spiral out of control in cancer, thereby preventing the
development of resistance in tumour cells Most of our targeted therapeutic agents are combined with
• a new type of targeted and selective cancer therapy, anti- a companion diagnostic test that predicts the probability of a
body–drug conjugates, that kills cancer cells and exerts only patient responding to treatment. This personalised approach
minor negative effects on normal tissue to cancer treatment is not only better for the patients, but also
enables an efficient use of financial and human resources of
national health systems.
Roche’s oncology portfolio: Broad set of technologies for targeted therapies
Tumour types HER2- Gastric HER2- Colorectal Lung Skin Gliobla- Hema-
positive negative stoma tological
breast breast
Antibody–drug T–DM1 T–DM1 Anti-CD 22
conjugates Anti-CD 79b
Antibody Perjeta + Perjeta + MetMab + MetMab + MetMab + MetMab +
combinations Herceptin Herceptin Avastin Avastin Avastin Avastin
EGFL7 + EGFL7 +
Avastin Avastin
Glyco-engineered GA201 GA201 GA101
antibodies (obinutuzumab)
Immuno- e.g. Zelboraf +
therapies PDL1
Small PI3K PI3K Zelboraf + Bcl-2
molecules MEKi PI3K
33
Special Feature | Roche Business Report 2012The Experts’ View
Susanne Arbogast
Pathologist, Oncology franchise
‘All Roche projects designed to produce a new cancer drug are now
combined with a biomarker programme. Probing analyses begin at the
preclinical stage and lead to licensed diagnostic tests that are then
put to pioneering use primarily in phase III projects. In fact, the number
of biomarker studies we conduct in collaboration with external part-
ners, but also in-house, considerably exceeds the number of Pharma
projects, because we are exploring several avenues simultaneously
for classifying markers that give insights into the response to a particular
therapy. Thus we are screening patients and tumour samples for differ-
ences at the level of the genes (DNA), the molecules that transfer genetic
information (RNA) and the gene products (proteins).
Cancer diagnostics appear set to evolve from the single test approach to
the simultaneous testing of several parameters in order to identify the
best possible treatment for a particular patient.’
34
Roche Business Report 2012 | Special FeatureHal Barron
Chief Medical Officer
‘Our progress in oncology and other therapeutic areas during the last
two years has been incredibly robust. In addition to receiving regulatory
approval of three new molecular entities for cancer in less than 18
months, we had results from 32 key clinical trials of our oncology and
non-oncology medicines, 26 of which had positive results. This success
rate means that basically about every three weeks we had news from
results that will have a meaningful impact for patients.
It is likely that many factors contributed to these successful studies
including rigourous early research, efficient study execution, smart risks
and a focus on personalised healthcare to identify which patients are
more likely to benefit from certain medicines. Combined, these measures
by our talented people increase our probability of technical success and
allow us to deliver transforming medicines to patients.’
35
Special Feature | Roche Business Report 2012collaborations
between Pharmaceuticals
and Diagnostics
36
Roche Business Report 2012RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT
Received approvals for three new cancer medicines.
Delivered positive results in 11 out of 14 late-stage clinical trials.
Continued clinical development of 72 promising new molecular entities.
Launched 55 diagnostic products in key markets.
37
Roche Business Report 2012Research and Development
Key figures
Core Research and Development (R & D) expenditure in 2012
8,475 +2% 18.6%
Roche Group millions of CHF (CER) 1 of sales
7,529 +2% 21.4%
Pharmaceuticals millions of CHF (CER ) of sales
946 +4% 9.2%
Diagnostics millions of CHF (CER) of sales
18,279 15,145 3,134
Employees in R & D Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics
1 Constant exchange rates (average full-year 2011).
Highlights of 2012
Pharmaceuticals
Milestone Compound Indication
Approvals — US Erivedge Advanced basal cell carcinoma
Perjeta Metastatic HER2+ breast cancer
Approvals — EU Zelboraf BRAF V600 mutation-positive
metastatic melanoma
Avastin Recurrent, platinum-sensitive
ovarian cancer
Filings — US T–DM1 Metastatic HER2+ breast cancer
Filings — EU Perjeta Metastatic HER2+ breast cancer
T–DM1 Metastatic HER2+ breast cancer
Key phase III trial results EMILIA — T–DM1 adds nearly six months on average to the lives of women
with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer (second line).
CLEOPATRA — Perjeta significantly extends the lives of HER2-positive
metastatic breast cancer patients who are given this new drug alongside
Herceptin and chemotherapy (first line).
ADACTA — Actemra/RoActemra is shown to be more effective than adalimumab
as monotherapy in rheumatoid arthritis.
Diagnostics
Major product launches 55 major launches, including:
— three devices for people with diabetes
— three instruments for point-of-care testing
— eleven systems driving efficiency in clinical and research labs
— 36 assays for diagnosis of cancers, infections and metabolic diseases.
Key clinical study results VISION — Troponin T cardiac test helps identify patients at risk after major
non-cardiac surgery.
ABACUS — Accu-Chek Aviva Expert’s bolus advisor helps people with diabetes
to improve their ability to reach glycemic targets.
38
Roche Business Report 2012 | Research and DevelopmentOur pipeline remained solid in 2012, delivering positive results longer than those who were given Herceptin and chemother-
in 11 out of 14 late-stage studies. We now have a total of 72 apy only. The study also showed that the risk of death was cut
new molecular entities in clinical development and we are con- by a third.
fident that several of these compounds will become important
therapies in coming years. The late-stage EMILIA trial showed that patients with HER2-
positive metastatic breast cancer, who had already received
The Diagnostics Division launched 55 major products in key treatment for their illness, survived a median of 5.8 months
markets, including three diabetes care devices and a vitamin D longer when treated with T–DM1 than those who received
test in the United States. lapatinib and Xeloda. The risk of death was reduced by a third.
A highlight in 2012 was our ability to further improve the treat- Trials are ongoing to examine the use of both Perjeta and
ment options available to women suffering from HER2-positive T–DM1 in women with earlier stages of HER2-positive breast
breast cancer, a particularly aggressive form of the disease. cancer. We are also examining the combination of Perjeta and
Each year around 1.4 million women are diagnosed with breast T–DM1.
cancer across the world, and over 450,000 die of the disease.
HER2-positive breast cancer affects approximately 20% of Herceptin, Perjeta and T–DM1 work by targeting the HER2-
women with breast cancer, and women must be tested to see receptor, a protein found in abnormally high quantities on
whether they have this type of breast cancer. the outside of cancer cells in HER2-positive cancers. Perjeta
and Herceptin are complementary to each other because they
Building on the success of Herceptin over the past 14 years, target the HER2- receptor in different places. T–DM1 is a par-
we launched the new medicine Perjeta in the United States and ticularly interesting compound because it is one of the first
secured a positive recommendation from the European Union’s examples of an antibody–drug conjugate (ADC), a new tech-
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use. We also nology that could make a significant difference to cancer treat-
filed for approval of novel therapy trastuzumab emtansine ment. See more on page 16.
(T–DM1) in both Europe and the United States. Data from late-
stage trials have shown that both of these drugs could make A disappointment in 2012 was the second interim analysis of
a real difference to the many women diagnosed with HER2- the dal-OUTCOMES phase III trial, which showed a lack of
positive breast cancer each year. clinically meaningful efficacy for dalcetrapib, a drug that aimed
to reduce the risk of cardiac events, such as heart attack, by
The CLEOPATRA phase III study showed that women with raising high-density cholesterol. We decided to stop the devel-
HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer who were treated opment of dalcetrapib on the basis of this data.
with Perjeta, Herceptin and chemotherapy lived significantly
Fighting HER2-positive
Herceptin, which can now also be used to treat women with
breast cancer earlier stages of HER2-positive breast cancer, has given
women with this type of breast cancer a great deal of hope.
Until just over a decade ago, women diagnosed with HER2- Survival rates have significantly improved, and many women
positive breast cancer faced a bleak future. Survival rates for who are treated with Herceptin in the early stages of their
patients with this type of cancer were among the worst, illness live disease free for several years after treatment.
and death would likely follow within three years of diagnosis. More than 1.3 million * people have now been treated with
Herceptin.
In the 1980s scientists discovered that overexpression of a
gene known as the human epidermal growth factor receptor But the story is not over, and with the approval of Perjeta and
2 (HER2) was to blame for this deadly form of breast cancer, the strong data on T–DM1, the next chapter is just beginning.
and they began to develop a targeted therapeutic antibody
that would block the HER2-growth factor receptors. Eventu-
ally Herceptin was approved for women with late-stage
* Includes patients treated with Herceptin for breast cancer
HER2-positive breast cancer in 1998. and stomach cancer.
39
Research and Development | Roche Business Report 2012Antibody–drug conjugates (ADCs) Extensive pipeline of ADCs for oncology indications
ADCs will allow patients to get the benefits of chemotherapy Indication Phase I/II Registration
without having to suffer many of the toxic side effects. Chemo-
therapy works by attacking both the healthy and the cancer- Breast T–DM1 *
ous cells, but we now know how to securely attach chemo-
therapy to antibodies. This allows a more targeted delivery of NHL Anti-CD22/RG7593
the chemotherapy to the cancer cells, which should increase
efficacy and may decrease the side effects of chemotherapy, NHL Anti-CD79b/RG7596
such as hair loss, nausea and infection.
Prostate Anti-STEAP1/RG7450 *
T–DM1 is made up of trastuzumab, which is the active ingre-
dient in Herceptin, potent chemotherapy agent DM1, and a Ovarian RG7458 *
linker that connects DM1 to trastuzumab.
Multiple myeloma RG7598 *
Roche currently has eight ADCs in clinical development for ten
oncology indications, and we are optimistic that we will soon Lung and Ovarian RG7599 *
be able to replicate the success of T–DM1 in various other
types of cancer, such as blood cancer. Pancreatic and Ovarian RG7600 *
Melanoma RG7636 *
* Diagnostics.
AHDowC sA: DHCows w thoeryk :work
CCeerrttaaiinn pprrootteeiinnss tthhaatt aarree nnoott ffoouunndd eellsseewwhheerree iinn tthhee bbooddyy ‘The‘ Tmhaei nm cahina lclehnagllee nisg ee niss uerninsgur tinhgat tthhaet cthhee mchoethmeortahpeyr aisp py rios p-
ccaann ssoommeettiimmeess bbee ffoouunndd oonn tthhee ssuurrffaaccee ooff ttuummoouurr cceellllss.. BByy erly partotapcehrelyd a ttota tchhee adn ttoib tohdey a anntdib tohdayt aitn wdi ltlh naot ti tf awlli lol fnf oint ftahlel o ff
ddeevveellooppiinngg aann aannttiibbooddyy tthhaatt rreeccooggnniisseess tthheessee pprrootteeininss a anndd blooidn tsht eC belrotaoidn sptrroetaemin as nthda atc atr jeu snto lti kfeo ucnhde melosethwehraeprey .i nIf tthheis
aattttaacchhiinngg tthhee cchheemmootthheerraappyy, ttoo tthhee aannttiibbooddyy iitt iiss ppoossssiibbllee to bodhy acpapne snosm theeti mpaetsi ebnet fdoouensd noont tgheet saunryf abceen oeff itt ufmroomu rt hcee ltles ch-
dtoe ldiveelirv ae rt oax tionx dinir edcirtelyc ttoly tthoe t hcaen ccaenrc ceerl lc aenlld a pnodt penottieanlltyi aslplya re reamn oalnodg ya,’c Rt ijcuhsta rlidk eS cchheelmleor,t hHeeraadp yo.f Igf RthEisD h saapidp.e ‘nTsh itsh we apsa tkieeny t
tshpea rree stht eo fr ethset obfo tdhye fbroomdy t hfreo mim tphaec itm opf athcet ocfy tthoeto cxyicto dtoruxgic, or doesto n soet cguerti nagn yT –bDenMe1f’ist fsruocmc ethses .’technology,’ Richard Scheller,
cdhruegm, ootrh cehraepmyo.therapy. head of gRED said. ‘This was key to securing T–DM1’s success’.
Stable Linker Receptor
Chemotherapy
agent (DM1)
Monoclonal antibody
(Trastuzumab)
Cancer Cell
Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 and 4
The trastuzumab component of T–DM1 detects The trastuzumab component blocks out- Once in the cell, T–DM1 is degraded releasing
and binds to the HER2-positive cancer cell. of-control signals that make the cancer grow, the active DM1 form. This then binds to a
while also calling upon the body’s immune protein structure playing a key role in cell divi-
system to attack the cancer cells. T–DM1 sion. DM1 prevents the cell from dividing.
is taken up by the HER2-positive cancer cell. The cell dies.
40
Roche Business Report 2012 | Research and Development
TDM1_EN.indd 1 23.01.13 12:02Blood cancer: an introduction
Hematology
We are working on the next generation of targeted therapies The most common blood cancer is lymphoma. It occurs
to treat certain blood cancers like non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma when lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell, grow abnor-
(NHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). MabThera, mally. Two main types of lymphocytes can develop lym-
known as Rituxan in the United States, has proven to be an phomas: B-lymphocytes, or B-cells, and T-lymphocytes, or
extremely effective medicine for such hematological cancers. T-cells. Cancerous lymphocytes can travel to many parts
Since its launch in 1997, it has been used to treat around 2.7 of the body, including the lymph nodes, spleen, bone mar-
million patients in oncology. row, blood and other organs.
There is still, however, an unmet medical need in this area. A patient is tested for CD20, a protein on the surface of
Drawing on our understanding of the biology of B-cells and B-cells, to find out whether he or she has a B-cell or T-cell
their role in blood cancers, we are developing a number of derived cancer. MabThera/Rituxan works by targeting the
compounds that could further improve the treatment of hema- B-cells that have high levels of CD20 and that are growing
tological cancers. abnormally.
Obinutuzumab (GA101) is designed to be an even more ef - The two main types of lymphoma are non-Hodgkin’s lym-
fective drug than MabThera/Rituxan. Obinutuzumab works by phoma and Hodgkin’s lymphoma. NHL is the most common
targeting the CD20 protein on malignant B-cells and binding to cancer of the lymphatic system, which is part of the immune
the cell surface in a way that restores the natural process of system. By 2015, it is expected that there will be nearly
cell death (apoptosis). At the same time it activates the body’s 225,000 annual deaths worldwide from non-Hodgkin’s lym-
own immune system to aid cell death through a process known phoma.
as Antibody-Dependent Cell-Mediated Cytotoxicity (ADCC).
Obinutuzumab’s clinical development programme is designed
to demonstrate superiority over MabThera/Rituxan in multiple
frontline, head-to-head trials in NHL and CLL. The first phase RG7112 is a selective inhibitor of p53-MDM2 binding. The
III trial to report will be CLL11, with stage 1 results looking at gene p53 plays a central role in controlling cell growth and
its use in first-line CLL due in 2013. Recruitment for obinutu- division, and helps to suppress tumours. Scientists have tried
zumab’s other phase III trials is going well. to find ways of restoring the function of p53’s gene product,
known as P53, after it has been damaged. One way of doing
RG7601 inhibits BCL-2 protein, which is highly expressed in this is through the MDM2 gene. This gene works with p53
CLL, indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma and some aggressive to keep the division of cells under control by preventing exces-
lymphomas as well as other B-cell neoplasms. Data from a sive production of P53. Drugs that target MDM2 could there-
phase I trial presented at the 2012 American Society of Hema- fore allow the body to produce more P53 and restore normal
tology (ASH) annual meeting showed it had anti-tumour activ- cell growth. Phase I results presented at ASH provided proof
ity in patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), diffuse large of mechanism and evidence for single-agent clinical activity
B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), follicular lymphoma and Walden- of MDM2 antagonism in leukemia by demonstrating complete
stroem macroglobulinemia (WM). remission (5 of 31 [16%] at the maximum tolerated dose), lysis
of leukemic blasts and activation of p53 pathway targets in
We are also developing ADCs that target CD79b and CD22, leukemic cells.
two additional antigens that are expressed in nearly all B-cell
lymphomas. Phase I data presented on anti-CD79b ADC
(RG7596) and anti-CD22 ADC (RG7593) at ASH showed Targeted therapies
these two compounds have promising anti-tumour activity
and an acceptable tolerability profile in heavily pre-treated Roche is forging ahead with the development of therapies
patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell NHL, including that target abnormal gene expression in diseases like cancer.
follicular lymphoma, DLBCL and MCL. A head-to-head phase Onartuzumab (MetMAb) is one of many promising compounds
II trial looking at these two agents combined with rituximab in our pipeline.
is ongoing. Both ADCs are being developed using Seattle
Genetics technology.
41
Research and Development | Roche Business Report 2012Onartuzumab is a targeted therapy that could be used in Combination therapies
a number of different cancers, including lung cancer, breast
cancer, colorectal cancer, glioblastoma, a type of brain tumour, The combination of cancer medicines is emerging as one of the
and gastric cancer. Results so far strongly suggest that onar- most important and effective ways to help people with cancer
tuzumab works best in patients who over express Met protein. live longer. By combining treatments it is possible to hit several
It is being investigated in a late-stage trial for use in Met-posi- pathways responsible for a tumour’s growth. This also means
tive advanced non-small cell lung cancer in combination with medicines will be able to overcome the resistance a cancer
Tarceva, one of our existing lung cancer therapies. The mid- may have built up to a certain treatment.
stage results, which were presented in 2011, showed the
combination of onartuzumab and Tarceva tripled the time BRAF + MEKi — We are building on extensive clinical experi-
Met-positive patients lived compared with Tarceva alone. ence with our first-in-class BRAF inhibitor Zelboraf to investi-
gate a number of combination approaches including Zelboraf
Onartuzumab works by stopping a protein called the hepato- with our investigational MEK inhibitor GDC-0973. Our scien-
cyte growth factor (HGF) from binding to Met. By stopping tists now believe that one reason why patients treated with
Met and HGF from coming together, cancerous cells find it BRAF inhibitors stop responding to therapy is because they
more difficult to grow, replicate, survive and spread. We are have acquired resistance to drugs that inhibit the RAS-RAF
also developing a tissue-based companion diagnostic test, pathway. We have initiated a phase III study exploring the
cMET, which will allow doctors to identify those most likely to potential of our investigational MEK inhibitor GDC-0973 with
benefit from onartuzumab. Zelboraf.
Avastin + onartuzumab — Preclinical studies have shown that
the combination of Avastin and onartuzumab can have a syn-
ergistic effect in attacking cancer cell growth. Avastin works
by targeting and inhibiting the vascular endothelial growth
Companion diagnostic tests factor (VEGF), which is required for the growth of new blood
vessels. By blocking VEGF, Avastin starves tumours of their
Diagnostics plays a key role in the research and develop- blood supply. Onartuzumab targets the Met receptor, which
ment of our targeted medicines. We have more than 200 Per- also drives VEGF expression. In a phase Ib study the combina-
sonalised Healthcare collaborations within the Group and tion of Avastin and onartuzumab was generally well tolerated.
more than 60% of our Pharmaceuticals pipeline projects are Roche is looking at the simultaneous targeting of the VEGF
being developed with companion diagnostics. and Met pathways across various tumour types, including tri-
ple negative breast cancer, metastatic colorectal cancer, glio-
The Diagnostics Division’s tests allow our researchers to blastoma and non-small cell lung cancer.
accurately identify the molecular abnormalities causing a dis-
ease. This allows researchers to make a drug tailored for
specific patients. As a result the drug is more effective and Looking to the future of oncology therapy
the dosing is optimal, reducing unnecessary side effects.
Roche is working on a new type of cancer treatment that
The combination of specific diagnostic tests and targeted should restore a patient’s own immune system to attack the
therapies has already improved the prognosis of many cancer tumour. Anti-PD-L1 is Roche’s first cancer immunotherapy
patients. Companion diagnostic tests have also helped in programme in clinical development. The goal is to significantly
the treatment of infectious diseases, like hepatitis C. improve durable survival in a number of human cancers. Anti-
PD-L1 is a human monoclonal antibody engineered to restore
We are working on diagnostic testing that will shed more a patient’s existing immunity and generate new immunity.
light on why certain tumours become resistant to a targeted
drug therapy. Roche is uniquely positioned to be a leader in cancer immuno-
therapy based on our wealth of experience and knowledge
At Roche, we are confident we will also be able to use com- in both immunology and oncology. We continue to research
panion diagnostics in a number of other disease areas apart and develop our anti-PD-L1 molecule both as a monotherapy
from cancer, such as immunology and neuroscience. and in combinations with other treatments, incorporating bio-
42
Roche Business Report 2012 | Research and DevelopmentOngoing combination therapy trials
Phase I Phase II Phase III Launched
Anti-PD-L1 + Avastin Onartuzumab + Avastin Perjeta + Herceptin Perjeta + Herceptin
— Solid tumours — Triple neg. mBC — Adjuvant HER2-positive — HER2-positive BC
— mCRC BC (APHINITY)
— NSCLC, non-squamous 1L
— Recurrent glioblastoma
Anti-PD-L1 + Anti-EGFL7 + Avastin T–DM1 + Perjeta
Zelboraf (BRAF) — NSCLC 1L — HER2-positive BC 1L
— Metastatic melanoma — mCRC, 1L (MARIANNE)
BRAF mut+ — HER2-positive BC EBC
Anti-CD22 ADC and
Anti-CD79b ADC + MabThera
— hematologic malignancies
Zelboraf BRAF + MEKi
RG7421
marker research to further enhance the understanding of the
science behind cancer immunotherapy. Treating the untreatable
Another new way of treating cancer in the future could come Roche is developing therapies for a number of central
from a rather unexpected source: the toxins from bacterial nervous system (CNS) disorders that until recently were
infection, or exotoxins. Exotoxins can kill cells, and one in believed to be untreatable.
particular, pseudomonas exotoxin (PE), could prove to be an
important agent in the treatment of cancer as it is an extremely ‘For people who had autism, for example, the traditional
potent cell killer. So far these toxins have proven impossible thinking was that nothing could be done,’ Luca Santarelli,
to harness for therapeutic usage because the body’s immune Head of Neuroscience, said.
system has always rejected them.
New data has shown medicines could also be developed
In collaboration with the National Cancer Insitute (NCI), we are for illnesses such as autism, fragile X syndrome, Down’s
exploring the use of a de-immunised version of PE as a ‘war- syndrome, refractory depression as well as the early stages
head’ attached to antibody fragments or peptidergic binders. of Alzheimer’s disease.
The whole molecule is called a cytolytic fusion protein (cFP).
We have several such agents in development. The most With one of the strongest neuroscience pipelines in the
advanced is being targeted to pleural mesothelioma, a cancer industry, Roche has made considerable progress in this area
with very few treatment options. We aim to have the first cFPs over the last decade and the Group now has nearly a dozen
in humans by 2014, and if this results in a clinical proof of con- compounds in development in CNS.
cept we will be able to quickly develop a number of follow-on
molecules targeting different cancers, allowing us to take ‘There are no shortcuts in CNS development,’ Santarelli
advantage of the flexibility of this platform. said. ‘Gantenerumab for Alzheimer’s has been ten years in
the making’.
Neuroscience Working closely with academic institutes and external bio-
tech companies, as well as forming public-private partner-
Over the past ten years, scientists have gained a better under- ships has helped Roche to develop its presence in this field.
standing of the brain. Today Roche is working on new mole- But the development of companion diagnostics has also
cular entities that could become the next generation of medi- been critical, particularly for Alzheimer’s as this is a very
cines for a range of diseases including schizophrenia, multiple difficult disease to diagnose properly.
43
Research and Development | Roche Business Report 2012sclerosis, depression, neurodevelopmental disorders, Parkin- gantenerumab can significantly decrease levels of amyloid in
son’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease. the brain. We are currently conducting a phase II/III trial with
gantenerumab called SCarlet RoAD. We used a c ompanion
We are tackling diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) diagnostic to identify patients early and to ensure that all
by focusing on the biology of the illness, taking a similar patients enrolled display Alzheimer’s disease pathology. The
approach to our development of cancer therapies. Biomarkers first results of the SCarlet RoAD are expected in 2016.
are also helping us to develop more targeted treatments for
CNS disorders, such as Alzheimer’s. Gantenerumab is one of three compounds selected for a
worldwide trial investigating whether these antiamyloid agents
can prevent Alzheimer’s. The Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer
Alzheimer’s disease Network trial is being conducted at the Washington University
School of Medicine in St. Louis, USA.
Two of our most advanced compounds for the treatment of
Alzheimer’s are gantenerumab and crenezumab. Crenezumab is in two phase II trials (ABBY and BLAZE) for
mild to moderate Alzheimer’s. Results from these trials are due
With gantenerumab, we are aiming to treat patients with Alz- in 2013 and 2014. Crenezumab is also part of a US government-
heimer’s around five years earlier than they are currently backed trial in pre-clinical Alzheimer’s to determine whether
treated so that we can slow down or even prevent further it could help prevent or slow the disease. The study is investi-
damage to the brain. Gantenerumab, which was initially devel- gating the use of crenezumab in a group of around 300 Colom-
oped in partnership with MorphoSys, is being investigated in bians with a genetic mutation that results in them developing
patients with prodromal Alzheimer’s, who are showing signs of Alzheimer’s in their forties. So far the drug has shown few side
mild cognitive impairment and who have evidence of amyloid effects, meaning it can be used at higher doses, potentially
plaques in the brain. Early clinical studies have shown that increasing the amount that gets into the brain. Crenezumab
is an antibody that targets both the solid bits of beta amyloid
that make up plaques in the brain and the free-floating, soluble
forms of the Abeta protein.
Alzheimer’s disease
Alzheimer’s has a devastating impact on the lives of patients Schizophrenia
and their families. It is the most common form of dementia
and approximately 36 million people suffer from Alzheimer’s Roche is working to improve the lives of people with schizo-
worldwide. It is estimated that 66 million people will be phrenia, a chronic brain disease that affects approximately
affected by 2030. As many as 115 million people could have 26 million people and is among the 20 most common disabling
the disease by 2050 as the population ages. conditions worldwide. The symptoms of schizophrenia fall
into three main categories: positive symptoms, such as hallu-
Alzheimer’s with notable clinical symptoms is most common cinations and delusions; negative symptoms, such as lack of
in people above the age of 60, but people with certain rare speech, lack of emotional expression, inability to begin and
genetic mutations may develop the disease earlier. sustain activities and social withdrawal; and cognitive deficits,
which include difficulties with memory, attention and decision
People with Alzheimer’s have abnormal amounts of amyloid making. Reduced signalling through the NMDA (N-methyl-D-
protein, or amyloid plaque in the brain. Build-up of this protein aspartate) receptor is thought to be a possible explanation for
reduces the effectiveness of healthy neurons and gradually all of these symptoms.
destroys them. Detecting the levels of this protein in spinal
fluid can be used to identify the patients with Alzheimer’s Bitopertin is a new, first-in-class, oral glycine reuptake inhib-
who are at high risk of converting into dementia in a few itor that is designed to improve NMDA receptor function.
years’ time. Phase III trials in the SearchLyte trial programme are investi-
gating bitopertin in combination with standard of care anti-
We believe our approach of treating Alzheimer’s at the early psychotics in patients with predominant negative symptoms
stages (prodromal) is pioneering. Roche currently has four (DayLyte, FlashLyte, SunLyte) and those with sub-optimally
compounds in clinical development for Alzheimer’s. controlled symptoms of schizophrenia (MoonLyte, TwiLyte,
NightLyte).
44
Roche Business Report 2012 | Research and DevelopmentIdentifying those at risk
Multiple sclerosis
We are developing ocrelizumab, a new therapy for multiple We are developing an immunoassay, Aβ42, to identify
sclerosis (MS), a debilitating neurological illness. Ocrelizumab patients who are at a higher risk of developing Alzheimer’s
is a humanised, monoclonal antibody designed to selectively disease. We are also developing a genetic test, Apoliprotein
target CD20-positive B-cells, which are thought to play an E, to identify carriers of the ApoE4 genotype who may
important role in MS. It works with the body’s immune system benefit from a dose adjustment of gantenerumab, as well
to eliminate the CD20-positive B-cells. Ocrelizumab is in phase as another immunoassay, Tau, which will be used as an
III clinical trials for patients with the relapsing form of the dis- exploratory surrogate marker for efficacy.
ease (OPERA I and II), and patients with the primary progres-
sive form of MS (ORATORIO) for which there is no approved An immunoassay is any of various techniques for determining
treatment. the levels of antigen and antibody.
(Oxford Medical Dictionary)
Diagnostics
In 2012 the Diagnostics Division made advances in lab automa- Developing new technologies
tion, near patient testing and diabetes management. Our newly
launched tests are further aiding the diagnosis of cancers, We are investing in new technologies that could make an
infectious diseases and metabolic disorders. important difference to the way certain diseases, such as
cancer, are diagnosed. Two examples of this are microRNA
In the United States, our largest market, we launched a vitamin and multiplexing from our Tissue Diagnostics business.
D test and three diabetes care devices: Accu-Chek Nano
SmartView for discreet blood glucose self-testing, Accu-Chek MicroRNA play an important role in almost all tumours. They
Combo, a pump/metre combination and Accu-Chek Inform II control the expression of oncogenic proteins and can influ-
for professional glucose testing at the hospital. In the rest of ence treatment resistance and whether a cancer spreads.
the world a key launch was the cobas b 101 system, which is Roche Tissue Diagnostics has developed the first fully auto-
used at the doctor’s office or outpatient clinic to help identify mated staining technique that will allow researchers to detect
and manage patients who have metabolic disorders. microRNA and proteins in the tumour’s microenvironment.
This could help researchers better understand cancer and
develop new targeted therapies.
Driving testing efficiency
Multiplexing is a technology that allows the simultaneous iden-
We are further developing our diagnostic platforms and tests tification of up to nine different targets, such as mutated genes
to enhance testing efficiency in clinical laboratories and or proteins, from a single piece of tissue. This means that phy-
research centres. We have a number of systems in early and sicians will be able to get more answers at the time of initial
late-stage development, including next-generation platforms diagnosis of a tumour, and there will still be tissue available for
for immunodiagnostic, clinical chemistry and coagulation test- comparison, in case the cancer should return.
ing. Our leading cobas series of fully automated analysers are
being designed to help large labs further consolidate their We also remain focused on developing faster, more efficient
work areas and handle expanding testing volumes. We are also sequencing systems. Next-generation sequencing will allow
developing the cobas 6800/8800, which is a novel molecular scientists to examine (parts of) a person’s genome 1 faster and
testing platform. It is expected to be the first to offer new levels more efficiently than before. We are continuing our collabora-
of automation, throughput and cost-efficiency to molecular tions with external partners on next-generation platforms.
and blood screening laboratories. We also invested in sequencing workflow enhancements and
initiated a collaboration with Precision System Science for
1 A genome is the total genetic material of an organism, comprising the
genes contained in its chromosomes. (Oxford Medical Dictionary).
45
Research and Development | Roche Business Report 2012Diabetes Care: pumps and CGM In late 2012 we started the GUIDE-IT 3 clinical trial that investi-
gates the benefit of our heart failure test, NT-proBNP, for ther-
Roche continues to develop innovative and integrated diabe- apy monitoring in heart failure patients. The pivotal trial is co -
tes management systems that help patients and caregivers ordinated by the Duke Clinical Research Institute (main study)
to optimise therapy. We are focusing investments on insulin and funded by the US National Institutes of Health as well as
pumps and continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) where we Roche. NT-proBNP-guided heart failure care is expected to
see the greatest market potential for innovative, differenti- substantially reduce the occurrence of cardiovascular events,
ated products. Our pipeline includes a next-generation insu- such as worsening heart failure, hospitalisation and death, as
lin pump/blood glucose metre, Accu-Chek Insight, as well compared with current standards of care. See more on page
as a novel micropump. Following our decision to cancel the 70.
micropump’s pilot launch in late 2012, we are further devel-
oping this product as a a combined metre and pump with We continue to study new diabetes management approaches
proven Accu-Chek features. We are also developing a CGM based on innovative devices. The ABACUS 4 study investigated
system that provides real time continuous glucose monitor- the use of our Accu-Chek Aviva Expert automatic bolus advi-
ing by a small sensor under the patient’s skin. The CGM sys- sor, a functionality to calculate the appropriate insulin doses
tem is in early development and delivered promising results based on regular blood glucose monitoring, in insulin depen-
in the first clinical studies. dent patients. The study results, first presented in October,
revealed that the use of the bolus adviser improved the ability
to reach glycemic targets, supporting therapy adherence and
patient wellbeing, without an increase of the number of hypo-
an automated emulsion PCR 2 instrument, for preparation of glycemic events.
genomic samples.
Improving R & D productivity
Providing medical value
Improving productivity in R & D is a priority for Roche. We are
We are developing tests that provide new answers in areas working to make our R & D practices more efficient in order to
such as oncology, virology and metabolism. One such example develop medicines in a sustainable way and reduce the time it
is the cobas PIK3CA mutation assay which is designed to takes to bring our products to market.
detect mutations in the PI3K (phosphoinositide 3-kinase)
pathway. This pathway is mutated in more cancer patients than One approach is to design our trials to ensure shorter develop-
any other and plays a significant role in colorectal, gastric, ment times. By using biomarkers, for example, we are able to
breast and endometrial tumours. select the patients who are most likely to respond to our treat-
ments. This means we can run smarter trials that are more
A test for research use is being launched in early 2013, and the likely to be successful. It also allows us to reduce the costs per
IVD test predicting the response to specific cancer therapies trial per patient.
is being developed for launch in the coming years. Also in early
development are tests to identify variations in gene expression Another initiative, Trials to Patients (T2P), aims to better inform
in the PI3K pathway in tumour tissue. See more on companion patients and their doctors about the benefits of participating in
diagnostics on pages 42 (cMET) and 45 (Aβ42, ApoE, Tau). a clinical trial. We have also developed online recruiting tools
to make it easier for patients to enrol.
Delivering clinical evidence If enrolment in clinical trials is increased through programmes
like T2P, we will be able to accelerate drug development. For
We are also investing in and collaborating on clinical trials to instance if 10% of cancer patients participated in trials, patient
demonstrate the medical value of our diagnostic products in enrolment times could be cut to one year from the three to five
helping physicians to better monitor and treat patients suffer-
ing from illnesses such as heart disease and diabetes.
3 GUIDing Evidence-based therapy using biomarker
Intensified Treatment.
2 Polymerase chain reaction 4 Automated Bolus Advisor Control and Usability Study.
46
Roche Business Report 2012 | Research and Developmentyears currently required, according to the National Cancer The StemBANCC partnership
Institute.
Roche is playing a leading role in StemBANCC, an exciting
As part of our efforts to streamline our R & D activities in 2012, new academic-industry partnership that will help deepen our
we took the difficult decision to close our site in Nutley, New understanding of a number of complex diseases. The initiative
Jersey, United States. The closure will allow us to allocate will also improve the drug development process.
resources to our expanding late-stage pipeline and to focus on
the most promising agents. The StemBANCC project, which involves ten pharmaceutical
companies and 23 academic institutions, is based on Nobel
Prize winning technology that has revolutionised the way stem
Accessing external innovation cells can be used in research.
With approximately 150 active partnerships, and molecules For a long time it was believed that adult cells could only divide
from third parties accounting for around one-third of Roche to make other cells of the same type, for example that skin cells
sales, external innovation continues to make a valuable con- can only make other skin cells, and liver cells can only make
tribution to our pipeline and allows us to broaden our global other liver cells.
innovation network.
But in recent years researchers have developed a way of
Roche Partnering signed 55 new agreements in 2012, includ- reprogramming ordinary adult cells to create stem cells that
ing three product transactions and 43 research and tech- can be used to generate any kind of cell. Such stem cells are
nology collaborations. In addition, nine product outlicencing known as induced pluripotent stem cells, and in 2012 scientists
agreements were signed. Among the team’s main transactions John Gurdon, Cambridge University, and Shinya Yamanaka,
in 2012 was the exclusive partnership with Versant Ventures Kyoto University, were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology
and Inception Sciences to create a drug discovery incubator, or Medicine for these findings.
Inception 3, for the treatment of sensorineural hearing loss.
This deal structure is particularly innovative as it involves a These advances mean that we can now take blood or skin cell
venture firm, Versant, which provides equity financing, a phar- samples from patients and examine their diseases in a petri
maceutical company, Roche, which contributes funding and dish. This technology will also allow us to test potential small
other resources to the research, and a biotech firm, Inception, molecules and biologic treatments at a very early stage in the
which provides an innovative technology platform as well as drug discovery process.
the drug hunting expertise of the Inception Sciences team.
This project, which was launched by Roche and the Innovative
In 2012 Genentech Partnering signed 14 new agreements Medicines Initiative at the end of 2012, will focus on diabetes,
including three product transactions, three research and tech- central nervous disorders, including dementias, autism and
nology collaborations, four academic collaborations, and four schizophrenia, as well as on peripheral nervous system dis-
outlicencing agreements. In 2012 we entered a unique deal orders, especially pain. The partnership will run for five years.
structure with US-based Constellation Pharmaceuticals, which
includes a future option to acquire Constellation based on pre- Roche scientists have worked on induced pluripotent stem
negotiated terms. This major strategic agreement is based on cells with partners at Harvard University, Massachusetts
the science of epigenetics and chromatin biology to discover General Hospital for more than three years, and have created
and develop treatments for cancer and other serious diseases. over 100 human induced pluripotent stem cell lines that can be
used to model cardiovascular diseases. More recently we also
The Diagnostics Division signed more than 50 licensing agree- joined forces with the Boston Children’s Hospital and Harvard
ments in 2012. We also made a tender offer for US group Illu- to use stem cells to model neurological diseases.
mina which was rejected.
47
Research and Development | Roche Business Report 2012Conducting responsible R & D
Animals used in research (Roche and contract research
organisations) in 2012
97.5%
Clinical trials mice and rats
Clinical trials are critical for determining the safety and efficacy 0.7% other rodents and rabbits
of new medicines. All of our clinical trials are compliant with
Good Clinical Practice guidelines, an international quality 0.2% dogs
standard. The information from our trials is shared with regu-
latory authorities and payers. Regardless of the outcome of a 0.5% primates
trial, Roche is dedicated to providing balanced information on
the trial to healthcare professionals and to the public. We only 1.1% other
perform trials in countries where we intend to market the med-
icine being tested.
In 2012, 326,642 patients were involved in our clinical trials. Bioethics
Roche has published several position papers on its R & D activ-
Clinical trials ities in areas such as genetics, stem cells and animal research.
We routinely review and update these positions and our pol-
2012 2011 2010 icies for research involving either humans or animals, taking
Number of clinical trials 2,280 2,336 2,253 into account scientific developments and public concerns.
Number of healthcare
centres involved 35,720 35,647 33,698 The Roche Charter on Genetics ensures that our genetic
Number of patients in research meets the highest standards and is socially responsi-
phase I–IV clinical trials 1 326,642 295,994 248,261 ble. We believe in the right of every individual to self-determi-
nation, privacy and confidentiality regarding the collection and
1 excludes non-interventionist screening programme.
use of genetic information.
Details of our clinical trials are available at www.roche-trials. Animal welfare
com, www.clinicaltrials.gov and through the International Fed- We take public concern about animal research seriously and
eration of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations throughout 2012 we have worked to maintain our already high
clinical trials portal and the US National Institutes of Health standards of animal welfare. Wherever possible, we seek alter-
global registry. natives to the use of animals, such as computer simulation or
in vitro testing using differentiated cells or stem cells. Without
Roche encourages its scientists to publish results of their work putting at risk the reliability and validity of research and test
in medical journals and to present them at scientific and medi- results, we follow the 3Rs approach:
cal congresses. In 2012 more than 1,000 scientific articles by • Reduce: the number of animals needed
Roche scientists were published in leading journals such as • Refine: by tailoring procedures to minimise pain and dis-
Nature, Cell, Science and the New England Journal of Medicine. comfort
• Replace: with other methods that do not involve animals or
use only cells or tissues of animals
Ethical practices
Animal research remains indispensable to biomedical research
The Roche Science and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG) is for scientific and legal reasons. Regulatory authorities require
made up of independent external experts in bioethics and phi- all healthcare companies to test the safety and efficacy of new
losophy and offers advice and counsel on a broad range of drugs in animals before they can be used in humans.
ethical matters, including ethical approaches to biomedical
and clinical research. SEAG follows a consultative approach on In 2012 we used 408,013 animals in our research, a 13%
topics that are perceived as particularly sensitive or controver- decrease from 2011. The number of animals used by contract
sial by the public at large in order to take into account as many research organisations working on Roche’s behalf decreased
perspectives as possible. to 64,314 compared with 68,606 in 2011. Approximately 97.5%
48
Roche Business Report 2012 | Research and Developmentof the animals used were mice and rats. The overall decrease
in 2012 animal usage is a direct reflection of the restructuring
of the Roche organisation and the drug portfolio changes.
More on the web
• Roche’s Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Pipelines:
www.roche.com/pipeline
• Personalised Healthcare: www.roche.com/personalised_healthcare
• Group policies, positions and guidelines:
www.roche.com/responsibility/sustainability/
positions_policies_downloads.htm#guidelines
• Clincal trials and safety: www.roche.com/clinical_trials;
www.roche.com/managing_medication_safety
• New products and technologies: www.roche.com/
innovation_and_technologies
• Ethical standards: www.roche.com/ehtical_standards
http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/
code_of_conduct.htm
• Genetics and bioethics: www.roche.com/genetics_and_bioethics
• Animal welfare: www.roche.com/animal_welfare
49
Research and Development | Roche Business Report 2012Pharmaceuticals pipeline
noitacidnI
tcudorP/tcejorP
DI
tcejorP
sromut meh & dilos
tna 2MDM
2117GR
sromut dilos
bAM 3REH
6117GR
sromut dilos
bAM R1-FSC
5517GR
sromut dilos
hni KEM/FIC
7617GR
amonalem .tem
bamumilipi
+ farobleZ
4027GR
ygolocno
bAM kaewT
2127GR
ygolocno
bAM FGEV-2GNA
1227GR
sromut dilos
hni
laud KEM & faR
4037GR
sromut dilos
bAM 44DC
6537GR
sromut meh & dilos
tna 2MDM
8837GR
sromut dilos
hni KEM
0247GR
sromut dilos
rotibihni TKA
0447GR
sromut dilos
bAM 1L-DP
6447GR
.ac etatsorp
CDA 1 paetS
0547GR
.ac nairavo
CDA
8547GR
amoleym elpitlum
CDA
8957GR
ygolocno
CDA
9957GR
ygolocno
CDA
0067GR
LHN dna LLC
hni 2-lcB
1067GR
amohpmyl & mut dilos
hni 1KhC
2067GR
sromut dilos
hni K3IP
4067GR
amonalem citatsatem
CDA
6367GR
L2 amotsalboilg
hni k3IP
6667GR
sromut dilos
)2( hni 1KhC
1477GR
CLCSN
rotibihni KLA
3587GR
sromut dilos
hni K3IP
UHC
eniccav recnac
editpep 1-TW
UHC
enil dn2 CBm +2REH
atejreP
3721GR
recnac cirtsag +2REH
atejreP
3721GR
CB ylrae +2REH
1MD–T
2053GR
recnac cirtsag+2REH
1MD–T
2053GR
CCB elbarepo
egdevirE
6163GR
L2/L1enil
dn2/ts1 ,CBm gen-elpirt
bamuzutrano
8363GR
L1 enil ts1 CRCm
bamuzutrano
8363GR
l
ts1 suomauqs non CLCSN
bamuzutrano
8363GR
enil ts1 suomauqs CLCSN
bamuzutrano
8363GR
enil dn2 amotsalboilg
bamuzutrano
8363GR
sromut dilos
bAM RFGE
0617GR
recnac dioryht yrallipap
farobleZ
4027GR
sromut dilos
hni K3IP
1237GR
sromut meh & dilos
hni ROTm/K3IP
2247GR
sromut dilos
bAM 7LFGE
4147GR
sromut meh
CDA 22DC
3957GR
sromut meh
CDA b97DC
6957GR
sromut lailehtipe .m
RFGE/3REH
7957GR
recnac revil
bAM 3-nacipylg
6867GR
jda CB +2REH
nitsavA
534GR
jda CB .gen-2REH
nitsavA
534GR
jda CLCSN
nitsavA
534GR
dionicrac ksir hgih
nitsavA
534GR
enil ts1 amotsalboilg
nitsavA
534GR
enil ts1 recnac nairavo
nitsavA
* 534GR
.tsiser
munitalp recnac nairavo
nitsavA
*534GR
CB ylrae +2REH
atejreP
3721GR
jda CLCSN
avecraT
5141GR
enil dr3 CBm +2REH
1MD–T
2053GR
enil ts1 CBm +2REH
1MD–T
2053GR
enil dr3/dn2 CLCSN
bamuzutrano
8363GR
recnac cirtsag
bamuzutrano
8363GR
LLC
bamuzutunibo
9517GR
despaler LHN tnedicni
bamuzutunibo
9517GR
LCBLD
bamuzutunibo
9517GR
enil-tnorf LHN tnelodni
bamuzutunibo
9517GR
jda amonalem .m
farobleZ
4027GR
amonalem .m
farobleZ
obmoc hni KEM
1247GR
noitalumrof cs LHN
arehTbaM
3 501GR
LMT CRCm
nitsavA
1 534GR
mrof cs CB +2REH
nitpecreH
3 795GR
enil ts1 CBm +2REH
atejreP
2 3721GR
enil ts1 tum RFGE CLCSN
avecraT
1 5141GR
CBm detaerterp +2REH
1MD–T
2 2053GR
CCB decnavda
egdevirE
2 6163GR
sesaesid enummiotua
bAM 71-LI
4267GR
AR
bAM 6-LI
UHC
sititamred cipota
133MIC
UHC
sisorelcs cimetsys
armetcA
9651GR
sitiloc evitareclu
bamuzilorte
3147GR
mehtyre supul cimetsys
bamuzilatnor
5147GR
amhtsa
)bAM
emirp
1M( bamuziliuq
9447GR
AR ylrae
armetcA
9651GR
amhtsa ereves
bamuzikirbel
7363GR
airacitru
cihtapoidi cinorhc
rialoX
8463GR
yhtaposehtne
lynevuS
UHC
APM/APG
arehTbaM
2 501GR
noitalumrof cs AR
armetcA
9651GR
AIJ ralucitraylop
armetcA
9651GR
VBH
tsinoga 7RLT
5977GR
VCH
enibaticirem
8217GR
VCH
riverponad
7227GR
VMC
—
7667GR
VCH
rivubortes
0977GR
setebaid 2 epyt
oga
laud 1-PLG/PIG
7967GR
DVC/SCA
)bAM
nitceles
P( bamucalcni
2151GR
sesaesid cilobatem
bAM 9KSCP
2567GR
D2T ni SCA tsop
der
ksir VC razatilgela
9341GR
D2T-erp/D2T
ni DVC der ksir VC
razatilgela
9341GR
setebaid 2 epyt
razatilgela
9341GR
setebaid 2 epyt
)2TLGS(
nizoflilgofot
UHC
sredrosid .ngoc
MAN 5ARBAG
2661GR
msitua
gatna rotpecer 1V
4137GR
s’remiehzlA
hni 1ECAB
9217GR
ainerhpozihcs
A01EDP
3027GR
s’remiehzlA
bamurenetnag
0541GR
s’remiehzlA
hni B-OAM
7751GR
noisserped
gatna 2RulGm
8751GR
redrosid
evislupmoc evissesbo
nitrepotib
8761GR
noisserped tnatsiser xt
gatna 5RulGm
0907GR
s’remiehzlA
bamuzenerc
2147GR
)DSA( msitua
nefolcabra
TSS
SMR
bamuzilerco
4951GR
SMPP
bamuzilerco
4951GR
smotpmys gen zihcs
nitrepotib
8761GR
lortnoc tpobus zihcs
nitrepotib
8761GR
emordnys X eligarf
nefolcabra
* TSS
EMD/OVR/DMA
.viled
.tsus sitnecuL
5463GR
yhporta cihpargoeg
baF D rotcaf-itna
7147GR
NRP gm 5.0 DMA
sitnecuL
4 5463GR
A ailihpomeh
019ECA
UHC
1 Approved in EU, submitted in US RG-No Roche Genentech managed
2 Approved in US, submitted in EU CHU Chugai managed
3 Submitted in EU SST Seaside Therapeutics (opt-in)
4 Submitted in US RG105 MabThera is branded as
* US only: ongoing evaluation Rituxan in US and Japan
for FDA submission RG1569 Actemra is branded as
Personalised Healthcare RoActemra in EU
project
ACS acute coronary syndrome MAb monoclonal antibody
AMD age-related macular degeneration mBC metastatic breast cancer
BCC basal cell carcinoma NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer
CLL chronic lymphocytic leukemia NHL non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
CMV cytomegalovirus PPMS primary progressive multiple sclerosis
CRC colorectal cancer RA rheumatoid arthritis
CVD cardiovascular disease RMS relapsing multiple sclerosis
DLBCL diffuse large B-cell lymphoma RVO retinal vein occlusion
DME diabetic macular edema sc subcutaneous
HBV hepatitis b virus T2D type 2 diabetes
HCV hepatitis c virus
ygolocnO
noitammalfnI
ygolonummI
ygoloriV cilobateM
ralucsavoidraC
lartneC
suovreN
metsyS
ygolomlahthpO
srehtO
noitartsigeR
III
esahP
II
esahP
I esahP
50 51
Roche Business Report 2012 | Pharmaceuticals pipeline Pharmaceuticals pipeline | Roche Business Report 2012
Pipeline_ENG_Fusszeilen.indd 50-51 17.01.2013 21:44:06
80:50:11
3102.10.52
2 ddni.GNE_enilepiP_D&R_21RA_ehcoR_90Pharmaceuticals pipeline
noitacidnI
tcudorP/tcejorP
DI
tcejorP
sromut meh & dilos
tna 2MDM
2117GR
sromut dilos
bAM 3REH
6117GR
sromut dilos
bAM R1-FSC
5517GR
sromut dilos
hni KEM/FIC
7617GR
amonalem .tem
bamumilipi
+ farobleZ
4027GR
ygolocno
bAM kaewT
2127GR
ygolocno
bAM FGEV-2GNA
1227GR
sromut dilos
hni
laud KEM & faR
4037GR
sromut dilos
bAM 44DC
6537GR
sromut meh & dilos
tna 2MDM
8837GR
sromut dilos
hni KEM
0247GR
sromut dilos
rotibihni TKA
0447GR
sromut dilos
bAM 1L-DP
6447GR
.ac etatsorp
CDA 1 paetS
0547GR
.ac nairavo
CDA
8547GR
amoleym elpitlum
CDA
8957GR
ygolocno
CDA
9957GR
ygolocno
CDA
0067GR
LHN dna LLC
hni 2-lcB
1067GR
amohpmyl & mut dilos
hni 1KhC
2067GR
sromut dilos
hni K3IP
4067GR
amonalem citatsatem
CDA
6367GR
L2 amotsalboilg
hni k3IP
6667GR
sromut dilos
)2( hni 1KhC
1477GR
CLCSN
rotibihni KLA
3587GR
sromut dilos
hni K3IP
UHC
eniccav recnac
editpep 1-TW
UHC
enil dn2 CBm +2REH
atejreP
3721GR
recnac cirtsag +2REH
atejreP
3721GR
CB ylrae +2REH
1MD–T
2053GR
recnac cirtsag+2REH
1MD–T
2053GR
CCB elbarepo
egdevirE
6163GR
L2/L1enil
dn2/ts1 ,CBm gen-elpirt
bamuzutrano
8363GR
L1 enil ts1 CRCm
bamuzutrano
8363GR
l
ts1 suomauqs non CLCSN
bamuzutrano
8363GR
enil ts1 suomauqs CLCSN
bamuzutrano
8363GR
enil dn2 amotsalboilg
bamuzutrano
8363GR
sromut dilos
bAM RFGE
0617GR
recnac dioryht yrallipap
farobleZ
4027GR
sromut dilos
hni K3IP
1237GR
sromut meh & dilos
hni ROTm/K3IP
2247GR
sromut dilos
bAM 7LFGE
4147GR
sromut meh
CDA 22DC
3957GR
sromut meh
CDA b97DC
6957GR
sromut lailehtipe .m
RFGE/3REH
7957GR
recnac revil
bAM 3-nacipylg
6867GR
jda CB +2REH
nitsavA
534GR
jda CB .gen-2REH
nitsavA
534GR
jda CLCSN
nitsavA
534GR
dionicrac ksir hgih
nitsavA
534GR
enil ts1 amotsalboilg
nitsavA
534GR
enil ts1 recnac nairavo
nitsavA
* 534GR
.tsiser
munitalp recnac nairavo
nitsavA
*534GR
CB ylrae +2REH
atejreP
3721GR
jda CLCSN
avecraT
5141GR
enil dr3 CBm +2REH
1MD–T
2053GR
enil ts1 CBm +2REH
1MD–T
2053GR
enil dr3/dn2 CLCSN
bamuzutrano
8363GR
recnac cirtsag
bamuzutrano
8363GR
LLC
bamuzutunibo
9517GR
despaler LHN tnedicni
bamuzutunibo
9517GR
LCBLD
bamuzutunibo
9517GR
enil-tnorf LHN tnelodni
bamuzutunibo
9517GR
jda amonalem .m
farobleZ
4027GR
amonalem .m
farobleZ
obmoc hni KEM
1247GR
noitalumrof cs LHN
arehTbaM
3 501GR
LMT CRCm
nitsavA
1 534GR
mrof cs CB +2REH
nitpecreH
3 795GR
enil ts1 CBm +2REH
atejreP
2 3721GR
enil ts1 tum RFGE CLCSN
avecraT
1 5141GR
CBm detaerterp +2REH
1MD–T
2 2053GR
CCB decnavda
egdevirE
2 6163GR
sesaesid enummiotua
bAM 71-LI
4267GR
AR
bAM 6-LI
UHC
sititamred cipota
133MIC
UHC
sisorelcs cimetsys
armetcA
9651GR
sitiloc evitareclu
bamuzilorte
3147GR
mehtyre supul cimetsys
bamuzilatnor
5147GR
amhtsa
)bAM
emirp
1M( bamuziliuq
9447GR
AR ylrae
armetcA
9651GR
amhtsa ereves
bamuzikirbel
7363GR
airacitru
cihtapoidi cinorhc
rialoX
8463GR
yhtaposehtne
lynevuS
UHC
APM/APG
arehTbaM
2 501GR
noitalumrof cs AR
armetcA
9651GR
AIJ ralucitraylop
armetcA
9651GR
VBH
tsinoga 7RLT
5977GR
VCH
enibaticirem
8217GR
VCH
riverponad
7227GR
VMC
—
7667GR
VCH
rivubortes
0977GR
setebaid 2 epyt
oga
laud 1-PLG/PIG
7967GR
DVC/SCA
)bAM
nitceles
P( bamucalcni
2151GR
sesaesid cilobatem
bAM 9KSCP
2567GR
D2T ni SCA tsop
der
ksir VC razatilgela
9341GR
D2T-erp/D2T
ni DVC der ksir VC
razatilgela
9341GR
setebaid 2 epyt
razatilgela
9341GR
setebaid 2 epyt
)2TLGS(
nizoflilgofot
UHC
sredrosid .ngoc
MAN 5ARBAG
2661GR
msitua
gatna rotpecer 1V
4137GR
s’remiehzlA
hni 1ECAB
9217GR
ainerhpozihcs
A01EDP
3027GR
s’remiehzlA
bamurenetnag
0541GR
s’remiehzlA
hni B-OAM
7751GR
noisserped
gatna 2RulGm
8751GR
redrosid
evislupmoc evissesbo
nitrepotib
8761GR
noisserped tnatsiser xt
gatna 5RulGm
0907GR
s’remiehzlA
bamuzenerc
2147GR
)DSA( msitua
nefolcabra
TSS
SMR
bamuzilerco
4951GR
SMPP
bamuzilerco
4951GR
smotpmys gen zihcs
nitrepotib
8761GR
lortnoc tpobus zihcs
nitrepotib
8761GR
emordnys X eligarf
nefolcabra
* TSS
EMD/OVR/DMA
.viled
.tsus sitnecuL
5463GR
yhporta cihpargoeg
baF D rotcaf-itna
7147GR
NRP gm 5.0 DMA
sitnecuL
4 5463GR
A ailihpomeh
019ECA
UHC
1 Approved in EU, submitted in US RG-No Roche Genentech managed
2 Approved in US, submitted in EU CHU Chugai managed
3 Submitted in EU SST Seaside Therapeutics (opt-in)
4 Submitted in US RG105 MabThera is branded as
* US only: ongoing evaluation Rituxan in US and Japan
for FDA submission RG1569 Actemra is branded as
Personalised Healthcare RoActemra in EU
project
ACS acute coronary syndrome MAb monoclonal antibody
AMD age-related macular degeneration mBC metastatic breast cancer
BCC basal cell carcinoma NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer
CLL chronic lymphocytic leukemia NHL non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
CMV cytomegalovirus PPMS primary progressive multiple sclerosis
CRC colorectal cancer RA rheumatoid arthritis
CVD cardiovascular disease RMS relapsing multiple sclerosis
DLBCL diffuse large B-cell lymphoma RVO retinal vein occlusion
DME diabetic macular edema sc subcutaneous
HBV hepatitis b virus T2D type 2 diabetes
HCV hepatitis c virus
ygolocnO
noitammalfnI
ygolonummI
ygoloriV cilobateM
ralucsavoidraC
lartneC
suovreN
metsyS
ygolomlahthpO
srehtO
noitartsigeR
III
esahP
II
esahP
I esahP
50 51
Roche Business Report 2012 | Pharmaceuticals pipeline Pharmaceuticals pipeline | Roche Business Report 2012
Pipeline_ENG_Fusszeilen.indd 50-51 17.01.2013 21:44:06
80:50:11
3102.10.52
2 ddni.GNE_enilepiP_D&R_21RA_ehcoR_90Pharmaceuticals Division — major clinical trials in 2012
Product Indication Trial (phase) Outcome
Actemra/ rheumatoid arthritis (RA) ADACTA (IV) statistically significant greater improve-
RoActemra ment in signs and symptoms as measured
by mean change in DAS28 of RA in
patients treated with Actemra mono-
therapy vs. adalimumab monotherapy
Actemra/ polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis CHERISH (III) sustained clinically meaningful improve-
RoActemra ment with Actemra IV vs. placebo
Actemra/ early rheumatoid arthritis FUNCTION (III) statistically significant greater improve-
RoActemra ment of signs and symptoms of RA
and greater radiographic progression
inhibition with Actemra in combination
with methotrexate vs. methotrexate alone
Actemra/ rheumatoid arthritis SUMMACTA (III) comparable efficacy of Actemra SC
RoActemra formulation vs. intravenous formulation
(subcutaneous
formulation)
Actemra/ rheumatoid arthritis BREVACTA (III) statistically significant greater improve-
RoActemra ment of signs and symptoms of RA with
(subcutaneous Actemra SC vs. placebo
formulation)
aleglitazar reduction of major cardiovascular AleNephro (II); renal safety study average decrease in renal function in
events in patients with type 2 diabetes patients with stage 3 chronic kidney
who have experienced an acute disease and type 2 diabetes is revers ible,
coronary syndrome mild and stabilises over time
Avastin metastatic colorectal cancer ML 18147 (III) significantly extended OS in patients
who first received Avastin plus standard
chemo therapy as initial treatment and
then continued on Avastin with a
different chemotherapy after their cancer
progressed
Avastin platinum-resistant ovarian cancer AURELIA (III) significantly improved PFS
Avastin glioblastoma AVAglio (III) significantly improved PFS
Avastin triple-negative adjuvant breast cancer BEATRICE (III) did not demonstrate a significant improve-
ment in invasive disease-free survival
versus adjuvant chemotherapy alone
dalcetrapib patients with stable coronary heart dal-OUTCOMES (III) lack of clinically meaningful efficacy
disease following acute coronary
syndrome
Herceptin HER2-positive early breast cancer HERA (III) 1 year of Herceptin confirmed as standard
of care
Herceptin HER2-positive early breast cancer HannaH (III) comparable efficacy of subcutaneous
(subcutaneous formulation versus intravenous formulation
formulation)
MabThera treatment-naïve patients with follicular SABRINA (III) minimum drug concentration confirmed
(subcutaneous lymphoma as non-inferior versus IV administration;
formulation) comparable safety and anti-lymphoma
efficacy versus IV
Perjeta HER2-positive metastatic breast CLEOPATRA (III) significantly improved PFS and OS
cancer; combination with Herceptin
and docetaxel (1L)
trastuzumab HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer EMILIA (III); T–DM1 versus lapatinib significantly improved PFS and OS
emtansine (2L) and Xeloda
(T–DM1)
52
Roche Business Report 2012 | Research and DevelopmentPharmaceuticals Division — major regulatory filings in 2012
Product Clinical data supporting filing Indication or dosage form Country
Actemra/RoActemra CHERISH polyarticular JIA US, EU
Actemra/RoActemra ADACTA RA DMARD IR H2H EU
Actemra/RoActemra SUMMACTA, BREVACTA DMARD IR, TNF IR US, EU
(subcutaneous
formulation) MUSASHI DMARD IR Japan
Avastin BRAIN recurrent glioblastoma Japan
Avastin GOG-0218, ICON7 ovarian cancer Japan
Avastin ML18147 metastatic colorectal cancer (TML) US
Herceptin HannaH HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer EU
(subcutaneous
formulation)
Lucentis HARBOR AMD 0.5mg PRN US
MabThera RAVE, RITUXVAS Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis (GPA) EU
and Microscopic Polyangiitis (MPA)
(two types of ANCA associated vasculitis)
MabThera SABRINA, SparkThera, SAWYER non-hodgkin’s lymphoma EU
(subcutaneous
formulation)
Perjeta CLEOPATRA HER2-positive metastatic or recurrent EU, Japan
breast cancer
Tarceva EURTAC non-small cell lung cancer EGFR+ (1L); US, Japan
tablet 25mg, 100mg and 150mg and China
trastuzumab EMILIA HER2-positive pre-treated metastatic US, EU
emtansine breast cancer
(T–DM1)
53
Research and Development | Roche Business Report 2012Pharmaceuticals Division — major regulatory approvals in 2012
Product Clinical data supporting filing Indication or dosage form Country
Actemra OPTION, TOWARD, LITHE moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis US
in adults who have had an inadequate
response to one or more disease-modifying
antirheumatic drugs (DMARD)
Avastin OCEANS recurrent, platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer EU, Switzerland
Avastin ML18147 metastatic colorectal cancer (TML) EU
Erivedge ERIVANCE BCC/SHH4476g advanced basal cell carcinoma US
Lucentis RIDE, RISE diabetic macular edema US
Rituxan RATE NHL, fast infusion US
Perjeta CLEOPATRA HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer US, Switzerland
in patients (1L)
Tamiflu WP22849, CASG 114 acute, uncomplicated influenza in infants US
two weeks of age and older
Zelboraf BRIM2, BRIM3 BRAF V600 mutation-positive inoperable EU
or metastatic melanoma
54
Roche Business Report 2012 | Research and DevelopmentRoche companion diagnostics on the market or in late development *
Disease area Disease Drug Diagnostic test ** Technology Application
Infectious CMV Valcyte CMV viral load PCR monitoring
diseases HBV Pegasys and HBV viral load PCR monitoring
other antivirals
HBV Pegasys, peginterferon HBsAg levels immunoassay monitoring
alfa-2b (Merck/SP)
HCV Pegasys, peginterferon HCV viral load PCR monitoring
alfa-2b (Merck/SP)
HCV mericitabine (RG7128) HCV viral load PCR monitoring
HCV danoprevir (RG7227) HCV viral load PCR monitoring
HIV antivirals HIV viral load PCR monitoring
HIV abacavir (GlaxoSmithKline) HLA-B genotype PCR screening
Oncology breast cancer Herceptin, Perjeta HER2 expression/ IHC, ISH selection
gene amplification
breast cancer tamoxifen and other ER/PR expression IHC selection
hormonal therapies
breast cancer trastuzumab emtansine HER2 expression/ IHC, ISH selection
(T–DM1, RG3502) gene amplification
cancer compound (Merck) p53 mutations microarray selection
colon cancer cetuximab (Merck) KRAS mutations PCR selection
colon cancer panitumumab (Amgen) KRAS mutations PCR selection
gastric cancer Herceptin HER2 expression/ IHC, ISH selection
gene amplification
lymphoma brentuximab vedotin CD30 expression IHC selection
(Seattle Genetics/
Millenium)
melanoma Zelboraf BRAF mutation PCR selection
NSCLC Tarceva ***, EGFR mutations PCR selection
gefitinib (AstraZeneca)
NSCLC onartuzumab Met expression IHC selection
(MetMAb, RG3638)
NSCLC crizotinib (Pfizer) ALK IHC selection
NSCLC TG4010 (Transgene) MUC1 expression IHC selection
Inflammation asthma lebrikizumab (RG3637) serum periostin immunoassay selection
levels
rheumatoid MabThera/Rituxan RF, anti-CCP Ab immunoassay selection
arthritis
Central nervous Alzheimer’s disease gantenerumab (RG1450) aβ42 levels immunoassay selection
system
Others osteoporosis Bonviva/Boniva and B-Crosslaps; immunoassay monitoring
other bisphosphonates P1NP levels
transplantation CellCept MPA levels immunoassay monitoring
* We have further projects with other pharmaceutical companies which are not disclosed for confidentiality reasons.
** not available in all markets;
*** selection of patients eligible for first-line treatment.
black type = on the market, grey type = in development. monitoring = monitoring of a patient’s response to a particular treatment; screening =
screening of patients for a particular genetic variation of HLA associated with hypersensitivity to abacavir; selection = selection of patients eligible for
a particular treatment. ALK= anaplastic lymphoma kinase; anti-CCP = antibodies against cyclic citrullinated peptide; BRAF = B-isoform of the rapidly
growing fibrosarcoma oncogene; CMV = cytomegalovirus; EGFR = epidermal growth factor receptor; ER/PR = estrogen receptor/progesterone receptor;
HBV = hepatitis B virus; HBsAg = HBV surface antigen; HCV = hepatitis C virus; HER2 = human epidermal growth factor receptor 2; HIV = human
immunodeficiency virus; HLA = human leucocyte antigen; IHC = immunohistochemistry; ISH = in situ hybridisation; KRAS = member of the Ras family of
oncogenes; MPA = mycophenolic acid; NSCLC = non-small cell lung cancer; PCR = polymerase chain reaction; P1NP = procollagen type 1 N-terminal
propeptide; RF = rheumatoid factor; SP = Schering Plough.
55
Research and Development | Roche Business Report 2012Diagnostics Division — major product launches in 2012
Area Product name Description Market Quarter
Instruments/devices
Laboratories BenchMark Special Stains fully automated tissue stainer WW Q2
VENTANA iScan HT scanner that enables digital viewing of tissue slides EU, US Q2
cobas p 312 pre-analytical system (decapping, sorting and archiving) EU, US Q1–2
cobas p 630 pre-analytical molecular testing system US Q1
cobas IT middleware software to control the lab workflow until the test result EU Q1
solution 1.00
Point of care cobas b 123 blood gas analyser for critical care US Q2
cobas b 101 analyser for HbA1c and lipid monitoring EU Q4
Accu-Chek Inform II wireless system for professional glucose testing in US Q4
the hospital
Diabetes Accu-Chek Nano small, no-code blood glucose metre US Q2
Care SmartView
Accu-Chek Mobile next-generation strip-free blood glucose metre EU, Q2–4
Japan
Accu-Chek Combo insulin pump/blood glucose metre combination US Q4
Life sciences LightCycler 96 system for real-time PCR analysis WW Q4
SeqCap EZ products for next-generation sequencing, prepare enriched regions WW Q4
of genome: SeqCap EZ Oncology and Neurology Panels and
New Exome Products
GS FLX+ software v2.8 enables improved long-read sequencing performance on the WW Q4
GS FLX+ system
Cedex Bio HT high-throughput analyser for metabolite testing in cell WW Q4
fermentation in biopharmaceutical production
cOmplete ULTRA protease inhibitor tablets for use in molecular biology research WW Q1
MycoTOOL real-time PCR analysis kit for detection of mycoplasma WW Q1
Tests/assays
Oncology HE4 immunoassay for early ovarian cancer detection US Q4
p16 Histology IHC tissue test for early detection of cervical disease WW Q2
ALK IHC tissue test to identify patients eligible for lung cancer EU Q4
treatment crizotinib
10 other IHC tissue tests for the detection of proteins in tissue samples including TTF-1 EU, US Q3–4
(lung and thyroid cancer) and hENT1 (various cancers)
10 ISH tissue probes for the detection of genes in tissue samples, including EGFR, WW Q1–3
MYC, FGFR1, Chromosome 7 and 8
Ki-67, PR and image analysis applications for antigens Ki-67, PR and p53, US Q1–2
p53 Algorithms support breast cancer diagnosis in tissue samples
GS GType TET2/CBL/ gene sequencing primer sets for leukemia research WW Q1
KRAS & RUNX1
Infectious HCV II immunoassay to detect hepatitis C infections EU Q1
diseases HBc IgM immunoassay to detect hepatitis B infections US Q1
CT/NG PCR test to detect chlamydia and gonorrhoea infections US Q1
HIV-1, v2.0 PCR dual-target test to measure HIV viral load US Q3
CMV PCR test to monitor cytomegalovirus infections US Q3
Metabolism Accu-Chek Aviva/ require users to insert a code chip into their metre only once, WW Q2
Performa universally with ongoing calibration of subsequent test strips
coded test strips
Vitamin D immunoassay, measures vitamins D2 and D3 US Q3
56
Roche Business Report 2012 | Research and DevelopmentDiagnostics Division — key product launches planned for 2013
Area Product name Description Market
Instruments/devices
Laboratories cobas 8100 next-generation modular pre-analytics EU
Diabetes Accu-Chek Insight next-generation insulin pump and blood glucose metre EU
Care Accu-Chek Active next-generation blood glucose metre with maltose-independent test strips EU
Life sciences GS FLX+ long amplicons software for long-read targeted sequencing for DNA variant detection WW
Tests/assays
Oncology Calcitonin immunoassay, supports medullary thyroid cancer diagnosis and monitoring EU
proGRP immunoassay, assists in the diagnosis of small cell lung cancer EU
EGFR PCR test, supports therapy selection for non-small cell lung cancer US
ER IHC tissue test for breast cancer diagnosis US
CINtec PLUS Cytology immunocytochemistry test for diagnosis of cervical pre-cancer EU
Infectious MPX 2.0 PCR next-generation blood screening, multiplex test US
diseases for HIV, HCV and HBV
HCV 2.0 PCR next-generation HCV viral load test US
Trans- Cyclosporin, immunoassays for monitoring of immunosuppressive drug therapy EU
plantation Tacrolimus
Sequencing SeqCap EZ Reagent Kits for sample preparation for targeted next-generation sequencing WW
black type = new product/first market launch; grey type = new product/launch in additional markets.
EU = European Union; US = United States; WW = worldwide.
ALK = anaplastic lymphoma kinase; CBL = Casitas B-cell lymphoma gene; CT/NG = Chlamydia trachomatis/Neisseria gonorrhoeae; EGFR = epidermal
growth factor receptor; ER = estrogen receptor; GS = Genome Sequencer; HBV = hepatitis B virus; HCV = hepatitis C virus; HE4 = human epididymis
secretory protein E4; HIV = human immunodeficiency virus; IHC = immunohistochemistry; ISH = in situ hybridisation; KRAS = member of the Ras family
of oncogenes; p16 = protein p16INK4a; PCR = polymerase chain reaction; proGRP = pro-gastrin-releasing peptide; RUNX1 = Runt-related transcription
factor 1; TET2 = member of the TET family of oncogenes.
57
Research and Development | Roche Business Report 2012The value of innovation
Actemra/RoActemra*
Relief for the agony of
childhood arthritis
Arthritis is not just a disease of the elderly. A rare form, systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis
or sJIA, is one of the most severe systemic inflammatory diseases in childhood. sJIA
affects about 10 to 20 in 100,000 children. Children with sJIA have very little energy, fever
and can have an enlarged liver and spleen. Despite conventional therapies, a significant
number of children can also face serious life-threatening complications. Roche’s Actemra
is a breakthrough in treatment. It is the first biological medicine approved for sJIA, providing
a treatment for this debilitating condition and making a normal childhood a possibility again.
Fatigue
Fever
Skin rash
Anemia
Inflammation around the lung
Inflammation around the heart
Enlarged liver
and spleen
Osteoporosis
Arthritis
More on the web:
http://www.roche.com/valueofinnovation
* RoActemra is known as Actemra outside Europe.
58
Roche Business Report 2012 | The value of innovation
Actemra_EN.indd 25 29.01.13 10:15Sport
School
Activities
Friends
Fun
Playing
Laura Gray was diagnosed with sJIA seven years ago:
‘I used to be a particularly sporty person, but after being diagnosed that was
a part of my life that was completely taken off the table and I couldn’t do
it anymore. Due to the illness I started missing quite a bit of school and got
behind and lost friends from it because I couldn’t keep up with them; out
of sight, out of mind.
I can do an awful lot more now than when I wasn’t on the drug. I’m currently
learning to drive, I’m going for an interview at college, which was an option
I hadn’t considered when I was ill. I thought at the time that was some thing that
was way, way off the table, but now these options have been opened up.’
Actemra_EN.indd 26 29.01.13 10:15manufacturing sites
60
Roche Business Report 2012MANUFACTURING AND
PROCUREMENT
Initiated 240 million Swiss franc investment in diagnostics production
in Penzberg, Germany.
Enabled rapid launch of new medicines Perjeta and Erivedge — available to
US patients in one and three days after FDA approval, respectively.
Developed new biotech production methods and technologies, including
production processes for our first antibody–drug conjugate, T–DM1.
61
Roche Business Report 2012Manufacturing and Procurement
Key figures
26
Manufacturing sites 17 Pharmaceuticals, 7 Diagnostics and 2 joint sites
16,700
Employees in manufacturing and logistics
100 2,600 140
Portfolio over medicines tests instruments
Manufacturing, procurement and supply functions bring inno- ceuticals, the network supported a broad product portfolio
vative medicines and diagnostics from the R & D pipeline to including new oncology treatments, as well as added new
patients and healthcare professionals worldwide. At all stages technologies and overcame technical challenges in biologics
of our global supply chain, from suppliers to manufacturers, manufacturing. In Diagnostics, we supported strong growth
warehousing and transportation, we require and apply rigor- in sales to clinical laboratories and streamlined parts of the
ous safety, quality, ethics, labour, health and environmental network in line with business priorities.
standards. State-of-the-art processes and facilities ensure
that these standards are fully met and that products are made Throughout the networks, we maintained a strong commitment
available reliably. to quality and compliance. We continued to improve our pro-
cesses and develop new capabilities to best serve our product
In 2012 the Group’s operations networks supported robust pipelines. In 2012 our sites successfully passed 104 regulatory
sales growth and new product development in the Pharmaceu- inspections and we resolved issues from internal quality audits.
ticals and Diagnostics Divisions, enabling Roche to strengthen We also continued to reduce our environmental footprint by
its leadership in oncology and in vitro diagnostics. In Pharma- implementing new logistics strategies.
Capital investment • Basel and Kaiseraugst, Switzerland (approx. 230 million
Swiss francs). Three projects completed in 2012:
In 2012 we maintained robust capital investment programmes — new Pharma quality control and assurance building
in our pharmaceutical and diagnostics manufacturing net- — Pharma cold-chain storage capacity expansion
works, adding capacity and improving production processes. — filling line upgrade for Herceptin subcutaneous
Roche’s leading engineering expertise was recognised for formu lation
the fifth consecutive year as ‘facility of the year’, category Ongoing projects to establish launch capacity for highly
winner for operational excellence, in the International Society potent drug products and to upgrade the filling line
for Pharmaceutical Engineering awards. for Rocephin formulation throughout 2013 and 2014.
• Shanghai, China (approx. 260 million Swiss francs
Investment highlights bud geted): Ongoing Pharma site expansion, including new
• Penzberg, Germany (approx. 240 million Swiss francs laboratory, warehouse, office and training facilities, to
budgeted, project initiated end of 2012): be completed in 2014. Additional manufacturing capacity
Expansion of raw material manufacturing for our Elecsys for highly potent drug products and expansion of utility
immunoassays, to be completed end of 2014, as well and infrastructure, to be completed in 2015.
as increase of compounding, filling and lyophilisation
capacity planned for 2016.
62
Roche Business Report 2012 | Manufacturing and ProcurementManufacturing sites — Roche Group
Mannheim
KaiserB aua gse stl Penzberg
Graz
Rotkreuz
Segrate
Clarecastle
Hillsboro
Vacaville
South San Francisco
Indianapolis BraB nr ca hn bf uo rr gd Leganés
Utsunomiya
Oceanside Tucson Florence Shanghai FujiedaUkima
Toluca Puerto Rico
Singapore
Rio de Janeiro
Biologics drug Small molecules Sterile drug Solid dosage
Pharmaceuticals substances drug substances products drug products
Assays/
Diagnostics Instruments Diabetes Care
reagents
as of 28 January 2013
Pharmaceuticals manufacturing Our manufacturing sites play a vital role at every stage of
the product lifecycle, from discovery to commercialisation. To
Our network reduce the risk of supply interruptions and balance production
Our pharmaceutical manufacturing network produces more capacity, we dual-register some manufacturing sites, which
than 100 medicines for commercial supply and clinical trials. allows us to produce key pharmaceutical products at more
With some of the world’s most sophisticated biopharmaceuti- than one facility. We also outsource certain production to con-
cal production plants, the network hosts approximately 25% of tract manufacturing organisations (CMOs) to gain additional
global biologic production capacity 1, making Roche the larg- capacity, increase manufacturing flexibility, leverage special-
est manufacturer in the biotech sector. ised technologies and manage costs. For example, we part-
nered with multiple CMOs, including a manufacturer of spe-
cialised biologics and highly potent small molecules, to set up
processes and facilities for the manufacturing of trastuzumab
1 Worldwide mammalian cell culture capacity including CMOs.
BioPlan Associates, Inc. Annual Report and internal analyses. emtansine (T–DM1), an antibody–drug conjugate.
63
Manufacturing and Procurement | Roche Business Report 2012
Manufacturing and Procurement_EN.indd 2 23.01.13 11:38Erivedge launch: As part of Roche’s emerging markets strategy, we work with
first in class, first to patients local governments and other partners to establish and expand
local production capacity to increase access to our medicines
At 8:00 am on Monday, January 30, 2012, Roche received (see Marketing and Distribution, page 74).
FDA approval for Erivedge, setting off a remarkable
co ordinated effort by the Roche team and our contract manu- Performance
facturers. With the active pharmaceutical ingredient Our primary objectives in 2012 were to maintain supply reliabili ty
sourced in Asia and Switzerland and the capsule produced and product quality, while supporting pipeline development
in Canada, what remained was packaging and shipment. and expediting the launch of new medicines.
The Roche artwork experts together with a printing company Pharmaceutical manufacturing played a decisive role in the
worked around the clock to complete the packaging design, rapid launch in the US of breast cancer medicine Perjeta —
based on the final wording of FDA approval, and prepare available to patients one day following FDA approval — and
the actual packaging. With Roche staff on site at 3:00 am on skin cancer medicine Erivedge — in distribution three days
Tuesday to oversee packaging, the initial two lots were after approval. In collaboration with R & D, we supported 108
loaded that afternoon on separate trucks to mitigate against development projects for new medicines, including manufac-
damage or delay. By Wednesday morning, the new treatment turing investigational products for approximately 600 global
was safely in our warehousing and distribution centre in clinical trials that involved tens of thousands of patients.
Louisville, Kentucky (US). And when the FDA cleared it for
shipment on Thursday, Erivedge was on its way to the dis- During the year we took active steps to safeguard operational
tributors within a few hours. reliability. Throughout the organisation, we increased inventory
‘safety stock’ levels, to ensure continuity of product supply in
response to unforeseen increases in demand, especially for
new product launches. This contributed to a total inventory
increase of 18% in the division. We also increased oversight
across the supply chain including suppliers and CMOs. To
ensure an effective response in case of unexpected events, a
new business continuity process for our manufacturing opera-
tions was put into effect.
Biologics manufacturing
Antibody–drug conjugates: Biologics (or biotech) manufacturing is a challenging process,
Taking biotech to the next level as it involves living cells that are sensitive to even the slightest
changes in their environment. A range of factors, from the
We are striking new paths in biotech manufacturing with nutrient solution and timing to the equipment used, can deter-
antibody–drug conjugates, a new class of compounds, mine yield, amounts of unwanted by-products and even the
where our antibody substances are ‘armed’ with a toxin. structure of the active ingredient being produced. In 2012
While promising, this approach was long considered difficult we continued expanding our biotech capabilities, adding new
to put into practice. A key challenge was to find the right methods and technologies. One innovative approach is for
composition for the chemical to link the antibody and toxin, antibody–drug conjugates (ADC), where our antibody sub-
and then to design and scale a production process that stances are ‘armed’ with a toxin. The process steps for biolog-
ensured the stability and expected safety profile of the medi- ics and ADC manufacturing are illustrated on the following
cine. It required new processes, new external partners and page.
new quality specifications, which added complexity to an
already complex biotech production process. The successful The inherently complex production process can occasionally
efforts of our manufacturing organisation, in collaboration present challenges that are unprecedented in the biopharma-
with R & D, resulted in the technical dossier for the filing of ceutical industry. In 2012 this included a one-time detection of
Roche’s first antibody–drug conjugate, T–DM1, in the EU and the bacterium leptospira, during early-stage production of can-
the US in mid-2012. It also laid the ground for the manufac- cer drug MabThera/Rituxan. Importantly, our investigation of
turability of other medicines of this new class in our pipeline. the issue, in cooperation with the health authorities, excluded
the possibility of any clinically relevant risk to patients and sur-
64
Roche Business Report 2012 | Manufacturing and ProcurementBiologics manufacturing process
3
Antibody
1 Small molecule
Nutrient
solution
Oxygen
Fermentation
4a
and sterile process
2
5
Temperature –
controlled logistics 4b
1Cell line 2Culture 3Fermentation
Specific human genes are inserted into bac- For production, cells are removed from the The cell culture is transferred to progres-
terial or mammalian cells to create a unique master cell bank, cultured in a liquid growth sively larger bioreactors. Special nutrient
master cell line that yields the target anti- medium and transferred to larger vessels as medium is added. Its unique composition is
body (biologics drug substance). This mas- the cells multiply. optimised for each cell line and enables pro-
ter cell bank is frozen for storage. duction of the desired antibody.
4aPurification 4bConjugation 5Formulation, filling and packaging
The antibody is separated from the biomass Additional steps for antibody-drug conju- The drug substance is formulated into a sta-
(cells, culture medium and waste products) gates: The antibody is combined with a ble dosage form (sterile liquid or powder),
leading to a pure solution. The centrifu- highly potent small molecule and again puri- filled into vials or syringes, and packed for
gation, purification and concentration steps fied and concentrated. shipping.
are specific to each desired antibody.
faced a new potential manufacturing risk. This groundbreaking Diagnostics manufacturing
work has been shared within the industry. We also experienced
slower than expected cell growth in the newly scaled-up pro- Our network
duction process for our breast cancer treatment Perjeta. Our The Roche Diagnostics manufacturing network handles all
team ran a successful production campaign which enabled a aspects of production, as well as procurement and logistics,
timely launch, while committing to post-marketing production for our industry-leading IVD product portfolio. This includes
data reviews by the FDA to demonstrate resolution of the 140 different state-of-the-art instruments that perform more
problem and maintain future supply. than 2,600 tests requiring 6,400 reagent kits, with 14,000
re agent and control components, and 160 consumables such
as pipettes and cuvettes.
65
Manufacturing and Procurement | Roche Business Report 2012
Biotech_EN.indd 2 23.01.13 11:57From 22,000 bits of steel, materials and analytical services in Penzberg, Germany and
plastic and juices to a new closed our site in Burgdorf, Switzerland.
DNA testing system
Additionally, we modified our manufacturing network based
on changes to the product portfolio in two of our diagnostics
Roche’s new mid/high-volume testing platform, cobas businesses. We closed the Roche Applied Science Reykjavik,
6800/8800, is expected to be the first to bring exceptional Iceland site, transferring its production of sequence capture
levels of automation, throughput and cost-efficiency to devices to Madison in the US. We also initiated projects to
molecular testing and blood screening labs. It also adds streamline Diabetes Care operations and reduce costs, as that
considerable complexity to development and manufacture. business unit adapts to a tough market environment.
To get from blueprint to pilot production, Roche production Throughout 2012 we continued to pursue several long-term
teams with backgrounds in biology, biochemistry, engi- initiatives aimed at sustainable high performance:
neering and IT started in March 2007 to set up a process for • We established a continuous improvement culture and met-
transforming steel, plastic, software and juices into a new rics in manufacturing quality performance (‘right first time’)
system including a variety of test kits. The closely coordinated and put methodologies and tools in place to ensure more
effort included three manufacturing sites, Rotkreuz (Switzer- robust production processes (‘design for quality and manu-
land), Branchburg (US) and Penzberg (Germany), our R & D facturability’), with first positive trends.
site in Pleasanton (US) and multiple global external suppliers. • We continued to optimise manufacturing capacity (‘asset
To manage the complexity, the team worked to ensure that management’), and initiated a major capital investment pro-
exacting quality controls were built into production pro- ject at our site in Penzberg, Germany (see page 62).
cesses and that highest quality standards were applied inter- • We started two new initiatives that are expected to generate
nally and at supplier sites. significant savings over the next years: a supply chain excel-
lence initiative to enhance the reliable and cost-effective
In December 2012 the first pilot molecular analysers were supply of our products and to optimise inventory levels, and
delivered to customers for field testing. a procurement excellence initiative to ensure more strategic
sourcing and improved supplier management, including a
new supplier performance measurement tool.
We manufacture the majority of our instruments and tests in-
house, which allows us to maintain cost and quality advantages Quality and compliance
and leverage proprietary technologies and special expertise.
We do, however, use external manufacturers to access unique Our overriding goal is to ensure that every person receives
technologies and control costs, such as for the production of safe medicines and reliable diagnostic test results. To achieve
hand-held blood glucose metres, large work stations, consum- this, we apply the same rigorous standards wherever a Roche
ables, and an increasing number of sub-assemblies. product is manufactured or sourced. We, moreover, ensure
that our quality management systems conform to all laws and
Performance regulations as well as the most recent norms and standards,
In 2012 we achieved our goals for saving costs and maintaining including cGMP and those of ICH and ISO2.
the supply of products to meet the division’s above-market
sales growth. For example, we delivered over nine million test Harmonising and enhancing our quality systems
kits for Roche’s Elecsys immunoassay product line for highly In 2012 Roche continued the global harmonisation of its quality
automated blood testing in laboratories worldwide, an all-time management systems. In the Pharmaceuticals Division, we
high level of output and a major achievement for the business. established a new system of over 100 global standards for
We also supported the launch of 55 major diagnostic products areas such as quality management, risk management and
in key markets (see table on page 56). preventive and corrective actions, with local implementation
We continued transforming our network in line with business
priorities. Under the Operational Excellence programme 2 Current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP); International Confe-
launched in late 2010, we further consolidated chemical raw rence on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH); International Organization for
Standardization (ISO).
66
Roche Business Report 2012 | Manufacturing and Procurementongoing. The Diagnostics Division’s efforts to harmonise its Green warehousing
multiple quality systems by 2016, were 40% complete at
year-end. The harmonisation is expected to drive compliance At the end of 2012, our Pharma warehouse in Mannheim,
and efficiency by, for instance, enhancing the manufacturing Germany, for refrigerated and normal storage, was externally
organisations’ ability to manage quality performance and rated as state-of-the-art in energy efficiency. Built in 2005,
exchange best practices across the networks. the warehouse had been constantly optimised and includes
highly sophisticated environmentally friendly design fea-
Assuring compliance tures and processes. For example, energy consumption is
In 2012 regulatory authorities conducted 104 safety and quality minimised through an air conditioning and heating system
inspections at the Roche Group’s sites: 79 at our Pharmaceu- oriented on working hours, window shutters reduce sunlight
ticals sites and 25 in Diagnostics. The majority of these inspec- radiation by up to 20%, and the facility features a heat
tions resulted in no critical observations. recovery system and special gate insulation. Packaging waste
is recycled directly in the warehouse and pallets are re-
In collaboration with authorities, Roche Pharma resolved used, greatly reducing waste. Drawing on this role model
quality concerns regarding Mircera and Xenical production and striving for the same kind of energy efficiency in all
that were discovered in an internal audit and had interrupted its warehouses, Roche developed a best practice action
supply as those products were held for release. catalogue in 2012, that will be rolled out globally as of 2013.
Roche Diagnostics continued to track the proposed revision
to the In Vitro Diagnostic Directive in the EU, as well as pre-
paring for a new FDA rule for Unique Device Identification for Reducing environmental impact
standardised coding of devices. We plan to implement new Green logistics is an area of increasing focus within our supply
packaging design, barcodes and warehousing procedures in chains, as we seek to systematically reduce air emissions,
accordance with the final rule. energy consumption and waste. In 2012 we contributed to
Group-wide efforts to reduce environmental impact by further
Collaborating with health authorities reducing the use of airfreight, and implementing six sea-freight
Roche continues to collaborate with authorities and to provide lanes from supply hubs in Germany and the US to Saudi Arabia,
expertise, including input on over 100 guidance documents, South Africa, Singapore, Hong Kong, Israel and France. The
proposed regulations and laws. We are taking a leading role in change resulted in a 5% reduction of CO emissions, or
2
implementing a ‘quality by design’ approach, which includes approximately 5,800 tonnes.
a strong focus on risk management and maximising quality
performance in the design of production processes. Perjeta Additionally we addressed energy consumption and waste in
represented the first FDA submission in the industry of a bio- our warehouses by reusing or recycling packaging materials.
technologically manufactured drug based on these principles. We are establishing goals to calculate and monitor achieve-
ments as well as fostering employee engagement by increasing
We are also the partner of choice for industry input on medi- awareness and training, including, for example, implementing
cines with companion diagnostics (CDx) and work directly a new e-learning tool in September 2012.
with the FDA on shaping the regulatory landscape on CDx.
Roche, for instance, participated in over 45 meetings with the For more information, please see Safety, Security, Health and
FDA and other regulators on CDx during 2011 and 2012. Environment, page 110 and following.
Supply chain management
Our commitment to quality, innovation and sustainability
extends throughout the supply chain. From responding quickly
to market developments and ensuring reliable product sup-
plies to reducing our environmental footprint, we maintain
highly integrated and responsive global supply chains for both
divisions.
67
Manufacturing and Procurement | Roche Business Report 2012Procurement sustainability principles of its Supplier Code of Conduct, which
incorporates the principles of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain
Procurement teams work closely with business units along the Initiative (PSCI).
value chain seeking innovative purchasing solutions to help
them achieve their goals and generate cost savings that can be Aligning and building capabilities
reinvested in the business. To create maximum value, we apply In 2012 we implemented a new common standard to measure
a ‘total cost of ownership’ concept with a holistic, long-term and report procurement savings. We continued to drive major
view on the benefits and costs of a purchasing decision. joint sourcing projects such as research studies, temporary
labour, production related purchases, credit cards and busi-
While procurement is organised by division, procurement poli- ness travel. By pursuing this globally aligned approach, which
cies, processes and systems, along with large-volume spend retains local execution, we again realised substantial savings in
and risk management, are closely aligned across the Group. line with business targets. We also negotiated a key contract
The objective is to ensure sustainable performance and adher- with Google to provide employees worldwide with new uni-
ence to best practice and industry codes. Roche, for example, form, cloud-based e-mail and calendar, which are expected to
requires all suppliers to commit in all their activities to the enhance connectivity and collaboration.
Procurement along the value chain
Supporting diverse needs with the right supplier partnerships
Procurement – strategic partnering along the value chain
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT MANUFACTURING COMMERCIAL
Needs Lab equipment, raw materials and Reliable suppliers and logistics service Marketing and other services
services to invent and develop providers for high quality product for successful launch and
new drugs and diagnostics including supply to patients and customers. commerciali sation of our products
services to run our clinical trials. through their lifecycle.
2012 exam- Supplier diversity Access to medicines Making most of events
ples of key Partnerships with small and diverse Contracting with an Indian manu- New approach on managing con-
supplier owned businesses in the local facturer for local filling and packaging gresses, meetings and events
partner- communities for specific R&D supplies. of Herceptin and MabThera, to with greater transparency on partici-
ships and improve access to these medicines pation, prioritisation of events
initiatives Value outsourcing in India. Involves transfer of significant and tools for planning and booking.
Development of a new contracting process know-how. Enabled substantial cost savings.
model to outsource entire clinical
programmes to external partners.
68
Roche Business Report 2012 | Manufacturing and Procurement
Procurement_EN.indd 2 23.01.13 11:40We expect to generate further value and efficiencies by: audit protocol. In 2012 ten suppliers were audited under this
• Continuing to enhance organisational structures and capa- protocol by independent auditors.
bilities in emerging markets to enable more pro-active and
systematic management of local spending. For example, The majority of suppliers audited in 2012 either met or exceeded
Roche Diagnostics started up a procurement office in Singa- minimum requirements. However, we decided to stop business
pore in the beginning of 2012 to support the Asia—Pacific with one supplier that did not meet minimum standards. The
region and Roche Pharma rolled out its next-generation pro- main findings in the direct spend area related to industrial
curement system in China. hygiene and safety design, while findings for service providers
• Enhancing relationship management and oversight of sup- occurred primarily in social and ethics areas.
pliers, with a new procurement excellence programme in
Diagnostics (page 66) and in frame of Pharmaceuticals’ focus
on supply reliability (page 64). More on the Web
• Developing our people and exchanging knowledge such
as with the new global learning and development platform • Biotech production: www.roche.com/biotechnology/production
• Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative:
by Pharma procurement, with a catalogue of customisable www.pharmaceuticalsupplychain.org
courses and access to internal and external resources. • Supplier engagement: www.roche.com/stakeholder_engagement
• Supplier Code of Conduct: www.roche.com/
roche_supplier_code_of_conduct.pdf
Procurement along the value chain Engaging with suppliers
We seek to build mutually beneficial and sustainable relation-
Supporting diverse needs with the right supplier partnerships
ships with suppliers and actively engage and collaborate with
them to manage performance and risk, ensure quality and
compliance, reduce our combined environmental footprint and
promote innovation. We thereby take into account the different
business needs along the value chain (see illustration).
In June 2012 Roche launched the industry’s first supplier rela-
tionship centre in South San Francisco (US), where Roche
employees are co-located with representatives of five key sup-
pliers dedicated to find innovative ways to generate mutual
benefits. In 2012 we also rolled out a new e-learning module to
help our suppliers to increase knowledge among their employ-
Procurement – strategic partnering along the value chain
ees of sustainability, the Roche Supplier Code of Conduct and
industry standards. A supplier day in Shanghai (China), with
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT MANUFACTURING COMMERCIAL around 100 participants, provided a further opportunity for
suppliers to learn more about sustainability and our audits. In
Needs Lab equipment, raw materials and Reliable suppliers and logistics service Marketing and other services partnership with the Institute for Supply Chain Management
services to invent and develop providers for high quality product for successful launch and
and Diversity Alliance for Science, Roche is also engaged in a
new drugs and diagnostics including supply to patients and customers. commerciali sation of our products
programme to provide opportunities for innovative and com-
services to run our clinical trials. through their lifecycle.
petitive diverse suppliers.
2012 exam- Supplier diversity Access to medicines Making most of events Monitoring compliance
ples of key Partnerships with small and diverse Contracting with an Indian manu- New approach on managing con- To ensure compliance with Roche and industry codes and
supplier owned businesses in the local facturer for local filling and packaging gresses, meetings and events
standards, we conducted 115 supplier audits in 2012 across all
partner- communities for specific R&D supplies. of Herceptin and MabThera, to with greater transparency on partici-
ships and improve access to these medicines pation, prioritisation of events regions, including five follow-up audits, 38 more than in 2011:
initiatives Value outsourcing in India. Involves transfer of significant and tools for planning and booking. • 62 in the direct spend area (goods that go directly into pro-
Development of a new contracting process know-how. Enabled substantial cost savings. duction)
model to outsource entire clinical
• 53 of service providers.
programmes to external partners.
Roche also collaborated with other healthcare companies
under the PSCI who developed a unified joint sustainability
69
Manufacturing and Procurement | Roche Business Report 2012
Procurement_EN.indd 2 23.01.13 11:40The value of innovation
Chest pain
Approximately 10% of all emergency room consul-
tations are for patients with heart attack symptoms.
In the US alone, more than 5.5 million patients are
seen in emergency departments every year for chest
pain. Rapid, accurate diagnosis and early risk assess-
ment are critical when a patient arrives.
Troponin T test
High troponin T²
heart attack likely,
initiate treatment
Low troponin T²
consider to rule
out heart attack
1 Not available in the US and
1st Two-stage testing to diagnose 2nd ³ other markets
heart attack and release patient
2 Also considering ECG
information and clinical
0 hr 1 hr 2 hrs 3 hrs 4 hrs 5 hrs 6 hrs symptoms
3 For hospitals not using
the high-sensitive test
Time to second test may New, high-sensitive test allows reducing time to
be further reduced to 1 hour second test from 6 to 3 hours
(ongoing clinical study)
Taking cardiac testing to the next level
Studies are ongoing to enhance the use and medical value of troponin T testing in clinical practice —
in the emergency setting as well as beyond, for instance for regular check-up of patients at risk:
One-hour diagnosis of heart Patient monitoring after major
attack: This study is evaluating surgeries: Another study assesses
whether chest pain patients can be the use of the Troponin T test for
securely diagnosed with one Troponin T high- patient monitoring after major non-cardiac sur-
sensitive test at admission, and then have a final gery. About 200 million adults worldwide undergo
test after just one hour. This trial will help patients major non-cardiac surgery each year. More than
and take pressure off emergency departments, one million die within 30 days. Regular troponin T
enabling rapid transfer to specialised treatment or testing will help physicians to identify patients
early discharge (TRAPID-AMI study, started in at risk, detecting cardiac injuries that might other-
2011). wise go unnoticed but could cause death (VISION
study, started in 2007).
More on the web:
http://www.roche.com/valueofinnovation
70
Roche Business Report 2012 | The value of innovation
Cardiac_Markers_EN.indd 25 29.01.13 10:17High­sensitivity cardiac test
Precise testing for life
or death decisions
Diagnosing heart attack patients is one of the most challenging problems facing doctors in hospital emergency
departments. A heart attack requires immediate and often serious intervention like heart catheterisation or
coronary bypass surgery. A blood test that can accurately determine whether a patient is having a heart attack
can literally mean the difference between life and death. Twenty years ago physicians had to rely on symptoms
and electrocardiograms (ECG), which could miss over 50% of heart attacks. Roche has developed an Elecsys
Troponin T high­sensitive test¹ which detects the presence of troponin T, a protein that is released into
the blood stream during a heart attack. The Troponin tests are reliable indicators of heart attack and the gold
standard worldwide in cardiac critical care.
What is a heart attack?
Blood flow blocked
Muscle cells are
dying and troponin T
is released
Heart attacks are caused by the inter­
ruption of the blood supply to parts of the
heart, causing heart cells to die. This is
most commonly due to blockage of a coro­
nary artery following the rupture of a
substance called arterial plaque from the
inner wall of the arteries.
Prof. Christian Müller, Cardiologist and Head
of Outcome Research, University Hospital Basel:
‘The high-sensitivity cardiac troponin is an indispensable test
in the early diagnosis of a heart attack. It enables us to detect
small heart attacks that we could have missed with the use
of conventional tests. It is also of critical help in the allocation
of resources in the emergency department because we can
identify patients with cardiac disease early on and focus the
right resources for patients from the outset.’
Cardiac_Markers_EN.indd 26 29.01.13 10:17patients received treatment
with one of the 25 top-selling
Roche medicines in 2012
72
Roche Business Report 2012marketIng and
dIstrIbutIon
Customised innovative market solutions to increase access to our medicines.
Launched an educational initiative in nine Asian countries to promote excellence
in testing for HER2-positive breast cancer.
started a programme with the Peruvian government to provide cancer care access
for 12 million of the country’s poorest citizens.
73
Roche Business Report 2012Marketing and Distribution
Key figures
Core marketing and distribution (m & d) expenditure in 2012
8,392 +3% 18.5%
roche group millions of CHF (CER) 1 of sales
5,851 +2% 16.6%
Pharmaceuticals millions of CHF (CER) of sales
2,541 +4% 24.7%
diagnostics millions of CHF (CER) of sales
1 Constant exchange rates (average full-year 2011).
28,381 17,631 10,750
employees in m & d Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics
tailored market strategies sustain medical innovation in order to meet medical need and
help address the mounting pressure on healthcare budgets.
Healthcare systems around the world vary greatly. In some
regions, the most sophisticated new medicines and diagnostic A priority for the Diagnostics Division is to support the devel-
tests are readily available, while in others healthcare infra- opment of reimbursement programmes that identify and estab-
structure is so limited that even basic medical care is a luxury. lish evidence-based payment and coverage decisions, that
Access to good medical care depends on many different provide effective and accurate assessments of the analytical
factors including income levels, availability of medical profes- and clinical validity of advanced molecular diagnostic tests. In
sionals and political commitment, but common to most health- particular, the Diagnostics Division in the United States is capi-
care authorities is intense budget pressure and the need for talising on these reimbursement programmes with proven
sustainable healthcare solutions. This pressure is driving the results.
market for ever more innovative ways to bring the most effec-
tive medicines to patients at an affordable cost. Another initiative Roche is heavily involved with (and co-
founded) is the Green Park Collaborative, an international
At Roche, we focus on ensuring that our products demon- group, exploring the feasibility of developing guidelines for the
strate real benefits for patients, as well as represent a mean- design of clinical studies to meet the needs of HTA organisa-
ingful expenditure for healthcare authorities, wherever they tions and payers. The aim of the programme is to involve the
may be. We are increasingly developing ways to bring value payers earlier and improve the relevance of clinical research and
to healthcare systems to enable as many people as possible to accelerate patient access to new drugs and technologies.
benefit from our medicines.
We are also actively participating in a joint initiative between
demonstrating value the pharmaceutical industry and santésuisse, an association of
We work closely with healthcare authorities, insurers and other Swiss health insurers, and other stakeholders to develop basic
payers to demonstrate the value of our products and services principles of future HTAs in Switzerland. We have established
and, in turn, gain appropriate reimbursement and market consensus on the valuation of health technologies, with the
access. We collaborate with various authorities and policy objective of improving quality and transparency in the health-
makers and actively contribute to Health Technology Assess- care system, as well as increasing efficiency and thus reducing
ments (HTAs) that systematically evaluate the costs and costs. The project has triggered broad interest outside
benefit of our innovative medicines and diagnostics, in order Switzerland, as an example of how stakeholders with typically
to guide their most efficient and effective use. Our aim is to conflicting interests can come together.
74
Roche Business Report 2012 | Marketing and Distributionaccess to healthcare programme highlights
7,800 1,250,000
children supported in seven African countries and India infants tested for HIV through the AmpliCare initiative
in monitoring their diabetes through a partnership with
Novo Nordisk’s Changing Diabetes in Children programme
56 2,000
countries where Roche does not file or enforce patents laboratory technicians to be trained in HIV diagnostics
for any of its medicines in a partnership with the US President’s Emergency Plan
for AIDS Relief
right solution for the right market system, where the majority of the population turn, the situation
In our view, ‘one size’ does not ‘fit all’ when it comes to bringing is very different. Our approach to these disparities is to work
our products to market. Developing the right solutions for an with governments to support public healthcare access and
individual market requires significant long-term commitment find solutions to bring our medicines to those in need. We are
to understanding the needs and challenges in a country, as piloting several differential pricing programmes, in partnership
well as its healthcare system. We have a decentralised busi- with governmental organisations, which include providing
ness model which empowers local management teams to work diagnostic tests and education, as part of a packaged solution
closely with healthcare providers and determine how best to appropriate for individual country needs. An example of this is
customise solutions, appropriate for local market conditions. in South Africa, where in 2012 we worked with the government
to enable MabThera, for the treatment of non-Hodgkin’s lym-
phoma, to be reimbursed in the public healthcare system.
Innovative pricing models
second brands
Part of this tailored approach to local healthcare systems is to In some emerging markets, we have also invested locally in
develop reimbursement arrangements around value, rather partnerships to manufacture or finish some of our products in
than a uniform pricing structure. For example, we have pro- order to improve access to our medicines in underserved
grammes in place that differentiate price on the medical value market segments. These products are commercialised under
of a drug, which can vary depending on the indication it is different brand names and can come in slightly different
being used to treat. We also have ‘pay for performance’ pay- forms, for example in vials rather than syringes. This approach
ment models, for example in Italy, where refunds are given supports our long-term growth strategy in these markets,
when disease has progressed earlier than anticipated, accord- while providing an affordable solution for public healthcare
ing to our pivotal trial programmes. These models have been authorities.
successful in a number of markets in Western Europe.
An example of this in 2012 was India, where Roche has
In emerging markets, which are key to Roche’s growth strat- developed second brands for cancer drugs Herceptin and
egy, economic growth is not necessarily matched by improve- MabThera/Rituxan. This was the first step in a wider initiative
ments in healthcare infrastructure and funding. Within these to implement manufacturing of Roche products in collabora-
markets there can also be striking differences in access to tion with a local partner, which has state-of-the-art facilities for
medical care. In the higher income private sector, people have biologics manufacture. This second brand strategy drives
access to quality healthcare, however in the public health growth in India, while in partnership with the government,
75
Marketing and Distribution | Roche Business Report 2012Helping patients access increases access to medicines for patients below the poverty
new medicines line. Another example of second branding is Egypt, where we
launched a second brand of our hepatitis C drug to the public
Our focus is on enrolling patients in clinical trials to obtain healthcare market in 2006. Since then, over 110,000 people
the data required to enable regulatory and reimbursement have been treated, who might otherwise not have received
authorities to review and decide on whether these new treatment.
medicines should be marketed and reimbursed. Approval by
regulatory authorities is the only way to make medicines Patient assistance programmes
broadly available to patients for the use under the supervision We also recognise that many patients, even in developed
of a qualified healthcare professional or doctor. countries, still cannot afford treatment. Even those with insur-
ance may not be able to pay for treatment if it is not fully
However, we recognise that it may not be possible for all covered by individual insurance plans. To mitigate this barrier
patients who might receive benefit from the new medicine to to healthcare, Roche provides patient assistance programmes
enrol in the ongoing clinical trials, nor is it possible to have that assist both the underinsured and the uninsured with
clinical trials for all potential disease settings available. Hence, access to our medicines. In the United States, Genentech
under specific circumstances, Roche may provide patients Access Solutions helped more than 100,000 underinsured and
with pre-approval access (PAA) to unapproved or investiga- uninsured patients access appropriate medicines in 2012. The
tional medicines outside the clinical trials process, before Genentech Access to Care Foundation provides free medi-
they are approved by regulatory authorities. This could be cines to patients who are uninsured and who meet a specific
through an Expanded Access Program (in the US), a set of financial and medical criteria.
Pre-Approval Safety Study (in the EU or other countries)
or through Compassionate Use. In China, we have also launched a patient assistance pro-
gramme for Herceptin, a breast cancer medicine, whereby
treatment costs are reduced to increase the number of people
benefiting from this drug in the public healthcare system.
Infrastructure development
In many areas of the world, healthcare infrastructure is rudi-
Improving breast cancer mentary and significant challenges exist to improving it that are
diagnosis in asia not just limited to fiscal constraints. At the most basic level,
there are critical shortages of medical professionals and health
Roche has launched the SPHERE (Scientific Partnership facilities; low awareness of the causes of symptoms or of the
for HER2 testing Excellence) programme in Asia—Pacific, an prevention and treatment of disease; and even poor electricity
educational initiative to promote and facilitate excellence in supplies to keep hospital equipment running. To help resolve
HER2 testing in breast cancer. HER2-positive breast cancer these issues, Roche collaborates with local stakeholders,
is a particularly aggressive form of cancer, which requires governments and international health organisations, to support
timely and accurate diagnosis. education and development of healthcare infrastructure as
well as improve availability of medicines and provide diagnostic
This programme currently runs in nine markets in Asia — tests. In Peru for example, in 2012, Roche began a programme
China, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Indonesia, the Philippines, with the government to provide cancer care access for 12 mil-
Thailand, Vietnam and Malaysia. In 2012 alone, more than lion of the poorest citizens, providing diagnostics, pricing plans
1,000 laboratories and 9,000 pathologists, surgeons and for medicines and support with education and infrastructure
technicians have been educated through this initiative. development.
SPHERE aims to increase the accuracy and reliability of HER2 In Algeria, Roche is supporting an initiative to bring breast can-
testing across Asia, and in turn increase the chance of cure cer screening to women in rural areas, where mammography
for those with the disease. The programme also looks to help centres are few and far between. A fully equipped truck,
SPHERE-trained centres monitor and improve their testing locally referred to as the ‘mamobile’, with trained nurses and
parameters, as well as build the first regional database on radiologists travels mainly in the Southern Sahara to give
HER2 status in breast and gastric cancer. mammograms to local women. The programme is also piloting
in Biskra, in the southeast of the country, where it will screen
76
Roche Business Report 2012 | Marketing and Distributionas many as 40 women a day, with the aim of screening as bespoke solutions for
many of the 89,000 women eligible in the province as possible. Chinese labs
This programme is also being rolled out in other areas of the
Middle East. Roche Diagnostics has been in China since 2000 and its
clinical labs business is continuing to grow at 1.5 times the
Customer satisfaction rate of the Chinese IVD market, with equipment sales to
We track customer satisfaction at regular intervals, usually more than 2,000 hospitals in 440 cities. The IVD business has
annually or bi-annually, benchmarking our performance against benefited from considerable investment in the country, as
our peers and industry averages. Through surveys conducted well as from the government’s multi-billion dollar investment
by Roche and third parties, we gauge customer satisfaction in into healthcare infrastructure.
our representative’s knowledge and helpfulness during visits,
the effectiveness of our medical support and clinical data dis- The ability to offer a broad range of modular instruments,
tribution and the quality of our information and on our educa- from desktop solutions to large-scale equipment, is key
tional materials. In addition our Diagnostics Division looks at to this growth, as Chinese customers primarily expand their
delivery times and service and technical support levels. labs step by step.
We analyse this feedback to identify the most appropriate Equally important is the broad array of tests that can be run
communication channels and to establish sales and marketing on the instruments, including over 100 immunoassays,
plans, setting targets in areas that have been identified as which now represent our fastest-growing segment. We have
important to our customers and where we see opportunities to also developed a flexible sales model with distributors,
improve our performance. which ensures distributors have easier access to instruments.
In addition, our service team has control over pre- and post-
sales service to ensure high customer satisfaction levels.
More on the Web
Together this market strategy has not only secured our
• Our products: www.roche.com/products
market leading position, but 26% growth in Diagnostics
• Assessing the value of our products and pricing: www.roche.com/
medical_value_patents_and_pricing China for 2012.
• Access to healthcare overview: www.roche.com/
access_to_healthcare
• Genentech Access solutions: www.GenentechAccessSolutions.com
• List of patient groups supported: www.roche.com/patient-groups
• Responsible marketing: www.roche.com/
business_integrity_and_responsible_marketing
• Roche’s policies, guidelines and positions: www.roche.com/
positions_policies_downloads.htm
77
Marketing and Distribution | Roche Business Report 2012The value of innovation
Accurate diagnosis and personalised healthcare
Focusing healthcare budgets
on targeted treatments
Rapid and accurate diagnosis is fundamental to the successful treatment of any cancer.
Identifying those patients who will likely benefit from personalised treatment improves patient
outcomes and saves time and money that could be better spent elsewhere. In breast cancer
for example, 15–20% of all cases are of a very aggressive type, known as HER2-positive. With-
out treating this kind of breast cancer specifically with a HER2-targeted therapy, the patient
is at increased risk of the cancer spreading as a general therapy may have a limited effect or no
impact at all. Roche has developed a suite of HER2 tests, which provide rapid, reliable results
enabling informed decisions for HER2-targeted treatment for patients.
Dr Alan Sokolow, former medical director
of a US health insurance company, and now
AccelusHealth:
‘For me, personalised healthcare and dia­
gnostics have two clear advantages – they not
only significantly improve health, but can
also reduce healthcare costs. I would like to
see more and more physicians adopting this
approach and more recognition from payers,
as they realise that the new tests and therapies
deliver value and offer more quality and less
waste.’
Quality HER2 testing is critical HER2 (4B5) IHC test² HER2 Dual ISH test³
An early step for patients confronted with breast marks HER2 proteins, first line shows ratio of HER2 genes to
cancer is usually a ‘biopsy’, taking a small amount of HER2 testing chromosome 17, second-line
of suspected tumour tissue and analysing it. To testing in case of equivocal IHC
fully tap the potential of personalised healthcare, test result
it is key to minimise the risk of false test results.
Roche’s two HER2 tests have shown in inde-
pendent assessments to be more accurate and
reliable.1 Their automated processing on sophi-
sticated tissue staining instruments not only
helps save costs in the lab but also reduces the
possibility of human error and ensures delivery
of patient results as quickly as possible, literally
overnight.
More on the web:
http://www.roche.com/valueofinnovation
1 According to NordiQC (2012), other tests comparable Superiority of the HER2 Dual ISH assay was proven by 2 PATHWAY anti-HER2/neu (4B5)
to Roche’s HER2 (4B5) IHC test show 15–50% more Loftin IR et al in a multi-site clinical study (2011), it Rabbit Monoclonal Primary Anti-
poor or borderline results. Mayr et al (2009) showed reduces the inaccuracy rate by 4% compared to a body.
that a leading competitive HER2 IHC assay produced competitive HER2 FISH assay.
five false results while the VENTANA HER2 (4B5) test 3 INFORM HER2 Dual ISH DNA
diagnosed all patients correctly. Probe Cocktail.
78
Roche Business Report 2012 | The value of innovation
HER2_Test_EN.indd 25 29.01.13 10:22HER2-negative patients
can go on different
treatment course,
no unnecessary therapy
Patients with
inaccurate HER2
test results
may receive inappropriate
treatment
HER2-positive patients
are eligible for treatment that
could dramatically improve
chances for survival and cure
Resources saved
Costs of test
$
Inaccurate test results
jeopardise benefits and
Resources optimally
create unneccessary costs
allocated
HER2_Test_EN.indd 26 29.01.13 10:22Swiss francs contributed
to patient organisations in 2012
80
Roche Business Report 2012Responsible
business
launched Roche Compliance Pulse Check to evaluate progress
in non-compliance cases.
Hosted a think tank on schizophrenia to better understand the needs
of patients and their carers.
Worked with regulatory authorities to develop a strong framework
for biosimilar approval.
81
Roche Business Report 2012Responsible Business
Key figures
176
Contributions to healthcare institutions millions of CHF
36
Contributions to patients organisations millions of CHF
integrity and sustainability in all aspects of our business Roche also requires its external business partners to adhere to
As one of the world’s largest healthcare companies, Roche the same high standards as its employees. Local managers are
maintains the highest standards of business ethics and integ- responsible for monitoring and reporting compliance, as well
rity. as for responding quickly to any non-compliant behaviour. Our
Supplier Code of Conduct clearly outlines our expectations of
Our commitment to responsible business behaviour goes our suppliers. The Chief Compliance Officer serves as a con-
beyond strict legal compliance. We demand conduct that is tact person for all external stakeholders on issues relating to
ethical and open and that forms the basis of our sustainable the implementation of and compliance with the Roche Group
business and creates long-term value for our stakeholders. Code of Conduct.
We run our business in ways that are both profitable and Roche does not tolerate violations of its Code of Conduct.
responsible. We are committed to the Triple Bottom Line prin- When a non-compliance allegation is confirmed, line managers
ciple, by driving our social and environmental performance are requested to take immediate corrective measures and to
with the same diligence as our financial performance. In our impose adequate sanctions on employees, such as warning
sustainability management, we apply a materiality framework letters, bonus cuts or termination of an employment contract.
and continuously look for the positive impact that our sustain- If a business partner does not behave appropriately, we do not
ability initiatives have, or could have on our business. hesitate to terminate the relationship.
Our employees can report concerns either to their line man-
Code of conduct ager, the local compliance officer or the Chief Compliance
Officer. Alternatively, they can report non-compliance issues
The Roche Group Code of Conduct guides our employees’ anonymously to the Roche SpeakUp Line, which is accessible
business behaviour worldwide, covering topics such as cor- in 99 countries and 49 languages. We do not tolerate any
porate and personal integrity, social responsibility and compli- retaliation against employees who have raised a compliance
ance management. Employees complete mandatory training to concern in good faith. In 2012, 71 alleged violations of our Code
ensure they understand the Code of Conduct, including where of Conduct were reported via the SpeakUp Line
to find help and advice and how to raise a compliance concern
over business practices or behaviour. In addition, local compliance officers must report material
business ethics incidents to the Chief Compliance Officer. In
At Roche, we have developed a compliance programme that 2012 there were 132 business ethics reports in areas such as
incorporates the key elements of a good practice compliance fraud, theft, violation of good marketing practices, embezzle-
program with the clear purpose to embed compliance into ment, false records, conflict of interest, discrimination and
the day-to-day business operations. We are convinced that harassment. Each allegation was carefully investigated, result-
compliance is closely linked to good leadership, our leaders ing in the termination of 108 employment contracts on account
are obliged to foster an environment of trust that encourages of unethical behaviour and two agreements with business
employees to speak up and are measured not only on business partners for the same reason.
results, but on their ability to manage teams.
82
Roche Business Report 2012 | Responsible BusinessCompliance initiatives Contributions to healthcare institutions
We launched several supplementary initiatives in 2012, includ- Total amount: 176 million Swiss francs
ing the Roche Compliance Pulse Check and the setting up of
the Healthcare Compliance Council (HCC). Compliance Pulse 48% education of
Check is a tool to enable local management, employees and healthcare professionals
compliance officers to assess progress on the handling and 9% education of
detection of non-compliance cases. HCC is headed by the general public
Chief Compliance Officer and brings together compliance 43%
representatives of the Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics research
Divisions, as well as compliance experts from various regions
and affiliates. The HCC fulfils a coordination function intended
to ensure a common interpretation of the healthcare provi- Code of Conduct, as well as industry and country-specific
sions of our Code of Conduct and to support a consistent marketing codes, guidelines and best practices. In addition,
implementation of Roche’s compliance programme through- Roche uses a Group-wide questionnaire to help local manag-
out the Group. ers assess compliance with and awareness of responsible
sales and marketing practices. All general managers, more-
sunshine Act Regulations over, must sign a declaration of assurance acknowledging
In 2012 we further strengthened good business practice, compliance with those practices.
putting in place a new global web-based system and process
that contributes to Roche’s ability to comply with new regula- The goal is to enable healthcare professionals to make deci-
tory transparency requirements like the US Physician Payment sions independently, based on all relevant data available, for
Sunshine Act, as well as other similar disclosure regulations in delivering the greatest medical benefit to patients.
Europe and elsewhere in the world. The system enables Roche
to collect all contributions made to healthcare professionals education for healthcare professionals
by Global Functions and by cross-border engagements, and Roche is dedicated to supporting the education of healthcare
prepares Roche to be fully compliant with the Sunshine Act professionals through the highest quality programmes, with
Regulations. the aim of improving knowledge in disease and product areas
where we have particular expertise. Through education,
whether it be for doctors, nurses, healthcare officials or care
stakeholder engagement givers, our main objective is to ensure the best care possible
for patients.
At Roche, we believe that open and constructive interaction
with patients and healthcare professionals improves our ability To this end, we have a broad range of educational activities,
to fit treatments to patients. from the publication of education and training materials, to the
hosting or supporting of medical congresses. We focus on
The pharmaceutical industry is governed by strict regulations many different aspects of medical care, including new under-
and guidelines for the sale and marketing of products. Roche standing about diseases, different treatment options, safety
itself has rigorous internal processes in place to ensure that its concerns, product use and healthcare in general. In diagnos-
employees adhere to the laws, regulations and industry codes tics, we establish testing laboratories, train lab technicians,
of conduct that support good marketing practices. Our Code run pathology educational courses and set up quality control
of Conduct sets out standards for adhering to regulatory programmes.
compliance and for interacting and engaging with healthcare
professionals. Our interactions with healthcare professionals Through these activities, we seek to exchange scientific infor-
are aimed at exchanging scientific information on the best use mation and knowledge to:
of Roche’s products and services. All of these interactions are • improve understanding of emerging clinical data relating to
based on standards of integrity and fair remuneration for ser- therapies under investigation
vices. We are committed to benchmarking our achievements • increase clinical, provider and payer understanding of the
against best practice; this includes transparent reporting. best treatment options, including safety and efficacy of vari-
ous therapies for patients
We continuously train staff who interact with healthcare pro- • help clinicians communicate medical information more effec-
fessionals to increase awareness and understanding of our tively to patients and caregivers
83
Responsible Business | Roche Business Report 2012patient support examples
Contributions to patient organisations
Total amount: 36 million Swiss francs
• www.accu-chekconnect.com which offers tools and
other resources for those living with diabetes, as well 19%
educational grants
as clinical evidence and case studies for healthcare
professionals. 16% workshops, seminars
• www.boniva.com offers osteoporosis prevention and and meetings
care for patients using Boniva and the MyBoniva Program 10%
treatment adherence projects
provides resources to help with compliance.
• www.herceptin.com offers guidance to those being 55% disease awareness
and general education
treated with Herceptin for HER2-positive breast and gas-
tric cancer and information on financial support, among
other resources.
• www.cancerchampionprogram.org offers support and
advice for cancer patients. Responsible use of medicines is also a priority area for us.
We have websites for our products that have mechanisms to
remind patients to take their medication, as well as provide
access to trained nurses and information on how to live with
a disease and medical side effects.
education to enhance patient care
We provide courses in different formats, which can be digital, Additionally Roche operates counselling centres and tele-
classroom, network-based, within a hospital or lab environment phone help lines and coordinates services to improve treatment
or as part of an existing medical event. For example, this year compliance and rehabilitation. We also actively engage with
we organised symposiums and virtual medical conferences patients and patient groups to gain insight into the challenges
connected to the annual meeting of the American Society of facing patients and their families.
Clinical Oncology (ASCO). ASCO is the world’s largest clinical
oncology event, which attracts thousands of healthcare pro- In 2012 for example, we hosted a think tank on schizophrenia
fessionals. In 2012, we also supported a continuing medical for patients and caregivers in Europe. The idea was to learn
education symposium on clinical management of patients with more about the issues and challenges facing caregivers, as
acute coronary syndrome and type 2 diabetes at the European well as patients, in order to shape planning and strategy
Society of Cardiology Congress. for recommendation to EU policy makers. Roche has a new
medicine, bitopertin, in development to address the negative
In parallel to these kinds of activities, Roche provides grants symptoms of schizophrenia.
for independent medical education. This education is generally
provided by an independent organisation, such as a commu- As transparency is essential to all interactions with patients,
nity hospital, academic centre, society or association. In 2012 Roche publicly declares all patient group relationships and
for example, we made available an unrestricted educational describes its activities at roche.com. We acknowledge both
grant to enable an independent scientific presentation for financial and non-financial support, as recommended by the
rheumatic disease at the European League Against Rheuma- European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Asso-
tism (EULAR) Congress. ciations (EFPIA).
patients, caregivers and patient groups
Healthcare education and awareness can be as important to a patient safety
patient’s wellbeing as proper medical diagnosis and treatment.
With that in mind, we produce newsletters, magazines and Our products must not only be effective, they must be safe
other publications aimed at helping people make healthy throughout their shelf life. Roche continuously monitors the
choices that prevent disease and increase general awareness safety of a drug from the time it is evaluated in clinical studies
of diseases. We organise disease awareness campaigns in to its withdrawal from the market.
association with patient groups and local hospitals and con-
duct screening programmes, like those in Algeria for breast Our Drug Safety Committee is responsible for drug safety
cancer (see p. 76). governance and for proactively ensuring patient safety, and
84
Roche Business Report 2012 | Responsible Businessour employees are required to immediately report any issue supports authorities in their efforts to actively pursue and
relating to the safety or quality of our medicines. The quality of prosecute counterfeiters and their distributors.
our processes and systems are regularly audited internally and
inspected by major regulatory authorities. Roche, in addition, has implemented internal anti-counterfeit-
ing measures for the design, packaging and labelling of its
All pharmaceuticals have a proactive safety management plan products. We recommend buying prescription-only medicines
that is supported by a qualified physician who monitors overall exclusively from trusted sources such as doctors or authorised
safety. We have risk management plans in place, reviewed and pharmacies.
approved by regulatory authorities. All adverse events are
stored in a global database, reviewed by a qualified physician Further, Roche participates in industry and governmental
and reported promptly to appropriate regulatory authorities, efforts to safeguard the medicine supply chain and protect
as required. If there is a link to a Roche product, we evaluate patients. We, for example, worked closely with the EU Com-
whether the benefits of the medicine still outweigh the risks. mission on development of the Falsified Medicines Directive,
We also maintain strict product recall procedures to ensure which aims to stop counterfeit medicines reaching patients by
that we can withdraw products rapidly should quality or safety introducing harmonised, Pan-European safety and control
problems arise. measures, including unique product identification numbers,
tamper-evident packaging and restrictions on repackaging.
Despite these extensive safeguards, at the end of 2011, follow- We also strongly advocate measures for increased public
ing an internal quality review, Roche identified some unreport- awareness of counterfeits.
ed potential missed adverse events from its Patient Assistance
Program in the US. We immediately launched an investigation We support anti-counterfeit organisations such as the Pharma-
and notified the health authorities in January 2012, and have ceutical Security Institute, the International Federation of
initiated a comprehensive corrective action plan. Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations, as well as
the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industry Associa-
In addition, a routine inspection by the UK regulatory authority tions and cooperate with other companies.
in January and February 2012 identified other findings in
Roche’s safety related processes. Roche has fully cooperated Roche acts immediately when potential counterfeits of our
with health authorities in clarifying the observations found in products are brought to our attention, including informing
both cases and has implemented corrective and preventative health authorities in the respective country where a counter-
action in agreement with health authorities. Based on Roche’s feit has been found.
assessments to date, no impact on the safety profiles of any
of its products has been found and the European Medicines Internally, we draw on a number of departments and skills to
Agency and other health authorities have confirmed all medi- fight counterfeiting. Roche has established a Roche Anti-
cines remain authorised without changes to the treatment Counterfeiting Commission, which consists of members of all
advice for patients and healthcare professionals. All correc- affected departments, and is heavily involved in the coordina-
tive and preventative action resulting from the inspections has tion of many anti-counterfeiting activities. We also have inves-
been completed and newly defined processes are being imple- tigative staff in Shanghai, China, and in high-risk regions such
mented, which will become routine practice. as Latin America and the Middle East.
Counterfeits biosimilars
Counterfeit products often look identical to authentic versions, Similar biological medicinal products, or biosimilars, are now
making them difficult to detect, especially for patients. Coun- becoming a reality in some of our markets. Unlike generics of
terfeit medicines can cause serious illness, or even death, if chemically synthesised medicines, the complexity of the bio-
they contain harmful ingredients, and can deprive patients of logical production process means that these copycat products
proper treatment. can never be identical to the original medicines and as such
present a new set of safety and competitive challenges for the
National health authorities, customs, police, intergovernmen- pharmaceutical industry.
tal agencies and international organisations such as the World
Health Organization (WHO), take primary responsibility for the Our view is that biosimilars must meet the same rigorous
prevention and control of counterfeiting. Roche collaborates regulatory and quality standards as the innovator or original
with these organisations to help prevent counterfeiting and biological medical product, in order to ensure patient safety.
85
Responsible Business | Roche Business Report 2012protecting patient safety: biosimilars regulatory pathways
Biosimilar pathways
Biosimilar pathways under development
That means a product intended to be a copy of a licensed Risk and crisis management
mono clonal antibody must demonstrate similar quality, non-
clinical properties and clinical safety and efficacy in head-to- Our Risk Management Policy sets out our approach for identi-
head studies. Otherwise, the product should be described fying, managing and reporting internal and external risks. We
as an intended copy biologic of a monoclonal antibody, not a also use stakeholder feedback to help manage social, environ-
biosimilar. mental and economic risks.
Roche is active in the support of the development of a strong Using consistent methodologies and processes, we routinely
regulatory framework for the approval of biosimilars and is perform risk assessments at all levels of our organisation. A
engaged in discussions, primarily through associations such Group Risk Report, which covers all material risks, is annually
as the Emerging Biopharmaceutical Enterprises, the Biotech- discussed with the Corporate Executive Committee and the
nology Industry Association of America and the International Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We regularly
Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associa- update our risk management processes to raise awareness
tions. Clear guidelines have now been implemented by the and understanding of risk throughout the Roche Group.
FDA, the European Medicines Agency and the World Health
Organization, as well as in a number of key emerging markets The Group Risk Management team provides advisory services
such as India, South Africa and much of Latin America. to sites, affiliates, project and product teams. It monitors risk
patterns in specialist areas such as social media, IT security,
compliance and sustainability. E-Learning programmes, class-
86
Roche Business Report 2012 | Responsible Businessroom training and workshops are in place to improve the under- political Donations
standing of risk and help employees manage them appropri-
ately. Roche remains independent of any political affiliation.
Additionally, we have established incident management teams In Switzerland, Roche spends around 7 million Swiss francs on
throughout the Roche Group to ensure that we act quickly in contributions and donations to various organisations to safe-
an emergency. These teams regularly rehearse different crisis guard its interests. These include payments to Interpharma,
scenarios, alerts and escalation procedures. We continue to economiesuisse, scienceindustries, SwissHoldings and various
strengthen our business continuity management (BCM) to chambers of commerce, financial assistance to trade unions
ensure that all our sites respond effectively to catastrophic and donations to political parties at the cantonal and federal
events. A Business Continuity Management task force has level. Donations to political parties are each low-double-digit
established a Group BCM policy and guideline, together with thousand franc sums and overall less than 4% of total contri-
templates facilitating a consistent and aligned local implemen- butions and donations.
tation. The Group-wide rollout of the new BCM framework will
make sure that Roche’s operations are resilient and capable of Our employees in the US can make personal political contri-
absorbing important disruptions. butions through Roche’s Good Government Committee and
Genentech’s Political Action Committee (GenenPAC). Both
are voluntary political action committees. In 2012, employees
Contributing to public policy donated 293,144 US dollars to political campaigns through
these committees.
Roche actively engages in consultation with governments,
industry bodies, regulatory authorities and other stakeholders
on issues affecting the pharmaceutical and medical device More on the Web
industry. Our objectives are to help develop laws, regulations
and policies for public health and to shape the debate in other • Roche Group Code of Conduct: www.roche.com/code_of_conduct
• Roche Supplier Code of Conduct: www.roche.com/
areas. Priorities in 2012 included working with the EU on clini- roche_supplier_code_of_conduct.pdf
cal trial regulation with the objective of supporting a harmo- • Positions, policies and guidelines: www.roche.com/
positions_policies_downloads.htm
nised and streamlined framework for clinical trials, as well as • Roche Position on respecting Human Rights: www.roche.com/
the facilitation of multi-national trials. In addition, we have been responsibility/employees/human_rights.htm
• Risk management and compliance: www.roche.com/
actively promoting discussion around the issues of parallel risk_management_and_compliance
trade and reference pricing and the detrimental consequences • Responsible marketing: www.roche.com/
business_integrity_and_responsible_marketing
for low-price EU countries. Our aim is to raise the issue of un - • List of patient groups supported: www.roche.com/patient-groups
equal access to high-value medicines and endorse the princi- • Roche clinical trials and patient safety: www.roche.com/clinical_trials;
www.roche.com/managing_medication_safety
ple of differential pricing as a way to enable better access to • Counterfeiting: www.roche.com/counterfeiting
pharmaceuticals for all citizens in Europe. Other areas of con- • Patents and biosimilars: www.roche.com/patents
• Stakeholder engagement: www.roche.com/stakeholder_engagement
sultation with the EU included new rules on medical devices
and IVDs, as well as data privacy and personalised healthcare.
Respecting human rights
Roche fully supports and implements the United Nation’s
Ruggie Framework ‘Protect, Respect, Remedy’ designed to
prevent and address the risk of adverse impacts on human
rights linked to business activities. In 2012 the Corporate
Sustainability Committee assessed the risks and opportunities
related to Roche’s business and how best we can implement
the UN framework. The committee subsequently established
the Roche Position on Respecting Human Rights, which has
been endorsed by the Corporate Executive Committee for use
in internal and external communication.
87
Responsible Business | Roche Business Report 2012The value of innovation
Working with the insurance industry in China
Improving health insurance
coverage for cancer patients
Cancer is a major killer across the world, yet healthcare coverage for cancer treatment in many countries is
patchy, and in some cases non-existent. Roche is working with private insurers and clinics in Asia, Latin
America and Europe to help them better serve cancer sufferers. Like many other countries, China is facing
a sharp increase in cancer rates. Cancer is now the no. 1 killer in urban areas and the second leading cause of
death in the country as a whole. An ageing population, pollution, heavy smoking and the adoption of Western
lifestyles mean that cancer will remain a major health issue in China for the foreseeable future. Currently
cancer patients in China have to pay for most of their cancer treatment themselves, sometimes even having
to sell all they have to cover the costs. But in recent years Roche has started to work more closely with
insurance companies there to help them establish insurance policies. In 2012, 10 million policies covering
cancer treatment costs were sold in China.
Ryan Bi, Taikang Life Insurance Co., Ltd.:
‘What our customers need most once they are diagnosed
with cancer are the following: First, a way of paying for cancer
treatment, which is where our insurance money comes in.
Second, a treatment plan, which is very important and an area
where we, as an insurance company, lack knowledge. With
Roche on board, we will have exactly the help we need.’
Green Channel Access
The next step is the Green Chan-
nel Access plan, which would
offer more benefits to people
with an insurance policy. Green Channel
Access would allow the insured to get seen
quicker by the relevant doctors, and would
be another key selling point for insurers.
It would also generate more revenue for
hospitals. Roche is bringing insurers and
hospitals together in order to achieve this.
88
Roche Business Report 2012 | The value of innovation
China_EN.indd 25 29.01.13 10:19Challenges for the Support from Roche
insurance industry
No national overview of
cancer treatment costs Analysing treatment costs to
Lack of Gathering
help insurance companies with
data data
Difficult to calculate risk their pricing policies
and price for policies
Sales forces do not fully
recognise the importance
of cancer coverage Providing lectures on cancer
Depth of
Educating
understanding
Insurance companies do not Rolling out cancer awareness
always value and understand campaigns
the benefit of innovative
treatment for the patient
Insurance companies do not
Sharing information on
always know where their Knowledge
Guiding what constitutes good
clients can get good cancer gaps
cancer treatment
treatment
More on the web:
http://www.roche.com/valueofinnovation
China_EN.indd 26 29.01.13 10:19employees worldwide
(full-time equivalents)
90
Roche Business Report 2012Our peOple
established seven Leadership Commitments as a standard for behaviour expected
from every Roche leader.
Introduced innovative employee benefit programmes to support talent retention.
Hosted a diversity summit for 350 leaders to address the role of leaders in creating
an inclusive and diverse workplace.
91
Roche Business Report 2012Our People
Key figures
18.5% +42%
Women in key positions or since 2009 on track to reach 2014 goal of 20%
roche employees worldwide (full-time equivalents/FTe *) employees (FTe) by function
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010
Europe 36,511 35,509 35,811 Marketing and distribution 28,381 27,748 27,536
North America 21,640 22,429 23,695 Research and development 18,279 18,449 19,039
Asia 17,976 16,251 14,964 Manufacturing and logistics 16,700 14,786 14,770
Latin America 4,563 4,506 4,633 Servicing 14,442 15,041 15,160
Australia 737 755 858 General and administration 4,287 4,105 4,148
Africa 662 679 692 Total 82,089 80,129 80,653
Total 82,089 80,129 80,653
employees (FTe) by operating unit employees by contract type
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010
Roche Pharmaceuticals 45,087 44,397 46,335 Regular (FTE) 79,923 78,013 78,537
Chugai 6,965 6,908 6,852 Fixed term (FTE) 2,166 2,116 2,116
Diagnostics Division 28,517 27,380 26,194 Full time (headcount) 79,132 76,911 76,767
Other 1,520 1,444 1,272 Part time (headcount) 5,015 4,824 4,845
Total 82,089 80,129 80,653
* Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) is used to reflect the actual working time of full and part-time employees. For example, two part-time employees working 50%
would result in the equivalent of one FTE versus two employees (headcount).
People drive our business. The dedication and determination and support systems that encourage collaboration and give
of our people to translate innovations in science into better our people what they need to develop personally and profes-
lives for patients has enabled Roche to remain at the forefront sionally.
of the healthcare industry for more than a century. We embrace
the diversity of cultures and people across the Roche Group. We recognise that employees who are engaged are key to
Yet, no matter who we are, we share three fundamental values: delivering the highest standards and the greatest levels of
integrity, courage and passion. innovation. One way to track this engagement is through the
use of employee surveys. Our first company-wide survey, the
Roche Group Global Employee Opinion Survey (GEOS), was
Building a great workplace conducted in 2011 and put employee engagement at 62%, in
line with industry average. Our strategic goal, however, is to
Roche is committed to constantly strengthening and maintain- reach an 80% employee engagement level by the end of 2014.
ing an excellent workplace, one that fosters innovation and A follow-up employee survey will be conducted in early 2013
goes beyond offering attractive compensation and benefits. to better understand where we are on our journey.
An excellent workplace is critical to our success and to the
wellbeing of our people. We strive to build work environments
92
Roche Business Report 2012 | Our PeopleIn 2012, in response to GEOS and other employee feedback, leadership Commitments
the Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) established an
Employee Engagement Taskforce. This included a Leadership We believe every employee deserves a great leader. We
Work Stream which gathered input from more than 1,500 therefore expect the following from every leader, regardless
Roche leaders to develop Leadership Commitments. These of their area of work or level of responsibility.
commitments outline the behaviour expected from Roche
leaders and will serve as a common standard for people lead- Every day I strive to lead by example, consistently demon-
ership at all levels across the company. They are now being strating the Roche values of integrity, courage and passion.
rolled out globally and will be integrated into key HR pro- This means:
cesses, from recruitment and development to performance • I take a genuine interest in people.
management. Additionally, the taskforce identified ways to • I listen carefully, tell the truth, and explain ‘the why’.
improve the visibility and transparency of employee career • I empower and trust people to make decisions.
development (see Learning and development, p. 94). • I discover and develop the potential in people.
• I strive for excellence and extraordinary results.
The taskforce also backed a global programme to recognise • I set priorities and simplify work.
individuals in timely and meaningful ways for their contribution, • I congratulate people for a job well done.
with locally and culturally tailored recognition awards ranging
from a simple thank you to more formal rewards. A few pro-
gramme elements were piloted in 2012 in South San Francisco
and in Pharma Development globally, with worldwide imple- An employer of choice
mentation of the broader programme anticipated in 2013. Roche is consistently recognised globally as an employer of
choice, reflecting its commitment to foster and maintain a
In 2013 we will also introduce a global wellbeing programme collaborative working environment that embodies the Roche
that builds on and aligns many existing local initiatives to core values of integrity, courage and passion. The table below
ensure that all employees around the world have access to highlights some of the awards earned by Roche in 2012.
wellbeing initiatives. We will continue to identify and implement
activities and initiatives both at Group and local level to address
employee engagement.
Key awards and recognition in 2012
Switzerland’s Top Employers for 2012 — ranked 1st by CRF Institute Roche Pharma Switzerland
Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For – 14 th consecutive year Genentech South San Francisco
Science 2012 Top Employers — ranked 3 rd Genentech South San Francisco
Science 2012 Top Employers — ranked 8 th Roche *
Germany’s Top Employers for 2012 — certified by CRF Institute Roche Pharma Germany
Total E-Quality award winner by Total E-Quality Deutschland association Roche Diagnostics and
Roche Pharma (Germany)
2012 China’s Top Employers — certified as one of China’s top employers by CRF Institute Roche Diagnostics (Shanghai) Limited
Denmark’s Best Workplaces 2012 — 1 st Place by Great Place To Work Institute Roche Denmark
Best Employers Slovakia 2012 — ranked 2 nd by Best Employer Study (Aon/Hewitt) Roche Slovakia
Most Desired Employers 2012 — ranked 5 th (Antal International) Roche Pharma and
Roche Diagnostics (Poland)
Universum — Ideal employers 2012 — ranked 2 nd as Top employer for natural sciences Roche Switzerland
Universum — Ideal employers 2012 — ranked 9 th as Top employer for natural sciences Roche Germany
Top 100 ‘Great Place To Work’ for 2012 — ranked 71st by Great Place To Work Institute Roche Brazil
* Excluding Genentech.
93
Our People | Roche Business Report 2012roche talent pool • In the UK, our flexible benefits include health insurance,
vacation days that can be bought and sold, will preparation
In 2012, 46% of our job vacancies were filled internally and bike purchases for personal fitness.
through our Taleo recruitment platform and Roche-hosted
career websites in 91 countries, which drew 3.6 million We also attract some of the best scientific talent by collaborat-
visits (compared with 2.8 million in 2011). We received ing directly with academia through our postdoctoral pro-
504,811 applications for posted vacancies and registered grammes in Research and Early Development (gRED and
238,423 new candidates to our database of job seekers pRED). In 2012, the gRED postdoctoral programme had 115
interested in becoming Roche employees. positions, whilst in pRED, we had 100 postdocs on projects
which involved collaborations with outstanding academic
groups in Europe, the US, Switzerland, China and Japan.
More generally, as a top employer, we pay close attention to
Attracting and retaining top talent the changing needs and expectations of the workforce. We
actively promote flexible working models to our employees and
Attracting and retaining highly skilled, passionate and moti- encourage use of the latest technology to allow and embed this
vated people, and helping them perform at consistently high into Roche mainstream culture.
levels, is vital to our ability to innovate and deliver superior
business performance. Attracting employees: staffing rates
We are committed to recruiting top talent and increasing the 2012 2011 2010
diversity of our workforce, recognising that this sometimes New hires 10,043 8,463 8,279
comes with challenges in the marketplace. These include stiff Internal staffing rate 46% 43% 45%
competition for the best people in science and medicine, espe- External staffing rate 54% 57% 55%
cially in emerging markets such as India, Brazil and China.
retaining employees: turnover
We respond to these market conditions by continuously adapt-
ing and adopting innovative talent acquisition strategies that 2012 2011 2010
reflect best practices. Using in-house recruitment teams and Total 8.1% 10.1% 9.5%
talent scouts, we employ the latest social media tools as well as Europe 4.9% 6.8% 5.7%
retain some traditional routes of recruitment, such as business North America 11.5% 15.1% 12.3%
schools and universities, to connect and engage with talent to Asia 9.3% 8.9% 10.0%
ensure they know about the opportunities available for work- Latin America 11.5% 14.8% 19.3%
ing at Roche. The effectiveness of these efforts was recog- Australia 14.7% 18.2% 20.2%
nised externally in 2012 when Roche received the Potential Africa 14.2% 18.4% 16.8%
Park award for best online talent communicator in the UK, Asia
and in Europe, and was ranked second in the US for its online reasons for leaving
recruitment techniques.
2012 2011 2010
In emerging markets, our innovative approaches involve adapt- Employee-initiated 57% 50% 46%
ing and enhancing employee benefit programmes to meet local Employer-initiated 36% 41% 44%
market needs. For example: Neutral 7% 10% 10%
• In China, where turnover rates can be higher than in other
countries, we started to phase-in new flexible benefits in
2012 that include cancer insurance for all Pharma employees
and their families. learning and career development
• In Singapore, our programme includes elderly care, nursing
home expenses and an option called staycare, where Our employees are encouraged to expand their expertise and
employees can use some of their flexible benefits to fund pursue their professional passions. They take ownership for
local family activities such as tickets to the cinema or their development and are supported by their managers with
museum. continuous coaching and feedback. The company provides
94
Roche Business Report 2012 | Our Peopletools and resources to support career development dialogues We also introduced a 360-degree feedback tool for leaders in
between employees and managers. These include online late 2012 and will launch it globally starting in 2013. This tool
assessments to identify areas of strengths or development will help leaders build an understanding of their key strengths
needs, overviews of key experiences required for certain roles and development gaps.
and local career marketplaces to help employees who are con-
sidering a change in role, to learn about other career options. learning and development
A significant element of our employee development philosophy 2012 2011 2010
focuses on gaining experience and personal growth on the job. Total training investment
We believe employees build greater skills and capabilities (million CHF) 129 116 150
to work in a global, innovative company by being exposed to Training spend per employee
new challenges and cultures. For that reason, we encourage (CHF) 1,538 1,417 1,829
employees to pursue development opportunities that may Total number of training hours
consist of a broader role, a challenging project or a temporary (million) 2.25 2.08 1.87
or international assignment. Average training hours
per employee 27 26 23
We are working to further increase use of stretch assignments Number of post graduate
and international moves to develop employees. To encourage students and interns * 1,122 1,050 780
people, particularly women, to take international assignments,
* Excluding Chugai.
we offer extensive relocation support, helping families to settle
and spouses to continue their careers.
Succession management
Overall, the number of international assignments has risen We maintain specific succession plans for each of our top
sharply in recent years, from 340 in 2005 to 677 in 2012, pri- 428 key positions at corporate and operating group level. We
marily as a result of our expansion into emerging markets and monitor these continuously to ensure we have a broad and
the continuing globalisation of our organisation. The percent- deep talent pipeline and where a special skill set or broad
age of women among all employees on international assign- experience is required, we have also identified an external
ment, has increased from 21% in 2005 to 29% in 2012. pipeline of talent.
In addition to on-the-job development for all employees, Roche The strength of our internal talent pipeline continued to grow
provides formal development opportunities and mentoring and in 2012, for example, two key Corporate Executive Committee
coaching programmes. Most large Roche affiliates and sites positions were filled internally. In the broader organisation a
have training curriculum available across a broad range of further 1,900 positions have been identified for succession
skills. In emerging markets, we are making significant invest- planning as we continue to make this our strategic priority.
ments in employee development through organisations such
as the Roche China Academy and the CEMAI Training Center
that both provide formal technical, sales, and leadership train- embracing diversity
ing to employees in those regions.
We believe that a diverse and inclusive workforce provides the
We maintain a special focus on the development of future inspiration and innovation on which our business depends. We
leaders as part of Group-wide talent management, including a embrace diversity by fostering an inclusive environment that
full suite of development programmes for leaders at every enables differing views, skills and experiences to be exchanged
stage of their career. In 2012 we introduced a programme for freely and openly.
top executives, Catalyst, which focuses on leading through
change and reinforces our Leadership Commitments. Our Today 46% of our employees are women and worldwide, our
global programmes are supplemented by divisional or regional employees represent more than 139 different nationalities. At
programmes, such as Leadership Development Forums where our global headquarters in Basel alone, we have more than
participants test their leadership skills against simulated real- 88 different nationalities.
life challenges. These intense three-day programmes include
senior leaders, who observe and assess each participant’s
strengths and point out areas for improvement.
95
Our People | Roche Business Report 2012Diversity summit for 350 leaders In 2012, for example, Pharmaceuticals North America held a
women’s leadership summit and launched gWISE, the Genen-
One example of Roche’s many diversity initiatives included tech Women in Science and Engineering network, while Diag-
the 2012 Roche Diversity Leadership Summit which in May nostics North America started the Women in Leadership
brought 350 leaders to Basel to challenge perceptions and Network. We also hosted the Healthcare Businesswomen’s
address the role of leaders in fostering a diverse and inclusive Association European Leadership Conference at our Basel
workplace. The one day event included presentations on headquarters in 2012. The conference featured a panel of
diversity and entrepreneurship, women in leadership, flexible executives from numerous healthcare organisations and fos-
working, cultural diversity and thinking styles, among other tered networking among women leaders from companies
topics. Among attendees, 98% rated the summit positively; across Europe.
94% would recommend it to their colleagues.
Roche has networks at several sites that help foster a diverse
and inclusive environment, including:
• Basel. OPEN — Out, Proud & Equal Network — launched in
2012 to encourage a culture of respect and equality for every-
one regardless of their sexual orientation.
• Basel. A family and career networking group for employees
with family responsibilities, whether as parents or caregivers
for relatives, in support of better work-life balance.
• South San Francisco. African Americans in Biotechnology.
• South San Francisco. STAGES — Strengthening Ties Across
Generations.
Additionally, in 2012 in Italy, Germany, Israel and Spain, we
increased support for employees by introducing on-site child-
care and holiday care for children. Roche France established a
Gender diversity remains among our top priorities. At the end Charter of Diversity, which includes childcare, flexible work
of 2012 the number of women in our top key positions went up options, equal opportunities and a commitment to providing
slightly to 18.5% compared to the previous year. The total num- resources for the disabled. The Charter also included a plan to
ber of high potentials identified in 2012 indicates an increased retain and hire older employees to consult on working condi-
rigour in our high-potential process with a continued focus on tions, training and skill development and the transition to
diversity. We expect to continue making progress in 2013 and retirement. At Roche Turkey, women now represent 38% of all
remain on track to achieve our overall 2014 gender goal of employees and 60% of top positions. Roche Turkey won the
increasing the percentage of women in our top key positions prestigious Prism Award in 2012 for its efforts in this area from
to 20%. the International Coaching Federation.
leadership pipeline In 2012 we raised awareness throughout the Group for diver-
sity with the Do ONE Thing for Diversity & Inclusion, a grass-
2012 2011 2010 roots campaign to encourage people to lead or take part in at
Number of high-potentials 4,137 4,690 4,681 least one activity in support of diversity and inclusion.
Percentage of women
high-potentials 38% 39% 38% Gender diversity
Percentage of women in
global leadership programmes 36% 33% 32% 2012 2011 2010 2009
Women in total workforce 46% 46% 46% 46%
Women in line management 38% 35% 37% 37%
In support of this goal, we have introduced several initiatives to Women in top 120
help women throughout their careers. These range from basic executive positions 17.5% 15% 15% 9%
measures such as granting parental leave and permitting flex- Women in key positions 18.5% 18% 16% 13%
ible work schedules to enhancing mentoring and sponsorship
programmes and maintaining ties with leadership networks.
96
Roche Business Report 2012 | Our Peoplereward and recognition were extended to an additional 152 affiliates in 104 countries
with over 27,000 employees.
A competitive compensation and benefits programme is one
aspect of Roche’s strategy to attract talented people, to moti-
vate and retain current employees, and to encourage strong Fair employment practices
performance. In 2012 the company paid 11.3 billion Swiss
francs in remuneration to its employees. We treat our employees fairly throughout the employment
cycle. This includes supporting those affected by organisa-
We reward performance through a transparent and consistent tional changes. For example, the consolidation and streamlin-
process that encourages fairness, continuous feedback, dia- ing of research activities in pRED resulted in the reduction of
logue and development. Throughout 2012, we also continued around 1,000 positions with the transfer of 80 positions to
to align remuneration policies and processes across all busi- Switzerland and Germany. To support our impacted employ-
ness units. We established common tools and language for ees, we ensured that comprehensive packages of support
employee performance appraisals to help our leaders give measures were in place including severance payment pro-
meaningful feedback and to encourage productive dialogue. grammes, outplacement services, counselling, access to an
This included the use of a multi-rater tool for employees which on-site Career Lab, retraining and redeployment options.
resulted in 99,500 feedback requests being sent out between
September and November alone. Other activities included Roche is an equal opportunity employer. As such, we do not
practice labs for managers on providing performance feed- tolerate any form of workplace discrimination.
back to ensure that the Roche Compensation & Performance
Management principles are applied effectively and consis- The Roche Employment Policy governs human rights and
tently throughout the Group. labour relations at every Roche site, setting out our inclusive
workplace philosophy and exacting employment practices.
Additionally, we added more flexibility to the Group-wide com- The Chief Compliance Officer monitors implementation of and
pensation portfolio by empowering managers to use annual compliance with this policy in association with HR managers
bonuses and long-term incentives to acknowledge extraordi- and compliance officers at each Roche site. Roche is commit-
nary employee contributions. ted to enforcing this policy at all sites, to using it as the founda-
tion on which our employment processes are designed and
We also agreed to change our long-term incentive programme monitored, and expects all employees to act in accordance
for leaders to maintain the competitiveness of our compensa- with the policy.
tion plans and address feedback for a stronger alignment of
incentives with share price performance. The revised plan, In 2012 we updated the policy for implementation in January
which takes effect in 2013, underscores our belief in employee 2013.
ownership by enabling employees to earn equity through a
combination of Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights and We respect our employees’ right to freedom of association and
restricted stock units. collective bargaining. Currently, approximately 8,640 employ-
ees are trade union members and more than 32,433 belong to
other labour groups. Additionally, the Roche Europe Forum
enabling Hr excellence represents the interests of around 36,590 employees in
26 countries.
We recognise that strong employee performance can be
enabled by aligned and integrated processes and systems. In
2012 we finalised the implementation of our Common Human More on the Web
Resource Information Solution (CHRIS), which will serve as
the foundation for complete and comprehensive services to • Employees: www.roche.com/employees
• Global careers portal: careers.roche.com
manage employee information and key human resources pro- • Employment policy: www.roche.com/employment_policy.pdf
cesses. • Group policies, positions and guidelines:
www.roche.com/positions_policies_downloads.htm
• Commitments to employees: www.roche.com/commitments
CHRIS is available in ten languages to 195 Roche legal entities • Health and safety: www.roche.com/environment
with 77,409 employees operating in 108 countries. In January
2013 the compensation and performance modules on CHRIS
97
Our People | Roche Business Report 2012The value of innovation
cobas HPV and CINtec tests
Better screening for
cervical cancer
Cervical cancer develops slowly over years. While screening programmes
based on the Pap smear¹ have reduced the number of cervical cancer deaths
in many countries dramatically, the test is not foolproof, and many women
are missed. The Pap test examines cells of the cervix for abnormalities, yet the
disease is almost always caused by a persistent infection with high-risk
human papillomavirus (HPV) genotypes. Most HPV infections are harmless,
therefore it is important to pinpoint those infections that are most likely
to cause cervical cancer. Roche’s cobas HPV test detects high-risk HPV to
identify those women at greatest risk of developing cervical disease. Our
CINtec products help better identify precancerous lesions, enabling doctors
to remove unhealthy tissue before cancer can fully develop and to protect
patients from unnecessary treatment. This gives women peace of mind that
they are safe or that they receive the appropriate care to prevent the cancer.
1920s
No screening – cervical cancer
detected late through symptoms and
usually meaning death sentence
Women at risk
for cervical cancer
From virus to cancer
cobas HPV test detects CINtec PLUS test detects
high-risk virus types proteins associated with
(14 genotypes, particularly cancerous cell transforma-
HPV 16 and 18) tion (p16, Ki67)
Incidence and screening
Each year there are about 470,000 new cases
of cervical cancer, and more than 250,000
Healthy HPV Precancerous
cervical tissue infection lesions Invasive cancer succumb to the disease. Incidence is highest
in developing countries which lack screening
programmes. Even in developed regions,
A high-risk HPV type is the root cause in almost all cases of cervical cancer. thousands of women still die from this cancer.
Infection with HPV is fairly common, and in most cases the body is able to clear
the virus on its own. For some women, however, the infection is not resolved and Cervical cancer prevention programmes are
persists, which can lead to cervical cancer. Of the more than 40 relevant types predominantly based on the Pap test, with
of HPV, 14 types are considered high risk. But just two types – HPV 16 and 18 – vaccination and modern HPV screening slowly
are responsible for approximately 70% of cervical cancers. being adopted. Forerunners are Italy, which
The cobas HPV test provides individual test results for HPV 16 and 18, along with introduced HPV primary screening in several
a pooled result for the other 12 high-risk genotypes, and thus enables instant regions in 2011, and Sweden, which intro-
identification of those women who are at the highest risk and need immediate duced a pilot programme in Stockholm in
intervention. early 2012.
1 Test invented by and named after US physician George Papanicolaou.
98
Roche Business Report 2012 | The value of innovation
HPV_EN.indd 25 29.01.13 10:24Christine Baze, cervical cancer survivor and patient advocate:
‘When I was 31 years old I was diagnosed with invasive cervical cancer. Despite
the fact that I had been going for Pap smears every year. Ten days later
I was having a radical hysterectomy and then I had five weeks of daily pelvic
radiation, four rounds of chemotherapy and three rounds of internal radiation.
When I was diagnosed we only had the Pap to work with and now screening
has got better and more accurate with the addition of the HPV test. It’s pretty
amazing to think about how the doctors and the patients get more accurate
information. The thing I want women to know is that they can take care of their
bodies. Have the most accurate screening possible!’
1940s
Screening based on
Pap smears – annual test
misses around 50% of
women with precancers
2012
Screening based on molecular testing –
two-stage approach identifies over 90% of
women with precancers
• stage 1: check for the cancer’s root cause –
HPV high-risk infections (cobas HPV test)
• stage 2: check for precancerous lesions More on the web:
(CINtec PLUS test) http://www.roche.com/valueofinnovation
HPV_EN.indd 26 29.01.13 10:24employees participated
in the 2012
Roche Children’s Walk
100
Roche Business Report 2012COMMUNITY
INVOlVeMeNT
Inaugurated a second Transnet-Phelophepa Healthcare Train to bring primary
healthcare to remote regions of South Africa.
Supported humanitarian and social projects in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy.
Partnered with organisations in the Philippines to supply affordable solar
powered lights for people living in the shanty town of Tondo.
101
Roche Business Report 2012Community Involvement
Key figures
Breakdown of giving by area, 2012
92% 4%
Humanitarian and social projects Arts and culture
3% 1%
Science and education Community and environment
Since Roche was formed more than a hundred years ago, the Our aim is to participate in projects as a collaborator, contrib-
company has directed human and financial resources to com- uting our expertise and resources from the earliest possible
munity projects and philanthropic initiatives that make a lasting stage, while sharing in the long-term risks, commitments and
impact. investments necessary to achieve lasting benefits.
We direct our giving to four areas of priority: humanitarian and Responsibility for most philanthropic activities is delegated to
social projects, science and education, arts and culture, and our more than 100 local affiliates operating in over 150 coun-
community and environment. No matter the size of the project tries. By selecting and managing our engagement locally,
or cost, we focus on outcomes. The philanthropic activities we can better tailor activities to local priorities and respond
we support and engage in must generate tangible long-term quickly when an urgent need arises.
benefits to people and their communities, as measured by:
• Innovation, by applying creative and effective solutions to Our activities are guided by Roche’s global Donations and
society’s challenges Non-commercial Sponsorship Policy. Philanthropic donations
• Sustainability, by delivering enduring impact in a dynamic, may only be made to registered or accredited independent
resource-constrained world non-governmental organisations, multilateral organisations or
• Collaboration, by drawing on the strengths and skills from not-for-profit charities.
Roche and the partnering organisation to individually tailor
activities to the needs of each project
lighting up in the Philippines
sunlight. The so-called solar bottle bulb is powerful enough
to light up a small, dark home. Plus, it’s environmentally
friendly, inexpensive and easy to make.
Roche Philippines, with its employees, entered into a partner-
ship with MyShelter Foundation and the Philippine Christian
Foundation to reduce dependence on electricity and open-
flame lighting for people living in Tondo, a shanty town.
The Liter of Light Project uses plastic soda bottles encased
in corrugated tin, filled with water and bleach, and mounted
in the roof to allow light to pass through into the home.
The solar bulbs, which take about an hour to install and can
What do you get with sunshine and an old plastic bottle filled last up to five years, not only improve living environments
with water and chlorine? A 55-watt solar bulb that refracts for families but also allow children to read.
102
Roche Business Report 2012 | Community Involvementemployee involvement A clinic on rails — Phelophepa
At Roche, we encourage our employees to involve themselves Described by locals as a ‘miracle train’, the Transnet-
in the communities where they work and live, both as means to Phelophepa Healthcare Train is a clinic on rails that brings
give back and to engage in personally enriching experiences. primary healthcare to remote regions of South Africa
From site to site we often support employee community service where there is only one doctor for every 5,000 residents.
by offering flexible work schedules, brokering volunteer assign-
ments and coordinating group projects. We, however, refrain Phelophepa means good, clean health. Since its launch
from exerting any influence on the type or amount of volunteer in 1994, Roche has been the main external sponsor
work that our employees engage in. of Transnet-Phelophepa, funding its primary healthcare,
community outreach and other ancillary services.
As part of our activities to improve health in the world’s poorest
countries, we offer a secondment programme to employees, From modest beginnings as a three-car train, the service
which enables them to contribute their skills to assignments was expanded in 2012 to two 18-coach trains. With both
with humanitarian organisations in least developed countries trains running 36 weeks a year, Phelophepa can deliver medi-
as well as in low and lower middle income economies. The cal services and healthcare education to reach over 550,000
programme allows employees to participate for three to twelve people annually, including more than 90,000 patients in
months in a project dedicated to improving health. In 2012 need of care. Train staff also visit schools, providing vital
Roche secondees contributed to projects in India, South Africa health checks, medicines and education to children.
and Haiti.
Since 2003 our employees have united in a common cause:
The Roche Children’s Walk. More than 110,000 walkers from
Roche sites around the world have participated in this one-day
event that raises money for schools and orphans in Malawi. In
2012 over 20,000 employees from 113 Roche sites in 52 coun-
tries participated.
Humanitarian and social projects
The largest part of our philanthropic giving is directed toward
humanitarian and social projects, as we believe that improving
human services and support systems is the most effective way port to the European Coalition of Positive People for its work in
to help build stronger, healthier communities. Malawi to help children orphaned to HIV/AIDS day centres,
skills training, nutrition and educational assistance.
Our preference is to provide support yielding outcomes which
can be maintained on a long-term basis at the local level. For In the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, which struck the North-
example, in countries that do not have adequate healthcare east US in October 2012, the Genentech Foundation and the
infrastructure, such as trained healthcare workers, hospitals or neighbouring Roche facilities in New Jersey quickly provided
general health awareness, we find that investments in edu- major donations to the American Red Cross for shelter, recov-
cation and prevention are usually a more sustainable solution ery assistance, emergency transportation and meals. The
than medicine or diagnostic donations. Foundation is a US-based, private charitable foundation estab-
lished in 2002 by Genentech. It provides financial support to
In this spirit, Roche supports projects such as those run by the qualified non-profit US charitable organisations in community
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in Malawi. Our fund- support, health science education, patient education and
ing has helped build classrooms and pay for school materials advocacy.
like desks, books and other literacy resources. In addition, we
have joined UNICEF in supporting primary school teacher
training and the building of a new teacher training college in
southern Malawi. Additionally, Roche provides financial sup-
103
Community Involvement | Roche Business Report 2012Illuminated DNA Move. Roche is the sole corporate sponsor of the competition,
which aims to promote science study and science careers by
DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is an essential part of every broadening the understanding of life science research.
organism. It’s not normally found in a chandelier. But the
idea of creating a chandelier modelled on crystallised DNA Roche Diagnostics in Germany is helping teachers make
intrigued Dutch designer Lucas Maassen. So from DNA classroom experiments more attractive and more vivid with
fragments crystallised by Roche’s Molecular Biology Labora- Blue Genes, a kit containing two DNA experiments and precise
tory, a magnified glass version of this crystal, which normally descriptions for lesson planning. Provided for a nominal fee,
is only visible under the microscope, was produced by the experimental kit complements theoretical instruction,
a crystal manufacturer. giving teachers and students a hands-on opportunity to learn
the basic techniques of molecular biology.
One thousand glass orbs later, ‘Valerie, My Crystal Sister’,
representing the sister that Maassen never had, was assem- In 2012, Roche Ireland supported a primary school faced with
bled by his parents on 12 June 2012 at the Vitra Design terminating its computer programme, as it did not have the
Museum in Weil am Rhein, Germany, during the Art Basel funds to upgrade its outdated computer lab.
show. The work, a true collaboration of Lucas Maassen
and Roche scientists, was part of the Confrontations: Con- The school’s computer room officially re-opened in May with
temporary Dutch Design exhibition at the Museum. donated computers from Roche Ireland, enabling the school
to again provide students with new skills, including literacy,
numeracy and word processing.
Arts and culture
Roche actively cultivates and supports ground-breaking con-
temporary art and cultural projects. We favour creative activi-
ties that explore the parallels between innovation in the arts
and in science.
Roche Commissions offers contemporary music artists the
challenge and opportunity to forge new frontiers in their field.
Started in 2003, every second year a recognised contempo-
Science and education rary composer is selected on the recommendation of the
artistic director of the Lucerne Festival, our partner in Roche
As a business founded on excellence and innovation in sci- Commissions. The commissioned work is then premiered at
ence, we help to develop future scientists and public under- the Lucerne Festival in the summer. In 2012, composer and
standing of life sciences by supporting programmes that conductor Matthias Pintscher was granted the sixth Roche
enhance science education, draw talent to science careers Commissions award for his composition, ‘Chute d’Étoiles.’
and engage outstanding young scientists and their teachers.
We also support creative expression through monthly Roche
In Switzerland, Roche is an active supporter of Swiss Youth in ’n’ Jazz events. Together with the Roche-founded Museum
Science, a foundation that raises awareness and appreciation Tinguely and the Bird’s Eye Jazz Club, we bring inventive
of science among children and young people. We support jazz to the community of Basel. Through Roche Continents,
the foundation’s national competition, study weeks and the 100 students of science, music and fine arts from across
Swiss Talent Forum, a think tank for young adults, among other Europe are selected to spend a week in Salzburg, Austria
activities. during the Salzburg Festival to attend workshops that explore
the common ground of creativity in art and science.
Simply Science is a website designed to generate interest
among young people in life science. Hosted by a Swiss foun-
dation of the same name, the website is piloting an innovative
national secondary school class competition, Science on the
104
Roche Business Report 2012 | Community InvolvementGene sequencing at the zoo
Kumari, an Asian elephant calf at the Smithsonian National
Zoo, lived only 16 months before dying of persistent internal
bleeding. While searching for the cause of the bleeding,
pathologists at the zoo discovered an aggressive
herpes virus that is specific to elephants, the elephant
endotheliotropic herpes virus (EEHV).
Since then, the zoo has launched a study of EEHV and other
animal diseases, using a powerful gene sequencing device
donated by Roche, the GS Junior System. Installed at the
Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute, the system will
support research into the causes of high mortality rates
among elephants living in captivity and the growing number
of EEHV cases in the wild. Scientists now believe the disease
may be connected to the loss of the animals’ natural habitat.
Community and environment Latvia has one of the highest infant mortality rates and one
of the lowest birth rates in Europe. Roche Latvia, in collabora-
As an organisation and as individuals, we are committed to tion with neonatology and obstetrics experts, initiated Save
using our resources to support local communities and protect 100 Newborns, aiming to reduce infant mortality rates by half.
natural resources. In the US, the Genentech Gives Back Week Based on situational and data assessments, a series of recom-
is an opportunity for employees at this Roche affiliate to mendations were made, ranging from improving medical infor-
support their communities. In 2012 employees helped with mation quality to improving the usage of ultrasound exami-
donations in the form of cash, goods and employee time to nations. The Ministry of Health adapted the new policies and
115 non-profit organisations, participated in 150 volunteer implemented the proposed recommendations.
projects and donated 590,000 air miles and 75 barrels of
educational supplies, clothing and food. More information can be found on www.roche.com.
examples of Community Involvement indicators and measures of success in 2012
Humanitarian Science Arts and culture Community
and social projects and education and environment
Roche • Logistics consultations • Scientists as workshop • Roche experts workshop • Workforce volunteers in
employee • Volunteers with disabled trainers leaders local programmes
engagement • Employee walkers raising • Science/technology • Hours of collaboration • Team building events with
funds for vulnerable educational materials service agencies
children • Volunteer tutors
• Secondee days or mentors
Community • Individuals screened • Teachers in professional • Museum visitors • Individuals/families
beneficiaries • Student teachers trained development workshops • Arts and science students assisted with community
• Children enrolled in • Children aided by tutoring joint projects services
secondary school • Secondary students • Children in creativity • Family counselling
• Disabled children assisted conducting research workshops sessions
• Concert audiences • Homes renovated
Infrastructure • Social service centres • Placement of students • Creativity workshops • Cultural groups sustained
and system renovated • Teaching methods established • Recreation programmes
changes • Prototype schools adopted • Performance of established
constructed • Visits/hits to online commissioned music • Public sites cleaned up
• Mobile health clinic oper- resources • Ongoing museum
ations and construction • Training course graduates operations
105
Community Involvement | Roche Business Report 2012The value of innovation
From mining to biotech – Roche Penzberg
Innovation creating value
for the local economy
The Roche Penzberg biotech hub is located on the site of a former coal mine on the outskirts
of the Bavarian town of Penzberg (Germany). Roche bought the site in 1998 and since
then has invested over 1.8 billion euros in this state-of-the-art facility, creating 2,500 additional
jobs. Of its 5,000 employees, more than 30 % holds a university degree.
The impact on the local economy of an innovation-driven company, like Roche in Penzberg,
is enormous, creating far above-average wealth for the community. People employed
by Roche Penzberg are extremely well qualified, with high salary levels, bringing increased
tax receipts and more consumer spending. In order to make its products, Roche needs
not only high-qualified labour, but also supplies of goods and services. As a result, innovation
triggers a substantial multiplier effect not just for the local economy, but for Germany
as a whole.
Increase of employment since 1998
Employees
of other
4,950
companies
Other
Co sn- ump ti- on companies
2,464
1998 2012 O coth me pr a nies
Salary
i nv e st m( ei n cS lu . p pl y
nt
s)
• 1.8 billion euros invested since 1998
• Biggest payer of business tax
in the Penzberg region S u
p
• Distinct external network of academics
ply
and biotech companies
• Complete biotech value chain: Tax and
from science to patients social
security
Other
companies
Horst Seehofer, Prime Minister of Bavaria:
‘Penzberg is a prime example of Bavaria’s State and
successful modernisation drive. Roche’s strong society
commitment has made a difference – one
that has also benefited our country. What was
once a small mining town in rural Upper
Bavaria is now an internationally networked
location for research and innovation,
generating a sizeable number of highly
qualified jobs.’
More on the web:
http://www.roche.com/valueofinnovation
106
Roche Business Report 2012 | The value of innovation
Penzberg_EN.indd 1 29.01.13 10:29Impact
for Penzberg
and Germany:
Production value:
Every euro spent by Roche
Penzberg generates an additional
1.30 euros in Germany.
Employment:
Every job at Roche Penzberg
generates 2.3 additional
jobs in Germany.
State and
society
Roche
Tax and Penzberg
social
security
State and
society
Other
i nv e st m( ei n cS lu
.
p pl
y
Salary companies
nt
s)
Co sn- ump ti- on sec ur s ito ycT iaa lx a n d
Roche
Direct impact employees pply
u
S
Salary
Other
Indirect impact companies
Employees
of other
Indirect impact
companies
Penzberg_EN.indd 2 29.01.13 10:29percent reduction in
greenhouse gas emissions
108
Roche Business Report 2012Safety, Security,
HealtH and
environment
increased energy efficiency per employee by 3.7%.
reduced ecological impact per employee by 6.2%.
decreased water consumption by 8.6%.
109
Roche Business Report 2012Safety, Security, Health and Environment
Key figures
0.072 +7.3%
roche accident rate (rar) on track to reach 2015 goal
158 –3.7%
energy efficiency GJ/employee on track to reach 2014 goal
11.80 –6.9%
co 2 efficiency t/employee on track to reach 2014 goal
6.45 –6.2%
total environmental impact million impact points/employee on track to reach 2015 goal
At Roche, we refer to safety, security, health and environmen- inclusion in our reporting. Based on this analysis we have iden-
tal protection as SHE, and approach it with the same sense tified the following priority SHE topics:
of responsibility, and just as methodically, as we do issues • occupational accidents and occupational illnesses
concerning quality, productivity and cost-efficiency. • energy consumption and use of sustainable energy
• total eco-balance (ecological impact of our operations) and
We strive for continuous improvement in SHE wherever pos- total toxicity of our waste water
sible and economically viable. We seek sustainable long-term • the closing of gaps identified during our internal SHE audits
improvement throughout our organisation by changing behav- • compliance with all SHE laws and regulations
iour, adapting equipment to the most recent standards and • improvement of the SHE performance of our suppliers and
developing innovative processes. service providers
• reduction of the total SHE risk load
• SHE education of our employees
relevance and materiality
To maximise the value of SHE reporting, we strive to provide improving and monitoring
information that is balanced and relevant to stakeholders. We performance
have identified the following topics that we believe are material
to our business and, thus, sufficiently important to be reported: employee engagement and training
• people, with respect to health, integrity, wellbeing Prevention is the key to effective SHE management. With
• environment and the conservation of resources around 600 employees in safety, health and environmental
• material assets and functional efficiency protection, SHE teams at each Roche site identify risks,
• business continuity and cost of SHE develop mitigation plans and communicate policy and guide-
• compliance with external and internal regulations lines to employees and other stakeholders.
With regards to SHE, we have looked at each of the above We believe that education, awareness and training are the best
material issues. We have considered potential future develop- ways to foster employee engagement in and responsibility for
ments, analysed the need and feasibility to act, defined perfor- SHE. With this in mind, we conduct regular training sessions,
mance indicators and set goals or targets. regional conferences and workshops and provide online tools
in local languages to most employees. In 2012 our employees
Materiality is influenced by external and internal factors. For participated in more than 205,000 hours of SHE training.
instance, external regulations and laws may affect strategy, as
will reporting conventions within the industry and stakeholder We regularly review the effectiveness of our SHE management
expectations. Internally, an organisation’s policies, strategies system and encourage employees to identify areas for improve-
and goals determine the materiality of an issue. We have con- ment. Using a database of SHE best practices, our employees
sidered all of these factors when identifying the SHE areas for frequently share knowledge and exchange new ideas for pro-
110
Roche Business Report 2012 | Safety, Security, Health and Environmentcedures. During 2012, 43 proposals from the database were ecompetition
adopted by other areas within our organisation.
Started in 1995, the Roche ECOmpetition gives employees
The annual Roche Responsible Care Award recognises the an opportunity to contribute ideas and suggestions for
best contributors to and applications of good SHE practices by improving our sustainability culture and performance. It also
employees. We received 115 entries for the 2012 award and will raises awareness of environmental protection and encour-
announce the winners in the first quarter of 2013. ages sustainability by identifying cost savings from environ-
mental protection activities.
audits and assessments
We assess SHE performance by comparing our results against ECOmpetition submissions have resulted in significant
laws and regulations, internal standards and those set by improvement in a variety of areas, including energy conserva-
organisations such as the International Chamber of Com- tion, waste reduction, decreased consumption of water and
merce’s Business Charter for Sustainable Development, Inter- raw materials, and reduced air pollution. Additionally, a num-
national Organisation for Standardisation and the chemical ber of submissions have addressed the social aspect of sus-
industry’s Responsible Care programme. tainability. Suggestions for improving certain manufacturing
processes have resulted in major cost savings, and other
We conduct internal audits every three years at the chemical, ideas, including measures to reduce energy consumption of
pharmaceutical and diagnostics manufacturing sites that are air-conditioning systems, have proved useful at multiple sites.
critical to our operations, stipulating necessary SHE improve-
ments after each audit. The audit frequency for other facilities For the sixth edition of ECOmpetition in 2012, 18 winners
is determined by risk potential, strategic importance, past per- were selected from 264 entries. Reducing energy consump-
formance and other site-specific circumstances. Plant man- tion got the most interest as well as improving logistics both
agement and local SHE officers conduct more frequent spot with respect to packaging and transportation concepts.
checks and inspections to assess compliance with SHE stan- A most interesting idea references the use of a (heat-driven)
dards. Sterling engine for cooling purposes.
We expect contract manufacturers, suppliers and service pro-
viders to meet the same SHE standards as we do. To ensure
compliance with these standards, we, or third-party auditors Seeing the light, turning it off
retained by us, periodically inspect the operations of our sup-
pliers and issue recommendations for improvement. In the Genentech in South San Francisco, has a goal of reducing
event of unsatisfactory SHE performance, we may terminate a energy use in the 50-building campus by 15% within five
contract or refuse to award a new contract to a supplier. years. To help achieve it, members of Green Genes, a nearly
1,500-member employee club that supports green practices,
SHe audits elected to find ways to eliminate or reduce unnecessary
lighting.
2012 2011 2010 2009
internal audits Sparked by an idea from a member of the Green Genes
Follow-up 17 23 24 27 Energy Team, the club formed the Army of Darkness in 2010.
First time 9 3 4 2 Volunteers audited buildings where they worked, document-
external audits* ing lighting controls, conditions and operating hours.
Follow-up 10 5 5 4 Even though many campus buildings were equipped with
First time 48 42 31 34 occupancy sensors that automatically turn off lights, the
audit found ineffective lighting controls, areas with no light
* Of direct materials suppliers.
switches and lights that were always on. Many of these
issues were resolved quickly and easily, others were sched-
Of the 17 internal follow-up audits in 2012, most sites improved uled for lighting system upgrades. The Army of Darkness’
their performance. Recommended SHE improvements follow- efforts have contributed to lighting projects saving an esti-
ing these audits included increasing the involvement of line mated three million kilowatt hours per year.
management and improving risk analysis.
111
Safety, Security, Health and Environment | Roche Business Report 2012Further details can be found in the chapter Manufacturing and increased (sales), while expenditure on environmental protec-
Procurement, page 60. tion is limited and environmental harm reduced, the higher the
EER value and, thus, eco-efficiency.
minimising our environmental We seek to improve our EER by reducing material and energy
footprint consumption and waste and by using renewable resources. In
2012 these and other efforts resulted in our EER improving to
As part of our commitment to sustainable development, we 0.565, or 4.8% from 2011.
proactively seek to employ new, more sustainable technolo-
gies and processes which minimise our impact on the environ- eco-efficiency rate (eer)
ment.
2012 2011 2010 2009
We have established a Group-wide goal for eco-balance. How- Sales
ever, management at each Roche site may establish strategies (million CHF) 45,499 42,531 47,473 49,051
and objectives for reducing environmental impacts that are Environmental
best suited to local circumstances. expenditure
(million CHF) 147.8 140 194 186
Our total environmental impact per employee in 2012 was 6.45 Environmental
million impact points, a 6.2% improvement on 2011. We have impact
targeted to improve our eco-balance by 15% from 2010 levels (10 6 environmental
by 2020. impact points) 545,022 563,742 591,592 572,983
EER (x 1000) 0.565 0.539 0.414 0.460
eco-efficiency
Eco-efficiency aims at minimising ecological damage while
maximising efficiency of the firm’s production processes. This In addition to expending 147.8 million Swiss francs for envi-
can be achieved by using less energy, materials and water, ronmental purposes, our expenses for safety and security
decreasing the elimination of hazardous emissions or by-prod- amounted to 265.3 million Swiss francs. Hence, the total
ucts and increasing recycling. We quantify eco-efficiency by expenses for SHE measures in 2012 were approximately
the eco-efficiency rate (EER), a ratio of sales to expenditures 413 million Swiss francs, compared with 429 million Swiss
on environmental protection and environmental impact points Francs in 2011, a decrease of approximately 3.6%.
in accordance with the Swiss Federal Office for the Envi-
ronment (FOEN). The more efficiently business activity is increasing energy efficiency
Our goal is to reduce total energy consumption — fossil fuels
and electricity — in gigajoules (GJ) per employee by 10% by
2014 from 2009 levels, and by 20% by 2020 from 2010 levels.
eco-balance and impact points Our long-term goal is to reduce energy consumption per
employee by approximately 50% from the 2005 baseline levels.
The Roche eco-balance refers to the consumption of energy
and resources and the pollution caused by our business We also plan to increase the proportion of sustainable energy
activities. It thus describes the total environmental impacts we use to 20% of total energy consumed by 2020. Our strategy
of our operations. for achieving this objective is to first improve energy efficiency
aggressively before substituting fossil fuels with sustainable
By allocating environmental impact points (weighting fac- energy.
tors) to ecologically relevant parameters — the consumption
of resources, such as raw materials, water and energy, and Energy conservation is a priority throughout the Group, first,
the waste and emissions to air, water and soil — we obtain because it is the main source of greenhouse gas emissions,
a view of the demand we place on the Earth’s ecosystems. such as CO , and second, because reducing energy con-
2
These points are added and then related to the total number sumption lowers operating costs. Our systematic approach
of employees, which enables us to monitor our environmen- to energy management includes:
tal impact per employee (million impact points). • constructing energy-efficient buildings
• retrofitting heating, cooling and air conditioning installations
112
Roche Business Report 2012 | Safety, Security, Health and EnvironmentEco-balance
all numbers are in impact points (see box)
67,342
Raw material
41,201
Primary energy
355,015
1,919
Emissions to the air
Water
53,059
26,487
Emissions to water
Landfilled waste
Environmental impact per employee in 2012:
6.45 million impact points Roche products
• adjusting the range of acceptable temperatures in offices countries the fuel reductions resulted in savings of approx.
and other workplaces 1 million Swiss francs)
• purchasing energy-efficient equipment, including hybrid • 3.9% increase in the use of sustainable energy, bringing total
and diesel-efficient cars sustainable energy to 9% of consumption.
• changing work processes
• reviewing employees’ travel needs These improvements resulted in an overall decline in energy
consumption of 0.7% in 2012. Together with a slight increase in
In 2012 we continued to focus on the responsible use of the number of employees, energy consumption was 158 GJ per
resources and continuous reductions in energy consumption. employee, which surpassed our 2012 target of 163 GJ.
Our activities resulted in improved energy usage in several
areas: A project team at Roche Indianapolis improved organisational
• 2.8% reduction of energy use in buildings and stationary efficiency and reduced international air travel of leaders of
equipment (gas, fuel oil, waste, electricity) three business units. Three face-to-face meetings were can-
• 4.8% decrease in car fuel consumption (in the Central celled, 113 person days of productivity were gained, including
and Eastern European, Middle Eastern, African and Indian avoiding 73 travel days, and 30 international and 11 domestic
113
Safety, Security, Health and Environment | Roche Business Report 2012
Ecobalance_EN.indd 2 23.01.13 11:36flights avoided, resulting in a saving of approximately 763 giga- energy use by type
joules of energy or approximately 54 tonnes of CO emissions
2
and some 120,000 Swiss francs. However, overall in the area of 36.6% Natural gas
business travel, our reduction efforts were less successful, as
energy consumption from air travel increased by 10.6%. 29.6% Grid electricity
3.9%
lowering greenhouse gas emissions District heating
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at Roche originate from the
generation and use of energy. Our goal for improving energy 18.8% Air travel
efficiency and reducing energy consumption, therefore, also
applies to GHG emissions: a 10% reduction, measured in 0.8% Waste
tonnes per employee by 2014 from 2009 levels and a 20%
reduction by 2020 from 2010 levels. We expect to achieve 1.6% Oil
further reductions by substituting fossil fuels with energy
from sustainable sources. 8.7% Car fleet
We actively seek to decrease GHG emissions by establishing
internal energy standards that ensure new plants and buildings Greenhouse gas emissions CO equivalent
2
are designed for maximum energy efficiency, while optimising
and retrofitting existing assets. 2012 2011 2010 2009
Total emissions
We are reducing the amount of fuel we use to heat, cool and (million tonnes) 1.004 1.031 1.077 1.053
operate our sites and, thus, were able to reduce GHG emis- Total emissions
sions by 2.6% in 2012 as a result of energy saving measures. per million CHF
of sales (tonnes) 22.06 24.23 22.69 21.47
energy use terajoules
2009
2012 2011 2010 Baseline
Total energy use 13,280 13,372 14,495 13,898
Total energy use
per million CHF
introducing new technologies
of sales 0.292 0.314 0.305 0.283
Total energy use
Fuel cell technology was chosen as the best option for per employee 0.158 0.164 0.176 0.176
the refurbishing of the energy supply at Roche Molecular
Diagnostics in Pleasanton, California. The project engi-
neering team received the 2012 Innovation Award from reducing halogenated hydrocarbon emissions
senior management of Roche Molecular Diagnostics. Halogenated hydrocarbons are used as refrigerants in cooling
equipment. When chlorinated, these compounds deplete the
Fuel cells produce electricity and heat from hydrogen in an ozone layer, whereas when fluorinated or partially fluorinated
electrochemical reaction — not combustion — similar to they have a considerable global warming potential. All of them
a battery. To get optimum overall efficiency, heat exchangers are persistent and, thus, stay in the atmosphere over a long
recover the heat, which is then used to heat the buildings period of time. For example, chlorodifluoromethane, commonly
at the Pleasanton site. This process of producing usable used as a propellant and refrigerant, remains in the atmo-
electricity and heat is commonly known as cogeneration sphere for approximately 15 years.
(cogen) or combined heat and power (CHP). Depending on
the amount of heat used at the site, the typical efficiency We plan to reduce halogenated refrigerants by 90% at all
rate of the fuel cells ranges from 65% to 75%, whereas the Roche sites by 2015. Sites acquired in recent years, such as
electricity-to-heat ratio is approximately three to two. those of Genentech and Ventana, are working towards sepa-
rate timelines.
114
Roche Business Report 2012 | Safety, Security, Health and EnvironmentSince 2004 we have made significant progress reducing emissions to air tonnes
emissions of halogenated hydrocarbons, eliminating all halons
and reducing fully halogenated compounds by 90%, excluding 2012 2011 2010 2009
Genentech sites and Ventana. VOCs 122 124 164 177
Particulates 20 20 33 27
Recent acquisitions and the lack of alternatives in some coun- Nitrogen oxides 254 222 262 286
tries make complete elimination of these chemicals by 2015 Sulphur dioxide 5 8 7 9
unrealistic. We nevertheless continue to examine alternatives
and work with refrigeration suppliers to make further reduc-
tions. managing waste
Waste is a parameter of our eco-balance. Our waste reduction
Halogenated hydrocarbons tonnes targets, therefore, are reflected in our goal to improve the
Group’s eco-balance by 15% by 2020. We maintain waste
2012 2011 2010 2009 reduction goals for individual sites, however, we have not set a
Inventory 172.1 181.9 205.2 179.8 Group-wide goal, primarily because of large year-to-year fluc-
Emissions 2.6 3.8 3.8 6.5 tuations in waste from construction and demolition activities.
Roche, as other pharmaceutical and diagnostics companies,
minimising other air emissions produces relatively low volumes of chemicals and, thus, gener-
We minimise emissions to air through a variety of technologies ates small quantities of chemical waste. We nevertheless con-
and practices. Our priorities are to avoid pollutants, reduce tinue to reduce already low volumes of waste as our pro duction
quantities of pollutants and control remaining pollutant emis- of biotech products increases and chemical-based products
sions in line with our eco-balance goals. Our overall objective declines. The Genentech Hillsboro site in Oregon, USA, for
is to keep emissions to the low levels we have achieved in example, diverted more than 68% of its solid waste from
recent years. landfills, earning the 2012 Recycle at Work Award from local
government.
Our emissions strategy prescribes a continuous improvement
programme at our manufacturing sites. This includes flue gas Production of pharmaceutical and diagnostic products rose by
scrubbers to reduce nitrogen oxides (NO) and sulphur diox- 5.4% overall in 2012. Chemical waste was down by 14.8%,
x
ide (SO ) and various incineration and freezing processes while general waste increased by 9.2%.
2
to reduce the release of volatile organic compounds (VOCs),
which may also reduce energy use. We accept responsibility for all waste generated at our opera-
tions, including that previously deposited at our sites or land-
In 2013 the Basel site will commission an installation that will fills. We permit landfilling only as a last resort and, even then,
freeze out VOCs from waste air discharged by manufacturing only for inert materials such as slag or incineration ash.
buildings and equipment. The process uses liquid nitrogen and Depending on the availability of suitable local waste-treatment
will replace an energy intensive process of incinerating waste plants, we may dispose of non-hazardous general waste in
air. A similar installation will be completed at our chemical authorised landfills.
manufacturing plant in Florence, USA by end of 2013.
In Switzerland, Roche and other companies continued to clean
Our emissions to air are at very low levels but fluctuate from up hazardous waste landfills at Kölliken and Bonfol. As a for-
year to year. This can result in significant variability. In 2012, mer user of the Kesslergrube landfill in Grenzach, Germany,
for instance, Group NO emissions increased by 14.4% to 254 Roche is studying possible remediation options. We are also
x
tonnes because of prolonged use of an emergency generator evaluating various remedial options at our former site in Belle-
at a single site. ville, New Jersey, USA.
In June 2012 Roche announced the planned shut-down of
operations at its approximately 100-acre site in Nutley, New
Jersey. As a consequence and in view of a future sale of the
property, Roche has accelerated its existing efforts, under
state regulatory oversight, to fully investigate and remediate
115
Safety, Security, Health and Environment | Roche Business Report 2012the soil and groundwater conditions at the site. Early remedia- We record organic emissions into water as total organic car-
tion activities that are either completed or underway include bon (TOC) after processing in a wastewater treatment plant.
groundwater treatment, soil excavation and operation of soil- We only discharge wastewaters and pollutants if they comply
vapour extraction systems. fully with relevant regulations, including pre-treatment require-
ments. At above 90%, the elimination rates in our wastewater
As a potential responsible party, Roche is involved in several treatment plants are already high. We seek to further minimise
investigations and remediation projects at different environ- contamination of water by:
mental sites throughout the US. • reducing discharges of toxic and poorly biodegradable sub-
stances and heavy metals
Waste tonnes • reducing the generation of wastewater
• treating or pre-treating wastewater, with ozone in some
2012 2011 2010 2009 cases, for non- or poorly degradable contaminants
General waste
produced 26,346 24,121 27,249 19,828 As a result of continuous efforts to reuse reject water from
General waste reverse osmosis in cooling towers or boilers and from improved
per million CHF cooling processes, our water consumption decreased by 8.6%
of sales 0.58 0.57 0.57 0.40 in 2012 to 3 million cubic metres. At the Penzberg site, Ger-
Chemical waste many, for instance, a self-powered high-efficiency wastewater
produced 25,703 30,170 29,020 27,605 treatment plant earned several awards for innovation and envi-
Chemical waste ronmental responsibility. Other local programmes have iden-
per million CHF tified opportunities to reduce water consumption. At the
of sales 0.56 0.70 0.61 0.56 Genentech South San Francisco site, an evaluation identified
improvements to the reverse osmosis portion of a water puri-
fication plant that could save an estimated 38 million gallons
conserving and protecting water resources and approximately 504,000 Swiss francs per year. Furthermore
Roche supports global efforts to promote water protection, a pilot study has been launched to treat and reuse wastewater
conserve water reserves and improve access to clean drinking from a neutralisation cascade that, if successful, could save
water. Our long-term goal is to reduce total wastewater toxicity an additional 60 million gallons as well as approximately
by 10% in 2020 from a 2015 baseline. In the meantime, we con- 795,000 Swiss francs per year.
tinue to investigate reliable performance indicators and mea-
surement methods for establishing that baseline and strive to Water usage and discharge
stabilise water consumption throughout the Group.
2012 2011 2010 2009
Over half the water we draw is used in cooling circuits. As this Water withdrawn
water is not chemically contaminated, we discharge it after (million cubic metres) 19.8 20.4 19.6 18.6
analysis. The rest is purified in treatment plants before it is Water used
released to waterways. (million cubic metres) 3.0 3.3 3.6 2.8
Wastewater discharged
Even though we do not operate sites that consume large to treatment plant
volumes of water in areas of water scarcity, we still adopt (million cubic metres) 5.6 5.7 6.3 5.2
conservation and reduction programmes according to local Organic matter
conditions and needs. For example, our Californian sites use discharged to
drought resistant landscaping. At other sites we reduce water watercourses after
consumption by: treatment (tonnes) 140 228 242 154
• collecting and recycling water from cooling towers, creating Heavy metals
a closed-loop system discharged to
• reusing cleaning water for next ‘first rinse’ and recycling watercourses after
used water treatment (kilogrammes) 374 288 463 426
• reducing cooling requirements and improving cooling pro-
cesses
• improving heat recovery
116
Roche Business Report 2012 | Safety, Security, Health and EnvironmentIn 2012 we transferred 5.6 million cubic metres of water to Water management is a local issue and therefore Roche has
treatment plants, resulting in the discharge of 140 tonnes of purposely decided not to set a global target surrounding water
organic matter. In addition, we discharged 374 kilogrammes of management but to encourage local targets. Only locally can
heavy metals, of which most were leaching from metal pipes, water management be closely and, therefore, more effectively
from our operations into watercourses. monitored.
Heavy metal emissions from Roche sites are at very low levels.
Thus, new processes or other activities may have significant Supporting biodiversity
effects on amounts emitted. For example, cleaning of galva-
nised equipment before it was dismantled at our Mannheim Roche supports the principles of resource stewardship defined
site, Germany, resulted in a 30% increase in zinc washouts. in the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and its three
main objectives covering the conservation of biological diver-
TOC emissions could be reduced substantially in the Roche sity, sustainable use of its components, and fair and equitable
Rio de Janeiro plant by modifying processes, using new clean- sharing of the benefits from the use of genetic resources.
ing agents as well as a different production programme.
We avoid the use of non-commodity natural resource materials
Water management as a source for products or the discovery and development of
Water is considered the basis of all life. It is equally important pharmaceuticals. If, however, we discover or develop a com-
for industrial activities. Thus, the production of pharmaceuti- mercial product derived from natural plant, microbial or animal
cals and diagnostics is only possible with sufficient amounts genetic materials, our use of those resources will be guided by
of clean water. The availability of high-quality water is critical the principles and goals of the CBD.
to our business, as almost all processes in chemical, biotech,
pharmaceutical and diagnostics manufacturing involve water We, otherwise, do not operate facilities in areas that are pro-
as a reagent, solvent or cleaning agent. Globally, poor quality tected or have high biodiversity values. All Roche sites require
of water is resulting in higher costs for purification and risk of access to city infrastructure and, as such, are located in urban
product contamination in the pharmaceutical industry. In addi- environments.
tion, water is used as an energy carrier in refrigeration and
heating installations.
Safeguarding employees and
Appropriate water management is, thus, a must for all Roche property
operations, and all Roche Group sites are working on pro-
grammes to reduce water consumption and to recycle or reuse Health and safety
water. In this context, we completed an assessment of the Employee health and safety is our first priority. Our primary
exposure of Roche businesses to water risks during the last objectives are to keep the Roche accident rate (RAR) below
two years. The focus was on the availability of water in suffi- 0.07, reducing it to below 0.06 by 2020, and to reduce the
cient amounts and of acceptable quality. Roche illness rate (RIR) to less than 0.01 by 2020. (RAR cor-
responds to the number of working days lost due to occupa-
A first evaluation using the water tool of the World Business tional accidents per employee and year at a Roche site. RIR
Council for Sustainable Development identified six sites that corresponds to the number of working days lost due to occu-
could eventually face water scarcity in the near future. The tool pational illnesses per employee and year.)
uses statistical information from bodies such as the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the UN, the World Resources Insti- We maintain an integrated programme of employee consulta-
tute and the University of New Haven. tion, workplace inspections and training across all business
areas. Our approach is to promote a strong safety culture that
A second evaluation concentrated on the future development empowers all of our employees to report and address safety
of the site and the surrounding area where water competitors issues. We expect similarly rigorous policies from our con-
could negatively influence future growth. Finally, two sites tractors. We also encourage the safety and wellbeing of our
were identified that need an in-depth water analysis with employees by selling discounted, protective equipment for
respect to their development and improvements of the water recreational activities and conducting bicycle safety checks,
supply. among other activities. In 2012 at Roche Leganés, Madrid,
Spain, an optician worked on site adjusting lenses and selling
117
Safety, Security, Health and Environment | Roche Business Report 2012glasses for four days. At Roche Pleasanton, USA, a volunteer tion is regarded as a significant business risk for Roche. A small
ergonomics team, known locally as Ergo Angels, performs specialist team comprised of members from Global Competi-
drop-in ergonomic evaluations for employees. tive Intelligence, IT Security, Legal Data Compliance and Group
Security briefed employees at Roche Diagnostics Rotkreuz
These and other ongoing efforts to further improve workplace and Roche Basel on these topics. The campaign will be contin-
safety have resulted in a decline of approximately 37% in the ued in 2013 at the remaining R & D sites and extended to other
number of work-related accidents per million working hours operational areas as needed.
from 2005 to 2012. Employees reported 440 occupational
accidents in 2012, a 12.8% increase in frequency compared Further security activities in 2012 included conducting the
with 2011, while the resulting number of lost days increased Western Europe Security Workshop in Mannheim, Germany,
10.3% from 5,471 to 6,036. Overall, the Roche accident rate where site security officers together with the Chief Security
went up by 7.3%, from 0.067 to 0.072. Officer discussed priority issues such as product counter-
feiting and information security.
Although the number of reported cases of occupational ill-
nesses increased to 147 in 2012 from 141 cases in 2011, the
number of working days lost declined to 1,494 from 2,047. As Pharmaceuticals in the environment
a result, the Roche illness rate decreased by 28.0% to 0.018
from 0.025. We consider the entire lifecycle of our drugs, taking steps to
minimise the release of pharmaceuticals into the environment
Our occupational accident and illness profile remains consis- at all stages.
tent, with slips, falls and repetitive strains representing the
majority of work-related incidents in 2012. However, we have Traces of pharmaceutical products can enter the environment
to report one work-related fatality. An employee fell while in a variety of ways, including the manufacturing process,
cycling from one building to another on the campus and tragi- improper disposal of unused medicines and through natural
cally died a few days after the accident. process following normal patient use. Patient use, however, is
generally recognised as the primary contributor.
employee safety and health
Evidence suggests that the exposure to these trace concen-
2010
2012 2011 Basis 2009 trations in surface, ground and drinking water does not pose
Roche accident rate 0.072 0.067 0.065 0.074 harm to human health. The risks to aquatic life are thought
Roche illness rate 0.018 0.025 0.014 0.008 to be greater. Scientific studies have not identified any short-
Number of term effects from exposure to low-level concentrations of
work-related pharmaceuticals, but more research is being conducted to
accidents 440 390 432 392 evaluate potential long-term impacts. We, therefore, recognise
Cases of the need for further research into possible effects and support
work-related scientific work in this field.
illnesses 147 141 182 217
Work-related We design our manufacturing sites to reduce the risk of active
fatalities 1 0 0 0 ingredients entering wastewater. We also support pharmaceu-
Work-related tical take-back programmes and employ proactive measures
accidents to prevent the release of our products into the environment by:
per million working • offering financial incentives to ensure that unused or out-
hours 2.92 2.67 2.97 2.92 dated products are returned by retailers and others in the
supply chain
• establishing policies that require returned or waste pharma-
Security ceutical products to be incinerated rather than disposed in
Our goal is to protect our employees and visitors, physical landfills
assets, intellectual property and products from harm or loss. • supporting research into the effects of our pharmaceuticals
In 2012 Roche started an information security awareness in the environment
campaign addressing, as a first priority, employees working in • providing environmental risk assessments to authorities for
R & D departments. Theft or loss of business critical informa- all new medicines
118
Roche Business Report 2012 | Safety, Security, Health and Environmentlegislation and compliance
environmental protection
We meet all local laws and regulations, although, our policies Basis Target date
are often more rigorous than external standards. Improve energy efficiency
(GJ/employee) by 10% until 2014 2009 2014
We are fully on track with the registration of our chemical and by 20% until 2020 2010 2020
materials according to the European legislation on Registra- Increase share of sustainable
tion, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals energies in total energy consumption
(REACH) and requirements from the Globally Harmonised to 20% until 2020 2020
System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals. Reduce CO emission per employee
2
in line with improving energy
For nine consecutive years prior to 2012, we incurred no sig- efficiency by 20% until 2020 2010 2020
nificant fines for SHE-related violations. During 2012, however, Reduce total environmental impacts
we were assessed small fines for two minor infractions with (calculated as eco-balance according
respect to a worker accident in 2010, resulting in four lost days, to Swiss Federal Office for the
and a breach in a management regulation relating to having a Environment, BAFU) per employee
specific risk assessment for a particular process. by 15% until 2020 2010 2020
Reduce total waste water toxicity
by 10% until 2020 2015 2020
SHe Goals
education
More on the Web
Basis Target date
• Environmental protection: www.roche.com/environment
Improve SHE education by increasing
• EER and eco-balance: www.roche.com/
SHE training per employee to an fact_sheet_eco_efficiency.pdf
• SHE goals: www.roche.com/she_goals
average of four hours per year 2020
• SHE performance: www.roche.com/she_performance
• SHE services: www.roche.com/she_services
• Policies, guidelines, position papers: www.roche.com/responsibility/
environment/she_management/policy_guidelines_and_audits.htm
Safety
Basis Target date
Improve Roche accident rate by 12%
(RAR < 0.07) until 2015 and by 24% 2015
(RAR < 0.06) until 2020 2010 2020
Reduce number of occupational
accidents causing lost working days
(cases per 200,000 working hours)
by 12% (< 0.6) until 2015 and by 27% 2015
(< 0.5) until 2020 2010 2020
Keep Roche illness rate below 0.01 2010 2020
Bring number of cases of occupational
illnesses causing lost working days
(cases per 200,000 working hours)
below 0.32 until 2015 2010 2015
119
Safety, Security, Health and Environment | Roche Business Report 2012The value of innovation
n
eric s
e
G
Revenue Research
and
develop
Cycle of drug ment
(
development 1 2
y
e
M
ar
a Ti
s)
r m
k
e t
e
of
patent
protection
(20
years)
Rocephin
The WHO’s Model List of Essential Medicines in -
cludes 20 active ingredients that were developed
by Roche. One of these, Rocephin (cefriaxone),
is a highly effective treatment for many bacterial
infections, including purulent meningitis.
After its approval in 1982, Rocephin quickly
became Roche’s top-selling drug and the world’s
number one injectable antibiotic. Generic pro-
duction of ceftriaxone was, naturally, an attractive
proposition. The patents expired in the time
between 1997 and 2005. By 1999 there were 2,012
ceftriaxone generics on the market, produced
in 38 different countries.
More on the web:
http://www.roche.com/valueofinnovation
120
Roche Business Report 2012 | The value of innovation
Patent_Protection_EN.indd 25 29.01.13 10:26Innovation in the pharmaceutical industry
A lasting contribution
to world health
The discovery and development of new drugs is very high risk. Development can cost a billion
Swiss francs or more and take between eight and twelve years to complete. Only one in
five drug candidates, on average, receive regulatory approval. Even then, a patented drug
can be copied easily and quickly because its composition must be declared.
For innovation to continue to drive medical breakthrough, investment in research and deve-
lopment has to be compensated and new drugs must be adequately protected, which is
where patents come in. Patents temporarily confer an exclusive right to market the products
they protect, ensuring that innovation is rewarded and the search for new treatments
continues. Once off-patent, these products can be replaced with generics and made avail-
G e
n
eric s T ida 3er yng ete ait
f
r
i
sa cn ad
ti
ole
nad
able to society at very low cost in perpetuity.
L
e
1
y
es ato
i
opti ma id --
ar n
P
r
te
Cycle of drug
Research and
develop
ment
(
1 – 2
y
e
a
rse s tin g- c lin
ic
a
l
development 1 2
y
e
ar
s)
Investment
Clinic a
6
l
–
s 8t yu ed ai re ss
Prof. Patrick Aebischer,
Président École Poly-
technique Fédérale de
Lausanne:
‘Patents are essential for
research in the life sciences.
They protect knowledge as
a raw material and provide
incentives for high-risk
investments.’
Patent_Protection_EN.indd 26 29.01.13 10:26after its foundation 116 years
ago, Roche over the years
specialised as a leader in
research-focused healthcare
with combined strengths in
pharmaceuticals and diagnostics
122
Roche Business Report 2012Corporate
GovernanCe
roche is committed to serving all its stakeholders. As a basis for
the successful implementation of this commitment to all stakeholders our Corporate
Governance principles accordingly put the focus of our business activities on
sustainable value creation and innovation and prescribe a management culture
conforming to recognised standards of corporate governance and a policy of
transparent communication.
remuneration
report
roche’s success depends on the abilities and dedication of
all its people. Recognition of this forms the basis of our performance-oriented
remuneration policy and system.
123
Roche Business Report 2012Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance
Roche is committed to serving all its stakeholders. As a basis the curricula vitae of the members of the Board of Directors
for the successful implementation of this commitment our Cor- and the Corporate Executive Committee are published on our
porate Governance principles accordingly put the focus of our website.
business activities on sustainable value creation and innova-
tion and prescribe a management culture conforming to rec- For further details please refer to the following report.
ognised standards of corporate governance and a policy of
transparent communication.
Board of Directors
A strong Board of Directors, which represents the interests of
the shareholders and all other stakeholders, and highly skilled At the 94 th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Roche Holding
managers that act with integrity are extremely important. Ltd, on 6 March 2012, shareholders re-elected John I. Bell,
André Hoffmann and Franz B. Humer as members of the Board
In 2012 the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes designated of Directors for the term of two years as provided by the Arti-
Roche ‘Supersector Leader’ in healthcare for the fourth con- cles of Incorporation.
secutive year. Sustainability is at the core of our business
practices and this award reflects our commitment to running At its organising meeting immediately following the AGM, the
our business in a way that is ethical, responsible and creates Board of Directors has determined the structure and compo-
long-term value for stakeholders. sition of its committees as shown on page 13.
This Corporate Governance Report sets out the structures, At the AGM on 5 March 2013, the Board of Directors will nom-
processes and rules which Roche takes as the basis for well- inate Andreas Oeri, Pius Baschera, Paul Bulcke, William M.
functioning corporate governance. In doing so, Roche com- Burns, Christoph Franz, DeAnne Julius, Arthur D. Levinson,
plies with all relevant corporate governance requirements, in Peter R. Voser and Beatrice Weder di Mauro for re-election to
particular with all applicable laws, the Swiss Stock Exchange the Board for the term of two years as provided by the Articles
(SIX Swiss Exchange) directives (including the commentaries of Incorporation.
thereto) and the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate
Governance promulgated by the Swiss business federation Bruno Gehrig, Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors, and
‘economiesuisse’. The company’s internal governance frame- Lodewijk J.R. de Vink, both long-term members of the Board
work, particularly its Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, of Directors, have decided to retire as members of the Board
embodies all the principles needed to ensure that the com- of Directors. The Board of Directors thanks both members for
pany’s businesses are managed and supervised in a manner their long and valuable contribution to the successful continu-
consistent with good corporate governance, including the ing development of Roche.
necessary checks and balances. 1
At the AGM on 5 March 2013, the Board of Directors will addi-
The printed Annual Report contains selected links to the tionally nominate Severin Schwan for election to the Board for
Roche website (www.roche.com). Readers are thus provided the term of two years as provided by the Articles of Incorpo-
not only with a ‘snapshot’ of our company at the reporting date ration.
but are also directed to sources which they can consult at any
time for up-to-date information about corporate governance
at Roche. Whereas each annual report covers a single finan-
cial year ending 31 December, our website contains informa-
tion of a more permanent nature, as well as the latest Roche
news. The company’s Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and
1 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance.htm
124
Roche Business Report 2012 | Corporate GovernanceCorporate executive Committee information relating to
Corporate Governance
Sophie Kornowski-Bonnet, former General Manager of Roche
Pharma in France, has been appointed Head of Roche Part- 1 Group structure and shareholders
nering at the Group’s headquarters in Basel and joined the • Roche’s operating businesses are organised into two divi-
Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee as a new member sions: Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. The Pharmaceuti-
on 1 February 2012 reporting to Severin Schwan, CEO of the cals Division comprises the two business segments Roche
Roche Group. She succeeded Dan Zabrowski, who took over Pharmaceuticals and Chugai, whereas Genentech as the
as Head of Roche Applied Science in the Diagnostics Division, former third segment has been integrated into Roche Phar-
located in Penzberg, Germany, as of 1 February 2012. Dan maceuticals. The Diagnostics Division consists of the fol-
Zabrowski is a member of the Diagnostics leadership team lowing five business areas: Applied Science, Diabetes Care,
and has been reporting to Roland Diggelmann, COO Division Molecular Diagnostics, Professional Diagnostics and Tis-
Roche Diagnostics, since 1 September 2012. sue Diagnostics. Business activities are carried out through
Group subsidiaries and associated companies. Detailed
Jean-Jacques Garaud, Head of Roche Pharma Research and information on Roche Holding Ltd and on significant sub-
Early Development (pRED) and member of the Enlarged Cor- sidiaries and associated companies (including company
porate Executive Committee, retired from Roche on 30 June name, listing information, domicile, share capital, and equity
2012. Effective 1 July 2012, Mike Burgess, Discovery and interest) are listed in the Finance Report, Note 33 to the
Translational Area (DTA) Head for Oncology and Head of Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Subsidi-
Large Molecule Research, assumed the ad-interim position of aries and associates’, page 133).
Head of Roche Pharma Research and Early Development • Major shareholders are listed in the Finance Report, Notes
(pRED) and sits on the Enlarged Corporate Executive Com- 27 and 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial State-
mittee. John C. Reed has been appointed Head of Roche ments (‘Equity attributable to Roche shareholders’ and
Pharma Research and Early Development (pRED) and mem- ‘Related parties’, pages 117 and 131) and in Note 4 to the
ber of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee succeed- Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Significant
ing Mike Burgess and reporting to Severin Schwan, effective shareholders’, page 158).
2 April 2013. • André Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors,
and Andreas Oeri, member of the Board of Directors and
Effective 1 September 2012, Daniel O’Day was appointed COO Chairman of the Board’s Corporate Governance and Sus-
Division Roche Pharmaceuticals, succeeding Pascal Soriot tainability Committee, serve in their respective capacities
following his resignation. At the same time, Roland Diggel- on the Board and its committees as representatives of the
mann, Head of the Asia—Pacific Region for Roche Diagnos- shareholders group with pooled voting rights and receive
tics, succeeded Daniel O’Day as COO Division Roche Diag- the remuneration set forth in the Remuneration Report on
nostics. page 136 and in the Finance Report, Note 32 to the Roche
Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related par-
Information on each member of the Board of Directors (includ- ties’, page 131) and Note 6 to the Financial Statements of
ing the years in which they were elected and the years in Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive remuneration’,
which their terms end) and on each member of the Corporate page 159). No other relationships exist with the sharehold-
Executive Committee is listed on pages 12 to 15 and page 126 ers with pooled voting rights.
‘Board of Directors and Corporate Executive Committee’. • There are no cross-shareholdings.
2 Capital structure
• Information on Roche’s capital structure is provided in the
Finance Report, Notes to the Financial Statements of Roche
Holding Ltd (page 157). Additional details are contained in
the Articles of Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd. 2
2 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/
article_of_incorporation.htm
125
Corporate Governance | Roche Business Report 2012• Changes in equity are detailed in the Finance Report, Notes • The Annual General Meeting elects the members of the
to the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (page Board of Directors in staggered elections in which each
157). nominee is voted on separately (see §18 of the Articles of
• The company has a share capital of 160,000,000 Swiss Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd 4 and the Minutes of the
francs, divided into 160,000,000 fully paid bearer shares 94 th Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, held
with a nominal value of 1 Swiss franc each. There are no 6 March 2012 5).
restrictions on the exercise of the voting rights of these • With the exception of Franz B. Humer, William M. Burns and
shares. Upon deposit, shares can be voted without any Arthur D. Levinson, none of the members of the Board of
restrictions. Directors has been a member of Roche’s Corporate Execu-
• There is no authorised or conditional capital. tive Committee or served in an executive capacity at any
• In addition, 702,562,700 non-voting equity securities (NES) Group subsidiary during the three financial years preceding
have been issued in bearer form. They do not form part of the current reporting period.
the share capital and confer no voting rights. Each NES con- • The internal organisation of the Board of Directors and the
fers the same rights as one share to participate in available division of authority and responsibilities between the Board
earnings and in any liquidation proceeds following repay- and management, the remits of the Board committees, and
ment of the share capital. Roche’s NES and the rights per- the information and control mechanisms available to the
taining thereto (including the provisions protecting the Board in its dealings with corporate management, are gov-
interests of NES holders) are described in §4 of the Articles erned by the Bylaws. 6
of Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd. • The Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd is organised so
• Information on debt instruments which have been issued as to ensure that the Group conducts its businesses respon-
and on outstanding bonds is provided in the Finance Report, sibly and with a focus on long-term value creation. To this
Note 26 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial State- end, the Roche Board has delegated certain responsibilities
ments (‘Debt’, page 111). to several committees 7. Their composition and chairpersons
• Additional information on employee stock options is pro- as of 1 January 2013 are described on page 13. Each com-
vided in the Finance Report, Note 10 to the Roche Group mittee’s authorities and responsibilities are defined in detail
Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Employee stock options in the Bylaws of the Board of Directors. 8
and other equity compensation plans’, including detailed • All the committees except the Presidium are chaired by
information on the ‘Roche Option Plan’ and the ‘Roche independent directors.
Restricted Stock Unit Plan’ page 85 ff.). • According to the Bylaws of the Board of Directors, a Board
• Roche has issued no options apart from employee stock meeting may be convened without the Chairman present at
options, Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) the request of any of its members. The Roche Board meets
and options issued in connection with debt instruments. once a year to assess the Chairman’s performance. This
• Neither the options awarded to employees nor the debt meeting, which is not attended by the Chairman, is chaired
instruments which have been issued have any effect on by one of the Vice-Chairmen.
Roche’s share capital. • As part of the Management Information System, the Board
of Directors is informed about the most important issues,
3 Board of Directors and Corporate executive Committee sales performance etc. on a monthly basis. The Board has
• Information on each member of the Board of Directors access to an electronic information platform which provides
(including the years in which they were elected and the timely information to the Board of Directors and the Board’s
years in which their terms end) and on each member of the committees as does the system of controls as set forth
Corporate Executive Committee is listed on pages 12 to 15. below.
Curricula vitae of all current and of former members (of the
last 5 years) of both bodies and other information (including
information on board memberships) are available and con-
tinuously updated on the Internet. 3 4 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/
article_of_incorporation.htm
5 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/
annual_general_meetings.htm
6 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/
article_of_incorporation.htm
7 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/
3 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/management/ committees.htm
board_of_directors.htm and http://www.roche.com/about_roche/ 8 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/
management/executive_committee.htm article_of_incorporation.htm
126
Roche Business Report 2012 | Corporate Governance• The Board of Directors has established a system of controls By conducting operational audits, Group Audit deter-
which is continuously monitored by the Audit Committee mines management’s response to the risks surrounding
and by the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Com- business processes and systems, and evaluates the
mittee and consists of the following elements: appropriateness, completeness and efficiency of the pro-
— Report on operating and financial risks (risk management cesses and controls. Action plans to implement neces-
system) sary changes and enhancements are developed together
R oche has a system in place to identify and manage all with the business/auditee and are tracked to completion.
type of risks potentially affecting its business. Roche’s — Statutory auditors, see page 129
Risk Management Charter sets out the approach and — Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance Officers in
accompanying responsibilities. The Pharmaceuticals and subsidiaries, see page 130
Diagnostics Divisions and global functions conduct a for- — Safety, Health and Environmental Protection Depart-
mal risk assessment process at least once a year and ment 11
must develop risk plans for their most material risks. — Corporate Sustainability Committee 12
These are monitored and deviations reviewed in regular — Science and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG), for issues
performance dialogues. The consolidated Group Risk relating to genetics and genetic engineering (established
Report including target risk profile is discussed by the in 1999) 13
Corporate Executive Committee and approved together • The members of the Corporate Executive Committee are
with the Group Business Plan. It is also presented to invited to attend meetings of the Board of Directors for, and
the Audit Committee. The process is subject to regular report in person on, those agenda items concerning them.
reviews, with findings presented to the Audit Committee When the situation warrants, members of the Enlarged Cor-
or the full Board. porate Executive Committee may also be invited to attend.
F or details on risk management, including risk factors and The Board committees invite the Chairman of the Board and
the Risk Management Charter see ‘Risk Management & Corporate Executive Committee members to deliver reports
Compliance’ on our website. 9 Financial risk management at committee meetings and may elect to commission inde-
is specifically described in the Finance Report. 10 pendent expert reports and call on the services of consul-
— System of internal controls over financial reporting (see tants.
pages 137 and 140 of the Finance Report)
— Internal audit
G roup Audit reports to the General Counsel, has direct
access and gives regular briefings to the Audit Commit-
tee about ongoing activities and audit reports. The Chief
Audit & Risk Advisory Executive attends the Audit Com-
mittee meetings, as do the external auditors.
G roup Audit is an independent appraisal function, which
evaluates and reviews the Group’s activities as a service
to management. The annual audit plan with yearly defined
focus areas (e.g. emerging markets, third-party manage-
ment) is validated by Senior Management and presented
to the Audit Committee. The Roche Group is committed
to maintaining a high standard of internal control through-
out its worldwide operations. Management is responsible
for assessing the business risks in all aspects of its oper-
ation and for implementing effective and efficient pro-
cesses and controls whilst ensuring compliance with
internal and external rules and regulations.
9 http://www.roche.com/corporate_responsibility/business_ethics/
risk_management_and_compliance.htm 11 http://www.roche.com/corporate_responsibility/environment.htm
10 Additional information is provided in the Finance Report, Note 31 to the 12 http://www.roche.com/corporate_responsibility.htm
Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements, ‘Risk management’, 13 http://www.roche.com/corporate_responsibility/
page 123. csr_research_and_development/genetics_and_bioethics.htm
127
Corporate Governance | Roche Business Report 2012Board and Board committees attendance 2012
Corporate
Governance
Presidium/ and
Nomination Remuneration Audit Sustainability
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
number of meetings 6 4 3 4 2
F. B. Humer 6 4 – * *
B. Gehrig 5 4 3 – –
A. Hoffmann 6 4 2 – 1
P. Baschera 6 – – – 2
J. I. Bell 6 – – 4 –
P. Bulcke 6 – – 4 –
W. M. Burns 6 – – – 2
L. J. R. de Vink 6 – – 4 –
Ch. Franz 5 – 1 – –
D. Julius 6 – – 4 –
A. D. Levinson 6 – 3 – –
A. Oeri 6 – – – 2
P. R. Voser 5 – 3 – –
B. Weder di Mauro 6 – – 4 –
– Not a member of that committee.
* Franz B. Humer is invited as a guest to these Board committee meetings.
• Each year several black-out periods are imposed during — Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee: two
which senior employees are prohibited from trading in com- meetings (approx. 3 hours each **).
pany stock. The following black-out periods are in effect for
2013: The composition of the Board’s committees has remained
26 December 2012 to 30 January 2013 unchanged since 1 March 2011.
1 April to 11 April 2013 • The Board of Directors regularly conducts an assessment of
26 June to 25 July 2013 its performance.
1 October to 17 October 2013 • Members of the Corporate Executive Committee have a
Black-out periods can be changed by the Chairman of the maximum ordinary notice period of twelve months.
Board of Directors if circumstances warrant. • There are no management contracts which fall within the
• In 2012 the Board of Directors met for six meetings, generally scope of Subsection 4.3 (annex) of the SIX Directive on
each from 3 to 6 hours in length **; in addition once for a full- Information relating to Corporate Governance.
day meeting ** and once for a three-day visit to a major sub-
sidiary **. The Board committees met as follows in 2012: 4 remuneration, shareholdings and loans
— Presidium of the Board of Directors/Nomination Commit- All details regarding remuneration, shareholdings and loans
tee: four meetings (approx. 2 hours each **) are set forth in the separate Remuneration Report on pages
— Remuneration Committee: three meetings 14 (approx. 2 to 132 to 145 and in the Finance Report, Notes 27 and 32 to the
3 hours each **) Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity
— Audit Committee: four meetings (approx. 3 to 4 hours attributable to Roche shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’,
each **) pages 117 and 131), and are listed in the Notes 6 and 7 to
the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and
Executive remuneration’ and ‘Board and Executive share-
holdings’, pages 159 and 162).
** These figures indicate the actual length of meetings and do not include
the directors’ extensive pre-meeting preparations and post-meeting
follow-up activities.
14 Remuneration Committee members are not permitted to contribute to or
attend Remuneration Committee meetings at which matters concerning
them are deliberated or decided.
128
Roche Business Report 2012 | Corporate Governance5 participatory rights of shareholders The reports of statutory auditors on the Consolidated Finan-
• The participatory rights of shareholders are defined in cial Statements and on the Financial Statements can be
Roche’s Articles of Incorporation. 15 As Roche shares are found on pages 138 and 166, respectively, of this year’s
issued to bearer, there are no restrictions on admission to Finance Report.
Annual General Meetings, with the exception that shares
must be deposited within a specified period before the date KPMG received the following remuneration for their services
of a meeting and an admittance card must be issued in the as statutory auditors of Roche Holding Ltd and as the audi-
shareholder’s name, as provided in §12 of the Articles of tors of other Roche companies (including Chugai):
Incorporation. Any shareholder can elect to be represented
by a third party at an Annual General Meeting. The Articles of
2012 2011
Incorporation contain no restrictions on the exercise of voting (millions of CHF)
rights, and the only quorum requirements are those stipu- Auditing services 19.2 19.2
lated in §16, in conformity with the Swiss Code of Obligations. Audit-related services 2.1 1.3
• Under §10.2 of the Articles of Incorporation, shareholders (accounting services, 0.3 0.7
representing shares with a nominal value of at least 1 million assurance services) 1.8 0.6
Swiss francs can request the placement of items on the Tax consultancy services 1.4 1.6
agenda of an Annual General Meeting. This must be done no total 22.7 22.1
later than 60 days before the date of the meeting.
The statutory auditors are elected each year by the Annual
6 Change of control and defensive measures General Meeting.
• The Articles of Incorporation contain no provisions on the
mandatory bid rule. Swiss law applies. 8 information policy
• There are no change-of-control clauses. Those components • As provided by §33 of the Articles of Incorporation 17, corpo-
of remuneration based on Roche NES would be terminated rate notices are published in the Swiss Official Gazette of
in the event of an acquisition, and vesting period restrictions Commerce and in other daily newspapers designated by the
on pre-existing awards would be removed, so that all such Board of Directors (Basler Zeitung, Finanz und Wirtschaft,
options could be exercised immediately. L’Agefi, Le Temps, Neue Zürcher Zeitung).
• Roche reports its half-year and full-year results in business
7 relationship to statutory auditors reports (published in print and online formats) and at media
At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd on events. In addition, detailed first- and third-quarter sales fig-
6 March 2012, the shareholders voted to appoint KPMG AG ures are published each year in April and October. The most
(KPMG) as statutory auditors. Based on the existing legal current list of publication dates is available in English and
requirements of the Swiss Code of Obligations (Article 730a) German on the Internet. 18
concerning the maximum term of office of seven years of the • All relevant information and documents, including all media
auditor in charge, Ian Starkey replaced his predecessor John releases, investor updates 19 and presentations to analyst
Morris as auditor-in-charge starting with the business year and investor conferences are available on the Internet. Fur-
2011 (information on how long the auditors and auditor-in- ther publications can be ordered by e-mail, fax or telephone:
charge have been serving in these capacities is provided on basel.webmaster@roche.com,
page 15). The statutory auditors participate in Audit Commit- tel. +41 (0)61 688 83 39,
tee meetings. They prepare written and oral reports on the fax +41 (0)61 688 43 43.
results of their audits. The Audit Committee oversees and • The contact address for Investor Relations is: F. Hoffmann-
assesses the auditors and makes recommendations to the La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations, Group Finance, 4070 Basel,
Board (for information on the authorities and responsibilities Switzerland;
of the Audit Committee, see Article 8.1 of the Bylaws 16). The tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 80,
statutory auditors participated in three meetings of the Audit fax +41 (0)61 691 00 14.
Committee in 2012.
15 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/ 17 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/
article_of_incorporation.htm article_of_incorporation.htm
16 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/ 18 http://www.roche.com/media.htm
article_of_incorporation.htm 19 http://www.roche.com/investors.htm
129
Corporate Governance | Roche Business Report 2012Additional information, including details on specific contact
persons, is available on the Internet. 20
9 Chief Compliance officer and
Compliance officers network
The Chief Compliance Officer with his Compliance Officers
network is committed to ensuring that the Roche Group
Code of Conduct 21 is consistently complied with through-
out the Roche Group. He also serves as a contact person
for shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the
general public on issues relating to the implementation of
and compliance with this Code. Employees and other par-
ties who become aware of violations of the Roche Group
Code of Conduct can bring them to the attention of their
managers or supervisors or report them to the Chief Com-
pliance Officer (Urs Jaisli, direct phone number: +41 (0)61
688 40 18, e-mail: urs.jaisli@roche.com). Such disclosures
will be treated confidentially. In addition, as of the end of
2009, employees may anonymously report irregularities or
complaints in their mother tongue via a ‘Speak-Up hotline’.
In addition Roche has established a Business Ethics Inci-
dent Reporting (BEIR) system which enables the Chief
Compliance Officer to capture, track and monitor alleged
violations, from initial reports by local Compliance Offi -
cers through to resolution. Business ethics incidents are
recorded in the system when the local Compliance Officer
receives specific and concrete information about a material
alleged violation of the Roche Group Code of Conduct in
one of certain pre-defined categories. 22 The Corporate
Governance and Sustainability Committee and the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors are informed of sub-
stantial violations.
The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the General Coun-
sel and also submits regular reports to the Corporate Gov-
ernance and Sustainability Committee and to the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors.
10 non-applicability/negative disclosure
It is expressly noted that any information not contained or
mentioned herein is either non-applicable or its omission is
to be construed as a negative declaration (as provided in
the SIX Swiss Exchange Corporate Governance Directive
and the Commentary thereto).
20 http://www.roche.com/investors/contacts.htm
21 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/
code_of_conduct.htm
22 http://www.roche.com/corporate_responsibility/business_ethics/
risk_management_and_compliance.htm
130
Roche Business Report 2012 | Corporate Governance131
Corporate Governance | Roche Business Report 2012Remuneration Report
Remuneration Report
1. Principles 2. Summary of main activities in 2012
Roche’s success depends on the abilities and dedication of all and outlook for 2013
its people. Recognition of this forms the basis of our perfor- The following were the key developments and decisions in
mance-oriented remuneration policy and system. 2012:
• The Remuneration Committee (assisted by the consultancy
At Roche we strive to create innovative medicines and diag- Towers Watson) regularly tracked the base pay of Roche
nostic products of benefit to patients. This requires outstand- directors against market data on directors’ pay at other lead-
ing performance by all our employees. It takes continuous ing global pharmaceuticals companies 1 and at other major
innovation to help patients, sustain revenues and create long- Swiss companies 3. The base remuneration of Roche direc-
term value. Innovation enables us to pay competitive compen- tors has remained unchanged for 12 years.
sation to all our employees and distribute rising dividends to • The base salaries (fixed) paid to Corporate Executive Com-
our stockholders (until 2012: dividend increase for the 25 th mittee (CEC) members remained unchanged in 2012 except
year in a row). One of the primary aims of our remuneration in the case of Daniel O’Day. Daniel O’Day’s base salary
policy is thus to encourage a long-term focus and align man- increased following his promotion to COO Division Roche
agement’s interests with the interests of Roche’s shareholders Pharmaceuticals.
and holders of Roche’s non-voting equity securities (NES). • The bonus (variable) paid to CEC members for 2012 will con-
sist entirely of cash payments (except in the case of Severin
Each year the Remuneration Committee of Roche’s Board of Schwan) and is reflecting the sales growth, the strong growth
Directors meets at least twice and sets the remuneration of of Earnings per Share and non-voting equity security, and the
Board members and the members of the Group’s Corporate development of the rich and further developed pipeline.
Executive Committee (base pay, bonuses, Stock-settled Stock • Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) (variable):
Appreciation Rights [S-SARs] and policy decisions on pension As of 2012 S-SARs granted to CEC members all vest together
benefits). The terms of Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards after three years and then have to be exercised within seven
are determined annually by the Board of Directors, acting upon years of the grant date. Unexercised S-SARs lapse without
recommendations from the Remuneration Committee. compensation. Since 2012, the fair value of S-SARs has been
calculated at the grant date using the trinomial model for
The Remuneration Committee tracks market data on salaries American options (for details see page 138 and 139).
at other leading global pharmaceuticals companies 1 and • S-SARs granted from 2006 to 2008 have strike prices above
reports its findings to the full Board. The external consulting the NES price on 31 December 2012 and for the time being
firm Towers Watson assists Roche in performing market com- have no value for the recipients. This can change if Roche’s
parisons. Information on the Remuneration Committee’s remit, NES price improves.
powers and procedures for making remuneration decisions • Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards (variable): As in the
can be found in the Bylaws of the Roche Board of Directors 2 case of the PSP 2007–2009, PSP 2008–2010 and PSP 2009–
and are also outlined in the sections below on the principles 2011 cycles, there will be no pay-out or award of targeted NES
governing specific remuneration components. for the PSP 2010–2012 cycle. The plan’s key performance met-
ric, Total Shareholder Return (TSR), is calculated as a three-
month moving average at constant CHF exchange rates.
• In 2012 the Remuneration Committee decided that the Chief
Executive Officer (CEO) and other CEC members must
acquire Roche shares and/or NES equivalent to two annual
base salaries (CEO) and one annual base salary (other CEC
1 Peer set for 2012: Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, Astellas, AstraZeneca,
Bayer, Becton Dickinson, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmith-
Kline, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi-Aventis,
Takeda.
2 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/ 3 ABB, Credit Suisse, Holcim, Nestlé, Swiss Re, UBS, Zurich Insurance
article_of_incorporation.htm Group, Actelion, Nobel Biocare, Sonova, Straumann, Synthes.
132
Roche Business Report 2012 | Remuneration Reportmembers), respectively, by the end of 2016 and retain these The key principles underpinning this policy are:
holdings for as long as they serve on the CEC. • Focus on value creation
• In addition to applicable statutory provisions, Roche’s long- • Pay for performance
term incentive plans include the option to partially reclaim • Enabling employees to share in the company’s success
distributed compensation as a result of special circum- • Fairness and transparency in remuneration decisions
stances (clawback) (for details see page 143). • A balanced mix of long- and short-term remuneration com-
ponents
Starting in 2013, Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) — non-voting • Market competitiveness
equity securities with a vesting period of three years — will be
introduced as a new remuneration component partially replac-
ing S-SARs and options. This will result in a better alignment of
Roche long-term incentives. The value of S-SARs awards will
be reduced to 65% and the 35% balance will be awarded in the
form of RSUs. The company will incur no additional costs as a
result of this change. The aim is to further strengthen the align-
ment of management’s interests with the interests of Roche’s
shareholders for the Group’s long-term success.
As in previous years, this Remuneration Report will be submit-
ted separately for an advisory vote at the 2013 Annual General
Meeting.
For all further details please refer to the following sections of
this Remuneration Report 4.
3. Remuneration policy
Roche regularly reviews its policy and principles on remuner-
ation. They are part of a framework of employee policies aimed
at motivating and retaining current employees, attracting tal-
ented new ones and helping all Roche employees to perform
at consistently high levels. Our remuneration policy is designed
to foster value creation and reinforce a culture of performance
and innovation. It applies both to non-managerial employees
and to managers.
The S-SARs and PSP (and [starting in 2013] Restricted Stock
Units [RSUs]) remuneration components are intended to align
management’s interests with those of shareholders and hold-
ers of non-voting equity securities and to give participating
managers an additional incentive to achieve continued value
growth in the form of long-term total shareholder returns. By
creating value for Roche investors, management benefits as
well. When no added value is created for investors, manage-
ment is ‘penalised’ by receiving less.
4 See also in the Finance Report, Note 32 to the Roche Group Consoli-
dated Financial Statements (‘Related parties’, page 131) and Notes 6
and 7 to the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and
Executive remuneration’ and ‘Board and Executive shareholdings’,
pages 159 and 162).
133
Remuneration Report | Roche Business Report 20124. Remuneration components Each December the Remuneration Committee determines the
Base pay, bonuses, blocked non-voting equity securities bonuses payable to the Chairman of the Board and the mem-
(NES), awards of Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights bers of the Corporate Executive Committee in respect of the
(S-SARs), a Performance Share Plan (PSP) and (starting in current reporting year, based on performance against the
2013) Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) support the fundamental aforementioned objectives. At the same time the Remuner-
aims of Roche’s remuneration policy. These remuneration ation Committee also decides in what form bonuses will be
components are linked to our company’s financial perfor- awarded (cash payments and/or blocked non-voting equity
mance and commercial success and thus align the interests of securities).
Roche employees with those of shareholders.
C. Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
After explaining the principles that govern the various remu- A Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) plan was
neration components, this report details the amounts paid to introduced on 1 January 2005 establishing a uniform system of
each member of the Board of Directors, the components of the remuneration throughout Roche. S-SARs entitle holders to
Chairman of the Board’s remuneration and the amount of each benefit financially from any increase in the value of Roche’s
remuneration component paid to each member of the Corpo- non-voting equity securities between the grant date and the
rate Executive Committee for 2012. exercise date.
A. Base pay S-SAR awards are allocated individually at the Remuneration
Base pay (cash payment) is determined for each position Committee’s discretion.
based on salary market data on other leading global pharma-
ceuticals companies 1 and reflects individuals’ abilities, experi- D. Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
ence and performance over time. Pay increases are likewise Starting in 2013, Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) — non-voting
linked to individual performance and take into account prevail- equity securities with a vesting period of three years — will be
ing market conditions 1 and the company’s overall financial introduced as a new remuneration component partially replac-
situation. ing S-SARs and options. This will result in a better alignment of
Roche long-term incentives. The value of S-SAR awards will be
The Remuneration Committee makes and reviews the final reduced to 65% and the 35% balance will be awarded in the
decision on the base pay and pay increases paid to the Chair- form of RSUs.
man of the Board of Directors and members of the Corporate
Executive Committee and on the remuneration of the other E. Performance Share Plan
members of the Board. The members of the Corporate Executive Committee and other
members of senior management (currently some 140 individu-
B. Bonuses als worldwide) participate in the Performance Share Plan. The
Bonuses are awarded for individual contributions to value cre- PSP was established in 2002 for periods of three years each
ation that go beyond normal job expectations and are meant to and is based on a three-year comparison of the Total Share-
be an incentive to strive for outstanding results and to create holder Return (TSR) with 15 peer companies 1. In 2012 there
new business opportunities. Bonus amounts are linked to were three overlapping performance cycles (PSP 2010–2012,
Group and divisional profits, sales growth, Operating Profit PSP 2011–2013 and PSP 2012–2014), of which PSP 2010–2012
After Capital Charge (OPAC), Earnings per Share and NES closed on 31 December 2012.
growth, pipeline and to the achievement of measurable and
qualitative individual or functional performance objectives. For The terms of the Performance Share Plan are conclusively
competitive reasons, Roche does not disclose the individual determined by the Board of Directors on an annual basis, acting
performance objectives of members of its Corporate Executive upon recommendations from the Remuneration Committee.
Committee.
134
Roche Business Report 2012 | Remuneration ReportF. Ratio of Corporate Executive Committee variable remuneration elements (bonuses, S-SARs and PSP)
relative to fixed base pay
Until end of 2012: S-SARs;
Criteria Bonus Starting in 2013: S-SARs/RSUs PSP
Individual target value, assessed Max. 100% Until end of 2012: 100% S-SARs 33.33%
in consideration of the performance Starting in 2013: 65% S-SARs (Based on annual base pay
of competitors 1 and the 35% RSUs measured at 1 January
macro-economic development of first year of cycle)
(in % relation to value of base pay)
Minimum 0% 0% 0%
Maximum 200% 150% 66.66%
(in % relation to value of base pay) (Cash payment/ (Value development (Value development
blocked NES) determined by determined by
performance of NES performance of NES
after grant) after grant)
Performance criteria Group objectives (Group Individual contributions Group performance of
and divisional business upon the Remuneration TSR in relation to
performance) and individual Committee’s decision at TSR performance
objectives considering profit, its own discretion of peer set
sales growth, OPAC
(Operating Profit After Capital
Charge), Earnings per Share
and NES growth,
pipeline
Split in %
a) Group objectives 70% n.a. 100%
b) Individual objectives 30% n.a. –
5. Remuneration of the Board of Directors The bonuses and salaries of the Chairman of the Board of
and the Corporate Executive Committee Directors and members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Each year the Remuneration Committee of Roche’s Board of were set by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account
Directors sets the remuneration of Board members and mem- revisions to Roche’s remuneration policy, market comparisons
bers of Roche’s Corporate Executive Committee (base pay, with other leading pharmaceuticals companies 1 and manage-
bonuses, S-SARs and policy decisions on pension benefits). ment changes.
The terms of the Performance Share Plan are determined
annually by the Board of Directors, acting upon recommenda- The remuneration of both Vice-Chairmen of the Board and all
tions from the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration other Board members consists of fixed cash payments set by
Committee tracks market data on salaries at other leading and at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The
global pharmaceuticals companies 1 and reports its findings to Remuneration Committee (assisted by the consultancy Towers
the full Board. Information on the Committee’s remit, powers Watson) tracked these cash payments of Roche directors
and procedures for making remuneration decisions can be against market data on directors’ pay at other leading global
found in the Bylaws of the Roche Board of Directors 5 and are pharmaceuticals companies 1 and other major Swiss compa-
also outlined in the preceding sections of this report on the nies 3.
principles governing specific remuneration components.
The following pages provide detailed information on the remu-
neration paid to each member of the Board of Directors and
each member of the Corporate Executive Committee for 2012
and includes comparisons with the remuneration paid in the
previous years.
5 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/
article_of_incorporation.htm
135
Remuneration Report | Roche Business Report 20125.1 Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors. In The members of the Board of Directors were not awarded any
2012 the members of the Board of Directors 6 received the fixed shares, non-voting equity securities or Stock-settled Stock
remuneration in cash payments shown in the ‘Remuneration of Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) in 2012.
members of the Board of Directors’ table below for their Board
activities. The basic remuneration of the Board of Directors has William M. Burns received honoraria amounting to a total of
remained unchanged since 2001 and remuneration of all mem- 25,000 US dollars (23,441 Swiss francs) for serving as a mem-
bers of the Board of Directors will again remain unchanged for ber of the Board of Directors of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co.,
2013. Ltd.
Arthur D. Levinson received payments for his consulting work
and for serving on the Board at Genentech amounting to
6 For a list of members, their positions and their committee memberships
and chairmanships see page 13. 373,834 US dollars (350,514 Swiss francs).
A. Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors
Additional compensation 2012 Additional special compensation
Remuneration 2012 for committee members/chairs 7 2012
(in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF)
F. B. Humer (see ‘B. Highest total remuner- (see ‘B. Highest total remuner- (see ‘B. Highest total remuner-
ation paid to a member of the ation paid to a member of the ation paid to a member of the
Board of Directors’) Board of Directors’) Board of Directors’)
B. Gehrig 400,000 8 –
A. Hoffmann 400,000 8 –
P. Baschera 300,000 30,000
J. I. Bell 300,000 30,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000
W. M. Burns 300,000 30,000 see above 23,441
L. J. R. de Vink 300,000 30,000
Ch. Franz 300,000 30,000
D. Julius 300,000 60,000
A. D. Levinson 300,000 30,000 see above 350,514
A. Oeri 300,000 60,000
P. R. Voser 300,000 30,000
B. Weder di Mauro 300,000 30,000
Total 4,100,000 390,000
7 With the exception of members of the Presidium and the Vice-Chairmen, Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve on
and CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
8 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
B. Highest total remuneration paid to a member of the Chairman of the Board since the handover of his executive
Board of Directors function as CEO at the Annual General Meeting on 4 March
As Chairman, Franz B. Humer was the member of the Board 2008, he did not receive any additional S-SARs or NES from
with the highest total remuneration for 2012. The Chairman’s other programmes (PSP, RSU) and was no longer enrolled in
remuneration consists of base salary and bonus awards. As any Roche S-SARs programme.
136
Roche Business Report 2012 | Remuneration ReportHighest total remuneration paid to a member of the Board of Directors
2012 2011 9 2010 9
(in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF)
Salary 4,000,000 4,000,000 4,507,500
Bonus
— Cash payment 2,500,000 1,600,000 2,200,000
Total 6,500,000 5,600,000 6,707,500
Pension funds/MGB 10 1,808,487 2,983,549 2,995,801
Roche Connect 75,000 75,000 75,000
Total (value) 8,661,876 11 8,884,687 10,033,431
9 For detailed calculation of the remuneration for 2011 and 2010 see Annual Report 2011, page 133.
10 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
11 Includes annual expense allowance (CHF 50,000), payments for tax consulting services (CHF 68,168) and Chugai advisory mandate USD 170,880
(CHF 160,221), not including employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV (CHF 291,045).
C. Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) In 2012 Horst Teltschik, a former member of the Board of
On 31 December 2012 Franz B. Humer and William M. Burns Directors, received honoraria amounting to 19,635 euros
(being the only members of the Board of Directors holding (23,665 Swiss francs) for serving on the boards of several
S-SARs due to their former positions) and the members of the Roche subsidiaries in Germany.
Corporate Executive Committee held Stock-settled Stock
Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) as shown in the ‘S-SARs’ table No additional remuneration was paid.
on page 145. Franz B. Humer’s S-SARs are currently of no
value. 5.2 Remuneration of members of the Corporate Executive
Committee. The general provisions assigning authority for
D. Total remuneration paid to the Board of Directors decisions on Corporate Executive Committee remuneration to
For 2012 the members of the Board of Directors received the Remuneration Committee and to the Board of Directors are
remuneration totalling 13,525,830 Swiss francs (2011: outlined on pages 132 to 135 of this Remuneration Report.
13,784,080 Swiss francs).
Remuneration of members of the Corporate Executive Committee
A. Base pay in CHF
Annual salary Annual salary Annual salary
2012 2011 2010
S. Schwan 4,000,000 4,000,000 3,750,000
S. Ayyoubi 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,100,000
R. Diggelmann 647,750 * *
A. Hippe 2,100,000 *** 1,200,000 ** *
G. A. Keller 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
D. O’Day 1,575,000 1,225,000 1,000,000
Total 11,022,750
* Not a member of the Corporate Executive Committee.
** Prorated remuneration for the period from April to December 2011.
*** Including CHF 500,000 for loss of pension rights granted by former employer (contractual agreement, each for 2012 to 2014).
137
Remuneration Report | Roche Business Report 2012B. Bonus Except in the case of Severin Schwan, all members of the Cor-
The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors deter- porate Executive Committee will receive the bonus 2012 as a
mined the Corporate Executive Committee members’ bonuses 100% cash payment which is due at the end of April 2013.
in December 2012 based on the performance 2012 against the Severin Schwan will receive the bonus 2012 in form of Roche
agreed objectives. non-voting equity securities which are blocked for ten years.
The Roche non-voting equity securities will be granted at the
end of April 2013.
Bonus
Bonus Bonus Bonus
for 2012 for 2011 for 2010
Total Total Total
(in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF)
S. Schwan
Cash payment – 1,500,000 3,000,000
Blocked non-voting equity securities 2,512,755 *** 837,585 –
Total bonus 2,512,755 *** 2,337,585 3,000,000
S. Ayyoubi
Cash payment 1,700,000 500,000 1,000,000
Blocked non-voting equity securities – 419,810 –
Total bonus 1,700,000 919,810 1,000,000
R. Diggelmann
Cash payment 600,000 * *
Blocked non-voting equity securities – * *
Total bonus 600,000 * *
A. Hippe
Cash payment 2,200,000 600,000 ** *
Blocked non-voting equity securities – 335,034 *
Total bonus 2,200,000 935,034 *
G. A. Keller
Cash payment 1,500,000 500,000 1,000,000
Blocked non-voting equity securities – 279,195 –
Total bonus 1,500,000 779,195 1,000,000
D. O’Day
Cash payment 2,300,000 650,000 1,300,000
Blocked non-voting equity securities – 545,753 –
Total bonus 2,300,000 1,195,753 1,300,000
Total 10,812,755
* Not a member of the Corporate Executive Committee.
** Prorated remuneration for the period from April to December 2011.
*** Calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to the blocking period of 10 years.
C. Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) was the closing price for Roche NES at grant date. All S-SARs
The S-SARs shown in the ‘S-SARs’ table on page 145 were vest three years after the grant date. Vested S-SARs can be
introduced by Roche on 1 January 2005 in place of stock exercised (converted into NES) within seven years of the grant
options. S-SARs entitle holders to benefit financially from any date. Unexercised S-SARs lapse without compensation.
increase in the value of Roche’s non-voting equity securities
(NES) between the grant date and the exercise date. The The fair value of the S-SARs is calculated at the grant date
strike price for S-SARs under the terms of this multi-year plan using the trinomial model for American options. The trinomial
138
Roche Business Report 2012 | Remuneration Reportmodel is an effective method for valuation of American call The numbers of S-SARs, the strike prices, expiry dates and
options, as it considers the possibility of exercising the option grant values for S-SARs are shown in the ‘S-SARs’ table on
any time prior to maturity (called ‘American’ option, as com- page 145. The numbers of S-SARs as calculated at the time of
pared to a ‘European’ option, which only allows exercise at issue have been entered as values in the table below.
their maturity date). 12
The S-SARs granted in 2006 until 2008 have strike prices
above the NES price as at 31 December 2012 and currently
have no value for the recipients. This could change if Roche’s
future NES price improves. 13
12 For further information on the trinomial model for American options:
Please refer to Boyle, Phelim P.: ‘A lattice framework for options pricing
with two state variables’, The Journal of Financial and Quantitative
Analysis, Volume 23, Issue 1 (Mar 1988), 1–12, www.roche.com/
trinomial_model.pdf 13 See strike prices in table ‘S-SARs’, page 145.
Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
S-SARs S-SARs S-SARs
2012 2011 2010
(value in CHF) (value in CHF) (value in CHF)
S. Schwan 4,000,000 3,560,209 3,559,911
S. Ayyoubi 1,200,000 1,068,095 1,068,022
R. Diggelmann 366,150 * *
A. Hippe 1,600,000 178,086 *
G. A. Keller 1,500,000 1,335,107 1,335,010
D. O’Day 1,300,000 890,087 890,030
Total 9,966,150
* Not a member of the Corporate Executive Committee.
D. Performance Share Plan (PSP) rities’ market prices and dividend yields, i.e. on Total Share-
The members of the Corporate Executive Committee and other holder Return (TSR), which is calculated at CHF constant
members of senior management (currently some 140 individu- exchange rates. To reduce the effect of short-term market fluc-
als worldwide) participate in the Performance Share Plan (PSP). tuations, security prices are averaged over the three months
(October to December) prior to the start of a performance
In 2006 the PSP moved to overlapping three-year performance cycle and over the three months (October to December) at the
cycles, with a new cycle beginning each year. In 2012 there end of the cycle.
were thus three cycles in progress (PSP 2010–2012, PSP 2011–
2013 and PSP 2012–2014). As in the previous years for PSP If Roche securities perform better than the average of the peer
2007–2009, PSP 2008–2010 and PSP 2009–2011, PSP 2010– set and Roche’s TSR increases at least 10% during a cycle, the
2012 closed on 31 December 2012 without any awards of tar- Board of Directors can elect to increase the NES award. The
geted NES. maximum award is double the original level reserved (target
number of NES according to the PSP plan) and requires that
Under the provisions of this plan, a number of non-voting Roche securities perform as well as or better than those of
equity securities (NES) have been reserved for the partici- 75% of the peer set. In the event that an investment in Roche
pants in each cycle. The number of securities actually awarded securities underperforms the average return delivered by the
will depend on whether and to what extent an investment in peer companies, fewer or no NES will be awarded.
Roche securities (shares and NES) outperforms the average
return on an investment in securities issued by a peer set of
comparator companies 14. Comparisons are based on the secu-
14 See footnote 1, page 132.
139
Remuneration Report | Roche Business Report 2012Performance Share Plan (PSP)
2012 15 2012 2011 2010
Total
estimated
value of
PSP awards
No awards of (2010–2012, No NES No NES No NES
targeted 2011–2013 awarded awarded awarded
Target number Target number number of NES and in 2012 for in 2011 for in 2010 for
of NES for PSP of NES for PSP for PSP 2012–2014) PSP 2010–2012 PSP 2009–2011 PSP 2008–2010
2012–2014 2011–2013 2010–2012 (value in CHF) (value in CHF) (value in CHF) (value in CHF)
S. Schwan 9,079 9,460 – 1,137,058 – – –
S. Ayyoubi 2,723 2,838 – 341,074 – – –
R. Diggelmann 1,038 1,040 – 127,450 – – –
A. Hippe 3,631 2,838 – 396,765 * * *
G. A. Keller 3,404 3,547 – 426,328 – – –
D. O’Day 2,950 2,365 – 325,986 – – –
Total 22,825 22,088 – 2,754,661 – – –
* Not a member of the Corporate Executive Committee.
15 Total estimated value for 2012: PSP 2010–2012: none of the originally targeted NES awarded. PSP 2011–2013 and 2012–2014: Estimated value calculated
using the year-end price as at 31 December 2012, CHF 184.00 per non-voting equity security (NES), based on the number of NES originally targeted
subject to changes in the number and value of NES awardable under the plan on 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014, respectively, and spread
over the relevant period of time, i.e. 1/
3
for the year 2012. The Board of Directors will vote on the actual allocation of originally targeted NES on
31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014, respectively, according to the TSR achieved.
In 2012 NES were reserved under the plan for members of the E. Indirect benefits
Corporate Executive Committee as shown in the table above. Employer contributions made in 2012 to social security
The Board of Directors will decide on the actual level of NES or schemes, pension plans and a Group-wide employee stock
cash equivalent awards for the cycles 2011–2013 and 2012– purchase plan (Roche Connect) in respect of members of the
2014 after the close of the 2013 and 2014 financial years, Corporate Executive Committee are shown in the ‘Indirect
respectively. The aim of the PSP is to provide an incentive to benefits in 2012’ table on page 141.
participants to achieve steady value growth.
Roche Connect is a voluntary stock purchase plan offering
At the end of the PSP 2010–2012 cycle (based on a three- employees the opportunity to buy Roche non-voting equity
month moving average) with distributed dividends totalling securities (NES) up to an amount equal to 10% of their annual
16.732 billion Swiss francs (2012: 5.865 billion Swiss francs; salary at a 20% discount. NES purchased under this plan are
2011: 5.692 billion Swiss francs; 2010: 5.175 billion Swiss subject to a holding period, which is four years in Switzerland.
francs), the TSR of the Roche securities (NES and shares)
ranked 15 th, compared with its peer set of companies operat-
ing in the same industry. Therefore, according to the terms of
the plan, the participants received none of the originally tar-
geted NES (see table above for details).
140
Roche Business Report 2012 | Remuneration ReportIndirect benefits in 2012
Payments for
Pension funds/MGB 16/ AHV/IV/ALV 17 Roche Connect tax consulting services
insurances (in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF)
S. Schwan 747,229 674,968 100,008 10,335
S. Ayyoubi 479,823 174,023 3,000 2,305
R. Diggelmann 144,917 49,774 7,500 –
A. Hippe 389,553 163,550 39,996 21,148
G. A. Keller 570,867 219,846 37,500 –
D. O’Day 382,657 214,768 12,504 15,817
Total 2,715,046 1,496,929 200,508 49,605
16 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
17 AHV/IV/ALV: Swiss social security programmes providing retirement, disability and unemployment benefits.
F. Other remuneration, emoluments and loans AHV/IV/ALV 373,973 Swiss francs. These payments are
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee additionally already included in the Corporate Executive Committee mem-
receive annual expense allowances of 30,000 Swiss francs bers’ total remuneration of 44,732,958 Swiss francs. All his
(Roland Diggelmann received a prorated amount of 10,000 unvested S-SARs and targeted PSP (NES) awards lapsed
Swiss francs), totalling 160,000 Swiss francs. without compensation.
Silvia Ayyoubi and Daniel O’Day received a non-recurring spe- In 2012 pensions totalling 2,099,180 Swiss francs were paid to
cial payment of 50,000 Swiss francs each for their 25 years’ former Corporate Executive Committee members.
service with the company.
The maximum regular period of notice for members of the Cor-
Due to contractual obligations, in 2012 Roche paid Daniel porate Executive Committee is 12 months. The contractually
O’Day and Alan Hippe 45,071 Swiss francs and 37,950 Swiss agreed severance payments (exceeding payments during the
francs, respectively, for their children’s schooling costs. notice period) previously included in the employment con-
tracts were eliminated or lapsed, respectively, in 2012. In
Expenses totalling 347,051 Swiss francs were paid for Roland future, therefore, severance payments are no longer agreed.
Diggelmann in his former position. There are no change of control clauses in the employment
contracts. At the same time, provision was made for Severin
For 2012 Pascal Soriot, COO Division Roche Pharmaceuticals, Schwan and Alan Hippe to receive supplementary death and
who took on new responsibilities outside of the company start- disability benefits and company-funded retirement benefits in
ing 1 September 2012, received the following payments based the event of early retirement. These insurance benefits were
on existing contractual obligations: salary (prorated) 1,500,000 fully funded with a single payment in 2012. This payment is
Swiss francs, bonus (prorated) for 2012 (50% as a cash pay- included in the total remuneration of 44,732,958 Swiss francs
ment of 750,000 Swiss francs, payable in April 2013, and 50% paid to the Corporate Executive Committee (previous year
in form of Roche non-voting equity securities blocked for three 43,925,402 Swiss francs).
years, amounting to 750,000 Swiss francs [NES calculated
based on the market value average over the last three months G. Highest total remuneration paid to a member of the
of 2012 and granted at the beginning of January 2013]), Corporate Executive Committee
expense allowance (prorated) 22,500 Swiss francs, payments Severin Schwan as CEO was the member of the Corporate
for tax consulting services 6,641 Swiss francs, employer con- Executive Committee with the highest total remuneration for
tribution to pension funds etc. 234,653 Swiss francs and to 2012:
141
Remuneration Report | Roche Business Report 2012Highest total remuneration paid to a member of the Corporate Executive Committee
2012 2011 18 2010 18
(in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF)
Salary 4,000,000 4,000,000 3,750,000
Bonus
— Cash payment – 1,500,000 3,000,000
— Blocked non-voting equity securities 2,512,755 ** 837,585 ** –
Total 6,512,755 6,337,585 6,750,000
S-SARs
(Grant value according to trinomial model for
American call options 19) 4,000,000 3,560,209 3,559,911
Pension funds/MGB 20/insurances 747,229 459,527 456,122
Roche Connect 100,008 100,008 89,588
Estimated value of targeted (not awarded) NES according to
Performance Share Plan 21
(*2011–2013, 2012–2014, no awards/value of NES of 2010–2012)
Total 1,137,058 * 819,933 502,425
Total (value) 12,537,385 22 11,311,916 11,396,873
** Calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market value: 55.839%).
18 For detailed calculation of the remuneration for 2011 and 2010 see Annual Report 2011, page 133.
19 Trinomial model for American call options value as described in ‘Remuneration of members of the Corporate Executive Committee,
C. Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)’, page 138 and 139.
20 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
21 Basic rules and detailed calculation see ‘Remuneration of members of the Corporate Executive Committee, D. Performance Share Plan’, page 140,
footnote 15 respectively.
22 Includes an annual expense allowance (CHF 30,000), payments for tax consulting services (CHF 10,335), excluding employer contribution to
AHV/IV/ALV payments.
H. Total remuneration paid to the members of the The table below shows the impact this has had on the effective
Corporate Executive Committee remuneration of the current members of the Corporate Execu-
For 2012 the members of the Corporate Executive Committee tive Committee over the past seven years.
received remuneration totalling 44,732,958 Swiss francs (2011:
43,925,402 Swiss francs) including AHV/IV/ALV. Due to the movement in the price of the non-voting equity
security, the strike prices of S-SARs granted in the years indi-
No additional remuneration other than the above mentioned cated in the table on page 143 are above the non-voting equity
payments was paid to current or former members of the Cor- security price as at 31 December 2012 and are therefore cur-
porate Executive Committee. rently worthless. The table shows the originally disclosed val-
ues of the currently out-of-the-money S-SARs that were
added to the compensation paid to each member ot the Cor-
6. Alignment of interests between managers and porate Executive Committee.
shareholders/holders of non-voting equity securities
The S-SARs and PSP remuneration components are intended As performance targets were not met, the PSP programmes
to align management’s interest with those of shareholders and for 2007–2009, 2008–2010, 2009–2011 and 2010–2012 ended
holders of non-voting equity securities and to give participat- with no allocation of targeted non-voting equity securities. The
ing managers an additional incentive to achieve continued table on page 143 contains the remuneration equivalent of all
value growth in the form of long-term total shareholder returns. non-voting equity securities not allocated under the PSP at the
By creating value for Roche investors, management benefits as values originally credited to each member of the Corporate
well. When no added value is created for investors, manage- Executive Committee as published accordingly in the remu-
ment is ‘penalised’ by receiving less. neration reports.
142
Roche Business Report 2012 | Remuneration ReportS-SARs out of the money as at 31 December 2012 and PSP participation programme remuneration not distributed
S-SARs PSP *
out of the money as at No disbursement/issuance
31 December 2012, value granted for PSP 2007–2009
2006–2008 PSP 2008–2010
PSP 2009–2011
PSP 2010–2012
Total Total Total
(in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF)
S. Schwan 3,827,582 3,336,114 7,163,696
S. Ayyoubi 649,436 768,891 1,418,327
G. A. Keller 2,759,415 1,750,000 4,509,415
D. O’Day 999,367 333,333 1,332,700
P. Soriot 4,005,306 1,082,293 5,087,599
Total 12,241,106 7,270,631 19,511,737
* PSP value calculation based on 1/
3
of the corresponding base pay for 2007/2008/2009 and 2010.
Alan Hippe and Roland Diggelmann are not listed in the table • repeated or willful failure to perform such duties as have
since they were not yet Roche employees or Roche Corporate been reasonably assigned by Roche,
Executive Committee members during the periods in question. • violation of any law or public regulation,
• commission of a crime,
• gross negligence or willful misconduct in employment,
7. Clawback • engaging in conduct bringing disgrace or disrepute to Roche
In addition to applicable statutory provisions, Roche’s long- and/or any of its subsidiaries,
term incentive plans include the option to partially reclaim dis- • violation of any of Roche’s directives and guidelines relating
tributed compensation as a result of special circumstances to business conduct.
(clawback).
According to the regulations of the PSP programme, the origi-
If the employee voluntarily serves notice of termination of nally targeted but not awarded NES shall lapse without any
employment, S-SARs which are unvested at the date of termi- compensation upon notice of termination of employment being
nation of employment lapse immediately without any compen- given for any reason other than redundancy, disability or retire-
sation. ment.
Upon termination of employment as a result of serious miscon-
duct all S-SARs granted and outstanding, whether vested or 8. Guidelines for security holdings
unvested, shall lapse immediately without any compensation. In 2012 the Board of Directors decided that the CEO and other
According to the S-SARs plan rules, serious misconduct by the CEC members must acquire shares and/or NES equivalent to
participant may include (inter alia): two annual base salaries (CEO) and one annual base salary,
• activity leading to serious disciplinary action, respectively, by the end of 2016 and retain these holdings for
as long as they serve on the CEC.
Type of security Equivalence
CEO Shares and/or NES 2 x annual base salary
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee Shares and/or NES 1 x annual base salary
143
Remuneration Report | Roche Business Report 20129. Security holdings solidated Financial Statements (‘Related parties’, page 131)
Directors André Hoffmann and Andreas Oeri and members of and in Note 4 to the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd
the founders’ families who are closely associated with them (‘Significant shareholders’, page 158). In addition, as at
belong to a shareholder group with pooled voting rights. At the 31 December 2012 the members of the Board of Directors and
end of 2012 this group held 72,018,000 shares (45.01% of persons closely associated with them and the members of the
issued shares). Detailed information about this group can be CEC and persons closely associated with them held shares and
found in the Finance Report, Note 32 to the Roche Group Con- NES as shown in the table below.
Security holdings (as at 31 December 2012)
Close
relatives’
Shares NES security holdings Others
(number) (number) (number/type) (number)
Board of Directors
F. B. Humer 7,492 85,216 – S-SARs see 10
B. Gehrig 50 300 – –
A. Hoffmann – * 200 – 250,000 UBS Long/Short Certificates
linked to Roche Bearer Shares/
Roche Non-voting Equity Securities
(Valor: 10 690 162, ISIN: CH0106901629)
Expiry date: 28 March 2013
P. Baschera 1 4,600 – –
J. I. Bell 300 1,647 – –
P. Bulcke – 1,350 – –
W. M. Burns 3 83,990 – S-SARs see 10
L. J. R. de Vink – – – 31,600 American Depository Receipts (ADR),
RHHBY, US ISIN: US7711951043
Ch. Franz – 350 – –
D. Julius 350 1,550 – –
A. D. Levinson – – – –
A. Oeri –* 187,793 – 250,000 UBS Long/Short Certificate
linked to Roche Bearer Shares/
Roche Non-voting Equity Securities
(Valor: 10 690 162, ISIN: CH0106901629)
Expiry date: 28 March 2013
P. R. Voser – 3,600 – –
B. Weder di Mauro 200 800 – –
Total 8,396 371,396 –
Corporate Executive
Committee
S. Schwan 7,000 47,813 – S-SARs see 10
S. Ayyoubi 3 15,832 – S-SARs see 10
R. Diggelmann – 802 – S-SARs/Options see 10
A. Hippe – 8,892 – S-SARs see 10
G. A. Keller 2,153 25,783 1,100 shares S-SARs see 10
D. O’Day 3 5,492 – S-SARs see 10
Total 9,159 104,614 1,100 shares
* Shares held by the shareholders group with pooled voting rights not listed.
144
Roche Business Report 2012 | Remuneration Report10. S-SARs
Number of S-SARs held by current and former members
of the Corporate Executive Committee on 31 December 2012
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Total
Corporate
Executive
Committee
S. Schwan 163,869 154,322 154,443 – 105,576 29,190 15,696 623,096
S. Ayyoubi 49,161 46,298 46,335 43,842 21,117 3,243 2,517 212,513
R. Diggelmann 15,000 12,732 6,489 23 4,263 23 5,295 23 – – 43,779
A. Hippe 65,547 7,178 – – – – – 72,725
G. A. Keller 61,452 57,872 57,918 – 63,345 24,327 15,696 280,610
D. O’Day 53,259 38,582 38,613 – 20,133 10,269 5,856 166,712
Total 408,288 316,984 303,798 48,105 215,466 67,029 39,765 1,399,435
Former
Corporate
Executive
Committee
members
F. B. Humer None 24 None 24 None 24 None 24 None 24 48,651 52,317 100,968
W. M. Burns None 25 None 25 None 25 109,602 105,576 48,651 26,160 289,989
Strike price (CHF) 157.50 140.10 175.50 145.40 195.80 229.60 195.00
140.30 188.90
Market price 184.00
per NES on
31 December 2012
(CHF)
Expiry date 8.3.2019 28.2.2018 4.2.2017 5.2.2016 31.1.2015 8.2.2014 2.2.2013
29.4.2018 25.7.2015
Grant value per 24.41 15.38 * 23.05 * 20.30 * 21.08 * 36.59 * 34.02 *
S-SAR 16.54 * 23.61 *
(CHF)
Since 1.1.2012:
— Trinomial model
for American
call options
* Values according
to corresponding
annual reports.
23 In his former position options held: All of the options shown in the table were issued by Roche as employee stock options. Each option entitles the
holder to purchase one Roche non-voting equity security (NES). Under the terms of this multi-year option plan, the strike price for options shown was
the closing price for Roche NES at grant date. All of the options shown are non-tradable. One-third of the options are subject to a vesting period of
one year, one-third have a vesting period of two years, and one-third a vesting period of three years. Unvested options lapse without compensation if
employment is terminated voluntarily (for reasons other than retirement), while vested options must be exercised within a limited period of time.
24 As of 2008 Franz B. Humer does not receive any additional S-SARs. Franz B. Humer received S-SARs as a member of the
Corporate Executive Committee until 2007.
25 As of 2010 William M. Burns does not receive any additional S-SARs. William M. Burns received S-SARs as a member of the
Corporate Executive Committee until 2009.
145
Remuneration Report | Roche Business Report 2012Independent Assurance Report
To the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee of Criteria
Roche Holding AG, Basel (‘Roche’). • The Roche Group internal corporate responsibility reporting
guidelines based on the Responsible Care Health, Safety and
We have performed assurance procedures to provide limited Environmental Protection reporting guidelines published
assurance on the following aspects of the 2012 corporate by the European Chemical Industry Council CEFIC and the
responsibility reporting of Roche. ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1’ published in 2011
by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI);
Subject matter • The Roche Group internal Corporate Reporting Manual,
Data and information disclosed in the corporate responsibility Version 2012 ‘Sustainability Reporting — Economic Perfor­
reporting of Roche and its consolidated subsidiaries, exclud­ mance Data’; and
ing Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., for the business year • The defined guidelines by which SHE, people and donations
ended December 31, 2012 on the following aspects and with & sponsorships key figures are gathered, collated and
the indicated level of assurance: aggregated internally.
• The management of reporting processes with respect to the
corporate responsibility reporting and to the preparation of Responsibility and Methodology
SHE, people and donations & sponsorships key figures as The accuracy and completeness of corporate responsibility
well as the control environment in relation to the data aggre­ indicators are subject to inherent limitations given their nature
gation of these key figures with a limited assurance; and methods for determining, calculating and estimating such
• The SHE key figures (including Scope 1 & 2 CO Emissions data. Our assurance report should therefore be read in con­
2
and Business Travel) in the tables and graphs on pages 110 nection with Roche’s internal guidelines, definitions and pro­
to 119 and some selected people key figures disclosed on cedures on the reporting of its corporate responsibility per­
pages 92 to 97 of the Roche Business Report 2012 with a formance. Future orientated data and information were not part
limited assurance; and of our assurance scope. We do not provide assurance on
• The consolidated data and information on the Roche Group statements out of our scope.
level in relation to donations & sponsorships, excluding
health care professionals (HCPs) related activities, with a The Roche Corporate Governance and Sustainability Commit­
limited assurance. tee is responsible for both the preparation and the presen­
tation of the selected subject matter in accordance with the
reporting criteria. This responsibility comprises the arrange­
ment, implementation and maintenance of adequate records
and internal controls that are designed to support the sustain­
ability reporting processes.
Our responsibility is to form an independent conclusion, based
on our limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has
come to our attention to indicate that the subject matter is not
stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the report­
ing criteria, for the business year ended on December 31, 2012.
We have conducted our engagement in accordance with the
International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE)
3000, as issued by the International Auditing and Assurance
Standards Board.
146
Roche Business Report 2012 | Independent Assurance ReportMain Assurance Procedures Conclusions
Our assurance procedures included the following work: With reference to the identified subject matter information,
• Evaluation of the application of Roche Group guidelines and based on our work performed, nothing has come to our
Reviewing the application of the Roche Group internal cor­ attention that causes us to believe that:
porate responsibility reporting and donations & sponsor­ • the Roche Group internal corporate responsibility reporting
ships guidelines; guidelines based on the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting
• Site visits Guidelines as well as the CEFIC Guidelines are not applied in
Visiting selected sites of Roche’s Pharma and Diagnostics all material respects, in accordance with the reporting cri­
Divisions in Germany, Morocco, South Africa, United Arab teria,
Emirates, Singapore and USA. The selection was based on • the internal reporting processes to collect and aggregate
quantitative and qualitative criteria; Interviewing personnel SHE, people and donations & sponsorships data is not func­
responsible for internal corporate responsibility reporting tioning as designed and does not provide an appropriate
and data collection at the sites we visited and at the Roche basis for its disclosure, in all material respects, in accordance
Group level to determine the understanding and application with the reporting criteria, and
of Roche internal corporate responsibility guidelines. • the corporate responsibility information mentioned in the
• Assessment of the key figures subject matter and disclosed with the corporate responsibil­
Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence supporting ity reporting in the Roche Business Report 2012 is not stated,
selected SHE, people and donations & sponsorships key fig­ in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting cri­
ures (Roche accident rate, energy consumption, CO emis­ teria.
2
sions related to energy consumption, release of halogenated
hydrocarbons, headcount/FTE data, staff statistics and labor
practices information, contributions to philanthropic organi­ Zurich, 25 January 2013
zations, patient organizations, health institutions, public pol­
icy bodies) concerning completeness, accuracy, adequacy PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
and consistency.
• Review of the documentation and analysis of relevant
policies and basic principles
Reviewing the relevant documentation on a sample basis,
including Roche Group corporate responsibility policies, Christophe Bourgoin Stephan Hirschi
management of reporting structures and documentation;
and
• Assessment of the processes and data consolidation
Reviewing the appropriateness of the management of/and
reporting processes for corporate responsibility key data;
and
Assessing the consolidation process of data at Roche Group
level.
147
Independent Assurance Report | Roche Business Report 2012Published by Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd statements
4070 Basel, Switzerland This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements.
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 11 11 These forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as
‘believes’, ‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘should’, ‘seeks’,
Fax +41 (0)61 691 93 91
‘estimates’, ‘future’ or s imilar expressions or by discussion of, among
other things, strategy, goals, plans or intentions. Various factors may
Media Office
cause actual results to differ materially in the future from those
Group Communications
reflected in forward-looking statements contained in this Annual
4070 Basel, Switzerland Report, among others: (1) pricing and product initiatives of competi-
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 88 tors; (2) legislative and regulatory developments and economic con-
Fax +41 (0)61 688 27 75 ditions; (3) delay or inability in obtaining regulatory approvals or bring-
ing products to market; (4) fluctuations in currency exchange rates
and general financial market conditions; (5) uncertainties in the dis-
Investor Relations
covery, development or marketing of new products or new uses of
4070 Basel, Switzerland
existing products, including without limitation negative results of clini-
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 80
cal trials or research projects, unexpected side effects of pipeline or
Fax +41 (0)61 691 00 14
marketed products; (6) increased government pricing pressures; (7)
interruptions in production; (8) loss of or inability to obtain adequate
Website protection for intellectual property rights; (9) litigation; (10) loss of key
www.roche.com executives or other employees; and (11) adverse publicity and news
coverage.
Corporate Sustainability Committee
The statement regarding earnings per share growth is not a profit
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 40 18
forecast and should not be interpreted to mean that Roche’s earnings
E-mail: corporate.sustainability@roche.com
or earnings per share for 2012 or any subsequent period will neces-
sarily match or exceed the historical published earnings or earnings
To order publications per share of Roche.
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 83 39
Fax +41 (0)61 688 43 43 All trademarks mentioned enjoy legal protection.
E-mail: basel.webmaster@roche.com
Links to third party pages are provided for convenience only. We do
not express any opinion on the content of any third-party pages and
Next Annual General Meeting:
expressly disclaim any liability for all third-party information and the
5 March 2013
use of it.
The Roche Annual Report is published in German and English.
Printed on non-chlorine bleached, FSC-certified paper.
The Roche Annual Report is issued by
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Basel, Group Communications.