Annual Report
2018
P A T I E N T S I N N O V A T I O N P A R T N E R S
In cancer, modern care helps Advanced analytics enable us to Roche is expanding its colla b­
where no effective treatments were create a wealth of new data insights orations, combining its own
available previously. Innovative and opportunities across the strengths with the unique tools of
therapies allow this woman on entire product lifecycle and R&D its partners to elevate personalised
the cover picture to carry on with value chain to ultimately improve healthcare to a new level for many
her life. See back cover for more. outcomes for patients. more patients.Keith Terry, Genentech, USA
“This was an emotional hire for me.”
I am the Medical Doctor Talent Scout for Genentech with family and friends—and not dwell on the
in South San Francisco and work closely with our negative. It has taught me to stay in the moment.
Product Development Neuroscience team. Ironically, There have been some down times too, when I
I had a big win with the hiring of a senior medical experienced a relapse. I felt so fatigued that it was
director for Ocrevus, the medication that I currently an effort just to breathe. It is difficult to imagine
use to treat my multiple sclerosis (MS). This was an this level of fatigue until you have experienced it.
emotional hire for me. This illness has really increased my capacity for
empathy for those that are ill.
I was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis 16 years ago
at the age of 37. I had been experiencing extreme But overall there have been many positives. I have
fatigue and loss of some motor function in my hands met so many amazing people through my MS
for some time. Then it was numbness in my torso and experience. I have been an active member of the
arms. I believe I had MS for about a year before actually MS society and led a support group for individuals
being diagnosed. Prior to that, I had just ignored the with MS for over five years. I also participated in
fatigue and thought this must be happening because the local MS walk in my community. I try to get
of getting older or not getting enough vitamins. I used some exercise every day in some capacity; this seems
to power through when I felt fatigued, but then a major to really help. Also, having a good diet has been
event occurred and I could not ignore it any more. important. There are challenges, though. The motor
function in my hands has definitely decreased.
This happened as I was leading a hiring initiative Also, my short­term memory has been affected.
for a bank. I was writing on a white board and kept
dropping the pen. I felt really weak in my left arm For others with MS, I would say—get involved. There
and hand. I thought I was having a heart attack. I are great things going on in the MS community. Also,
ended up in the emergency room but it was not a heart do not ignore your symptoms, including depression.
condition. I was sent home but kept feeling worse and It is a common symptom and often ignored. I had
worse. I visited four different emergency medical depression related to MS, too. I used to have good
centres before an MRI showed lesions on my spinal days and bad days with my illness. However, since
cord and in my brain. It was multiple sclerosis. I started taking Ocrevus about a year and a half ago,
now almost all my days are good with a high level
The diagnosis has made me focus on the important of energy. And I am thankful for that!
things—developing and enhancing relationshipsInnovation:
It’s in our DNA
We have always worked across disciplines and geographies to
drive scientific discovery and redefine what is possible to improve
patients’ lives.
We are working on understanding how diseases We are also the world leader in the in vitro diagnostics
differ down to the molecular level so we can develop business. This track record allows us to build lasting
new tests and medicines that prevent, diagnose and meaningful partnerships across the world with
and treat diseases, and bring them to the patients research academia and public healthcare institutions.
who need them. With our combined strengths in
diagnostics and pharmaceuticals, our personalised The founding families continue to hold the majority
healthcare strategy aims to fit the right treatment voting stake in the company. This stability allows for
to the right patient. a tradition of sustainable thinking, so we can learn
from setbacks and focus on lasting value for patients
As the world’s largest biotech company, we develop and society. We remain dedicated to the highest
breakthrough medicines, improving the standard standards of quality, safety and integrity. Our legacy
of care across oncology, immunology, infectious is based on respect for the individual as well as the
diseases, ophthalmology and neuroscience. communities and the world we live in.94,442
employees* worldwide
North America Europe
25,135 employees 41,127 employees
Genentech, South San Francisco, US ( ) Basel, Kaiseraugst and Rotkreuz, Switzerland ( )
Roche Diagnostics, Indianapolis, US ( ) Mannheim and Penzberg, Germany ( )
Asia
21,849 employees
Chugai, Tokyo, Japan ( )
Shanghai and Suzhou, China ( )
Latin America
4,431 employees
Africa Australia/New Zealand
1,220 employees 680 employees
30 26
Research and development sites in Manufacturing sites in Pharmaceuticals and
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics worldwide Diagnostics worldwide
Roche Group headquarters Manufacturing sites in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
Largest sites based on number of employees Sales sites in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
Research and development sites in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics * Number of employees expressed in full-time equivalentsHighlights
Supporting continued growth Progressing Alzheimer’s diagnosis
With CHF 2.4 billion in sales—Ocrevus for two forms of FDA breakthrough device designation for Elecsys assays to
MS most successful new product launch for Roche support early and improved diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease
Read more on page 33 Read more on page 29
Treating rare blood disorder Improving access to healthcare
Hemlibra now indicated for most haemophilia patients in Roche takes a lead role in the scale-up of the City Cancer
the US Challenge 2025 to change global landscape of cancer care
Read more on page 35 Read more on page 61
Fighting influenza infections Contributing to sustainability
Xofluza—first single-dose oral medicine to treat influenza Roche ranked most sustainable healthcare company in the
approved in the US Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the tenth successive year
Read more on page 36 Read more on page 13
Key figures
CHF 56,846 million CHF 11,047 million
Group sales +7%** R&D core investments +6%
CHF 20,505 million 30 Roche medicines
Core operating profit +9% on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines
CHF 8.70 127 million patients
Dividend treated with Roche medicines
** All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2017).Contents
4 Overview
8 Our strategy
12 Chairman’s shareholder letter
16 Interview with the CEO Roche Group
20 Business performance
22 Group performance
24 Diagnostics performance
32 Pharmaceuticals performance
40 Science and innovation
42 Data insights for better informed decisions
49 Harnessing frontline scientific technologies
58 Access to healthcare
62 Digital platforms to support patients
64 Continuing the fight against HIV/AIDS
68 People
71 Increasing agility to drive and manage change
74 Nurturing and attracting talent
78 Environment
82 Decreasing energy consumption
84 Reducing greenhouse gas emissions
88 Community engagement
90 Paths to strong societies
92 Unlocking potentials and growing talents
94 Integrity in business
98 Ensuring operational resilience
100 Partnerships for a lasting future
104 Corporate Governance
107 Board of Directors
108 Corporate Executive Committee
120 Remuneration Report
122 Principles
126 Remuneration components4
Our reporting
approach
Roche is committed to transparent reporting and we endeavour
to drive our economic, social and environmental performance
with the same diligence as our financial performance.
Reporting scope and boundaries our emerging sustainability risks and opportunities
Our financial and non­financial reporting consists of is provided on our risk management web page.
the Annual Report, the Finance Report and the online
report. It contains the annual financial statements, A consolidated Group Risk Report, which covers
consolidated financial statements and non­financial all material risks, is discussed annually with the
performance indicators. It covers all regions and Corporate Executive Committee and reviewed by the
divisions from 1 January to 31 December 2018. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and by the
financial reporting scope is defined and outlined in our Board of Directors. The effectiveness of the Group risk
Finance Report, and there have been no significant management process is regularly monitored by the Group
changes in scope in 2018 compared to 2017. Risk Advisory team, and the overall process is reviewed
externally when appropriate. Risk management is
Reporting in accordance with the latest embedded at all levels of the Group. Our Pharmaceuticals
GRI guidelines and Diagnostics Divisions and global functions conduct
We have followed the GRI G4 guidelines (Global a formal risk assessment process at least once a year and
Reporting Initiative) since 2014. By using the GRI must develop risk plans for their most material risks.
guidelines, we disclose the most critical impacts of our
activities on the environment, society and the economy. Group Risk Advisory facilitates risk discussions to
As of the 2017 reporting period, we transitioned to support the business in many specialist areas such as
the newly introduced GRI Standards, which are based IT security, as well as compliance and sustainability.
on the key concepts and disclosures of the GRI G4 Training sessions and platforms have been established
guidelines. We report in accordance with the standards to help employees manage, monitor and mitigate risks
at core level but also go beyond the requirements for appropriately.
core level for a number of indicators.
Read more in ‘Corporate Governance’ on page 113
Risk management
Our Risk Management Policy sets out Roche’s approach External assurance
to identifying, analysing, managing and reporting Our current Annual Report includes an independent
internal and external risks and opportunities. We also assurance report on our non­financial reporting,
identify business sustainability risks and opportunities prepared by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG.
on an annual basis and integrate these into our existing
Group risk management process. Information about See ‘Independent assurance report’ on page 148Our reporting approach | Roche
5
Our 21 material topics
Tier 1—Fundamental drivers of our ability to
deliver on our core purpose in the long term
· R&D pipeline strategy and personalised healthcare
· Employee engagement and talent retention
· Growth strategy in emerging and developed markets
· Product portfolio strategy
· Patent policies
· Leadership Commitments
Materiality Tier 2—Major influencing factors for our business
In accordance with the GRI Standards, we conducted success in the short and medium term
a first materiality analysis at the corporate level in · Pricing
2014 and gathered input and feedback through various · Disease awareness and treatment education
internal and external sources, conferences, and by · Compliance
conducting regular interviews and one­on­one · Drug efficacy, safety and counterfeiting
discussions with key stakeholders. These results have · Supply chain management
since been regularly vetted against ongoing stakeholder · Biosimilar safety
research across key markets and stakeholder groups. · Sustainable healthcare
This enables us to include 21 topics from stakeholder
groups that we consider important to our business and Tier 3—Additional material topics
to the healthcare sector, such as patient organisations, · Executive remuneration
physicians and laboratory staff, employees, media, · Compensation/benefits
investors, payers, regulators and governments. · Organisational effectiveness
· Environmental responsibility
In 2017, 21 material topics were screened against · Community engagement
priorities deemed key to Roche in three tiers—firstly, · Patient organisation support
fundamental drivers of our ability to deliver on our · Data transparency on clinical trials
core purpose in the long term; secondly, additional · Occupational accidents
annually reviewed major influencing factors for our
business success in the short and medium term; and
finally, all other material topics, providing three levels
of priority in addressing material topics. Materiality:
roche.com/materiality
These three tiers and 21 material topics are reflected
in our business priorities, in the report content Key performance indicators:
(highlighted at the beginning of each chapter), as roche.com/performance
well as in aspect boundaries according to the GRI.
We build concrete actions relating to these topics Online Roche Annual Report 2018:
into operational activities, and measure performance ar18.roche.com
through defined indicators.
Roche Annual Report 2018 (PDF):
We are currently conducting a second global roche.com/ar18e.pdf
materiality assessment. The results of this assessment
will be published on our website in 2019 and will Roche Finance Report 2018 (PDF):
inform our strategy moving forward as well as the roche.com/fb18e.pdf
content of the 2019 Annual Report.
Risk management:
See ‘Our strategy’ on page 8 roche.com/risk-management6
Our commitment
to the UN SDGs
As a global healthcare company, we are committed to supporting
a number of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs) in line with our business strategy; in particular
Our contribution
to the UN SDGs:
SDG 3, which aims at ensuring healthy lives.
roche.com/un-sdgsSustainable Development Goals | Roche
7
With a history of more than 120 years,
we have a strong commitment to sustainability.
Supporting SDG
Innovating for patients · 127 million patients treated with Roche medicines
· 20 billion tests conducted with Roche Diagnostics products
· 30 Roche medicines on the WHO* Model List of Essential Medicines
Being a trustworthy partner · 23 new partnerships in Diagnostics
· 107 new partnerships in Pharmaceuticals
· 100% of approximately 1,000 business-critical suppliers risk-assessed
Protecting the environment · 13% decrease in water consumption since 2015
· 10% decrease in energy consumption since 2015
· 23% improvement in the eco-balance since 2014
Delivering continued growth · +7%** in Group sales
· +9% in core operating profit
· Sustainability leader according to Dow Jones Sustainability Indices
Providing a great workplace · 72% employee engagement rate***
· 30% of key leadership positions now held by women
· 22% of key leaders with diverse work experience
* World Health Organization | ** All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2017). | *** measured by the Global Employee Opinion
Survey done in 20178
What we do
Our focus Our people
Fitting treatments to patients Making their mark
Our distinctiveness Our decision-making
Excellence in science Accountable and transparent
Our delivery Our structure
Value for all stakeholders Built for innovation
How we do itOur strategy | Roche
9
Our strategy
We focus on finding new medicines and diagnostics that help
patients live longer, better lives and evolve the practice of medicine.
We are guided by our purpose: molecular biology, the seamless integration of our
Doing now what patients need next. pharmaceuticals and diagnostics capabilities, a
Our company has a more than 120­year history of diversity of approaches to maximise innovation,
advancing the field of medicine and bringing novel and a long­term orientation.
treatments and diagnostics to patients. The patient is
and will remain at the core of what we do, the reason Our delivery is to create value for all our stakeholders:
we come to work every day. being a partner of choice; bringing significant medical
benefit for patients, doctors and payers; offering a
great place to work for employees; delivering a
What we do
sustainable positive contribution to society; and
creating top­quartile total shareholder return for
Our focus is on fitting treatments to patients: our investors.
providing the right therapy for the group of people
that respond best at the right time. With our in­house
How we do it
combination of Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics,
we are uniquely positioned to deliver personalised
healthcare. We are developing our internal capabilities Ultimately, it takes people with integrity, courage
and building strategic partnerships ready for the next and passion to make a difference for patients. It is
stage in personalised healthcare: to combine insights our people who are proud to say: We are Roche.
from multiple data sources with sophisticated analytics We embrace the diversity of cultures and people
to drive more effective and efficient research and allow across the Group. We are inclusive and encourage
for better therapeutic decisions for patients. Access the richness of ideas and approaches this brings.
to our products is also a critical part of our strategy.
Our detailed access plans are embedded into the Our decision-making principles and processes
business at a local level. emphasise transparent dialogue, clear accountability,
and encourage a high degree of empowerment.
We will continue to concentrate our energies entirely
on prescription medicines and in vitro diagnostics, Our structure is built for innovation. Our autonomous
rather than diversify into other sectors like generics, research and development centres and alliances with
biosimilars or over­the­counter medicines. 220 external partners foster a diversity of scientific
approaches and agility. Our global geographical scale
In our pursuit of excellence in science, our and reach enables us to attract talent in the biggest
distinctiveness rests on four key elements: an global science clusters and to bring our diagnostics
exceptionally broad and deep understanding of and medicines quickly to people who need them.10
Personalised
healthcare
Taking it to the next level—digitalisation triggers business
transformation.
Digitalisation refers to the use of digital technologies This is increasingly seen as a potentially rich and
to modify an existing business model. For life science underutilised source to generate benefits in two ways:
companies, healthcare providers, patients and (a) The addition of insights derived from real­world
consumers, the use of digital technologies is believed data offers the prospect of taking personalised
to harbour significant potential for streamlining healthcare to the next level. Diagnosis and treatment
processes and helping achieve superior treatment will be highly tailored, both in terms of effectiveness
outcomes.1 and safety, to the individual’s unique condition;
(b) linking clinical trial data and real­world data with
Underlying this view are a number of recent the dramatic advances in biological and medical
developments. First, quality health data is becoming knowledge is expected to provide leads for more
available in electronic form as new digital capabilities targeted research and efficient development processes.
are becoming common practice. These include
recording health data digitally, for example with low­ Either way, this evolution will require partnerships
cost mobile devices, thereby transforming existing between traditional players (healthcare providers,
records such as notes and images into a format suitable payers, life sciences experts and device manufacturers)
for machine learning, and curating data efficiently. as well as non­traditional entrants (retailers,
The depth of this data is enhanced by novel data types telecommunications and technology companies,
and characteristics, for example genetic profiles, or entrepreneurs and venture capital investors).2
consistent data across longer time periods. Second,
tools for advanced analysis of large data volumes are Embedding digitalisation across the organisation
emerging as advances in computing power, data In Roche Pharmaceuticals, digitalisation is trans­
handling and sophisticated analysis techniques are forming the way medicines are developed, tested, and
being adopted in healthcare. delivered to patients. It leverages the rapidly increasing
volume of health­related data and diagnostic test
As a result, there has been an explosive growth results that are critical for the development of even
of high­quality data that can be analysed and more sophisticated medicines. In Roche Diagnostics,
interpreted. Particularly, the data now accessible from data­driven processes allow for optimised workflows
routine clinical practice, captured in electronic in laboratories and medical decision­making, thus
medical records, often referred to as ‘real­world data’. improving laboratory efficiency and treatment efficacy.Personalised healthcare | Roche
11
Data management
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics
Personalised healthcare—the next level MS is a progressive disease from the start. However,
In pursuing the next level of personalised healthcare, the ability to characterise and prognose individual
we are adding a third dimension to Roche’s expertise disease course in the real­world is limited. With
in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics: data management. the introduction of smartphones and wearable
Roche is rapidly expanding its existing capabilities technologies we all carry the ability to continuously
and is deploying these internally and externally. track our own health.
Here are three examples of how:
Floodlight uses smartphone sensor­based measures
Large data sets allow for better insights to detect subtle changes in cognition and motor
Through our partnerships with Foundation Medicine function, to develop novel measures of disease
Inc., USA, (specialising in genetic profiling of cancer) progression. It aims to empower people with
and Flatiron Health (curating electronic medical MS with more information about their disease,
records) we are building what we call ‘meaningful give healthcare professionals tools to recognise
data at scale’. We combine these datasets with our progression, and fundamentally improve our
deep understanding of cancer diagnostics and understanding of MS and individualise patient care.
treatment, and look for specific patterns. This ranges
from determining the prevalence of cancer biomarkers Support to manage increasingly complex data
to identifying potential ‘druggable’ targets. Such The rapidly increasing wealth and complexity of
insights increasingly allow us to answer questions that data represent a formidable challenge for healthcare
could not be answered before, for example, about professionals. Roche’s Navify Decision Support
small patient populations, and provide more effective portfolio of fully integrated clinical workflow
intervention options for cancer patients. solutions and clinical decision support apps helps
multidisciplinary care teams navigate the maze
Understanding disease progression in MS of medical information, using analytics to transform
Personalised healthcare aims to improve outcomes large amounts of data into actionable insights.
for patients. In multiple sclerosis (MS), this means
detecting disease progression earlier and developing
tools that accelerate drug development.
1 KPMG: Digitalisation in life sciences, 2018 | 2 EY: Healthcare—the cross-currents of convergence deliver participatory health, 201712
A year with strong
growth
Dear Shareholders, In view of increasing competition from biosimilars,
it is particularly encouraging to note that our sales
Digitalisation is permeating ever more significant growth is being driven by our innovative new
areas of our lives, and the healthcare sector is no medicines such as Ocrevus, Perjeta (breast cancer),
exception. As Severin Schwan explains on pages 16 and Tecentriq (cancer immunotherapy), Alecensa (lung
17, digitalisation presents tremendous opportunities cancer) and Hemlibra (haemophilia), as well as
for a research­based diagnostics and pharmaceuticals by our immuno diagnostics business, and is thus
company such as Roche. We intend to leverage these broadly supported.
opportunities so that we can provide even better
diagnostic decision­making support to doctors and Roche has one of the best product pipelines in the
develop much­needed treatments in a faster and industry. In 2018 alone, we invested CHF 11 billion
targeted way. Examples of our efforts include the now in its development. We are a leader in oncology, we
finalised transaction with Foundation Medicine and have a growing number of neuroscience projects
the acquisition of Flatiron Health in the United States. and immunology is performing well. Over the last
This has helped us improve our ongoing efforts in six years, the US Food and Drug Administration
personalised healthcare. granted breakthrough therapy designations to no
fewer than 24 of Roche’s active ingredients, six in
Our latest medical innovations in particular are 2018 alone. This is an achievement we are proud of.
another reason for my optimistic outlook on Roche’s
future. Ocrevus, approved for multiple sclerosis (MS), Our strength in innovation is also reflected in our
has been the most successful product launch in Roche’s financial results. In 2018, Roche increased sales by
history. It is effective in relapsing forms of MS as well as 7%* to CHF 56.8 billion. IFRS net income rose by 24%
in cases where the patient’s condition steadily worsens to CHF 10.9 billion. Owing to this positive business
from the outset. Ocrevus is the first medicine ever to performance, we will be proposing a dividend of
be approved for the primary progressive form of MS. 8.70 Swiss francs per share and non­voting equityChairman’s shareholder letter | Roche
13
security at the Annual General Meeting on other companies and universities. One recent
5 March 2019. Subject to your approval, this will example is the influenza medicine Xofluza. Initial
be the 32nd consecutive dividend increase. research on this compound was carried out by the
Japanese pharmaceuticals company Shionogi. It was
I am also delighted with our nomination of Professor subsequently developed by Roche in partnership
Dr Hans Clevers, professor of molecular genetics at the with Shionogi. Xofluza received fast­track approval
University Medical Center Utrecht, the Netherlands, in the United States in October 2018. It is the first
for election to the Board of Directors. Professor influenza treatment with a novel mechanism of
Clevers is an outstanding scientist with great expertise action in almost 20 years.
and experience in medical research.
With our focus on personalised healthcare, we aim
It is most gratifying to see that a sustainability to sustain our growth trajectory in 2019 as well. I am
mindset is embedded at all levels of the company. confident that by pursuing a strategy of systematic
In 2018, Roche was recognised as Group Leader innovation based on medical and scientific progress,
in sustainability within the Pharmaceuticals, sustainable solutions and partnerships, Roche is well
Biotechnology & Life Sciences Industry index of positioned for the future.
the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the tenth
consecutive year. I see this as a commitment to continue Many thanks to everyone who worked with us in
operating our business responsibly, holistically and 2018 on behalf of patients the world over. I thank our
with a long­term perspective. In doing so, our most employees for their tireless efforts and achievements.
important contribution to society is the development And I offer you, our shareholders, my heartfelt thanks
of medicines and diagnostics that significantly for the trust you have placed in us.
improve people’s lives. Last year, some 20 billion tests
were conducted with Roche analysers, while about
127 million patients worldwide benefited from our
medicines.
Roche was one of the first companies to consolidate
and complement its own research and development
expertise by working with external partners. Dr Christoph Franz
Worldwide we now have 220 partnerships with Chairman of the Board of Directors
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2017).Board of Directors | Roche
15
Board of Directors
Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E
Prof. Sir John Bell (1952) B, E
Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E
Anita Hauser (1969) A, E
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949)
Representative of the shareholder group with pooled voting rights, A*, E
André Hoffmann (1958)
Vice-Chairman, Representative of the shareholder group with pooled
voting rights, A, C*, D, E
Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F
Dr Christoph Franz (1960) Chairman, C, D*, E
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967) A, B, E
Julie Brown (1962) B*, E
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953) C, E
Peter R. Voser (1958) C, E
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
B Audit Committee
C Remuneration Committee
D Presidium/Nomination Committee
E Non-executive director
F Executive director
* Committee chairperson
Roche Board of Directors on 31 December 2018, in the midst of Roche apprenticesBoard of Directors | Roche
1516
Data protection
is in our DNA
Roche CEO Severin Schwan talks about the completely new
opportunities opening up with digitalisation and the importance
of trust in handling patient data.
What does digitalisation mean for Roche? nothing new; it has always been part of the business.
These technologies—combined with our expertise in The division has always compiled clinical trial data as
medical science—have the potential to fundamentally the basis for obtaining approvals for new medicines.
improve and accelerate the way we do research, What’s new is that we no longer only evaluate data
develop and sell medicines and diagnostic systems. from clinical trials, but also data from clinical practice.
We will continue to stand for diagnostics and The reason we can do so now is because these data are
medicines, but will also market an increasing number increasingly compiled and recorded electronically.
of digital solutions alongside these tangible products.
The Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions will We’re talking about Flatiron and FMI here.
experience the impact on our business model in That’s right. By acquiring Flatiron and FMI, we have
different ways. For Pharmaceuticals, assessing data is taken a quantum leap forward in terms of access toInterview with the CEO Roche Group | Roche
17
data in oncology, even if both companies pursue available. To achieve this, basically we want to work
their objectives independently. In addition, we have with anonymised data instead of accessing sensitive
entered into a large number of partnerships with personal data. Thanks to powerful anonymisation
other companies and public institutions. But the processes, data utilisation does not contravene data
Pharmaceuticals’ business model has not changed protection. In this connection, we would like more
fundamentally; it still focuses on the development legal certainty and clear regulations regarding the
and marketing of new and better medicines. handling of such data.
Roche is currently developing a monitoring app for People are still worried about data being misused.
Parkinson’s disease. Is Roche now breaking into New technologies always generate uncertainty. Just
the app business? look back at the debate about genetic engineering
I would prefer to say that we will be selling medicines in the 1990s. The current debate and concerns over
for Parkinson’s disease, and apps will be associated data misuse are playing out along similar lines. Some
with that. They could be our own apps, but other of these concerns are justified and need to be taken
companies might also develop suitable ones. seriously and managed, but it is important to keep
negativity from dominating the equation. If genetic
And in Diagnostics? engineering technology had been banned back in
Diagnostics is undergoing a sea change in its 1998, the achievements in the life sciences industry
business model. Until now, we sold instruments and would not have been possible. More than 70% of our
tests, and our customers interpreted the data. Now, medicines are produced by biotechnology.
we also offer clinical decision support. This means that
we aggregate data from our own, and other, systems Patients have benefited from genetic engineering.
so that we can supply relevant decision­making What will they gain from digitalisation?
information to doctors and patients, like we do with Three things. First, new and better medicines.
the Navify Tumor Board. We are building a digital Real­world data enable us to see connections that
ecosystem that third­party companies will also be we cannot see in classical clinical trial data. For
able to dock onto and provide apps for. That gives example, we can spot new therapeutic targets for
us a genuinely new business model. molecules, identify different subgroups within
patient populations and, as a consequence, develop
What is Roche’s position on data protection? new medicines in a much more specific and effective
The concept that data need to be protected is in our way. Second, medicines are reaching the market
DNA, and we have been putting data protection into faster because we can design clinical trials more
practice in our clinical trials for decades. I regularly efficiently and thus accelerate the approval process.
find that government agencies and hospitals are Finally, digital decision­making aids will help to
willing to partner with us because of our solid make treatments more targeted and efficient in
expertise in protecting patient data. Trust has a lot to everyday clinical practice, too. Helping patients
do with it, and we need to take advantage of the lead and improving healthcare is what Roche is about.
that this trust gives us to substantially accelerate Digitalisation puts us on a much faster track to
medical advances using the data volumes that are now achieving personalised healthcare.Corporate Executive Committee | Roche
19
Corporate Executive Committee
Dr Stephan Feldhaus* (1962)
Head Group Communications
Dr Alan Hippe (1967)
Chief Financial and IT Officer
Dr William Pao* (1967)
Head Roche Pharma Research & Early Development (pRED)
Dr James H. Sabry* (1958)
Global Head Pharma Partnering
Dr Michael D. Varney* (1958)
Head Genentech Research & Early Development (gRED)
Dr Severin Schwan (1967)
CEO Roche Group
Daniel O’Day (1964)
CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967)
Head Group Human Resources
Dr Michael Heuer (1954)
CEO Roche Diagnostics a. i.
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
General Counsel
* Member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Roche Corporate Executive Committee on 31 December 2018, in the midst of Roche apprenticesCorporate Executive Committee | Roche
1920Business performance | Roche
21
Roche showed a very strong
business
performance
The uptake of our new medicines continued to be very strong
throughout the year.
Stringent quality controls ensure that our products provided to patients meet all the respective production criteria.22
Very strong results in
both divisions
Strong growth of our new products characterised the year 2018. Based on this performance, Roche is well positioned for future growth.
In 2018, Group sales rose 7%* to CHF 56.8 billion. In the International region, sales grew 10%, led by the
Core operating profit increased 9%, reflecting the Asia­Pacific and Latin America subregions. In Japan,
strong underlying business performance. Core EPS sales declined 1% due to government price cuts and
grew 19% and IFRS net income increased 24%, biosimilar competition.
including the benefits from the US tax reform and
higher net financial income. Diagnostics Division sales increased 7% to
CHF 12.9 billion. Centralised and Point of Care
Sales in the Pharmaceuticals Division increased Solutions (+8%) was the main contributor, led by the
7% to CHF 44.0 billion. Key growth drivers were growth of its immunodiagnostics business (+11%).
the new medicine Ocrevus, used to treat two forms Sales increased in all business areas. In regional terms,
of multiple sclerosis (MS), and cancer medicines growth was driven by Asia­Pacific (+13%) and North
Perjeta, Tecentriq, Alecensa and Hemlibra to treat America (+7%). Sales increased 3% in EMEA, 9% in
haemophilia. As expected, the strong uptake of Latin America, and 6% in Japan.2
newly introduced medicines was partially offset by
lower sales of MabThera/Rituxan and Tarceva. Drug approvals and expedited reviews
The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
In the US, sales increased 14%, led by Ocrevus, Perjeta granted several approvals, including: Tecentriq, in
and Lucentis.1 In Europe (­7%), sales were affected by combination with Avastin, paclitaxel and carboplatin
competition from biosimilars for MabThera/Rituxan (chemotherapy), for the initial treatment of people
(­47%) and Herceptin (­16%), partially offset by the with metastatic non­squamous non­small cell lung
strong launches of our new medicines Ocrevus, cancer (NSCLC) with no EGFR or ALK genomic
Tecentriq, Alecensa, and of Perjeta. tumour aberrations; MabThera/Rituxan forBusiness performance | Roche
23
Material topics covered in this chapter
Product portfolio strategy
Growth strategy in emerging and developed markets
pemphigus vulgaris; Avastin for a form of ovarian Roche Diagnostics has introduced new products
cancer; Hemlibra for people with haemophilia A and services and announced key partnerships.
without factor VIII inhibitors; and Xofluza (baloxavir
marboxil) for the treatment of acute, uncomplicated Through the strategic partnership with GE
influenza in people aged 12 years and older. Healthcare, we combine our in vitro diagnostics
with GE Healthcare’s in vivo expertise. We will
European Medical Agency (EMA) approvals co­develop and co­market decision support software
include Ocrevus for MS, Hemlibra for people with solutions, anchored by a shared digital platform. This
haemophilia A with inhibitors to factor VIII, and is designed to also allow third parties to potentially
Perjeta for adjuvant treatment of HER2­positive early place their product­ and company­agnostic
breast cancer at high risk of recurrence. applications.
In China, the National Drug Administration approved In 2018, the Navify Clinical Trial Match and Navify
Alecensa for the treatment of ALK­positive NSCLC. Publication Search apps were launched. These apps
scan globally renowned resources and are fully
The FDA granted priority review for Tecentriq plus integrated with the Navify Tumor Board.
chemotherapy (albumin­bound paclitaxel) for the
initial (first­line) treatment of unresectable locally Viewics, Inc., one of our data analytics platforms,
advanced or metastatic triple­negative breast cancer launched its first two solution applications—Viewics
(TNBC) in people whose disease expresses the PD­L1 LabOPS and Viewics Dx Optimization—to support
protein, as determined by PD­L1 biomarker testing. better productivity, decision­making and clinical
care for laboratories and hospitals.
Health authorities in the US, EU and Japan granted
expedited reviews for entrectinib (more on page 37). cobas pro integrated solutions, a Serum Work Area
solution for medium­ to lower high­throughput
The EMA granted PRIME designation for RG6042 laboratories, was launched in countries accepting
for the treatment of Huntington’s disease and for the CE mark.
the investigational oral medicine risdiplam for the
treatment of people with spinal muscular atrophy. Outlook for 2019
Sales are expected to grow in the low­ to mid­single
Diagnostics: data management and digit range, at constant exchange rates. Core earnings
decision support per share are targeted to grow broadly in line with
To support healthcare providers who need to manage sales, at constant exchange rates. Roche expects to
ever­growing amounts of data from diverse sources, further increase its dividend in Swiss francs.
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2017). | 1 US Food and Drug Administration prescribing information for Perjeta |
2 EMEA = Europe, Middle East and Africa24
Diagnostics Division
Sales up 7%
With its products and services Roche Diagnostics supports healthcare providers in transforming data into actionable insights. We also help laboratories around the
world to succeed in an increasingly complex and rapidly changing healthcare environment.
Sales in the Diagnostics Division grew strongly (+7%)* businesses grew 9% and 8%, respectively. Continued
to CHF 12.9 billion, with growth reported in all high demand was reported for cobas Liat tests, the
regions and business areas. new system for molecular point­of­care testing.
Regional growth was led by EMEA and North
Centralised and Point of Care Solutions (+8%) America.
was the largest contributor to the division’s sales
growth. Serum Work Area solutions, comprising the The cobas Dried Blood Spot test for qualitative early
immunodiagnostics (+11%) and clinical chemistry infant diagnosis and the cobas Plasma Separation
(+7%) businesses, were the main growth drivers. The Card for quantitative viral load testing for use on the
Centralised and Point of Care Solutions business cobas 4800 were launched, further improving access
expanded, especially in Asia­Pacific due to sales to HIV diagnosis in remote areas.
growth in China, and in North America.
Tissue Diagnostics sales increased 10%. The advanced
cobas pro integrated solutions, a Serum Work Area staining business continued its strong growth (+10%);
solution for medium­ to lower high­throughput demand for the primary staining portfolio was high
laboratories, was launched in countries accepting (+13%). Regionally, growth was led by North America
the CE mark. and EMEA. Growth in Asia­Pacific was driven by
China.
Sales in Molecular Diagnostics increased 5%.
In virology, sales were up 4%. Sales in the blood The Ventana DP 200 slide scanner was launched
screening and human papillomavirus (HPV) early in 2018, creating high­quality tissue slideBusiness performance | Roche
25
+7% +3%
North America Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)
+6%
Japan
+9%
+13%
Latin America
Asia-Pacific
The Asia-Pacific region was again the division’s main growth driver.
images that offer pathologists a digital image that Top-selling product portfolios in 2018 (CHF millions)
accurately reproduces what would be seen under
the microscope. These images serve as the basis for 4,242
a full menu of image analysis algorithms currently +11%
under development. Roche also launched uPath cobas
enterprise software, a universal digital pathology Immunodiagnostics
software application for lab administrators,
histotechnicians and pathologists. It enables 1,841
pathologists with patient­centric case viewing +7%
for quick diagnosis. cobas
Clinical chemistry
Diabetes Care sales increased 2%, mainly driven
by the new Accu­Chek Guide and Accu­Chek Instant 853
systems. Sales growth was reported in North America +10%
and Latin America and in Asia­Pacific. Ventana
Advanced staining
Launched in pilot markets, the new Accu­Chek Solo
micropump received encouraging customer feedback. 663
An enhanced positive acceptance is visible for the +4%
integrated diabetes management solutions including cobas
mySugr. Virology
1,980
+2%
Accu-Chek
Diabetes Care
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2017).26
Delivering medical value to a digital world
In this era of digital technology, we are increasingly a future menu of Roche image analysis algorithms.
able to tailor medical treatments to the needs of The scanner is CE­marked for in vitro diagnostic use
individuals. Far more information is being captured, and is available in the US for research use only.
stored and analysed, revealing how diseases manifest
themselves and how patients experience them from In October, we officially opened our new manu­
day to day. Our deepening understanding of molecular facturing site and R&D centre in Suzhou, China, to
science, together with new diagnostic tools and data support the future diagnostic needs in China and the
management methods, is bringing disruptive changes region. With our regional headquarters in Singapore
to patient care. and eight existing branches across China, we are
already a major healthcare provider in Asia­Pacific.
Our holistic approach to digital transformation Rapid population growth coupled with the changing
extends well beyond technology, addressing the entire landscape in high­end manufacturing has encouraged
customer experience, encompassing our product us to expand our global manufacturing expertise
portfolio and resulting in new ways of working. At locally.
Roche Diagnostics, this transformation of our business
is well underway, enabling us to become a leader in Transforming data into actionable insights:
digital diagnostics while remaining the global leader decision support
in in vitro diagnostics. As medical knowledge increases at an exponential
rate, healthcare providers need to manage ever­
We are one of the largest providers of real­world growing amounts of data from diverse sources such
data, and produce billions of test results every year. In as electronic health records, doctors’ notes, clinical
2018, the total exceeded 20 billion results. We have trials and diagnostic instruments.
more than 100 digital technology and data initiatives
already underway. We are committed to delivering At Roche, we understand that confident decision­
digital solutions and services—in addition to our making in clinical practice only happens when human
industry­leading diagnostics portfolio—that offer medical knowledge and digital medical knowledge
enhanced and broader customer experiences and help come together seamlessly. With the Diagnostics and
to improve the lives of patients around the world. Pharmaceuticals Divisions working together under
one roof and combining our profound understanding
In March, we launched the Ventana DP 200 high­ of diseases, diagnostics and treatment, we are uniquely
speed slide scanner for digital pathology. Its unique positioned to tackle the challenges of vast and complex
tray­based design enables no­touch slide processing sources of data. And working with our external
for reduced workflow errors. It provides reliable, high­ partners, we are developing new solutions that make
speed scanning of histology slides with excellent the best use of data to enable smarter, more efficient
image quality and reliability, setting a new standard research and development and better patient care
for digital pathology and providing a foundation for overall.Business performance | Roche
27
In 2018, our industry-leading portfolio of integrated diagnostic solutions grew significantly, with several product launches in the US and in Europe.
In early 2018, Roche Diagnostics and GE Healthcare integration of imaging and imaging analytics. This
announced their agreement to enter into a strategic means the product will be capable of integrating
partnership, combining our in vitro diagnostics with Roche’s in vitro diagnostic data (eg, biomarkers, tissue
GE Healthcare’s in vivo expertise. We will co­develop pathology, genomics) and in vivo diagnostic data
and co­market decision support software solutions, provided by GE Healthcare (eg, medical imaging)
anchored by a shared digital platform designed to also together with other patient information.
allow third parties to potentially place their product­
and company­agnostic applications. The initial focus The September launch of the first two Navify Clinical
is on oncology and acute care. Decision Support apps underlined our strategy and
marked a next step towards more personalised
We continue to develop our Navify Decision Support healthcare. The Navify Clinical Trial Match and Navify
portfolio, launched in 2017, to help multidisciplinary Publication Search apps scan globally renowned
care teams navigate increasingly complex medical resources and are fully integrated with the Navify
information. The first commercially available Tumor Board. The apps represent the start of the
product—Navify Tumor Board—is a cloud­based Navify app ecosystem, with more apps from Roche,
software solution that fundamentally changes the partners and third parties to follow.
way oncology care teams prepare for, conduct and
document clinical treatment decisions. Viewics, Inc., one of our data analytics platforms,
launched its first two solution applications to support
Together with GE Healthcare, we will introduce better productivity, decision­making and clinical care
Navify Tumor Board v2.0, which offers a deeper for laboratories and hospitals.28
2,200
tests per hour
Roche Integrated Core Lab (ICL) vastly expands the
efficiency, scope and quality of diagnostic capabilities
in the laboratory. And in 2018, our industry­leading
portfolio of integrated diagnostic solutions grew
significantly, with several product launches in the
US and in Europe.
In February, we received FDA clearance for the cobas
Factor II and Factor V test on the cobas 4800 system,
providing a rapid workflow to aid in the diagnosis of
patients with suspected thrombophilia. The test enables
laboratories to simultaneously assess factor II and
factor V gene mutations from a single patient sample,
which can reduce hands­on time when testing patients
cobas pro integrated solutions—starting point of a new generation of Serum Work Area for inherited thrombophilia. The test expands on the
solutions—seamlessly integrated into the Roche Integrated Core Lab. current menu of the cobas 4800 system, enabling labs
to consolidate genomics, oncology, microbiology and
virology testing onto a single platform. The new test
also complements the recent CE approval of cobas t 511
In October, the Viewics LabOPS application was rolled and cobas t 711 coagulation analysers for the central
out to customers in most regions, with Asia­Pacific lab, making Roche a key partner for laboratories
following soon. Viewics LabOPS offers easy­to­use performing coagulation and thrombophilia testing.
dashboards and reports about the data in our customers’ The efficient test design allows laboratories to report up
lab or hospital operations. The Viewics Dx Optimization to 94 patient samples—and 188 results—per 90 minutes.
module also features a suite of dashboards and reports
designed to optimise physician ordering protocols and In April, we received 510(k) clearance (a premarket
is available in the US and Canada. submission made to the FDA) for cobas CT/NG
assay for use on the cobas 6800/8800 systems for the
Empowering laboratories with innovation direct detection of Chlamydia trachomatis (CT)
and efficiency and/or Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG) DNA in both
By enabling continuous access to advanced and symptomatic and asymptomatic individuals. The
innovative diagnostics, we help laboratories around cobas CT/NG assay helps labs handle increasing
the world succeed in an increasingly complex and testing volumes with the highest­throughput solution
rapidly changing healthcare environment. The currently on the market.Business performance | Roche
29
In July, the FDA granted breakthrough device per hour and continuous loading of supplies.
designations for our Elecsys β­Amyloid (1–42) CSF Furthermore, it offers simplicity through automated
and Elecsys Phospho­Tau (181P) CSF tests. These maintenance and calibration. It also features the
in vitro diagnostic immunoassays measure the broadest SWA assay menu consolidated on a single
β­amyloid (1–42) and phospho­tau concentrations platform, short assay incubation times and low
in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in adult patients with sample volume requirements.
cognitive impairment who are being evaluated for
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) or other causes of dementia. In our Diabetes Care business, we are implementing
Diagnosis of AD has been largely based on clinical our strategy to offer integrated diabetes management
symptoms, including cognitive testing, with a solutions; connecting physical products including
significant number of patients diagnosed when their blood glucose meters and test strips with digital
disease has already advanced. Biomarker­based solutions and services. In July, we received the
testing is expected to lead to greater diagnostic CE­mark for the Accu­Chek Solo micropump and
certainty and contribute to the search for effective began launching in the first markets. As we are
treatment. creating an open ecosystem of products and solutions
that include our own as well as third­party solutions,
Our next­generation sequencing (NGS) portfolio we have signed important data­sharing agreements
continues to grow, and in October, three new NGS with Novo Nordisk and Senseonics. In June, we
Avenio Tumor Tissue Analysis Kits were launched entered into a collaboration agreement with Care
globally. These research­use­only (RUO) kits—the Innovations, a telehealth solution provider. Under
Avenio Tumor Tissue Targeted Kit, Expanded Kit the agreement, Care Innovations’ customers based
and Surveillance Kit—detect all four mutation in the US and Canada will be offered the mySugr
classes in solid tumours and complement our NGS app, which allows people with diabetes to receive
ctDNA kits for oncology research. The Avenio RUO advice from certified diabetes educators. Customers
portfolio of ready­to­use kits provides reagents and will also have an Accu­Chek Guide blood glucose
software needed by labs to determine the genomic meter and test strips delivered directly to their
characteristics of solid tumours through a single homes.
DNA workflow.
This integration of insulin dosage and continuous
In December, we launched the cobas pro integrated glucose monitoring data with our digital solutions,
solutions for laboratories with medium­ to high­ including mySugr, will help create insights based on
throughput Serum Work Area (SWA) testing. This data. These personalised solutions aim to improve
new generation of SWA solutions offers a high level therapy outcomes for patients, thereby benefiting
of efficiency with a throughput of up to 2,200 tests healthcare professionals and payers, too.30Business performance | Roche
31
Ilka Gdanietz, mySugr, Austria
“As long as there is an impact, I cannot
imagine doing anything else.”
I have type 1 diabetes and have lived with it since Nowadays I wear a pump that constantly delivers
the age of ten. Diabetes is a data­driven disease. I insulin to my body. I have an implanted sensor
have to handle so many numbers every day, like my under my skin that sends my glucose readings in
blood glucose levels, my carb intake, calculate the real time to my smartphone and smartwatch, which
right amount of insulin units to take, and the list are connected to my app, which is mySugr. This
just goes on. As a person living with diabetes, you stores all my relevant diabetes data in one place and
have to make about 50 therapy decisions a day all on even lets me know when it detects a certain pattern
your own. That sucks! It can be really exhausting, in my blood glucose readings to which I need to pay
time­consuming and frustrating. extra attention.
I have been working at mySugr since 2012. mySugr What I expect from the healthcare industry is not
aims to offer all­round care for people with diabetes, only the development of products and services that
and the open app solution specialises in coaching and keep us alive, but also that make our lives easier
automated data tracking. Since 2017, mySugr has been and hopefully give us a good quality of life. I am
part of the Roche Group. The work we do here is to convinced that digitalisation will have a big role to
help make living with diabetes less burdensome. We play in this.
understand the pain well as a third of my co­workers
also live with type 1 diabetes. We not only develop I take an active role in raising awareness about my
features in the app that take into account practical condition. Since 2008, I have been writing one of
issues around our lives, but do this by getting views the best­known diabetes blogs in Germany and have
of patients on board at an early stage. Our goal is to also been getting increasingly involved in patient
take away as many therapy­related tasks as possible advocacy. Together with a colleague, I moderate a
from the patient. diabetes patient event every year which draws about
500 participants.
I grew up with diabetes in the days when blood
glucose meters were much bigger, a test took over Living with diabetes, working in a company focused
two minutes, and I had to take insulin shots eight on diabetes, and spending most of my free time on
times a day. In addition, I had to keep a handwritten diabetes­related projects and advocacy may sound a
logbook of my records, which was a mess. But times bit weird. But as long as there is an impact, I cannot
have changed, and so has diabetes care with all the imagine doing anything else.
digital transformation that is happening around us.32
Pharmaceuticals Division
Sales up 7%
With total sales of CHF 2.4 billion in its first full year on key markets, Ocrevus is the most successful new product launch in Roche’s history.
Sales in the Pharmaceuticals Division increased 7%* Sales grew in the US (+4%) and in the International
to CHF 44.0 billion; new medicines contributed region (+11%), particularly in China.
almost all growth.
Actemra/RoActemra (+12%). For rheumatoid
Herceptin, Perjeta and Kadcyla (combined +7%). arthritis, forms of juvenile idiopathic arthritis and
For HER2­positive breast cancer and HER2­positive giant cell arteritis as well as CAR T­cell­induced
metastatic gastric cancer (Herceptin only). Herceptin severe or life­threatening cytokine release syndrome.
sales increases (+1%) were mainly driven by growth Sales increased in all regions, driven by the US.
in the US and in China. In Europe (­16%) and Japan
(­16%), sales were affected by biosimilars. Xolair (+11%, US only). For chronic idiopathic
urticaria and allergic asthma. Growth was driven
Avastin (+3%). For advanced colorectal, breast, lung, by demand in both indications.
kidney, cervical and ovarian cancer and relapsed
glioblastoma (a type of brain tumour). Sales increased Lucentis (+18%, US only). For eye conditions
in the International region (+12%), in the US (+1%) including neovascular (‘wet’) age­related macular
and in Japan (+3%), but declined in Europe (­1%). degeneration, macular oedema following retinal
vein occlusion, diabetic macular oedema and diabetic
MabThera/Rituxan (­8%). For forms of blood retinopathy. Growth was driven by sales of prefilled
cancer, rheumatoid arthritis and certain types of syringes and sales increases in all approved
vasculitis. Sales development was impacted in Europe indications.
(­47%) and Japan (­36%) by biosimilar competition.Business performance | Roche
33
Key growth-drivers in 2018 (CHF millions)
6,982
+1%
Herceptin
Oncology
6,849
+3%
Avastin
Oncology
Highlights on medicines launched since 2012
Perjeta. For HER2­positive breast cancer. Sales 2,773
(CHF 2.8 billion, +27%) grew in all regions. As of +27%
December 2018, Perjeta was registered in 73 countries Perjeta
for adjuvant treatment. This indication strongly Oncology
supports its continued growth, which is also driven
by increased demand in the adjuvant eBC (US) and 2,353
the neoadjuvant metastatic settings in Europe. +172%
Ocrevus
Ocrevus (CHF 2.4 billion, +172%). For the treatment Neuroscience
of relapsing (RMS) and primary progressive (PPMS)
forms of MS. Growth was driven by new patients and 2,160
patients requesting follow­up therapy alike. +12%
Actemra/RoActemra
Esbriet (CHF 1.0 billion, +19%). For idiopathic Immunology
pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Sales continued to expand,
driven by growth in the US (+19%). 1,912
+11%
Tecentriq (CHF 772 million, +59%). For advanced Xolair
bladder cancer, advanced lung cancer and initial Immunology
therapy of non­squamous NSCLC. Growth was driven
by post­launch uptake in Europe and launch in Japan. 1,031
+19%
Alecensa (CHF 637 million, +76%). For ALK­positive Esbriet
NSCLC. Alecensa showed continued strong sales Immunology
growth across all regions.
979
Gazyva/Gazyvaro (CHF 390 million, +40%). For +8%
chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), rituximab­ Kadcyla
refractory follicular lymphoma and previously Oncology
untreated advanced follicular lymphoma. Sales
expanded, especially in Europe and in the US. 772
+59%
Hemlibra (CHF 224 million). Hemlibra is approved Tecentriq
for people with haemophilia A with inhibitors to Oncology
factor VIII in more than 50 countries, including the
US, the EU, Australia and Japan. Hemlibra is also 637
approved for people with haemophilia A without +76%
factor VIII inhibitors in the US and other countries. Alecensa
Oncology
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2017).34
Rejuvenating our portfolio
New options for patients Results from the phase III Alex and J­Alex studies
Our new medicines, including Ocrevus, Perjeta, on Alecensa added to a wealth of evidence that
Tecentriq, Alecensa and Hemlibra, saw continued supported the first­line use of Alecensa in multiple
and very strong uptake in multiple markets. patient populations within ALK­positive NSCLC.
This was followed by rapid worldwide regulatory
With sales of CHF 2.4 billion in its first full year on approvals. Recently announced results of the third
key markets, Ocrevus has been the most successful head­to­head phase III Alesia study of Alecensa versus
new product launch in Roche’s history. In addition to crizotinib in an Asian patient population with ALK­
it having been met with extremely positive responses positive advanced or metastatic NSCLC reinforce the
in new markets during 2018, the vast majority of findings of the Alex and J­Alex studies, showing a
patients with both forms also returned for follow­up reduction in the risk of disease worsening or death
treatment with this twice­a­year medication. Strong by 78%. Alecensa lowered the risk of tumour spread
demand in both indications has continued. Five­year or growth in the brain or central nervous system
data showed that the efficacy of Ocrevus is maintained by 86%.2
on key measures of disease activity, and that people
with MS treated earlier with Ocrevus had superior In 2018, Alecensa was approved in China for ALK­
disability progression outcomes compared with RMS positive advanced NSCLC, just eight months after
patients who switched from interferon beta­1a or approval in Europe.
PPMS patients who switched from placebo.1 Longer­
term safety data continue to show a favourable risk­ In 2018, strong data were announced from Tecentriq
benefit profile. studies in triple­negative breast cancer (TNBC) and
extensive­stage small cell lung cancer.
Ocrevus has now been approved in 74 countries,
with more than 80,000 people treated globally as of Positive results were announced from the phase III
December 2018. IMpassion130 study of Tecentriq plus chemotherapy
(nab­paclitaxel) for the initial (first­line) treatment of
Perjeta, representing a major advance for the treatment unresectable locally advanced or metastatic TNBC—
of patients with breast cancer, generated total sales of the first positive phase III immunotherapy study in
CHF 2.8 billion. Launched in 2012, its usage continues TNBC, an aggressive disease with limited treatment
to broaden as study results confirm its medical benefits options. The Tecentriq and chemotherapy combination
in additional indications, including results of the significantly reduced the risk of disease worsening
phase III Aphinity study for adjuvant treatment of or death (progression­free survival; PFS) compared
HER2­positive early breast cancer in patients who with chemotherapy alone in the intention­to­treat and
are at high risk of recurrence. the PD­L1­positive population, a subgroup determined
1 Phase III open-label extension studies of Opera I, Opera II and Oratorio | 2 Zhou C et al. Primary results of Alesia, Presented at ESMO
Congress 2018; Munich, Germany. Abstract #LBA10Business performance | Roche
35
-7%
Europe
+14% -1%
US Japan
+10%
International
Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, Latin America, Asia-Pacific and Canada form the ‘International’ region.
by PD­L1 biomarker testing, and showed an in the treatment of haemophilia. In 2018, Hemlibra
encouraging overall survival benefit in the PD­L1­ also gained US FDA approval for people with
positive population at interim analysis. haemophilia A without factor VIII inhibitors. Together
with previous approvals, this new medicine is now
Positive results from the phase III IMpower133 indicated for most haemophilia patients in the US,
study of Tecentriq plus carboplatin and etoposide along with three dosing regimens for subcutaneous
(chemotherapy) for the initial (first­line) treatment treatment: once weekly, every two weeks or every four
of people with previously untreated extensive­stage weeks. Data from the Haven 3 and Haven 4 studies,
small cell lung cancer showed that Tecentriq and which supported this approval, are under review by
chemotherapy helped people live significantly the European Medicines Agency.
longer compared with chemotherapy alone in the
intention­to­treat population. The combination Results from the Kadcyla phase III Katherine study
based on Tecentriq also significantly reduced the for patients with HER2­positive early breast cancer
risk of disease worsening or death compared with (eBC) showed that treatment with Kadcyla as a single
chemotherapy alone. agent led to a significant reduction in the risk of
disease recurrence or death, compared to Herceptin as
Hemlibra is approved for people with haemophilia A an adjuvant (after surgery) treatment in people with
with inhibitors to factor VIII in more than 50 countries. HER2­positive eBC who have residual disease present
These approvals have transformed medical practice following neoadjuvant (before surgery) treatment.36
Approvals and expedited reviews
In December, the FDA approved Tecentriq in This is the first biologic therapy approved by the
combination with Avastin, paclitaxel and carboplatin FDA for pemphigus vulgaris and the first major
(chemotherapy) for the initial (first­line) treatment of advancement in the treatment of the disease in
people with metastatic non­squamous non­small cell more than 60 years.
lung cancer (NSCLC) with no EGFR or ALK genomic
tumour aberrations. Additionally, approvals were granted by the FDA
for the subcutaneous formulation of Actemra/
In October 2018, the FDA approved Xofluza for RoActemra for a form of juvenile idiopathic arthritis
the treatment of influenza infection. Xofluza is a and Avastin for a form of ovarian cancer.
first­in­class, single­dose oral medicine with a novel
proposed mechanism of action. It is approved for the Expedited review status
treatment of acute, uncomplicated influenza in people The FDA granted priority review status for Tecentriq
aged 12 years and older. It has demonstrated efficacy plus chemotherapy (nab-paclitaxel) for the initial
against a wide range of influenza viruses, including (first­line) treatment of unresectable, locally advanced
oseltamivir­resistant strains and avian strains (H7N9, or metastatic TNBC in people whose disease expresses
H5N1) in non­clinical studies. the PD­L1 protein, as determined by PD­L1 biomarker
testing. In July, the FDA granted breakthrough
The FDA also granted approval for MabThera/ therapy designation for Tecentriq in combination
Rituxan for the treatment of adults with moderate with Avastin as a first­line treatment for people with
to severe pemphigus vulgaris, a rare, serious, life­ advanced or metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma
threatening condition characterised by progressive, based on an ongoing phase Ib study. IMbrave150,
painful blistering of the skin and mucous membranes. a phase III study, is ongoing.
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has granted
PRIME (PRIority MEdicines) designation for the
Almost all
company’s investigational medicine RG6042 (formerly
known as IONIS­HTTRx) for the treatment of people
with Huntington’s disease and for the investigational
oral medicine risdiplam (RG7916) for the treatment
of the division’s growth is driven by new products. of people with spinal muscular atrophy.Business performance | Roche
37
22%
CHF million % of divisional sales
10,000
9,000
15% Erivedge (2012)
8,000
Perjeta (2012)
7,000 Kadcyla (2013)
Gazyva/Gazyvaro (2013)
6,000
11%
Esbriet (2014)
5,000 8% Cotellic (2015)
5% Alecensa (2015)
4,000 Tecentriq (2016)
Venclexta/Venclyxto (2016)*
3,000
Ocrevus (2017)
2,000 Hemlibra (2017)
Xofluza (2018)
1,000
* Venclexta/Venclyxtos sales are
0 booked by partner AbbVie.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
The percentage of sales contribution of medicines launched since 2012 increased steadily.
Entrectinib has been granted expedited review the lives of cancer patients by making optimal use
status by the three major regulators: the US (FDA of healthcare data and analytics. The partnership
breakthrough therapy designation), the EU (EMA will leverage this combined expertise to advance
PRIME designation) and Japan (Japanese Ministry the use of real­world evidence and set new industry
of Health, Labour and Welfare Sakigake and orphan standards for oncology research and development.
drug designations). Entrectinib is in development
for the treatment of NTRK fusion­positive, locally In late July 2018, Roche completed the transaction
advanced or metastatic solid tumours in adult and to take 100% ownership of Foundation Medicine,
paediatric patients whose cancer has progressed Inc. (FMI), US. This transaction will accelerate
following prior therapies or have no acceptable comprehensive genomic profiling in oncology by
standard therapies. making FMI’s high­quality, comprehensive genomic
profiling testing and innovative data services more
Advancing personalised healthcare commonly available. Together, the companies will
In April 2018, Roche completed the acquisition of leverage their expertise in genomics and molecular
Flatiron Health. This acquisition will help combine information to enhance the development of person­
the efforts of two companies committed to improving alised medicines and care for patients with cancer.38
Image not touched up yetBusiness performance | Roche
39
Gehad Refky, Roche, Egypt
“It is my partner for life. We have got
to know each other well.”
I was just ten months old when doctors told my I then went on to get a degree in pharmacy and
parents that I had haemophilia. Never did I imagine biotechnology. Five years ago, I joined Roche and
that one day through my work I would be able to worked in different areas such as rheumatoid
help others like me. My personal experiences are an arthritis, anaemia and transplantation. Three years
advantage, but more importantly a responsibility and ago, by complete chance, I read an article about
a challenge. Being a person with haemophilia myself, Roche developing a medicine called emicizumab
I know only too well the burden of the disease, how (Hemlibra) for haemophilia. That was my company!
much of a nuisance it can be, and how debilitating I hoped that I could work on this medicine one day.
the complications are. Finally, when the position of Product Manager
opened up, I applied.
Honestly, as a little child, I was not even aware of
how much haemophilia affected my family and me. I now work in the launch team of emicizumab in
My diagnosis came about because I had twisted an Roche Egypt. We hope that this medicine will be
ankle and the bleeding inside made it turn shades of available to patients soon. We are busy in the team
purple and green. As I grew up, I understood that I with several pre­launch activities, such as education
needed to be careful while carrying out even the most programmes for healthcare professionals, spreading
routine day­to­day tasks. It was always a nightmare awareness about haemophilia, and talking to
when I had bleeding episodes. Very often these physicians and patient groups about emicizumab.
occurred at inconvenient times and my parents had to
search for hospitals and doctors who were not fearful My own life makes it easier to explain the burden
of injecting something they were not familiar with. of the disease and the challenges the patients face
in their daily lives. So during our field visits with
Being at school was difficult at times and I had varied the Medical Science Liaisons, a conversation with
experiences, but they only toughened me. I remember a medical expert moves to a different level when
I once broke a leg and twisted an ankle at the same time, they come to know that I have the disease myself.
and I had to skip the morning lines and recesses for a Haemophilia is my partner for life. We have got to
whole month. Other children would look at me strangely know each other well. I now hope to use this for
as they thought I was being given special privileges. the benefit of others.40Science and innovation | Roche
41
The core of our business is
science and
innovation
Advances in digital technologies and data­driven analytics will
increasingly shape research and development going forward,
taking personalised healthcare to the next level.
An employee is preparing a sample for Roche’s digital pathology platform which is a key asset for programmes such
as cancer immunotherapy.42
Data insights for better informed
decisions
Machine learning tools can identify patterns of morphological changes in bacteria that are tightly linked to an antibiotic’s mode of action (MOA), each providing a
unique fingerprint.
New technologies and advanced analytical tools are Roche has been building on its wide­ranging expertise
helping to manage, mine and make sense of large and and combined strengths in Pharmaceuticals and
fast­growing datasets. They are emerging as powerful Diagnostics for the past 20 years. This has made the
catalysts in the transformation of healthcare, both in company a universally acknowledged pioneer and
terms of accelerating research and development (R&D) leader in this first wave of personalised healthcare
and ensuring access to the best possible care for patients. (PHC). As part of these efforts, the company has
developed targeted treatments, starting with the
A few concrete examples of tremendous progress breast cancer medicine Herceptin in 1998.
made in recent years are wearable devices and smart­
phone apps for continuous patient monitoring; access Going forward, our ability to capture and understand
to affordable whole­genome sequencing technology; unprecedented amounts of data from multiple sources
and machine learning capabilities revealing the will allow for a higher resolution and a more in­depth
‘hidden secrets’ in medical images. These new tools view of each patient, thus putting the promise of truly
and technologies will increasingly unlock value for personalised healthcare within reach.
physicians who are intent on identifying the best
possible therapy options for their patients, and for Drawing on our unique combination of strengths—
regulators requesting solid outcome­based data our pharma and diagnostic capabilities under one
from real­world settings. roof, our leading portfolio of therapies, our wealthScience and innovation | Roche
43
Material topics covered in this chapter
Product portfolio strategy
R&D pipeline strategy and personalised healthcare
of expertise in medicine and biology, our world­ Viral diversity and susceptibility to drugs
leading companies (Foundation Medicine and HBV infections are very common around the world.
Flatiron), our global reach and our culture of Nearly 240 million people are chronically infected,
successful partnerships —we are deeply committed to 80 million of whom live in China alone. As a direct
delivering meaningful and sustainable value for result of their infection with HBV, a sizeable
patients and healthcare systems going forward. number of these individuals will go on to develop
hepatocellular carcinoma, one of the deadliest forms
Powered by the new possibilities of advanced of cancer.
analytics, we are able to create a wealth of new data
insights and opportunities across the entire product While vaccination is highly efficacious in preventing
lifecycle and R&D value chain. From making more infection, vaccine coverage is incomplete and ongoing
informed choices on which biological targets to mother­to­child transmission contributes to the
pursue in research to innovating and optimising the continued propagation of disease. And although
design of clinical trials and, ultimately, improving current HBV treatments effectively suppress viral
patient access to the right drug at the right time, Roche replication, they are typically not curative. There is
is already using and leveraging these powerful new therefore a high unmet medical need for curative
tools. We are on the cusp of the next wave of PHC, the HBV therapies.
ultimate goal of which is to equip physicians with
tailor­made solutions for their patients. Research has shown that HBV has a higher mutation
rate than previously thought. In a surprisingly short
Optimising drug design: a close-up view of viral period of time, the virus effectively sequesters the
heterogeneity and bacterial behaviour human cell’s replication machinery in order to
Historically, Roche has been both a pioneer and a proliferate billions of viruses per day with every
powerful presence in the infectious disease area. possible mutation represented.
Prominent examples of Roche products in this space
are the antivirals Invirase (HIV), Pegasys (hepatitis C), With modern, state­of­the­art ultra­deep sequencing,
Tamiflu and Xofluza (influenza), and the antibacterials these mutant viral strains (‘quasispecies’) can be
Bactrim and Rocephin (pneumonia, urinary tract characterised precisely. For this purpose, Roche
infections, etc). collaborated with two medical centres in the Nether­
lands and China to obtain representative viral samples
Roche is currently developing a broad portfolio of from different populations and parts of the world. The
innovative and potentially transformative medicines, 353 samples revealed more than 5,500 variants of a
including direct­acting antivirals and immuno modu­ viral surface antigen.
lators to treat infection with the hepatitis B virus
(HBV) and new antibacterials against Staphylococcus By applying random forest modelling, a well­known
aureus and multidrug­resistant Gram­negative machine learning tool, to this data, it is possible to
bacteria. interlink the deep genomic sequencing data with44
information on viral behaviour and patient clinical In this project, Roche scientists start by applying
features. The characterisation of HBV genomes sublethal concentrations of a number of compounds
can be used to predict which viral genetic features from different antibiotic classes to cultures of
are clinically relevant in people with chronic HBV Escherichia coli. This induces changes to key bacterial
infection, guiding drug development efforts and parameters such as membrane integrity, cell shape or
individual treatment approaches. DNA intensity, visible with fluorescence microscopy.
The exact pattern of changes is tightly linked to the
Machine learning in antibiotic research MOA, providing a unique fingerprint.
A growing public health threat making frequent
headlines in the media is antimicrobial resistance Machine learning is a perfect tool for finding
(AMR). This refers to the fact that antibiotics are similarities and patterns in large datasets. Meaningful
increasingly losing their effectiveness against a broad conclusions about similarity in morphological
range of common and more difficult­to­treat bacterial changes can rarely be drawn merely looking at images
infections, as microorganisms acquire resistance to acquired through a microscope. However, by first
antibacterial drugs. The problem is widespread and applying the appropriate image analysis tool and
especially trouble some with the Gram­negative bacteria quantifying changes to more than a hundred different
and is projected to cause more than 10 million deaths morphological parameters, machine learning can
annually by 2050.1 determine if the profile of the changes is unique
or matches a known antibiotic. With this novel
In view of the pressing medical need for new information in hand, Roche scientists have uncovered
antibiotics with novel modes of action, Roche unique signatures of prioritised bacterial pathways
re­entered this space in 2013, with a focus on Gram­ that are guiding our drug discovery efforts. Thus,
negative bacteria like Acinetobacter baumannii and through identification of MOA, machine learning
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and has a number of can provide important information to support more
compounds in pre­clinical development. targeted antimicrobial drug development efforts,
the aim being to develop antibiotics that are active
To prioritise compounds with the best potential in disease­causing multiresistant infections.
for development as new antibiotics, it is crucial to
understand the precise mode of action (MOA) Genomic profiles and digital biomarkers: innovating
by which the compounds inhibit bacterial growth. clinical trials for the benefit of patients
Roche is therefore applying innovative machine The amount of healthcare data generated around the
learning techniques to large image­based datasets to world is growing at an exponential rate, and the sheer
help inform drug discovery and development. This volume of medical information is doubling every few
project has required intense in­house multidisciplinary months. Take for example, the detailed investigation
collaboration between experts in the areas of antibiotic of cancer at the molecular level with the help of
research, microscopy­based cellular assays, gene comprehensive genomic profiling or the continuous
expression profiling and informatics with a focus on monitoring of disease progression in neurodegenerative
statistics, machine learning tools as well as image conditions with the help of smartphone­based sensors.
analysis. They produce billions of data points.
1 Antimicrobial resistance: tackling a crisis for the health and wealth of nations. London: Wellcome Trust; 2014Science and innovation | Roche
45
The Cupisco trial study design
Standard chemotherapy
Other treatment options
Molecular tumour board
ALK; RET Alecensa
treatment decision
EGFR Avastin + Tarceva
Randomisation
1:3 HER2 Herceptin + Perjeta
PTCH1; SMO Erivedge
Molecular profiling BRAF Cotellic + Zelboraf
of tissue and blood Responders
BRCA/PARP PARPI
AKT/PI3K Ipatasertib
3 cycles
TMB high Tecentriq
chemotherapy Non-Responders
TMB interm./low,
Chemo + Tecentriq
no actionable alteration
Molecular tumour board
treatment decision
Primary endpoint: progression-free survival
Secondary endpoint: overall survival
The Cupisco study will compare the efficacy and safety of targeted therapy or cancer immunotherapy guided by genomic profiling versus
chemotherapy in patients with cancer of unknown primary site.
These tools and technologies not only generate vast median overall survival in CUP patients is abysmally
amounts of data from which valuable nuggets of low—in the range of just one year—so there is an
information can be extracted, they are also offering urgent medical need for better therapies.
deeper insights into the nature of diverse diseases. They
are, therefore, providing exciting new opportunities More granular information on the question of which
for drug discovery and development. mutations are driving CUPs is urgently needed as
these cancers are not caused by just one mutation, but
Coming to terms with cancer of unknown primary by a host of different genetic factors. This requires
Over the last two decades, there has been tremendous comprehensive genomic profiling, which is where
progress in comprehending and treating cancer. Cupisco comes into play.
Understanding cancer biology at the molecular level
has led to the development of targeted, more effective Cupisco is a phase II randomised clinical study
therapies. More recently, cancer immunotherapies that will recruit histologically confirmed CUP
based on an improved knowledge of tumour patients from 20 countries, eventually totalling about
immunology have shown impressive clinical results. 800 participants. A number of approved Roche cancer
On the other hand, cancer of unknown primary medicines will be studied in the trial. The study
site (CUP) is still a devastating diagnosis, with no will compare efficacy and safety of targeted therapy
approved treatments available. About 3–5% of all or cancer immunotherapy versus chemotherapy, its
cancer diagnoses fall into this category. It means primary endpoint being progression­free survival. It
that although tumour metastases can be detected, it is a ground breaking study that represents a shift away
is not possible to find the originating tumour. The from treating cancer based on its organ of origin to46
Foundation Medicine genomic profiling report along
with the clinical findings and convert them into a very
specific treatment decision. This is unprecedented in a
clinical trial setting and has the potential to pave the
way for a truly targeted and personalised treatment
strategy.
Understanding the individual patient journey
in multiple sclerosis
Living with multiple sclerosis (MS) makes for an
unpredictable and uncertain existence. Treatments
have advanced, but we need to understand more about
the disease in order to improve outcomes for patients.
Despite advances in imaging, our ability to measure
Roche is conducting a research programme created for people with MS to better understand the disease has not changed much for decades and is
their individual disease course. usually based on visits to the clinic that take place
just once or twice a year, providing only a limited
snapshot. This means that, although population­level
understanding of MS is good, our knowledge of the
treating it based on its clinically relevant genomic individual patient journey with MS is not.
alterations driving cancer growth. To this end, Roche
is collaborating with Foundation Medicine, a world­ Roche has created Floodlight, a research programme
leading molecular insights company, matching each to design smartphone­based tests that have the
patient’s unique genomic profile to known therapies potential to monitor the disease on a daily basis
or clinical trials. through parameter measures such as coordination
and mobility, information processing speed, and
In addition to performing a thorough molecular mood. This ‘neurologist in your pocket’ programme
work­up for each and every patient, virtual molecular also includes Floodlight Open, Roche’s first open
tumour boards, bringing together oncologists, access study in which anyone can enrol. Each data
radiologists, surgeons, pathologists and other health­ point from each person contributes to a unique and
care professionals, have been set up in the Cupisco open dataset designed to help move MS research
study to discuss the results of a patient’s individual forward.Science and innovation | Roche
47
Detecting progression of the disease earlier and in a The NMP is a clinical NGS reporting software
quantifiable manner will be a significant innovation solution with a richly curated and up­to­date
for the MS community. In addition to furthering knowledge base of genetic variants designed to help
our understanding of MS and improving individual labs accurately and efficiently interpret the clinical
patient care, there is hope it could accelerate drug significance of mutations and to identify therapy
development and improve our ability to bring new options and clinical trials that match. It is designed
drugs to the market faster and more efficiently. for labs that want to do NGS testing in­house and
need a robust clinical reporting solution. Expanding
Identifying clinically actionable variants on the already available Navify portfolio of clinical
Clinical labs looking to offer next­generation decision support software (eg, Navify Tumor Board),
sequencing (NGS) cancer testing are often challenged the NMP will simplify the analysis of complex
by the complexities of analysis and reporting. The NGS data, aiding labs in identifying and reporting
difficulty they encounter is that of accurately assessing clinically actionable somatic mutations. This
the clinical significance of genomic variants to inform sophisticated software will be an integral part of
optimal clinical treatment options based on best the Navify decision support portfolio, a suite of
practices and real­world evidence. cloud­based workflow solutions and apps which
streamline clinical workflows, integrate patient data
Differentiating benign from pathogenic variants is from multiple sources and help access relevant
no small feat in itself, but classifying the degree of knowledge to support treatment decisions.
actionability for pathogenic variants and underpinning
clinical decisions in terms of appropriateness for Partnering for success
cancer treatment options, is even more challenging. The growing complexity of healthcare, coupled with
It requires the review of a multitude of public sources the explosion of data from multiple and often siloed
and guidelines to properly interpret the clinical sources, means the future of medicine will be built
significance and decide the course of action. on partnerships, as no single stakeholder will be able
to go it alone or shape it all by themselves. This will
In view of this, Roche has developed a clinical decision require new ways of partnering and collaborating
support solution called Navify Mutation Profiler (NMP), that go beyond traditional boundaries, both internally
which is planned for launch in early 2019. It will enable and externally. Roche is also expanding its
diagnostic labs to overcome one of the great challenges collaborative efforts, increasingly combining its
of the clinical NGS workflow, namely translating the own rich resources with the unique tools and
complex datasets into actionable treatment options. technologies of its partners.48
Combining in vivo and in vitro diagnostics has created software that integrates otherwise
In early 2018, Roche and GE Healthcare announced fragmented clinical, molecular (genomic), and real­
that they were entering a long­term strategic alliance to world data on treatment plans and health outcomes.
develop an industry­first digital platform for software By combining this platform with Roche’s wide­
solutions marrying in vivo and in vitro diagnostic ranging oncology expertise, the collaboration is set
insights. This would allow their seamless integration to push PHC to a new level for many more cancer
and analysis as part of a comprehensive clinical decision patients and healthcare providers.
support solution such as the Navify Tumor Board.
The Roche Syapse collaboration comprises four key
This global strategic partnership will offer physicians objectives: (1) develop a precision medicine insights
a comprehensive data dashboard that pulls together product to generate real­world evidence to support
information from imaging such as CT or MRI scans, accelerated access to innovative therapies as well
blood tests, tissue samples and gene sequencing, plus as Syapse’s clinical applications; (2) create evidence
the latest clinical trials. for a precision medicine programme to enable health
economics and outcomes research; (3) build a patient­
The alliance will help accelerate the delivery of data­ reported outcomes programme to understand
driven PHC for care teams, patients and the healthcare precision medicine’s effect on health­related quality
industry. It will apply advanced analytics to in vivo of life; (4) accelerate enrolment in clinical trials by
data from GE Healthcare’s medical imaging and matching eligible patients with trials. The partnership
monitoring equipment together with in vitro data from with Syapse will be complementary to our ongoing
Roche’s biomarker, tissue pathology and sequencing efforts with Flatiron Health as both companies address
portfolio. The goal is to jointly develop and co­market distinct healthcare systems and providers through
clinical decision support software for faster and more their networks.
accurate decision­m aking by clinicians, enabling earlier
diagnosis and individualised treatment for patients. Syapse’s network comprises about one million cancer
patients from nearly 300 hospitals in the US and South
Collaborating for PHC progress in cancer Korea and covers 10% of all newly diagnosed cancer
In January 2018, Roche entered a collaboration patients in the US. This strong network adds to
agreement with San Francisco­based Syapse, a key Roche’s efforts to bring novel therapies to patients
player in healthcare IT. Formed in 2008, Syapse faster, including accelerating regulatory filings.Science and innovation | Roche
49
Harnessing frontline scientific
technologies
Gene therapy offers hope for patients with choroideraemia, a rare disease of the eye that can lead to complete blindness.
The two Roche research organisations—pRED (Roche Betting on gene therapy in a rare eye disease
Pharma Research and Early Development) and gRED Choroideraemia is a rare, monogenic recessive retinal
(Genentech Research and Early Development)—are disease caused by mutations of a specific gene, affecting
pioneering new ways of tackling challenging disease about 1 in 50,000 males. The progressive peripheral
conditions with high unmet medical need. vision loss and night blindness, which usually first
show up in the patient’s teen years, can culminate in
Common to all these activities is the relentless effort complete blindness later in life.
to first understand the underlying disease biology
at the molecular level, and then to identify relevant Gene therapy could hold the key to alleviating this
biomarkers that will help find the right patients for condition. In gene therapy, therapeutic genes or
targeted treatment at the right time. The ultimate goal specific segments of DNA are introduced into target
is to develop compounds that zero in on the intended cells in order to replace missing or faulty genes (in this
biological target perfectly, have drug­like properties example the mutant CHM gene) that fail to properly
and are well tolerated and highly effective. encode for fully functional proteins.
Below are a number of highlights from the many Gene therapy has traditionally faced a real challenge,
innovative R&D programmes in the areas of namely finding effective gene delivery vehicles, or
ophthalmology, oncology and immunology. vectors, that fulfil their intended purpose satisfactorily.50
However, highly optimised, third­generation adeno­ Opening new avenues in cancer immunotherapy
associated virus (AAV) vectors have been perfected Roche is investing more than ever into developing
into great vehicles for gene transfer that can locate and innovative treatment options that help a person’s
enter specific cells with a high degree of precision. own immune system fight cancer. Building on our
approved cancer immunotherapy (CIT), Tecentriq,
The US company 4D Molecular Therapeutics our development programme takes a comprehensive
(4DMT) is at the forefront of AAV technology, and approach in pursuing the goal of restoring cancer
choroideraemia may lend itself particularly well immunity.
to this pioneering modality. By announcing its
expanded long­term partnership with 4DMT in With our profound understanding of the underlying
April 2018, Roche has entered new terrain with the science in CIT and extensive experience in engineering
choroideraemia project as its first foray into gene new sophisticated modalities, we are in a unique
therapy. position to drive forward the development of new and
potentially first­in­class cancer immunotherapies for
A key advantage of the AAV invented by 4DMT the benefit of patients.
to treat choroideraemia is its mode of application,
namely intravitreal injection. Intravitreal application Stimulating immunity in a targeted way
avoids the risk of retinal detachment as it does not Checkpoint inhibitors (CPIs) such as Tecentriq are
involve surgery, which is the case with traditional able to remove a ‘brake’ in an inhibitory pathway
subretinal application. Furthermore, with this so that the immune system can resume its attack
modality, it is possible to reach the whole retina by on tumour cells. In contrast to this mode of action,
injecting a functional or working CHM gene into the investigational medicine FAP­IL2v works by
the eye. The AAV has the ability to penetrate from the stimulating the immune system. FAP­IL2v may either
vitreous space to access the entire retinal target tissue, work synergistically with CPIs or show efficacy when
including the photoreceptors, where the majority of patients do not respond or have stopped responding
genetic retinal diseases occur. to them.
There are high hopes that this AAV gene therapy FAP­IL2v is a home­grown Roche molecule made
could prove of great value to people affected up of two parts. One part is a high­affinity antibody
by choroideraemia, and Roche is preparing an directed against fibroblast activation protein (FAP),
investigational new drug (IND) submission to the which is found on a wide variety of cancer cells in
FDA in order to soon start its first human trial in most solid tumours and some blood cancers. The
this space. second part, IL2v, is an engineered form of the IL­2Science and innovation | Roche
51
Increase Due diligence
awareness
1 in 50,000
men is affected by choroideraemia.
Symptoms usually first show up in a
patient’s teen years.
cytokine, which is a protein involved in the activation T cells by preventing one of their surface proteins
of the immune system. Upon intravenous infusion, called TIGIT from binding to PVR, a specific receptor
the monoclonal antibody portion recognises and binds on tumour cells.
to FAP, thereby concentrating IL2v in FAP­expressing
tumour tissue. The IL2v portion stimulates an immune Within tumours, T cells are impaired in their ability to
response and activates natural killer cells and attack cancer cells due to the expression of inhibitory
cytotoxic T cells fighting cancer. receptors on their surface; they are ‘exhausted’. TIGIT
is expressed on the surface of these exhausted T cells,
Roche scientists engineered IL2v in such a way that it similar to PD1. By hampering TIGIT’s interaction
retains the powerful immune­stimulating properties with its receptor PVR, the goal is to help remove
of IL­2 while simultaneously displaying reduced an additional brake from exhausted T cells, thus
activity on T cells that dampen anti­tumour immune reactivating them to ‘attack’ the tumour. As such,
responses. It was also designed to have a longer tiragolumab is a novel checkpoint inhibitor, providing
half­life and a superior risk­benefit profile compared added activity on top of Tecentriq, especially in
to normal IL­2. Because binding to FAP leads to inflamed tumours with high PDL1/TIGIT expression.
build­up of FAP­IL2v concentration in tumour tissue,
application of this immune modulator will allow for Specifically, TIGIT regulates another activating
longer activation and higher concentrations in FAP­ receptor on the surface of T cells, CD226. When TIGIT
expressing tumours. is expressed on the surface of a T cell, it can limit
activation of that cell by disrupting CD226 function.
FAP­IL2v is being investigated in four phase I/Ib and The scientists therefore created an antibody that could
phase II studies for a number of cancer types such as block TIGIT from binding to PVR, in this way freeing
renal cell cancer and non­small cell lung cancer, alone up CD226 to bind PVR instead and consequently turn
and in combination with other therapies (eg, Tecentriq). on the ‘green light’. Therefore, blocking TIGIT not
only removes a brake but also allows an activating
Removing a brake and turning on the green light molecule to signal again. Tiragolumab has a good
A novel cancer immunotherapy agent, the monoclonal safety profile as a single agent and also when combined
antibody tiragolumab, was developed at record speed with Tecentriq. Patients are currently being enrolled
by Genentech scientists, from research to the clinic. in a randomised phase II non­s mall cell lung cancer
It is helping to revive the tumour­fighting ability of proof­of­concept study.52
Our researchers are pioneering cutting-edge technologies to address challenging diseases with high unmet medical need.
Advancing medicines for people with immune in circulating ‘autoantibodies’ produced by B cells
diseases and in inflammatory cytokine proteins generated
Recent advances in the understanding of immune by myeloid cells. In chronic spontaneous urticaria
pathways guide our research activities for inflammatory (CSU), a highly debilitating skin disease, auto­
and autoimmune diseases. These insights help to yield immunity is also known to play a role in almost
new targets, new treatments and new ways of thinking 50% of patients.
—vital capabilities when addressing diseases with
high unmet medical need. In all of these diseases, the current standards of
care (anti­tumour necrosis factors in RA, immuno­
Blocking drivers of autoimmune disease sup pressants in SLE, and antihistamines in CSU) fail
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and systemic lupus to achieve sustained remission or to relieve symptoms
erythematosus (SLE) both occur when our immune in the majority of patients. Therefore, there is a
systems begin attacking our own organs and tissues. significant unmet need for novel therapeutics with
These conditions are characterised by an increase improved efficacy and lower toxicity.Science and innovation | Roche
53
Bruton’s tyrosine kinase (BTK) is a protein that has fibrotic disease process that ultimately leads to
been identified as a key activator of B cells and other cirrhosis and liver failure.
immune cell types such as myeloid cells. As BTK plays
an important role in the development and proliferation This silent liver disease with few or no symptoms
of these and other immune cell types, BTK blockade is more likely to develop in people with metabolic
may represent an opportunity for the treatment of a disorders such as type 2 diabetes, dyslipidaemia or
broad range of autoimmune diseases such as RA, SLE obesity. As there are currently no approved therapies
and CSU. for this condition, there is an obvious need for an
effective treatment.
Scientists at Genentech faced the daunting task of
designing a BTK inhibitor with the right combination So what could be done to improve the situation?
of potency, specificity and stability. It took several Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is a member of
years of hard work to achieve this feat but finally the the metabolic FGF family and is expressed primarily
researchers found an investigational small molecule in the liver. It regulates fat metabolism and is a potent
that offered a targeted approach to modulating B cells mobiliser of fat from the liver. Finding a way to target
and myeloid cells in the intended manner. this pathway in a highly specific manner could hold
the key to a treatment in this space.
The molecule’s name is fenebrutinib, and it is
currently in clinical trials. It is a highly potent and Based on this insight, Genentech scientists created
selective, orally administered and reversible (non­ an antibody molecule mimicking FGF21 signalling.
covalent) inhibitor of BTK. Based on these attributes, The hypothesis was that such a compound could
it is expected to have an acceptable safety profile. remove the so­called insult of fat accumulation from
A phase II study in RA recently met its primary the NASH liver, halt and reverse the inflammatory and
endpoint of superior efficacy over placebo; data will fibrotic process, and restore healthy liver function.
be disclosed at a conference in 2019. The lupus and Based on a deep understanding of FGF receptor
CSU phase II studies are ongoing and expected to be biology, the scientists designed a bispecific antibody to
completed in 2019. act as an FGF21 hormone mimetic. Since the receptor
for this hormone is a combination (heterodimer) of
Targeting a hormone to halt liver damage two different proteins, FGFR1c and KLB, a bispecific
Non­alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a fibrotic antibody targeting both seemed ideally suited to
liver disease driven by the accumulation of excess generating a long­acting and safe drug with the
fat in the liver, which triggers an inflammatory and desired receptor selectivity.54
Other anti­FGFR antibodies developed as cancer with injuries to the intestinal system or digestive
therapies act by inhibiting the FGFR pathway and thus tract, resulting in chronic inflammation and a pattern
preventing unwanted cell replication. FGFR1/KLB of mucosal ulcerations on the surface of the intestinal
signalling via FGF21 is not proliferative; it mediates wall. As these injuries elicit a hyper­inflammatory
beneficial metabolic signals, and so specifically response by the immune system, standard treatments
activates the FGFR1/KLB pathway without activating have consisted of immunosuppressive drugs such as
FGFR1 alone. In addition, it only targets metabolic anti­TNFs. These drugs combat disease symptoms
signalling in tissues that express the heterodimer, by blocking immune response, which reduces
such as adipose tissue. The molecule is completing a inflammation.
multiple­d ose phase Ib study in obese patients with
non­alcoholic fatty liver disease, the precursor to NASH. Genentech scientists have come up with an alternative
idea based on the dual functionality of IL­22. Instead
With its unique potential to harness FGF21 biology of suppressing the immune system in order to alleviate
in reducing liver fat deposition, this FGFR1/KLB symptoms, the aim is to get to the root cause of IBD by
bispecific antibody also has beneficial effects on promoting the regenerative and protective functions
other parameters such as insulin, triglycerides and of IL­22 in epithelial tissue, thereby potentially
cholesterol, and should therefore be able to provide ‘healing’ the disease. If this could be achieved, the
long­term metabolic health benefits. new medicine would represent a first­in­class, disease­
modifying and truly transformative therapy for IBD
First non-immunosuppressive therapy in patients.
inflammatory bowel diseases
The cytokine interleukin­22 (IL­22) is an important In fact, IL­22 has a long history in the company, as
component of the immune system and plays a key both the cytokine and its cell receptor were discovered
role when a wound or an injury occurs. In fact, IL­22 by Genentech scientists in the early 2000s. After
has a dual mechanism of action in such a setting. having established the biology behind IL­22, the
First, it helps restore and repair the epithelial cell wall scientists engineered a new modality, a recombinant
which lines our skin and internal organs such as the fusion protein, IL­22Fc, which links carefully modified
colon, and, second, it helps fight off bacteria that can parts of IL­22. With its unique dual mechanism of
enter through the site of injury, causing an infection. action, this customised fusion protein would be the
It does the latter by promoting the production of first non­immunosuppressive therapy in this disease
antimicrobial peptides. area, designed not to block the IL­22 signal but to
apply more of it. A phase II clinical study is just
Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) such as Crohn’s getting started, investigating safety and efficacy of
disease and ulcerative colitis (UC) are associated IL­22Fc in IBD.Science and innovation | Roche
55
Pharmaceuticals clinical pipeline
24 breakthrough therapy designations in six years
Phase I Phase lI Phase Ill Registration
Oncology 2
3
3
19
Inflammation/ 1
5
Immunology
6
Neuroscience 5
5
4
Infectious diseases 1
5
Ophthalmology 2
2
Others 4
Our pipeline of 67 new molecular entities covers a broad range of diseases, and highly innovative technologies are applied to create and produce the active molecules.
Importance of intellectual property for innovation
Continued innovation is key to providing new and
improved therapies which are crucial for patients as
well as for long­term commercial success. Patents
and other intellectual property rights provide time­
limited exclusivity for innovations, thus enabling
substantial investment into research and development.
The disclosure of inventions in patents fosters the
development of new and improved therapies.56
Image not touched up yetScience and innovation | Roche
57
Michael Negrin, Israel
“Here I am three years later,
telling you my story.”
According to my doctors, I am not supposed to be was identified I could then receive targeted therapy
talking to you now. They gave me about a year to live for my specific mutation.
after I developed aggressive bladder cancer. But here
I am three years later, telling you my story—almost The results were surprising both for my doctor and
cancer­free and living my life. me. The mutation that had caused my bladder cancer
was actually typical in breast cancer patients. I often
I am 67 years old—a husband, father and grandfather joke that I became the first bladder cancer patient in
now. Three years ago, I noticed blood in my urine Israel to be treated with medicines for breast cancer
and went to the doctor. I was asked to do a series patients—a combination of two targeted therapies.
of tests and was diagnosed with bladder cancer. A With this treatment, my condition improved markedly
team of doctors at the hospital decided that I had to within a few months.
undergo surgery and have the bladder removed. But
that plan had to be changed. During the operation, It was because of this test that a very specific diagnosis
the surgeons realised that the cancer had spread and could be made and I could then be offered a very
this had not been detected earlier. So they decided specific therapy. My doctor explained that there are
not to remove the bladder but instead put me on substantial differences between tumours, even if they
chemotherapy. are located at the same site in the body. Therefore, I
am quite sure that the test can be of great benefit to
My chemotherapy was five days a week, every several other patients. I believe it should be added to
alternating week. This was a challenge as I was hooked different healthcare systems and packages so that
up to tubes and the process usually lasted about the costs are covered. I underwent chemotherapy for
18 hours each day. The chemotherapy went on for about months and not only was it damaging, it also did
five months, but there seemed to be no change in my not improve my condition in any way.
prognosis. I told my doctors that I was very busy and
that I was not ready to die. My oncologist then told These three years have been so important to me. I
me that there was another test that she wanted me to am leading a normal, active life. I now have a new
undergo. It was a comprehensive genomic test called granddaughter as well. This additional time is so
FoundationOne. She explained that the test might valuable to me and can be to so many others around
help identify the specific mutation I had. Once this the world.58Access to healthcare | Roche
59
Tackling the challenges of
access to
healthcare
Our mission is to ensure that Roche, working together with
healthcare systems, delivers rapid, broad, sustainable patient
access to our novel products.
People waiting in the hallway of the Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi, Kenya—one of the largest medical
institutions in East Africa.60
Stepping up
globally
A hospital pharmacy in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire. In this hospital, many of the cancer treatments take place thanks to an agreement Roche has signed with the Côte d’Ivoire
Ministry of Health to facilitate improved access to innovative treatments for hepatitis B, C and D and breast cancer.
At Roche, we are passionate about following the This new department will develop holistic access
science in areas of high unmet medical need to bring strategies so that Roche works with healthcare systems
transformative medicines and diagnostic tests to to deliver rapid, broad and sustainable patient access
patients. But we also realise our products can only to our innovative medicines and diagnostics. We want
benefit patients if they actually reach them. That is to bring our products to as many patients who need
why access is an important topic for us. them, as fast as possible, and to do it sustainably for
both the healthcare systems and for Roche.
Almost half the world lacks access to essential health
services and 100 million people are still pushed into We know we cannot do this alone. It is very
extreme poverty because of health expenses.1 We are important for Roche to engage with all stakeholders in
continuing our efforts to try and change this on a the different healthcare systems worldwide. Roche has
global scale. therefore developed a systematic and comprehensive
approach by working with affiliates around the world.
In September 2018, Roche launched an integrated Efforts have been made to identify what barriers
Global Access department. In preparation for this, are preventing patients from benefiting from our
we have been working with internal and external products and the steps that need to be taken in order
stakeholders to define the Roche access mission, to facilitate better access. Based on this analysis, we
our access strategy, the capabilities required, and develop partnerships for tailored solutions country­
appropriate organisations needed to deliver on this. by­country. In many situations, it is not just theAccess to healthcare | Roche
61
Material topics covered in this chapter
Sustainable healthcare
Pricing
Disease awareness and treatment education
Growth strategy in emerging markets
product that we have to think about, but also the —meaning about 800 million more people can
complete range of offerings such as patient support benefit from the treatment when diagnosed with
programmes, awareness campaigns and disease the respective disease.
monitoring.
The Access to Medicine Foundation has recognised
As part of our efforts, we follow the patient journey our strong access­to­medicine strategy in the area
from disease awareness to diagnosis, treatment and of general access to medicine management. Roche is
funding. How can we make sure people are aware of ranked 10 in the 2018 Access to Medicine Index. The
their disease, and educate them? We have to support Index analyses 20 of the world’s largest research­based
people in receiving proper and early diagnosis to pharmaceutical companies on how they make their
prevent the disease from worsening. Once patients products more accessible in low­ and middle­income
are diagnosed, adequate healthcare capacity has to countries.
be in place in order to deliver the right treatments.
Capabilities to run infusion facilities and having Industry collaborations to join forces
sufficient numbers of trained nurses and doctors are Roche plays a leading role in the Access Accelerated
difficult to find in some countries. We also have to initiative launched in 2017. This cross­industry
address how treatments are funded so that patients collaboration aims to reduce barriers to prevention,
are protected from excessive financial burden. treatment and care for non­communicable diseases
(NCDs) in low­ and middle­income countries. By
We address these access barriers through a strategy the end of 2018, 24 pharmaceutical companies and
that focuses on four imperatives for access— associations were involved in this programme, in
affordability, value recognition, capacity and outcome which partners such as the World Bank Group and
certainty. In following this strategy, we have already the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC)
been able to amplify access for patients by 60% in participate.
14 low­ and middle­income countries to two of our
most important cancer medicines, Herceptin and The initiative is a founding member of the UICC’s
MabThera/Rituxan, both of which are included in City Cancer Challenge (C/Can2025) to support
the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines. This effective and sustainable cancer care delivery models
represents an increase in population with access of in selected cities. Four key learning cities kicked off
close to 700 million. the challenge in 2017: Asunción in Paraguay, Cali in
Colombia, Kumasi in Ghana and Yangon in Myanmar.
Last year, we expanded our focus to also include Their participation provides insights into how the
Perjeta as the new standard of care in combination international community, local civil society, and the
with Herceptin for women with HER2­positive breast public and private sectors can best work together.
cancer. Our goal is to accelerate patient access and In the first four cities, 84 participating institutions,
increase the number of patients being treated with 817 healthcare professionals and 652 patients were
Herceptin plus Perjeta in 15 emerging markets connected in 2018 to transform the approach of local
by a factor of six from 5,900 (2017) to 35,700 (2022) cancer care solutions.
1 World Health Organization, The World Bank Group: Tracking Universal Health Coverage, 2017 Global Monitoring Report, 2017.62
As part of Roche’s commitment to increasing access The Patient 360 platform (P360) was launched to
to sustainable cancer care, it was announced in address these challenges. It is a digital solution which
October 2018 that we would act as the lead industry puts patients at the centre. It enables affiliates in the
partner in working with 20 cities by 2020 to develop region to develop innovative, efficient programmes and
and pilot a model of engagement for C/Can that improve the experience for patients and healthcare
could be scaled up globally. We are leading efforts to professionals (HCPs) alike.
support cities across the globe and spearhead the
design, planning and implementation of state­of­the­ The platform consists of four categories—patient
art solutions for cancer care. So far, Kigali in Rwanda, on­boarding, treatment monitoring, scheme
Porto Alegre in Brazil and Tbilisi in Georgia have management, and adverse event capture—along
been chosen as cities for the next phase of C/Can. with a patient and HCP portal. The solution allows
patients to take control of their disease management
Using digital platforms to support patients and improve their wellbeing and experience. It will
In the Asia­Pacific region, our ambition is to ensure provide a sense of community by connecting them
that more patients have access to Roche’s innovative with other patients and HCPs.
treatments. Patient support programmes (PSPs) are a
fundamental component of our access strategies in P360 will also work towards reducing duplication
the region and will help us realise this goal. across the PSP processes, drive better insights and
analytics, support the launch processes of products,
To date, there are more than 200 different PSPs in afford the opportunity to make use of real­world
Asia­Pacific serving more than 6,000 patients. These data, and ensure compliance with local laws. In
projects have shown Roche that there were a number 2018, Malaysia was the first country to launch P360.
of hurdles in the region that needed to be resolved. Thailand and Taiwan followed later in the year.
For instance, there is no common approach for PSPs Singapore and Australia are due to follow in 2019.
in Asia­Pacific: The programmes are not always linked
to long­term access strategies, and there is no platform Making health data accessible
available to support better management and analysis Health data have the potential to help fight diseases,
of the programmes. ensure faster patient access to medicines, and drive
the future of healthcare—if accessible. Health
systems around the world collect different kinds of
>6,000
data (genomic data, real­world data, clinical trial
data, etc.) from many sources, yet the infrastructure
used to capture these data are often not integrated,
leaving data disconnected, incomplete and
patients in Asia-Pacific are supported by our PSPs. unstructured.Access to healthcare | Roche
63
Data drives healthcare
Healthcare data Access Research
Healthcare information Practice
C-PHIN will leverage quality health data to drive prescribing, access and research decisions across Canada.
Connecting data is important in our mission of Discussions on early collaborations with Health
delivering personalised healthcare. The Canadian Canada, the department of the Canadian government
Personalized Healthcare Innovation Network responsible for national public health, have been
(C­PHIN) initiative, for example, was started in order positive. Several partnerships have been confirmed
to build a platform that makes health data findable with other biopharmaceutical, technology and data
and accessible. Established in 2017 as a collaboration management companies. Recruitment of other
between Roche Canada, the Canadian Cancer Trials partners is ongoing.
Group, Canada’s Genomics Enterprise, the University
Health Network, and the University of Waterloo, the The platform will be funded by C­PHIN partners
initiative is run as a not­for­profit organisation. and will leverage funding opportunities from the
federal and provincial governments. The network is
The C­PHIN Integrated Data Platform provides a designing a revenue model which will ensure that the
search engine that can access real­time data streams C­PHIN Integrated Data Platform will be financially
while maintaining patient privacy. With real­time self­sustaining over the long term through access
access to data and insights, the platform will foster agreements granted to users within the Canadian
informed decisions in every facet of healthcare, and international private sector. The public sector,
which will, in turn, accelerate innovation, improve including researchers, hospitals, institutions, payers,
efficiency, lower costs, speed up approval processes, governments and clinicians, will be able to access
and improve patient care. the data from the data platform free of charge.64
Continuing the fight against HIV and AIDS diagnosis have improved in 82 countries with the
Great progress has been made over the last 40 years highest disease burden. In collaboration with the
in tackling the HIV pandemic. The number of Clinton Health Access Initiative and other partners,
people dying every year from AIDS­related illnesses we provide accessible and affordable pricing for
worldwide has decreased steadily, from a peak of reagents and consumables needed for HIV­1 testing.
2.2 million in 2005 to less than a million in 2017.2 To train healthcare workers, Roche also offers support
With early diagnosis, appropriate treatment and programmes that help build healthcare system
monitoring, it is now possible for people living with capacity, including participation in public­private
HIV to have normal, healthy lifespans. partnerships (PPPs), for instance with the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention in the US. We
Yet, in areas hit hardest by HIV, such as in the vast also invest in developing countries by helping them
region of sub­Saharan Africa, access to healthcare equip laboratories with the newest technologies.
centres that can diagnose, treat and follow up HIV
patient care is extremely limited. Worldwide, every In August, we formally launched our partnership
fourth person living with HIV still does not know with the Kenya Medical Research Institute by
their status. installing a cobas 8800 for HIV assays. Through
the Global Access Program, the partnership aims
As the leading provider of HIV viral load testing, to ensure that more people in Kenya have access to
Roche created the Global Access Program to expand HIV/AIDS testing and viral load monitoring. Our
access to quality, sustainable diagnostic testing PPP in Kenya and initiatives like the Roche Scientific
while contributing to the UNAIDS 90­90­90 goal. Campus in South Africa demonstrate our ongoing
The aim is that by 2020, 90% of all people living commitment to Africa through capacity building
with HIV will know their disease status, 90% of all and skills development, and go beyond the supply
those diagnosed with the HIV infection will receive of instruments and sustainable pricing.
sustained antiretroviral therapy, and 90% of all
those receiving antiretroviral therapy will have In 2018, the number of HIV tests run was more
viral suppression. than four times higher than when the programme
was launched. The idea is to expand the Global
Since the start of the Global Access Program in Access Program to other areas and potentially
2014, access to HIV viral load tests and early infant include additional disease areas.
2 www.unaids.org/en/resources/fact-sheetAccess to healthcare | Roche
65
With just a small amount of blood from the person’s fingertip needed, the cobas Plasma Separation Card simplifies blood collection and sample transportation even
in remote areas.
Redefining the reach of reliable testing quantitative testing of patients with HIV living
Roche continues to invest in innovative products in remote areas—even in places that experience
and solutions to expand access. In 2018, we launched temperatures of 45 °C and 85% humidity. The sample
the cobas Plasma Separation Card, a stable and easy­ is protected on its journey to the lab for up to 28 days,
to­use sample collection device for HIV plasma viral even under such extreme conditions.
load testing. The size of a credit card, it fundamentally
changes the way samples are taken and processed for As the samples can be sent by post, more viral load
HIV testing. tests can be carried out. With up­to­date results, care
can be personalised and adjusted as soon as necessary.
Traditionally, viral load results required blood Follow­up monitoring for people who are HIV­positive
samples to be cooled during transport to the lab. and who have achieved viral suppression helps them
With just a small amount of blood from the fingertip, stay healthy.
the cobas Plasma Separation Card allows for reliable66Access to healthcare | Roche
67
Merula Steagall, ABRASTA and ABRALE, Brazil
“Our focus is on getting a proper
understanding of patient needs.”
I have lived with thalassaemia from the age of two, the sharing of business best practices among NGOs.
almost 50 years now. Over all these years of living Today, we are a group of 120 NGOs in 21 countries.
with this severe blood disorder, and working with
those who have this disease or others such as cancer, However, to be really impactful we had to unite
I have realised the value of networks and working private and public efforts and this led to me working
with groups to influence decision­makers and bring with colleagues to set up the movement Together
about change. Against Cancer, which brings together about
100 institutions in the private and public spheres
In April 2000, I was contacted by a mother of two to work on a collaborative agenda. The aim is to
boys with thalassaemia. I did not know her. She asked implement and improve national­level policies
me if I could help her find more information about for cancer prevention and control. We have had
this disorder. What she told me in addition spurred some impact already and were able to set up an
my first interest in the area of patient advocacy— observatory to analyse and monitor government
the Brazilian Thalassaemia Society, ABRASTA, was microdata on cancer. An online education platform
going to curtail its activities because of poor funding for health professionals and physicians has been
and the lack of interest among parents. I offered to established and we have developed several research
be president and take new steps to revive it. I began projects with the patient at the centre. Our focus is
work with the ministry of health and in two years on getting a proper understanding of patient needs
we were able to transform the treatment situation by listening to the patient more. Our primary
in Brazil by working with experts who helped in objective after that is to improve outcomes and
changing treatment outcomes. provide better access to adequate treatment.
In 2002 we formed ABRALE, the Brazilian Society for As patient groups, we need to work with the
Blood Cancers, to widen our impact on the political industry to bring the patient perspective into
decision­makers and because many physicians we designing clinical trials early on. This could help
worked with were also treating blood cancers. This shorten the process and focus on the important
was then expanded in 2006 with the formation of things. Patients care about quality of life, about
Red Alianza Latina, a network of patient organisations survival, and do not want aggressive interventions
across Latin America that would help us in upscaling that they do not understand.68Our people | Roche
69
At Roche, we care about
our people
Caring about people at Roche helps ensure that patients will
get better diagnoses and therapies.
Each year some 100 young people begin their vocational training with Roche in Basel and Kaiseraugst, Switzerland,
gathering insights into their future working lives.70
People with
purpose
We work together to design the structures, processes and principles governing how we operate. We encourage employees to share their insights into where
improvements are needed.
Throughout its history, Roche has been dedicated We are dedicated to ensuring that Roche remains
to delivering and driving innovation that helps the place where creative, gifted and passionate
people manage their health through breakthrough people desire to work. Our people—the collective
medicines and diagnostic solutions. This unwavering source of our innovation—are the most critical
commitment stems from a unique and highly factor to our success.
adaptable culture which brings together core beliefs
in our purpose, people and values. This enables us Keeping in touch with each other, and keeping
to proactively evolve in a dramatically shifting up with changing business needs
landscape. At Roche, people understand the power of
collaboration, both internally and externally.
Today’s world is interconnected, digitalised and Working effectively across different geographies
increasingly complex. This new reality requires and time zones, multiple projects and priorities,
ever more innovation, flexibility and speed. It also and staying aligned are critical for our global
demands the ability to challenge paradigms so that business. We have recognised that helping our
we can quickly recognise and thoughtfully respond employees and managers stay connected in this
to challenges and opportunities. At Roche, we are dynamic, fast­paced environment requires a
transforming the way we work to make sure we different type of dialogue and cadence. That is
can consistently meet the needs of patients and why we introduced Check­Ins in 2017 as part of
customers, now and in the future. our new People Practices.Our people | Roche
71
Material topics in this chapter
Employee engagement and talent retention
Compensation/benefits
Leadership Commitments
Organisational effectiveness
Check­Ins are conversations between a manager step to uncovering ideas and determining the best
and an employee with a focus on the employee. solutions. Our aim is consistent—developing and
Ideally happening face­to­face, these conversations testing new, better and faster ways of working that
can be scheduled or impromptu, and can address a will ultimately help patients.
range of important topics, including contributions,
personal growth, professional development and Our Pharmaceuticals Division provides a good
more. They can be initiated by either the employee example. Comprising global, regional and local
or the manager. While Check­Ins can be used to commercial structures, the set­up needed to undergo
discuss day­to­day business, the focus is on individual substantial change to be more efficient, effective and
employees, and the discussion is tailored to their agile. Design sprints were introduced to identify
needs. Check­Ins have been launched across the and address the key challenges. Purpose­built teams
organisation to change how employees and managers were assembled from different departments and levels
communicate, and they already form an essential in the organisation, and featured a willingness to
part of how people at Roche work together. embrace ambiguity and challenge the status quo.
Increasing agility to drive and manage change Offering a workplace that sees potential in everyone
The changes in business and political environments At Roche, we welcome and value the visible and
require us not only to look at how individuals can invisible differences among people, such as age,
work together in different ways, but also at how we gender, sexual orientation, culture or thinking styles.
can become more agile as an organisation. Roche has We believe diversity and inclusion are essential to
defined this agility as an ideal balance between speed, generating innovation—a culmination of a wide
stability and flexibility. Speed enables us to seize range of opinions and perspectives to create great
opportunities when they arise, from the analysis of and potentially transformative ideas.
real­world data, for example. Flexibility helps us
adjust our approaches to suit new situations. And In 2018, we launched a Group­level campaign titled
stability provides a clear and important foundation “It’s Personal”. The campaign showed, via personal
for employees, through our Strategic Framework, stories submitted by employees, our high level of
Leadership Commitments, Code of Conduct, and commitment to supporting a diverse and inclusive
commitment to sustainability, as examples. work environment with a focus on the individual. It
also emphasised our dedication to ensuring that our
At Roche, we work together to design the structures, work environment offers people what they need—both
processes and principles governing how we operate. at the office and in different areas of their personal
We encourage employees to share their insights into lives. Those needs include different ways of working,
where improvements are needed. Transparency about flexible schedules, unpaid leave options for those
the challenges and the opportunities is a critical first needing to care for a sick relative, and more.72
Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) are part of our overall mainly caused by a number of structural changes in
corporate goals. One of our five­year corporate goals is the organisation impacting various key positions.
to increase the number of women in key positions by
30%, as well as increasing the number of key position The RocheAbility network is an example of how a
incumbents with experience in both developing and diverse and inclusive workplace is being shaped by
established regions by 30%. We achieved the five­year a group of engaged colleagues with the support of a
goal on gender diversity in 2018. On the key position sponsor. The initiative fosters the inclusion of people
incumbents with diverse experience we made good with disabilities in teams based in Basel and Kaiser­
progress in the first three years. However, in 2018, we augst, while also supporting employees who are
saw an actual decrease compared to 2017. This was caregivers and partners of family members with
The Global Wellbeing Week 2018 challenged participants to reflect on their own digital behaviour.Our people | Roche
73
Five-year goals
30% 30%
increase in the representation of women in key leadership roles
26% 28% 29%
22% 23% (2014–2019)
30%
24% 25% increase in the representation of people with established and
22% 22%
20%
19% developing region experience in key leadership roles (2014–2019)
Top quartile
71% 72% 75% or more ranking in overall employee engagement score,
measured by the Global Employee Opinion Survey (2019)
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Goal
Baseline
disabilities. This bottom­up effort was rewarded with Connecting and learning
the prestigious Roche Pharma NEXT award in 2018. At Roche, we believe the expertise of people located in
various functions and affiliates is often the best basis
With people living and working longer than ever, for decisions as opposed to a top­down approach, and
multiple generations are now working side by side, that innovation flourishes when diverse people connect
offering opportunities to benefit from each other’s and collaborate, essentially creating networks.
perspectives. Reverse mentoring has become a widely
utilised opportunity to leverage people’s strengths and The Purpose­built Networks platform, utilised for
support learning. Participating colleagues have gained cross­functional projects, is a good example of how
valuable insights into a wide range of areas, from the networks are supported at Roche. The platform
most popular apps that simplify activities to sharing provides suggestions on how to start a network­based
work experiences and connections. project, how to set it up in a meaningful way and
how to leverage existing expertise in the company
Striking the right balance productively and across functions. Such project
Striving to achieve balance is something we all have groups are formed around a particular business need
in common and is yet very personal. Finding and and follow the principle of identifying the most
keeping that balance in today’s environment can be suitable team to address that need. Projects running
a challenge. Under our global “Live Well” initiative, on this principle can serve, for example, as a starting
Roche promotes a culture of health and wellbeing point for faster development of products, or for
for all employees. We address the physical and mental developing a company view on a particular policy or
needs of our people through on­site exercise facilities, regulatory topic with experts from different areas.
health­screening programmes, medical and counselling
services and even legal and financial advice resources. Workday, the new Human Resources system launched
These offerings differ in every affiliate, depending on in 2018, offers an additional resource for creating
local needs and opportunities. internal networks and enables employees to showcase
their professional expertise, experiences and aspirations
The Global Wellbeing Week 2018 focused specifically to the Roche community. The availability of such
on digital wellbeing. Through the week, 141 sites information empowers recruiters, project teams and
introduced interested employees to the latest trends individuals in search of specific expertise to find the
and topics in digital and social wellbeing. The event right individual, quickly and easily. At the end of 2018,
showcased new tools and challenged participants to only eight months after launch, 43% of employees have
reflect on their own digital behaviour, which can have started to fill out their individual professional profiles
a significant impact on physical and mental health in Workday to make themselves more visible for
and wellbeing. interesting opportunities.74
Working at Roche offers a variety of opportunities to the same time, they must be agile, self­aware and
grow and develop. The most impactful development authentic, and must understand the changes in the
activities typically go beyond traditional classroom environment around them. We believe this leader ship
training and are not necessarily directly linked to approach is much more effective at empowering
taking on a new role. Many regions and functions offer people and helping them to grow, develop and
a Changing Perspectives programme, which enables contribute.
employees to experience a different area or role for a
period of three to six months. During the programme, In order to accelerate this transformation, senior
employees have the opportunity to work on projects, leaders in the organisation have participated in the
develop leadership skills and gain insights into a new Kinesis programme, which was introduced in May
career path that might be suitable for them in the 2017. Kinesis aims to help leaders understand how
future. This and other programmes help people think their mindset and behaviours directly impact the
more about their career development and decide if effectiveness of their leadership. The programme
they want to take on a technical role, such as that of starts by challenging leaders to confront patterns of
a scientist or software engineer, or perhaps become thought that, while successful in the past, may now
a people manager or senior leader. limit their effectiveness. After being introduced to
the principles and practices of agile organisations,
At Roche, we believe that everybody has the potential participants explore organisational transformation,
to grow and learn. People at all levels are encouraged learn about requirements to be a leader, and how
to learn from both accomplishments and challenges, to engage others in the transformation journey.
every day. Insights from these learnings can help boost
the entire organisation’s ability to move forward. Nurturing and attracting talent
At the same time, these learnings can provide the Opportunities for growth and development are as
opportunity to grow and improve, and to utilise critical to attracting and retaining people as good
the entire Roche community as a valuable source leadership. With science and technology at the core
of information and experience. of our business, providing the right development
opportunities for scientific and technical talent is
The leadership journey vital. One example is the Scientific and Technical
Great leadership is essential to attracting and Talent Workstream, which engages with multiple
retaining people with talent and dedication. The departments and across several functions to focus
Leadership Commitments introduced in 2013 remain on this specific theme. Interaction between these
an important foundation of our leadership culture. functions and their human resources departments
fosters an understanding of which people need to
Because an evolving environment continually grow and thrive, including ways to fully leverage
presents new challenges and opportunities, and recognise their scientific contributions.
expectations placed on leaders have fundamentally
changed over the past decade. Today, leaders need to While digitalisation is already deeply embedded at
demonstrate new capabilities and embrace a leader­ Roche, our Code4Life initiative is an effort to raise
ship style and mindset that is focused on people. At Roche’s profile among digital talent who may notOur people | Roche
75
Technologies Challenges
C# Personalised healthcare
C++ Lab automation
Java Haematology
Python Diagnostics
MongoDB Cancer immunotherapy
HTML5 Drug discovery
Docker Clincal trials
Spring Outcome prediction
ASW Oncology
R Safety report processing
Jupyter Notebook
JavaScript
SQL
Linux
Node.js
TIBICO
>13,100
AngularJS
Jenkins
user interactions by technical talents in the Code4Life
initiative, covering all technologies and challenges
The Code4Life initiative aims to showcase how technology is driving innovation in healthcare. For example, the highlighted technologies help to solve challenges
in diagnosis.
yet be aware of the extent to which digitalisation in countries such as Switzerland and Germany. Code4Life:
is changing the world of diagnosis and treatment At the Roche sites in Basel and Kaiseraugst, for code4life.roche.com
options for patients. Our Code4Life competition example, both the teaching methodology and the
was open to university teams and individuals, either content meet the highest standards. Apprentices can
external or from Roche. Through this process, gain valuable experience in 14 professions, including
participants could learn how significant their impact informatics, biology, chemistry, automation and
on healthcare could be, and that digital capabilities electronics. Areas that are closely coupled with
can translate directly into benefits for people who research and manufacturing, such as programming,
need them urgently. In the Code4Life initiative, more 3D printing and robotics, are also part of the pro­
than 13,100 interactions with online campaigns gramme. To provide insights into the development
have driven over 26,100 visits and 46,000 page views and manufacturing of medicines, apprentices also
to the website. Recognising that coding capabilities participate in exchanges with other sites, such as
could also exist in unconventional places within the Mannheim or Penzberg, Germany.
company, we have launched initiatives to identify
these digital talents across our organisation and Our talented people across the world collectively
engage them in solving challenging problems. believe in our values—integrity, courage, passion—
and our purpose—doing now what patients need next.
The progress of digitalisation at Roche is also Together, they are making a meaningful difference
reflected in the vocational training offered through each day, and helping to ensure that Roche continues
the apprenticeship system, which is well established to innovate for the benefit of patients.76Our people | Roche
77
Jutta Steinseifer, Roche, Switzerland
“We need to better understand what
patients consider a benefit.”
Two years ago, I went from being a doctor to a patient. Having been a patient now myself, I realise that
After a routine mammography screening offered it is very important that we involve patients as
to all women over 50 in Germany, I received more partners even more in our drug development. We
information about my diagnosis as a gift just prior to need to better understand what patients consider a
Christmas, and with a house full of guests. Since then benefit and what is acceptable to them in terms of
it has been a journey of looking at breast cancer from toxicity of the treatment they are going to receive.
the other side. I have been a rebel in my life before, It is a whole new mindset and approach. Physicians
but I had to become one during the course of my will always need to be involved because they have the
treatment, too. Having worked as a Medical Director expertise with which to advise patients regarding
for Herceptin, our breast cancer medicine that has their treatment options. But we need to develop our
helped millions of women around the world, filled products with a focus on patient needs. I learned
me with hope but also provided me with scientific on my personal cancer journey that doctors do not
arguments when I needed to challenge the status quo. always know what really matters to patients. We
need to involve patients directly and they must have
One thing I have learned on this journey is that all a seat at the table.
difficult discussions with doctors are much easier if
you bring along a second pair of ears attached to a In addition to working with external patient
functioning brain. My brain was so often overwhelmed groups, we should tap into the knowledge we have
by the information. Two years later I am back at work within Roche. Many of our colleagues are also
thanks also to the support of my wife and daughter, patients, or live with patients. For them, our work is
and friends within Roche who sometimes helped with about ‘doing now what we need next’. One way of
real advice, and sometimes by just being there. This achieving this is through Roche patient networks
has been a huge asset. such as the group that I joined on my return from
treatment—PatientsAreUs.
A word of advice: do make use of mammography
screening if it is made available in your city or town. Roche is already on the right track here, making
Always take a family member or friend with you great efforts to put patients at the centre of our work.
and do not be afraid to ask questions. Get a second We can, however, do even better. For example, we
opinion when you are not satisfied with the first in Oncology still have some room for improvement
recommendation. and can make our trials patient­friendlier.78Environment | Roche
79
Minimising the impact on the
environment
At Roche, protecting the environment is not just a legal or social
obligation, it is integral to our operations.
Sustainability is a top priority in our construction projects, like here at our site in Kaiseraugst, Switzerland.80
Proactively seeking new
technologies
We regularly inspect our pharmaceutical and diagnostics manufacturing facilities for environmental performance and implementation of our environmental policy.
Environmental protection is a central and long­ goods, the environment and Roche’s reputation.
term priority in an ever­changing world. At Roche, The Corporate SHE audit team inspects our pharma­
protecting the environment is an integral part of ceutical and diagnostics manufacturing facilities
our operations and is taken seriously throughout the for environmental performance and implementation
life cycle of our products. Our Corporate Principles of our environmental policy in keeping with legal
and the Safety, Security, Health and Environmental requirements and internal standards. They also make
Protection (SHE) Policy ensure that we commit to the recommendations on where future improvements
highest standards of environmental protection. In can be made. We are committed to continuously
2018, we invested CHF 181 million in environmental monitoring key performance indicators (eg, the five­
infrastructure and CHF 80.3 million in environmental year goals on page 81), and our aim is to cover at
operating costs, including services and personnel. least 95% of each key performance indicator.
Environmental management and compliance We believe that education, awareness and training
Roche’s environmental risks are mitigated via a are the best ways to foster employee engagement
multi­d isciplinary system of prevention and a in, and responsibility for SHE. With this in mind,
successful environmental management system (EMS). we conduct regular training sessions, regional
It is a proactive system which reduces costs, increases conferences and workshops, and provide online
Environment: efficiencies and enhances competitiveness. A dedicated tools in local languages to most employees. In 2018,
roche.com/ team of employees around the globe identify potential our employees participated in approximately
environment risks that could possibly cause damage to people, 259,000 hours of dedicated training.Environment | Roche
81
Material topics in this chapter
Environmental responsibility
1.9% 11.2%
Noise pollution Emissions to water
7.7%
68.4%
Primary energy
Emissions to air
Roche
eco-balance 2.5%
2018
Landfilled waste
8.3%
Water consumption
Minimising our environmental footprint Five-year goals
We measure our total environmental impact
using the eco­balance metric, which is a system of 6.99 6.35 5.79 5.60 -10% Eco-balance
points allocated to ecologically relevant parameters.1 -3.6% -12.4% -20.1% -22.8% (million points/employee), 2014–2019
This metric provides us with a global view of how
we are impacting the Earth’s ecosystems and allows
local site management the freedom to develop 173 167 158 156 -15% Energy consumption
-3.5%
locally appropriate strategies and objectives for -8.7% -9.8% (GJ (FFE#)/employee), 2015–2025
reducing their environmental impact. The points
are added up and then related to the total number 455
435
422 -10%
of employees, which enables us to monitor our +4.6% 395 General waste
environmental impact per employee. Our strategic -3.0% -9.2% (kg/employee), 2015–2020
goal is to reduce our eco­balance by 10% between
2 th0 e1 n4 , a wn ed h2 a0 v1 e9 . b W eee n r ae ia mch ine gd tt oh i rs e dgo ua cl e i on u 2 r0 f1 o6 o. t S pi rn ince t 533 481 477 464 -10% Water consumption
by a further 2% each year. Improvements in terms -9.8% -10.5% -12.9% (1,000 m3/employee)†, 2015–2020
of decreasing energy consumption, air emissions,
water consumption, and the weight of chemical
2015 2016 2017 2018 Goal
waste, has led to a further improvement of 3.3%
compared to 2017. # FFE: Fossil Fuel Equivalent | † weighted by water stress | Changes in % related to 2014 and
2015 respectively
1 Developed by the Swiss Federal Office for the Environment, we are compliant with their latest guidelines.82
Decreasing energy consumption
Our energy management programme is two­fold. Our success in reducing energy consumption
First, we seek to improve energy efficiency through­ and carbon dioxide emissions can be credited to
out our global operations. This, in turn, reduces the initiatives like the renovation of the chimney on
environmental impact as well as the strain on the the Basel site. This resulted in a significant increase
energy supply chain and on costs. Secondly, we in energy efficiency from approximately 85% to
endeavour to reduce usage of fossil fuels, cut energy about 95%. This will result in an avoidance of more
consumption, and increase the proportion of sustainable than 1,500 tonnes CO per year. In monetary terms,
2
energy. We have set up energy­saving action plans it means that Roche will save approximately
at our sites. They include the implementation of CHF 850,000 per year in fuel costs.
innovative technologies and continuous upgrading
of infrastructure to improve energy efficiency. Reduced emissions due to hybrid cars
Since 2016, Roche Diagnostics in Indianapolis have
In 2018, our total energy consumption decreased by converted more than 80% of their car fleet to hybrid
1.3%, while sales grew 7%. Energy used in buildings cars. The new strategy has helped to reduce the
and stationary equipment (gas, fuel oil, waste, electricity, amount of energy used by the fleet. The vehicles
district heating) was comparable with that in 2017. used approximately 9% less energy in 2018 compared
Energy used due to business air travel decreased by to 2016. In terms of carbon dioxide emissions,
approximately 4% but still contributes to more than moving to hybrid cars reduced emissions by
a fifth of Roche’s total energy consumption. approximately 13%.
Energy consumption in terajoules Share of sustainable energy
21.3%
2018 2017 2016 2015 18.5% above 20.0%
15.0% 16.2%
Total (scope 1* and
scope 2**) 9,185 9,219 9,824 10,297
85.0% 83.8% 81.5%
Energy: Energy (scope 1 and 2) 78.7%
roche.com/ consumption (GJ/ below 80.0%
environment/ employee)# 91 91 98 105
resources_and_ Scope 3 2015 2016 2017 2018 2020 Goal
raw_materials Business flights 2,754 2,871 2,953 2,876 Sustainable Non-sustainable
* Scope 1: energy generated within own facilities (eg, combustion of gas)
** Scope 2: purchased energy | # Data collected by Group SHE |
(GJ = gigajoule)Environment | Roche
83
Energy use by selected types in 2018
23%
Energy used due to business air travel
31% Video and teleconferencing facilities have been established
at all sites and are widely used. Employees are encouraged to
use trains and to consolidate several business trips into one.
Grid electricity…
Our first priority is to reduce usage of energy. For the
energy we use we look for ways of improving efficiencies,
such as heat recovery. In addition we encourage the use
of renewable energy wherever it makes sense. 8%
… and natural gas
31% Energy used by company vehicles
We stipulate that company car fleets consist of vehicles
which use less than 2 MJ/km.
Sustainable construction at San Francisco campus and wellness of building occupants. Genentech
Genentech has long been incorporating sustainability has achieved LEED Platinum certification for
principles into the planning and development of its another new building on campus that was completed
South San Francisco (SSF) campus and has adopted in 2018. This building represents several firsts for
a holistic approach that encompasses green building Genentech, including net zero­energy performance.
design as well as employee health and wellbeing. The annual energy generated through the building’s
Since 2010, Genentech has reduced greenhouse gas solar photovoltaic system and solar hot water panels
emissions from energy used at its SSF campus by over is equivalent to the amount of energy used by the
30%, thanks in part to its green building programme. building every year. Additionally, a lifecycle assessment
Having already achieved LEED Gold certification for completed during project design demonstrated the
its campus community center, Genentech is pursuing environmental benefits of the building’s wood
WELL building certification, a first­of­its­kind construction, including a 25% saving in embodied
standard that emphasises the health, productivity, carbon when compared to a steel structure.84
Reducing greenhouse gas emissions
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions—such as Emissions to the air from Roche sites are at very
carbon dioxide—resulting from human activities low levels.
are considered responsible for accelerating global
warming and climate change. Industry is one source Emissions to air in tonnes
of these emissions and must take appropriate measures
to reduce its impact. International agreements, such as 2018 2017 2016 2015
the Paris Agreement, which Roche actively supports, VOCs* 85 101 124 116
as well as national legislation, define targets and Particulates 20 20 21 26
schedules for reducing emissions. We are working Nitrogen oxides 201 232 219 228
towards our own goal—set in 2015—to reduce our Sulphur dioxide 5 7 6 11
scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions per employee by 15%
* Volatile organic compounds
over ten years by 2025.
Our emissions strategy prescribes a continuous Another initiative to reduce GHG emissions at Roche
improvement at our manufacturing sites, while our is to reduce our use of halogenated refrigerants, which
aim is to avoid, reduce, and control air pollutants in are used in cooling equipment and can remain in
line with our eco­balance goals. Despite the increased the atmosphere for a long period of time. We have
production resulting from our continued growth, therefore committed to a 20% reduction in our use of
our objective is to keep emissions to the air at the these halogens by 2020 compared to 2015. At Penzberg,
low levels achieved in the past few years. Germany, we have been working with local suppliers to
develop new technologies using natural refrigerants.
We were able to reduce our scope 1 GHG emissions by To date, we have been able to replace 1,600 kg of
1.9% by implementing energy­saving measures that halogenated substances thus avoiding 3,400 tons of
reduced the amount of fuel we use to heat, cool and carbon dioxide equivalents. The approach of applying
operate our sites. GHG emissions originating from environmentally friendly refrigeration was honoured
the transformation of purchased energy consumed by the regional government in 2018.
by us (scope 2) were also reduced by 2.3%.
Halogenated hydrocarbons in tonnes*
Emissions: Since 2010, a total of 1,546 projects have been
roche.com/ completed, resulting in an avoidance of approximately 2018 2017 2016 2015
environment/ 208,267 tonnes of CO emissions. This has led to Inventory 91.3 114.3 134.3 154.6
2
emissions_to_air_ an estimated cost­saving of approximately Consumed | released 2.2 1.3 2.7 1.8
and_to_water CHF 47.1 million.
* Global inventory including Chugai, Genentech and VentanaEnvironment | Roche
85
208,267
tonnes
of CO emissions have been avoided since 2010.
2
In the long term, our goal is to fully substitute fossil and nuclear energies with energy from renewable sources. At our Diagnostics site in Suzhou, China, we installed
photovoltaic panels to cover almost 80% of the energy needs of the administration building.
CO -equivalent emissions in tonnes
2
2018 2017 2016 2015
Scope 1
Fuel combustion 284,890 291,850 319,538 379,457
Halogenated hydrocarbons 4,746 3,469 6,463 4,964
Scope 2
Market-based 263,973 270,123 320,860 322,046 *
Location-based 334,155 343,711 403,924 408,078*
Total (Scope 1 and Market-based) 553,609 565,442 646,861 706,467 *
Scope 3
Business flights 195,530 203,814 209,660 204,179
Energy-intensive utilities** 9,735 9,081 15,170 20,064
Waste 52,712 66,522 63,560 –
* Due to changes in reporting methodology, this number is different to that reported in 2015. | ** Compressed air and liquid nitrogen86
Reducing water consumption and waste
Currently, Roche has no high­usage operations in Efficiency meets ecology
areas of water scarcity and no water­related risks. We aim to implement the following waste manage­
Nevertheless, we adapt conservation and reduction ment strategy in all our waste activities: avoid, reduce,
programmes according to local conditions and needs. reuse, recycle and thermally destroy. We permit
Our Californian sites, for example, use drought­ landfilling only as a last resort and, even then, only
resistant landscaping. At other sites, we collect and for inert materials such as slag or ashes. Waste
recycle water from our cooling towers, creating a minimisation and reduction measures are not only
closed­loop system that reduces water use. Reducing restricted to production processes but are evaluated
total water consumption is an important part of our and implemented across all operations at Roche.
overall environmental target, and the water goal We strive for eco­efficient solutions which show both
reflects this. a reduction in the environmental burden and an
economic benefit, eg, reduction in raw material and
Water usage and discharge disposal cost.
2018 2017 2016 2015 Landfilled and incinerated waste in tonnes
Water withdrawn
(million m3) 16.6 15.9 18.2 18.9 2018 2017 2016 2015
Water consumed General waste
(million m3) 3.4 3.0 3.1 3.5 generated 11,183 12,478 12,498 26,314
Water discharged Chemical waste
to treatment plant generated 13,563 17,245 21,906 25,742
(million m3) 5.8 5.8 5.7 7.8 Contaminated soil 77,681 108,766 54,937 –*
Organic matter Construction waste 8,443 16,189 12,804 8,223
discharged to waterways
* Prior to 2016 this data was not collected separately.
after treatment (t) 185 144 149 190
Heavy metals discharged The Roche Innovation Center in Copenhagen in
to waterways after Denmark presses and sells its waste to recycling
treatment (kg) 149 129 164 160 companies. The monetary compensation is enough toEnvironment | Roche
87
136,000
Up to
tonnes of CO emissions will be avoided
2
over the next 10 years with our reagent
production and transportation.
cover the waste press. By recycling waste, it avoids address customer demands for greener products and
carbon dioxide emissions linked to incineration supply chains, and public concerns about chemicals
procedures. In 2018, 3,950 kg of cardboard and and pharmaceuticals in the environment.
2,552 kg of paper were pressed and sold to avoid
approximately 13,500 kg of carbon dioxide. This Pharmaceuticals in the environment
initiative therefore benefits both the environment Traces of pharmaceutical products can enter the
and the company. environment in a variety of ways, including via the
manufacturing process, improper disposal of unused
When developing a new diagnostic system, reducing medicines, and through natural metabolic processes
the impact on the environment is a crucial element following normal patient use. Roche is acting on
of the process. Our innovative instrument design concerns about the impact of pharmaceuticals on
and vast experience in test development allow us to the environment by considering the entire life cycle
operate with lower reagent volumes and therefore of its products. MabThera/Rituxan, Herceptin,
to produce smaller reagent carriers that generate less Avastin, Perjeta and Lucentis are monoclonal
waste per test. With the implementation of cobas e antibodies which generated CHF 25.0 billion in
pack green and cobas c pack green, we will avoid up sales in 2018. They belong to a defined class of active
to 136,000 tonnes of CO emission over the next pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) exempt from the
2
ten years in our reagent production and transportation. European Medicines Evaluation Agency guideline
This represents 45,000 flights between Basel and San on environmental risk assessment. They have a
Francisco. Our ecological mindset helps customers low excretion rate and are deemed to present no Product
to address some of their key challenges in lab testing significant risk to sewage works and surface waters. Stewardship:
sustainability. These efforts reflect our commitment to They are therefore termed ‘benign in nature’ and roche.com/
Product Stewardship. At Roche, we aim to minimise constitute environmentally sustainable compounds. environment/
the safety, security, health and environmental impacts All of our pharmaceutical products are, however, product_
of our products and devices. Our efforts also help subject to a rigorous environmental risk assessment. stewardship88Community engagement | Roche
89
Striving for long-term
community
engagement
Working together to bring in change for the better can take a variety
of forms. We mobilise resources and serve as catalysts to strengthen
and sustain local communities.
Funds raised at our annual Roche Children’s Walk go to initiatives supporting education, health or social development around
the world. In 2018, nine Roche ambassadors had the chance to visit Selam children’s villages in Ethiopia and to experience
first-hand the progress made when resources are put to good use.90
Paths to strong
societies
A mother living at the Roche Children’s Centre in Mumbai learns embroidery. Skill-based workshops are conducted at the Centre to help parents acquire new skills to
generate increased income for their families.
Strengthening the communities in which we This is one reason why employees worldwide
operate is part of Roche’s responsibility as a global join forces during the annual Roche Children’s
citizen. Our philanthropic engagement is directed Walk and raise money for local projects. In 2018,
toward supporting humanitarian and social projects, 23,228 employees in 74 countries participated in
fostering science and education, art and culture, as this effort. With the matching contribution made
well as providing long­term disaster relief. We support by Roche, more than CHF 1 million was collected
projects run by international NGOs from our this year to support children’s projects.
headquarters as well as local projects managed by
our affiliates in collaboration with local NGOs, Providing holistic care for children with cancer
because they know the needs in these countries best. One such project funded by the Children’s Walk
is the partnership with St Jude India ChildCare
Making a meaningful difference takes time, and this Centres, an organisation that provides shelter and
happens through partnerships that are given time care to children undergoing cancer therapy. In
and the opportunity to evolve. Our approach has once countries like India, providing access to medicine
again been honoured by achieving an excellent score often takes more effort than just making medicines
on Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy in the available commercially. There is also a need to
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. While recognition create an environment in which patients are able
is important, it is crucial that these projects thrive to start and complete their treatment.
and the resources are put to good use.Community engagement | Roche
91
Material topics in this chapter
Community engagement
Sustainable healthcare
Disease awareness and treatment education
Although therapy for paediatric cancer is subsidised travels across the state of Maharashtra to teach basic
and sometimes even free of charge at the Tata occupational skills to parents at St Jude India centres
Memorial Hospital in Mumbai, the dropout rate is in the state.
significant. There is a simple reason for this: Two­
thirds of the patients come from outside Mumbai and Connecting to local healthcare systems
housing in the city is beyond their means. With no While the partnership with St Jude India is well
roof over their heads, weakened by disease and the on its way, another Roche alliance has made history
effects of chemotherapy, these children are prone to already. Beginning its journey 24 years ago, the
infection and find it difficult to fight their cancer. healthcare train Phelophepa is one of the most
successful humanitarian projects in South Africa.
In 2016, Roche opened a centre on the Mumbai With the Roche Health Clinic and Pharmacy Clinic
campus of St Jude India. It offers a clean and safe place on board, it delivers primary healthcare and health
to stay for 12 children with cancer, at any given time, education to impoverished communities in remote
and their families. Here they can feel at home for the areas. The Phelophepa trains run 36 weeks a year
duration of their treatment, get nutritional support, and travel to up to 70 remote communities annually.
education and counselling. Apart from Roche’s The inception of the first Phelophepa train took
financial contribution, employees volunteer their time place 24 years ago. Today two trains are running and
and passion to arrange recreational activities like have provided treatment to over six million patients
performing dance and storytelling sessions. and dispensed over 700,000 prescriptions.
The partnership has helped decrease the overall
dropout rate for treatment of paediatric cancer in
Mumbai from 30% to 5% since 2016. All 111 children
who have found a temporary home away from home Since 2016, the overall dropout rate for treatment of
in the Roche centre completed their treatment. paediatric cancer in Mumbai has decreased from
Watching the project flourish, we expanded the
30% to 5%
partnership with St Jude India by opening a second
centre in the eastern region of Assam in 2018.
Roche also established a mobile training van that92
Unlocking potentials and growing talents
Education can break the vicious cycle of poverty by the foundation with renovation work and better
teaching children skills and knowledge that are needed employment conditions for local workers.
to develop and improve their lives. Therefore, Roche’s
philanthropic engagement is often accompanied by In addition, we are promoting a School Readiness
an educational component. Programme launched by UNICEF in Ethiopia.
Among the initiatives being supported by Roche, all
We carefully choose our local partners to ensure they of which are recognised by the Ethiopian Ministry
share values such as integrity, fairness, accountability of Education, is a Child­to­Child project to improve
and transparency. In 2018, nine employees from school readiness through peer tutoring by older
among the top Children’s Walk fundraisers had the children. With the help of Roche, 9,040 children
opportunity to visit one of these partners—the Selam accessed early learning opportunities through this
children’s villages in Ethiopia. Here, they witnessed initiative in 2018.
the progress being made with the funds.
… and around the corner
Around the world … We also foster education closer to home, with
Selam is a non­profit organisation that provides numerous projects designed to promote an interest
housing and holistic care to orphan children in in science and technology among young people.
Ethiopia so that they can develop and become self­ Since 2009, Roche has been a founding sponsor of
reliant. Selam’s quality schools are run for all ages, the International Swiss Talent Forum, a think tank
and their technical and vocational training centres for young adults from all over the world to address
also benefit disadvantaged children and youths from global and long­term challenges of our time. By
surrounding communities. connecting students with experts, decision­makers
and lateral thinkers, the International Swiss Talent
Roche supports a total of 110 children, 60 of whom Forum creates a space for innovation, interaction
live in five orphan homes run by house mothers in and debate to develop new solutions for globally
Addis Ababa City, Yeka Sub City, Kotebe, Wereda and significant issues. In 2018, 70 young adults, aged 18
Bole Sub City. Fifty youths are on vocational training to 22 years, from 22 countries all over the world
in Selam’s schools and training centres. Our objective came together to find novel answers to challenges
is to allow these students to focus entirely on their to be faced in “The Future of Urban Life”: How can
education by removing financial pressure that could cities handle fast­growing populations? How can
otherwise hinder their progress. All the students cities become more self­sufficient? Next year, other
who completed this training so far have been able students will have a chance to reflect on “Artificial
to find a job very quickly. Additional funding helps Intelligence”.Community engagement | Roche
93
Due diligence Legal
Framework
> 1,000
high school students were involved in
the four-year coursework at Futurelab
in the 2017–2018 school year.
Futurelab is a Genentech initiative developed in Genentech provide monthly support. Benefits accrue
cooperation with the South San Francisco Unified for both sides—66% of volunteers say programmes
School District. It is designed to inspire K­12 students like Science Garage make them more likely to stay
(from kindergarten to 12th grade) for explorations at Genentech and 86% report they developed skills
and careers in science, technology, engineering and as a result of volunteering.
mathematics (STEM).
Sharing skills and experiences
Science Garage is the newest part of Futurelab. It As part of Roche’s ongoing commitment to
offers a four­year biotech pathway designed to give improve education in some developing countries,
high school students a chance to discover the exciting micro­secondments combine the know­how and
field of biotechnology. Science Garage starts with a skills of Roche employees with local NGOs to build
three­week biotech unit for all ninth graders during capacity, deliver sustainable outputs and increase
their compulsory biology course. During the 2018 impact. Under the umbrella of our collaboration
school year, students ran an experiment in the field with B360 education partnerships, which facilitates
of classical genetics and gene identification. knowledge­sharing between Europe and Africa,
three Roche employees served as guest lecturers in
Their appetite for biotechnology was further 2018 at the Namibia University of Science and
demonstrated by many students as 25% of them Technology (NUST) in Windhoek, a Roche partner
continued on the pathway to take additional elective university. Two of them ran a programme in
biotech coursework. Over the course of two years, environmental health science, supporting and
students will become familiar with a variety of coaching 14 students with hands­on exercises. The
concepts, laboratory techniques and career pathways other taught logistics and supply chain management
in the biotech industry. Each year, over 1,000 students to over 350 students. Those assignments were
from the South San Francisco School District are conducted in close colla boration with the university,
involved in the four­year programme. integrating real business cases into their curriculum,
encouraging employability, and supporting durable
Apart from the 14 teachers delivering the units and knowledge transfer.
courses, more than 100 employee volunteers from94Integrity in business | Roche
95
Continued commitment to
integrity in
business
Applying high ethical standards in all our activities is the
foundation of our success. Integrity pays, for all our stakeholders
and for society at large, but also for the business overall.
We work closely with our suppliers in construction and engineering to ensure sustainability of our business.96
A matter of
culture
We aim to translate formal guidelines into business-integrated compliance. This creates a positive impact on business practice.
The expectations are clear: Patients, healthcare Shedding light on grey areas
professionals, the authorities and society at large As part of our comprehensive compliance management
trust that we act ethically and responsibly, not just efforts, we facilitate business­integrated and impact­
because we are bound by law or for reputational oriented decisions by simplifying processes and
reasons, but to live up to our own values. adhering to the principle of “trust but verify”. This
does not mean that employees are left to themselves,
Working with integrity is a professional virtue asked because they can count on a supportive and connected
of all employees. Everyone is expected to assess risks Compliance Officer Network.
for unethical behaviour within his or her area of
accountability, prevent or mitigate them, and adopt As the face of our organisation and as role models for
corrective measures. In Roche, this philosophy serves employees, General Managers (GMs) play a central
Our approach: as the starting point for a culture of integrity that is role in fostering ethical behaviour in their respective
roche.com/ embedded in everyday business and results in teams. With this in mind, a compliance induction
approach compliant behaviour. programme for new GMs has been launched in recentIntegrity in business | Roche
97
Material topics covered in this chapter
Compliance
Occupational accidents
Drug efficacy, safety and counterfeiting
Data transparency on clinical trials
Patient organisation support
Supply chain management
years. Tailored to the affiliate’s needs, it is used to With the help of IT colleagues, a tool was developed
discuss compliance topics with the help of practical to provide an approval workflow and a repository of
examples. Its overall objective is to make sure that the documents to compliantly manage interactions with
GM is able to foster a culture in which every employee healthcare professionals (HCPs). The tool assists the
is accountable for doing the right thing while carrying Diagnostics affiliate in Panama in their interactions
out her or his responsibilities. with HCPs in Central America and Caribbean
countries, and this concept is now being evaluated
Another example of how we embed compliance into for the other Diagnostics and Diabetes Care affiliates.
the business is the Compliance Maturity Questionnaire. Also, stemming from a creative idea in the Pharma­
Originally developed in France, this tool helps the ceuticals organisation, is a compliance app which is
compliance officer and top management to understand now available to Pharmaceuticals, Diagnostics and
the compliance status, identify areas of advancement, Diabetes Care teams throughout Latin America. At the
and above all, discuss compliance with different click of a button, sales staff can retrieve information
business teams in the wider organisation. Compliance on key compliance criteria and other requirements.
business partners from different departments judged The app can also be used as a tool for analysing and
themselves with reference to 13 different topics, planning compliance programmes and campaigns.
for example, speak­up culture, communication or
management in case of non­compliance. Adapted
by other affiliates, the questionnaire now serves as a
valuable tool for local compliance management to
identify compliance risks and set priorities accordingly. Compliance
In 2018, 131 employees used the Roche Group SpeakUp Line,
Pioneering the integration of digital tools which is available in 53 languages in 103 countries. The Chief
As a way of simplifying access to relevant information Compliance Officer received 601 reports relating to alleged
on compliance, we continuously enhance the violations of the Code of Conduct via the Business Ethics
integration of digital tools. For instance, in Latin Incident Reporting system. Of these, 246 were unfounded,
America, the challenges of a highly heterogeneous 245 were founded and 110 are still under investigation. As
region in terms of legislation, country size and a result, 94 employment contracts and 19 agreements with
market characteristics can only be met by innovative business partners were terminated on grounds of unethical
solutions to assist medical decisions and services. behaviour.98
Ensuring operational resilience
In keeping with our ongoing efforts in sustainable Consequently, we are on track to achieving our
development, Roche is striving for continuous mid­term targets for the period 2015 – 2020.
improvement in the areas of safety, health and
security. Over the years, we have implemented a The health and wellbeing of employees, both at Roche
variety of initiatives to improve our already excellent and in our business partner organisations, are always
track record in the areas of accidents and health. top priority. Consequently, our business partners are
expected to meet our rigorous standards, too. This
As a result, the number of accidents is at a constant policy is now bearing fruit. Since the establishment of
low (see graph), with the vast majority being ‘slips the new Diagnostics site in Suzhou, China, in 2015,
and trips’ as in any household. As our accident rate is workers spent seven million working hours with no
so low, a single accident, resulting in a longer absence, reportable accidents.
can lead to fluctuations in the accident rate key figure.
We have set feasible but ambitious goals and have Responsible and prescient handling of chemicals
established health and safety committees at all Roche In June, Roche complied with a mandatory
production sites and at many other sites according to requirement of the European Union’s regulation
risk levels. on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and
Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) by registering
Employee health and safety all existing substances with a volume of over one
tonne per year.
< 0.32
0.150 0.179 0.173 0.174
Regarding chemicals, Roche has traditionally gone
beyond just the legal requirements. For instance,
0.062 0.061
0.059 0.053 <0.06* we have initiated a pilot project with the European
Chemicals Agency (ECHA) and partner companies
0.436 0.445 0.430 0.411 < 0.5* to share archived data with the scientific community.
By doing this, we improve the knowledge on the
393 400 toxicity of chemical substances and thus help to
348 346
reduce the number of animal studies.
6,396
6,298
4,828 4,773 Another initiative involves Substances of Very
High Concern (SVHC) that have been listed by the
2015 2016 2017 2018 2020 Goal ECHA. We have set ourselves the ambitious goal
Lost-time illness rate Roche accident rate of voluntarily phasing out these SVHC from our
Lost-time accident rate Number of work-related accidents products and processes worldwide within ten years of
Working days lost per year due to accidents their appearing on the list, where technically feasible.
* Three-year averageIntegrity in business | Roche
99
Protecting from harm and tampering
Digitalisation has become integral to our approach
to security, with digital solutions being applied in
the area of product and travel security. For example,
our travel tracker system facilitates on­trip support
through rapid identification of travellers in case of
an emergency. It enables the Roche security team to
contact colleagues who are travelling through in­built
email and SMS. In 2018, we handled 54 emergency
events and supported 860 people worldwide.
Counterfeit pharmaceuticals may be devoid of active
ingredients but may contain harmful substances,
state incorrect dosages, or be inappropriately packaged
and labelled. Masquerading as medicines, they put We employ several anti-counterfeit strategies to combat counterfeiting and help ensure the
patients at risk of treatment failure and dangerous quality of our products.
side effects. Today’s global trade system opens up
possibilities for introducing counterfeit products
into the regular supply chain. To coordinate counter
efforts, we collaborate on international criminal These efforts, combined with the greater awareness of Anti-Counterfeiting:
investigations. the authorities and stricter legislation, help ensure a roche.com/anti-
safe supply of critical medicines for patients in need. counterfeiting
Roche, Genentech and Chugai are members of the
Pharmaceutical Security Institute, which hosts a
database with more than 14,000 product crime cases.
Comparison of data provides the opportunity to Business Continuity Management
identify specific logistics companies or distributors In September 2017, Hurricane Maria left a trail of death and
which then can be notified to law enforcement destruction in Puerto Rico. The island is home to one of Roche’s
authorities. In 2018, Roche closed 377 suspected three manufacturing sites for glucose test strips in the area of
cases; of which 142 were confirmed. Diabetes Care. The storm impacted employees and the local affiliate
as well. The Roche site was hit by a power outage and damage to
We also use our internal analytical skills to examine the overall infrastructure. One substantial challenge in the aftermath
samples of counterfeiting. Besides identifying the of the storm was IT connectivity, especially access to the Roche
composition of the ‘medicine’, its impurities and network. All our employees worked hard to keep the impact of the
contamination, scientists analyse the ink on packaging disruption to a minimum. Preventing shortages of products for
and leaflets, blisters and paper. We investigate counter­ diabetes patients worldwide was only possible by having processes
feits detected at different locations around the world in place that focused on improving the resilience of our network.
to find out if they originated from the same source. Today, the Puerto Rico affiliate is back to full operations.100
Partnerships for a lasting future
With a view to further improving sustainable for patients and other stakeholders in RWD and how
partnerships with patients, Roche updated its directive Roche accesses and uses RWD in its undertakings. In
on collaborating with patient groups and patients in all our activities, we aim to ensure data protection while
2018. These guidelines acknowledge the role played allowing the use of data to drive medical innovation.
by an increasingly empowered and more vocal patient
population. In this directive, patients are defined Sustainability of supply and human rights
broadly to include patient organisations, patient The United Nations Guiding Principles on Business
groups, patient associ ations, patient advocacy groups, and Human Rights are embedded in our operations
patient communities, patient experts, online patient by multiple means. We do this by assessing the risks
communities, family members, caregivers and of potential violations, promoting awareness, fostering
individual patients. due diligence, strengthening the legal framework and
collaborating on collective actions, and transparent
Only by interacting with patients are we able to gain a communication.
greater understanding of what they need. The patient’s
perspective can guide us in clinical development, for In 2018, we conducted a human rights risk assessment
example, in defining meaningful clinical trial endpoints. with cross­functional representatives. This was
This is also reflected in the newly launched patient supported by the Corporate Sustainability Committee.
platform ForPatients that provides disease education We identified human rights which are potentially
as well as information on Roche clinical trials in susceptible to violations, as well as their associated
layperson language. It further provides relevant risks. To enhance awareness, we created a video that
information that makes it easier for caregivers and explained human rights and Roche’s endeavours with a
patients to connect to possible clinical trial sites. simple message to our employees: ‘Within your sphere
of influence, ensure human rights are respected.’
Respect for privacy and data protection
Patients: We believe that access to and use of real­world data We carried out risk­assessments of our approximately
roche.com/ (RWD) for legitimate purposes benefits patients, 1,000 business­ critical suppliers and broadened our
patientorganisations provided appropriate safeguards are in place. In all supplier due diligence. In 2018, we also expanded
our interactions, be it with patients or other stake­ collaboration with our business­critical suppliers to
ForPatients: holders, we need to respect their privacy. This year, we systematically identify and risk­assess critical tier 2
forpatients.roche.com adjusted our policy framework on data privacy in light suppliers. We specifically looked at countries and
of the new European Union General Data Protection industries with known high risks for violation of
Position on RWD: Regulation (GDPR). We took the opportunity to human rights. In total, we found more than 50 high­
roche.com/rwd evaluate current practices and developed a roadmap to risk tier 2 suppliers. Among them were logistics
ensure that all requirements of the GDPR are met. In companies in Nigeria and Thailand and temporary
Human Rights: addition, with the involvement of many stakeholders, labour companies in Mexico. We verified that our
roche.com/approach/ Roche has elaborated a Position Paper on access and tier 1 suppliers had mitigation plans in place with
human_rights use of RWD. It explains why there is tremendous value these suppliers.Integrity in business | Roche
101
Human Rights approach
Benchmark Increase awareness Enhance legal framework Transparent communication
Assess risks Foster due diligence Collaborate on collective actions
We also continued our supplier sustainability being the Basel­based Bürgerspital, which provides
assurance visits with the support of external audit important services for Roche. By introducing the
firms, and have completed 126 visits. In the area of inclusive internship programme, the local organisation
labour conditions, we have had more than 100 findings. also wants to further improve diversity in its workforce.
These include excessive overtime, improper pay The internship is open to people with varying
for overtime, insufficient number of rest days, and disabilities, ranging from physical disabilities to
inadequate payment of social benefits. We worked neurodevelopmental conditions.
with these suppliers to address these findings. For
example, a sustainability assurance visit at a Chinese
supplier of pharmaceutical manufacturing equipment
revealed unsatisfactory standards in working
conditions, especially with regards to health and Engaging with public policy stakeholders Public Policy:
safety and the environment. Some of the workers had We are convinced that a responsible and constructive form of roche.com/
excessive overtime and received insufficient SHE1 lobbying is in the interest of all parties involved and of society as approach/
training. In addition, the company did not carry out a whole. We seek to inform and work closely with government public-policy
regular fire drills. The supplier has since successfully officials in order to highlight and address the issues that affect
implemented corrective actions. the healthcare industry and advance its regulatory framework.
In 2018, we updated our Good Practice Guidelines on working
Focus on abilities with government officials. Where appropriate, Roche discloses
The recognition of human rights ensures that contributions and signs up to the transparency register of public
people have a right to be treated with dignity. The authorities. In Switzerland, we spent CHF 8.7 million in 2018,
RocheAbility network, for instance, fosters the which includes payments to industry associations and various
inclusion of Basel and Kaiseraugst employees with chambers of commerce, financial assistance to trade unions, and
disabilities and focuses on the strengths and abilities donations to political parties at the cantonal and federal level.
of each individual. The Basel and Kaiseraugst site Donations to political parties are each in the low double-digit
has started to work with inclusive providers and thousand range in Swiss francs, and together accounted for
plans to expand its collaborations, one example approximately 3% of total contributions and donations.
1 SHE = Safety, Security, Health and Environment102
Image not touched up yetIntegrity in business | Roche
103
Dr Nicole Gusset, SMA Switzerland
“There is a red line that patient
organisations should never cross.”
My daughter, Victoria, was diagnosed with spinal is granted. This helps us understand when and where
muscular atrophy (SMA) in 2011, a year after her birth. inputs are relevant. Transparent communication
As a caregiver to a child with SMA, you need more and sharing of confidential information with patient
of everything—time, space, money, energy, emotions. organisations are needed in order for us to make a
SMA affects all aspects of your life and is merciless. meaningful contribution. But there is a red line that
It is a killer that constantly tries to grab your child, patient organisations should never cross: The interest
with you trying to stay ahead of it and keep out of of patients and their wellbeing have to be at the
its reach. centre of all decisions and actions, and there should
be no compromises on that.
Soon after the devastating diagnosis, I started
with my efforts to contribute to the development of The healthcare industry is undergoing change, with
therapeutics and to make sure they would meet increasing digitalisation and access to data, and with
patients’ needs. I needed knowledge and partners for better informed, but demanding patients. Are there
our battle, so I founded the patient organisation SMA enough safeguards to protect the individual? Are
Switzerland and joined forces with SMA Europe. we aware of potential consequences and can we make
My family gives me great support and Victoria is a informed decisions? I like to think personal data
constant motivator, my driving force. She helps me belong to the individual, but I also see the incredible
to raise the patient’s voice and pursue its inclusion opportunity that lies ahead in applying big data.
in discussions and decision­making during drug Surely, the fusion of discoveries from big “human”
development. data with those from technological advancements
will fundamentally change the face of medicine.
SMA Switzerland works closely with stakeholders
in the drug development process and patient input A Star Trek­like scenario where patients are scanned
is essential at all levels. In our cooperation with with a medical tricorder to identify their health status,
pharmaceutical companies, we currently provide and then re­scanned for treatment, may no longer be
expertise in working groups and advisory boards for science fiction. Personally, for SMA, and in the nearer
protocol design, trial operations and communications. future, I foresee a combination of different therapies
tailored to the patient’s personal needs, paired with
This partnership can only work well when goals are graceful robotic devices that will replace the clumsy
clearly formulated and insight into internal processes wheelchairs and mechanical aids of today.104Corporate Governance | Roche
105
Our
Corporate
Governance
principles put the focus of our business activities on sustainable value
creation and innovation and prescribe a management culture conforming
to recognised standards of good corporate governance and a policy of
transparent communication.
Roche is continously modernising its infrastructure to ensure successful and sustainable operations.106
Principles
Roche’s corporate governance principles put the focus In doing so, Roche complies with all relevant
of its business activities on sustainable value creation corporate governance requirements, in particular
and innovation and prescribe a management culture with all applicable laws, the Swiss Stock Exchange
conforming to recognised standards of good corporate (SIX Swiss Exchange) directives and the Swiss Code of
governance and a policy of transparent communication. Best Practice for Corporate Governance promulgated
These principles build the basis for the successful by the Swiss business federation ‘economiesuisse’.
implementation of Roche’s commitment to serving The company’s internal governance framework,
all its stakeholders. particularly its Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws,
embodies all the principles needed to ensure that the
A strong Board of Directors, which represents the company’s businesses are managed and supervised in
interests of the shareholders and all other stakeholders, a manner consistent with good corporate governance,
and highly skilled managers that act with integrity are including the necessary checks and balances.1
extremely important.
The printed Annual Report contains selected links
In 2018, for the 10th consecutive year, Roche has been to the Roche website (www.roche.com). Readers are
recognised as the most sustainable company in the thus provided not only with a ‘snapshot’ of our
Pharmaceuticals index of the Dow Jones Sustainability company at the reporting date but are also directed
Indices (DJSI). This is based on an in­depth analysis of to sources which they can consult at any time for
economic, social and environmental performance. The up­to­date information about corporate governance
DJSI serve as a benchmark for investors who integrate at Roche. Whereas each annual report covers a single
sustainability considerations into their portfolios. financial year ending 31 December, our website
Sustainability is at the core of our business practices contains information of a more permanent nature, as
and this award reflects our commitment to running well as the latest Roche news. The company’s Articles
our business in a way that is ethical, responsible and of Incorporation, Bylaws and the curricula vitae of
creates long­term value for stakeholders. current and former members of the Board of Directors
and the Corporate Executive Committee are published
This Corporate Governance Report sets out the on our website.
structures, processes and rules which Roche takes as
the basis for well­functioning corporate governance. For further details please refer to the following report.
Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
and Board Committees Presidium and Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee
Committee CEO CEO CEO CFO HR General
Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Counsel
Enlarged Corporate
Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Executive Committee gRED pRED Partnering Communications
1 roche.com/governanceCorporate Governance | Roche
107
Board of Directors
At the 100th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of In addition, the AGM elected Dr Christoph Franz,
Roche Holding Ltd, on 13 March 2018, shareholders André Hoffmann, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton,
re­elected Dr Christoph Franz as Chairman of the Bernard Poussot and Peter R. Voser as members of
Board of Directors. the Remuneration Committee.
Furthermore, the AGM re­elected André Hoffmann, At its organising meeting immediately following
Prof. Sir John Bell, Julie Brown, Paul Bulcke, Anita the AGM, the Board of Directors has determined
Hauser, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, Dr Andreas Oeri, the structure and composition of its remaining
Bernard Poussot, Dr Severin Schwan, Dr Claudia committees as shown below (see also pages 14 to 15
Suessmuth Dyckerhoff and Peter R. Voser for a term of and page 112 ‘Board of Directors and Corporate
one year as provided by the Articles of Incorporation. Executive Committee’).
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
and Board Committees Presidium and Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Composition as at 31.12.2018 Name (year of birth) First elected
Board of Directors Dr Christoph Franz (1960) C, D *, E Chairman 2011
André Hoffmann (1958) (representative of the A, C *, D, E Vice-Chairman 1996
shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) (representative of the A *, E 1996
shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Prof. Sir John Bell (1952) B, E 2001
Julie Brown (1962) B*, E 2016
Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E 2011
Anita Hauser (1969) A, E 2017
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953) C, E 2015
Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E 2015
Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F 2013
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967) A, B, E 2016
Peter R. Voser (1958) C, E 2011
Secretary to the Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
Board of Directors
Honorary Chairman Dr Fritz Gerber (1929)
of the Board of Directors
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee B Audit Committee C Remuneration Committee
D Presidium/Nomination Committee E Non-executive director F Executive director
* Committee chairperson108
On 5 March 2019, at the forthcoming AGM the On 26 July 2018, Roche announced that Dr Andreas
Board of Directors nominates the Chairman and Oeri had informed the Board of Directors that he
all remaining members of the Board of Directors will not stand for re­election as a member of the
for re­election. Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting
2020. This will conclude his 24­year term of office.
In addition, the Board of Directors proposes Prof. Dr Jörg Duschmalé, a fifth­generation descendant
Dr Hans Clevers, Professor of Molecular Genetics, of the founder of Roche, has confirmed his interest
University Medical Center Utrecht, the Netherlands, in standing for election as a member of the Board
for election to the Board of Directors at the 2019 of Directors in 2020.
AGM.
As in the previous year, the Board of Directors
Moreover, the Board of Directors nominates nominates BDO AG as the independent proxy for the
Dr Christoph Franz, André Hoffmann, Prof. Dr period from 2019 until the conclusion of the 2020
Richard P. Lifton, Bernard Poussot and Peter R. Voser ordinary Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
for re­election as members of the Remuneration for election by the AGM.
Committee at the AGM in 2019.
Corporate Executive Committee
Daniel O’Day, CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals and Roland Diggelmann, CEO Roche Diagnostics and
member of the Corporate Executive Committee, member of the Corporate Executive Committee, left
stepped down from his role as of 31 December 2018. Roche to pursue his career outside of the company
Until the end of February 2019 and prior to assuming effective 30 September 2018. Until a successor is
new responsibilities outside of Roche, he will provide named, Dr Michael Heuer, former Head of Regions
his support to ensure a smooth transition of activities. Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Latin America
for Roche Diagnostics, has assumed the ad interim
William (Bill) Anderson, former CEO of Genentech, leadership of Roche’s Diagnostics Division and has
was appointed CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals effective become a member of the Corporate Executive
1 January 2019 and as a new member of the Corporate Committee.
Executive Committee is reporting to Dr Severin
Schwan, CEO Roche Group.
Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee
Committee CEO CEO CEO CFO HR General
Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Counsel
Enlarged Corporate
Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Executive Committee gRED pRED Partnering CommunicationsCorporate Governance | Roche
109
Composition as at 31.12.2018 Name (year of birth) Position Since
Corporate Executive Dr Severin Schwan (1967) CEO Roche Group 2008
Committee Daniel O’Day (1964) CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals 2010
Dr Michael Heuer (1954) CEO Roche Diagnostics a. i. 2018
Dr Alan Hippe (1967) Chief Financial and IT Officer 2011
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967) Head Group Human Resources 2016
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954) General Counsel 2003
Enlarged Corporate Dr Michael D. Varney (1958) Head Genentech Research & 2015
Executive Committee Early Development (gRED)
Dr William Pao (1967) Head Roche Pharma Research & 2018
Early Development (pRED)
Dr James H. Sabry (1958) Global Head of Pharma Partnering 2018
Dr Stephan Feldhaus (1962) Head Group Communications 2010
Secretary to the Corporate Per-Olof Attinger (1960)
Executive Committee
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (reporting years 2004–2008)
of Roche Holding Ltd KPMG AG (since 2009)
Auditor in charge: John A. Morris (2004–2010)
Ian Starkey (2011–2017)
Mark Baillache (as of business year 2018)
Chief Compliance Officer Dr Urs Jaisli (1956)
Prof. John C. Reed, Head Roche Pharma Research & Head Genentech Partnering, has been appointed
Early Development (pRED), left Roche for personal Global Head of Pharma Partnering and as a new
reasons in April 2018 in order to return to the United member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive
States. Effective 2 April 2018, William Pao, former Committee. This new role combines the Genentech
Global Head of the Oncology Discovery and and Pharma Partnering functions. Furthermore,
Translational Area for pRED, has been appointed Osamu Nagayama retired from the Enlarged
as his successor and as a member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee which he joined
Corporate Executive Committee. in 2006.
Effective 31 July 2018, Dr Sophie Kornowski­Bonnet, Information on each member of the Corporate
Head Roche Partnering and member of the Enlarged Executive Committee and of the Enlarged Corporate
Corporate Executive Committee, has left the company Executive Committee is listed above (see also pages 18
to pursue her career outside of Roche. Effective to 19 and page 112 ‘Board of Directors and Corporate
1 August 2018, Dr James H. Sabry, former global Executive Committee’).110
Group structure and shareholders
Roche’s operating businesses are organised into integrated into Roche Pharmaceuticals. The Diagnostics
two divisions: Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. The Division consists of the following four business areas:
Pharmaceuticals Division comprises the two business Centralised and Point of Care Solutions, Molecular
segments Roche Pharmaceuticals and Chugai, whereas Diagnostics, Tissue Diagnostics and Diabetes Care.
Genentech as the former third segment has been
Pharmaceuticals Roche Pharmaceuticals (incl. Genentech)
Chugai
Centralised and Point of Care Solutions
Diagnostics Molecular Diagnostics
Tissue Diagnostics
Composition as at 31.12.2018 Diabetes Care
Dr Andreas Oeri, Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee, and André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.Corporate Governance | Roche
111
Business activities are carried out through Group André Hoffmann, Vice­Chairman of the Board SIX Exchange
subsidiaries and associated companies. Detailed of Directors and Chairman of the Remuneration Regulation:
information on Roche Holding Ltd and on significant Committee, and Dr Andreas Oeri, member of the six-exchange-
subsidiaries and associated companies (including Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board’s regulation.com/
company name, listing information, domicile, share Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee, en/home/
capital, and equity interest) is listed in the Finance Report, serve in their respective capacities on the Board and publications/
Note 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial its committees as representatives of the shareholder significant-
Statements (‘List of subsidiaries and associates’, page 122). group with pooled voting rights and receive the shareholders
remuneration set forth in the Remuneration Report
Major shareholders are listed in the Finance Report, on page 132 and in the Finance Report, Note 31 to
Notes 22 and 31 to the Roche Group Consolidated the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche (‘Related parties’, page 120). With the exception of
shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pages 89 and 120), Dr Jörg Duschmalé, who worked as a post­doc at
and in Note 4 to the Financial Statements of Roche Roche until the end of September 2018, no other
Holding Ltd (‘Significant shareholders’, page 169). relationships exist with the shareholders with pooled
In addition, significant shareholders are published on voting rights.
the relevant webpage of the disclosure office of SIX
Exchange Regulation. There are no cross­shareholdings.
Capital structure
Information on Roche’s capital structure is provided in protecting the interests of NES holders) are described in
the Finance Report, Notes to the Financial Statements §4 of the Articles of Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.
of Roche Holding Ltd (page 168). Additional details are
contained in the Articles of Incorporation of Roche Information on debt instruments which have been
Holding Ltd. 2 issued and on outstanding bonds is provided in
the Finance Report, Note 21 to the Roche Group
Movement in recognised amounts during the last three Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Debt’, page 85).
financial years are detailed in the Finance Report, Notes
to the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd Information on employee stock options is provided
(page 169). in the Finance Report, Note 27 to the Roche Group
Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity
The company has a share capital of CHF 160,000,000, compensation plans’, page 103), including detailed
divided into 160,000,000 fully paid bearer shares with a information on the Stock­settled Stock Appreciation
nominal value of CHF 1 each. There are no restrictions Rights (S­SARs) Plan, the Restricted Stock Units
on the exercise of the voting rights of these shares. Upon (RSUs) Plan, the Performance Share Plan (PSP),
deposit, shares can be voted without any restrictions. Roche Connect and the Roche Option Plan.
There is no authorised or conditional capital. Roche has issued no options apart from employee stock
options as described in the Finance Report, Note 27
In addition, 702,562,700 non­voting equity securities to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
(NES) have been issued in bearer form. They do not form (‘Equity compensation plans’, page 103) and options
part of the share capital and confer no voting rights. Each issued in connection with debt instruments.
NES confers the same rights as one share to participate
in available earnings and in any liquidation proceeds Neither the options awarded to employees nor the debt
following repayment of the share capital. Roche’s NES and instruments which have been issued have any effect on
the rights pertaining thereto (including the provisions Roche’s share capital.
2 roche.com/article_of_incorporation112
Board of Directors and Corporate
Executive Committee
Information on each member of the Board of period and they are for lack of existing business
Directors and on each member of the Corporate connections with any Group subsidiary independent.
Executive Committee is listed on pages 107 and 109. Roche’s Board of Directors’ independence definition
Members of the Board of Directors have no age limit is based on the definition in the Swiss Code of Best
or restriction on their term of office. Curricula vitae Practice for Corporate Governance of ‘economiesuisse’
of all current and former members (of the last five and is complemented by specific preceding criteria
years) of both bodies and other information (see roche.com/board_of_directors).
(including information on the years of their first
election, additional positions, memberships and The Principles of Governance (principles of
activities) are available and continuously updated delegation and competence, reservation of powers
on the Internet.3 and management of a group of companies) of the
executive bodies of the company include economic,
Rules pursuant to article 12 para. 1 point 1 VegüV on environmental and social topics. The principles
the number of permitted activities of the Board of together with the internal organisation of the
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee Board of Directors, the division of authority and
members are outlined in §22.4 of the Articles of responsibilities between the Board and management,
Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.4 the remits of the Board Committees, and the
information and control mechanisms available to
Since 2014, the Annual General Meeting has elected the Board in its dealings with corporate management,
all members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman are governed by the Bylaws.6
of the Board of Directors and the members of the
Remuneration Committee on an annual basis in The Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd is
elections in which each nominee is voted on separately organised so as to ensure that the Group conducts
(see §18 of the Articles of Incorporation of Roche its businesses responsibly and with a focus on
Holding Ltd4 and the Minutes of the 100th Annual long­term value creation. To this end, the Roche Board
General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, held on has delegated certain responsibilities to several
13 March 20185). committees.7 Their composition and chairpersons
as at 31 December 2018 are described on page 107.
With the exception of Dr Severin Schwan none of Each committee’s authorities and responsibilities
the members of the Board of Directors in office at the are defined in detail in the Bylaws of the Board of
end of 2018 has been a member of Roche’s Corporate Directors.8
Executive Committee or served in an executive
capacity at any Group subsidiary during the five All the committees are chaired by independent
financial years preceeding the current reporting directors.
3 roche.com/board_of_directors and roche.com/executive_committee
4 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
5 roche.com/annual_general_meetings
6 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
7 roche.com/committees
8 roche.com/article_of_incorporationCorporate Governance | Roche
113
Board of Directors
Board Committees
Board of Directors
Presidium and Nomination Committee
and Board Committees
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee
Committee
According to the Bylaws of the Board of Directors, a The Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions and
Board meeting may be convened without the Chairman global functions conduct a formal risk assessment
present at the request of any of its members. The Roche process at least once a year and must develop risk plans
Board meets once a year to assess the Chairman’s for their most material risks. These are monitored and
performance. This meeting, which is not attended by deviations reviewed in regular performance dialogues.
the Chairman, is chaired by the Vice­Chairman. The consolidated Group Risk Report including target
risk profile is discussed by the Corporate Executive
As part of the Management Information System Committee and approved together with the Group
(MIS), the Board of Directors is regularly informed Business Plan. All material risks are reviewed by the
about the most important issues, sales performance, Board on a yearly basis. The effectiveness of the risk
etc. The Board has access to an electronic information management process is monitored by the Group Risk
platform which provides timely information to the Advisory team and the overall process is regularly
Board of Directors and the Board’s committees as reviewed by external auditors, with findings presented
does the system of controls as set forth below. to the Audit Committee and the full Board. For details
on risk management, including risk factors and the
The Board of Directors has established a system Risk Management Policy, see ‘Risk Management’ on
of controls which is continuously monitored by the our website.9 Financial risk management is specifically
Audit Committee, by the Corporate Governance described in the Finance Report.10
and Sustainability Committee and by the Board of • System of internal controls over financial reporting
Directors and consists of the following elements: (see pages 141 and 150 of the Finance Report)
• Report on operating and financial risks (risk • Internal audit
management system) Group Audit reports to the General Counsel, has
The Roche Group has established a risk management direct access and gives regular briefings to the Audit
process covering the entire company with a system Committee and to the Corporate Governance and
in place to identify and manage all types of risks Sustainability Committee about ongoing activities
potentially affecting its business (including economic, and audit reports. The Chief Audit & Risk Advisory
environmental and social impacts, risks and Executive attends the Audit Committee and partly the
opportunities and containing stakeholder input). Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
The Board of Directors is the highest governance meetings, as do the external auditors. Group Audit
body involved. Roche’s Risk Management Policy sets is an independent appraisal function which evaluates
out the approach and accompanying responsibilities. and reviews the Group’s activities as a service to
9 roche.com/risk-management
10 Additional information is provided in the Finance Report, Note 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements, ‘Risk management’, page 109.114
management. The annual audit plan with yearly trading in company stock. The following black­out
defined focus areas (eg, market access, third­party periods are in effect for 2019:
management) is validated by Senior Management 26 December 2018 to 31 January 2019
and presented to the Audit Committee. The Roche 1 April to 17 April 2019
Group is committed to maintaining a high standard 26 June to 25 July 2019
of internal control throughout its worldwide 1 October to 16 October 2019
operations. Management is responsible for assessing
the business risks in all aspects of its operation and Black­out periods can be changed by the Chairman
for implementing effective and efficient processes and of the Board of Directors if circumstances warrant.
controls whilst ensuring compliance with internal
and external rules and regulations. In 2018, the Board of Directors met for 9 meetings,
By conducting operational audits, Group Audit generally each from 3 to 6 hours in length, including
determines management’s response to the risks a full­day meeting, and in addition for a 4­day visit
surrounding business processes and systems, and to a major subsidiary.**
evaluates the appropriateness, completeness and
efficiency of the processes and controls. Action plans The Board Committees met as follows in 2018:
to implement necessary changes and enhancements • Presidium of the Board of Directors/Nomination
are developed together with the business/auditee Committee: 9 meetings (approx. 2 hours each**)
and are tracked to completion. • Remuneration Committee: 4 meetings14 (approx.
• Statutory auditors, see page 117 2 to 3 hours each**)
• Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance Officers • Audit Committee: 5 meetings (approx. 3 to 4 hours
in subsidiaries, see page 119 each**)
• Safety, Health and Environmental Protection • Corporate Governance and Sustainability
Department11 Committee: 3 meetings (approx. 3 hours each**)
• Corporate Sustainability Committee12
• Science and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG), for The Board of Directors regularly conducts an
issues relating to genetics and genetic engineering13 assessment (self­assessment/assessment by third
parties via electronical survey and personal
The members of the Corporate Executive Committee interviews) of its performance. In 2018, a third­
are invited to attend meetings of the Board of Directors party evaluation was conducted.
for, and report in person on, those agenda items
concerning them. When the situation warrants, Members of the Corporate Executive Committee
members of the Enlarged Corporate Executive have a maximum ordinary notice period of twelve
Committee may also be invited to attend. The Board months. There are no change­of­control clauses in
Committees invite the Chairman of the Board and the employment contracts.
Corporate Executive Committee members to deliver
reports at committee meetings and may elect to There are no management contracts which fall
commission independent expert reports and call on within the scope of Subsection 4.4 (annex) of the
the services of consultants. SIX Directive on Information relating to Corporate
Governance.
Each year several black­out periods are imposed
during which senior employees are prohibited from
11 roche.com/environment
12 roche.com/sustainability
13 roche.com/ethical_conflicts
14 Remuneration Committee members recuse themselves from deliberations and decisions on matters that affect their interests.
** These figures indicate the actual length of meetings and do not include the directors’ extensive pre-meeting preparations and post-meeting follow-up activities.Corporate Governance | Roche
115
Dr Andreas Oeri, Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee.
Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings in 2018
Corporate
Presidium/ Governance and
Nomination Remuneration Audit Sustainability
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 9 9 4 5 3
Ch. Franz 9 9 4 – –
A. Hoffmann 9 9 4 – 3
J. Bell 7 – – 5 –
J. Brown 9 – – 5 –
P. Bulcke 7 – – 5 –
A. Hauser 9 – – – 3
R.P. Lifton 8 – 4 – –
A. Oeri 7 – – – 3
B. Poussot 9 – 4 – –
S. Schwan 9 – – – –
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 7 – – 5 3
P. R. Voser 8 – 4 – –
– Not a member of that committee116
Remuneration, shareholdings and loans
Rules in Aol 15 for
All details regarding remuneration, shareholdings
and loans (content and method of determining the Content Board CEC
compensation and the shareholding programmes, Rules on the principles §25.1–6 §25.1–6
basic principles and elements of compensation and applicable to performance-
shareholding programmes for serving and former related pay
members of the Board of Directors and Corporate Rules on the principles to the §25.7 §25.7
Executive Committee, together with a description of allocation of equity securities,
the authorities and procedure for determining such) convertible rights and options
are set forth in the separate Remuneration Report on Additional amount for payments §24.5
pages 120 to 146 and in the Finance Report, Notes 22 to members of the Executive
and 31 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Committee appointed after the
Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche shareholders’ vote on pay at the General
and ‘Related parties’, pages 89 and 120), and are listed Meeting of Shareholders
in Note 6 to the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Rules on loans, credit facilities §25.1 and 3 §25.2 and 3
Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, page 170). and post-employment benefits
Rules on the vote on pay at §24 §24
The following rules on remuneration, shareholdings the AGM
and loans for the Board of Directors (Board) and the
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) are set forth
in the Articles of Incorporation (AoI)15:
Participatory rights of shareholders
The participatory rights of shareholders are defined Under §10.2 of the Articles of Incorporation,
in Roche’s Articles of Incorporation.15 As Roche shareholders representing shares with a nominal value
shares are issued to bearer, there are no restrictions of at least CHF 1 million can request the placement
on admission to Annual General Meetings, with the of items on the agenda of an Annual General Meeting.
exception that shares must be deposited within a This must be done no later than 28 days before the
specified period before the date of a meeting and an date of the meeting.
admittance card must be issued in the shareholder’s
name, as provided in §12 of the Articles of The rules on the issue of instructions to the
Incorporation. Any shareholder can elect to be independent proxy and rules on the electronic
represented by a third party at an Annual General participation in the AGM are laid down in the
Meeting. corresponding invitation to the AGM and are
not regulated in the Articles of Incorporation.
The Articles of Incorporation contain no restrictions
on the exercise of voting rights, and the only quorum
requirements are those stipulated in §16, in
conformity with the Swiss Code of Obligations.
15 roche.com/article_of_incorporationCorporate Governance | Roche
117
Change of control and defensive measures
The Articles of Incorporation contain no provisions would be terminated in the event of an acquisition,
on the mandatory bid rule. Swiss law applies. and vesting period restrictions on pre­existing awards
would be removed, so that all such options could be
There are no change­of­control clauses. Those exercised immediately.
components of remuneration based on Roche NES
Relationship to statutory auditors
2018 2017
At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd
on 13 March 2018, the shareholders voted to appoint (millions of CHF)
KPMG AG (KPMG) as statutory auditors. Auditing services 21.7 21.0
Audit-related services
Based on the existing legal requirements of the Swiss – Assurance 0.7 0.5
Code of Obligations (Article 730a) concerning the – Non-statutory audits – –
maximum term of office of seven years of the auditor Tax services 2.1 1.4
in charge, Ian Starkey as auditor­in­charge since Other services 0.4 0.4
business year 2011 was replaced by Mark Baillache Total 24.9 23.3
starting with the business year 2018 (information on
how long the auditors and auditor­in­charge have been The statutory auditors are elected each year by the
serving in these capacities is provided on page 109). Annual General Meeting.
The statutory auditors participate in Audit Committee
meetings. They prepare written and oral reports on the Auditing services are provided as legally required.
results of their audits. The Audit Committee oversees
and assesses the auditors and makes recommendations Audit­related services include assurance and
to the Board (for information on the authorities and accounting services provided by auditors but which
responsibilities of the Audit Committee, see Article 8.1 are not necessarily provided by the statutory auditor.
of the Bylaws16). The statutory auditors participated These services which go beyond the legal requirements
in all 5 meetings of the Audit Committee in 2018. could include other attestation services, comfort
letters, consents and consultations.
The reports of the statutory auditor on the Consolidated
Financial Statements and on the Financial Statements Tax services include services with respect to
can be found on pages 142 and 174, respectively, of the compliance, tax returns and tax advice except
Finance Report. those services related to the audit of tax.
KPMG received the following remuneration for their Other services include advice relating to process
services as statutory auditors of Roche Holding Ltd improvements, regulations and trainings.
and as the auditors of other Roche companies
(including Chugai):
16 roche.com/article_of_incorporation118
The company has a formal policy governing the up to limits agreed by the Audit Committee. Each
engagement of the statutory auditor for non­audit potential non­audit service engagement is reviewed
services. The policy prohibits certain services from against this policy before any authority to proceed
being provided but permits certain other services is given.
Relationship to the independent proxy
In recent years, BDO AG served as the independent The rules on the issue of instructions to the
proxy and at the Annual General Meeting on independent proxy and rules on the electronic
13 March 2018, shareholders elected BDO AG as the participation in the AGM are laid down in the
independent proxy for the period from 2018 until corresponding invitation to the AGM and are
the conclusion of the 2019 ordinary Annual General not regulated in the Articles of Incorporation.
Meeting of Shareholders. BDO AG was paid for
its services for the Annual General Meeting 2018
according to expenditure totalling CHF 13,736
(2017: CHF 16,848).
Information policy
As provided by §34 of the Articles of Incorporation17, All relevant information and documents, including all
corporate notices are published in the Swiss Official media releases, investor updates19 and presentations
Gazette of Commerce and in other daily newspapers to analyst and investor conferences are available
designated by the Board of Directors (‘Basler Zeitung’, on the Internet. Further publications are available
‘Finanz und Wirtschaft’, ‘L’Agefi’, ‘Le Temps’, ‘Neue on roche.com/publications or can be ordered by
Zürcher Zeitung’). e­mail: basel.warehouse-services@roche.com
or fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
Roche reports its half­year and full­year results in
business reports (published in print and/or online The contact address for Investor Relations is:
formats) and at media events. In addition, detailed F. Hoffmann­La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations,
first­quarter and nine months sales figures are Group Finance, 4070 Basel, Switzerland
published each year in April and October. The tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
most current list of publication dates is available fax: +41 (0)61 691 00 14
in English and German on the Internet.18
Additional information, including details on specific
contact persons, is available on the Internet.20
17 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
18 roche.com/media
19 roche.com/investors
20 roche.com/investors/contactsCorporate Governance | Roche
119
Chief Compliance Officer and
Compliance Officers network
The Chief Compliance Officer with his Compliance In addition, Roche has established a Business Ethics
Officers network is committed to ensuring that the Incident Reporting (BEIR) system which enables
Roche Group Code of Conduct21 is consistently the Chief Compliance Officer to capture, track and
complied with throughout the Roche Group. He also monitor alleged violations, from initial reports by
serves as a contact person for shareholders, employees, local Compliance Officers through to resolution.
customers, suppliers and the general public on issues
relating to the implementation of and compliance with Business ethics incidents are recorded in the system
this Code. Employees and other parties who become when the Group Internal Investigation department
aware of violations of the Roche Group Code of Conduct or the regional/local management receives specific
can bring them to the attention of their managers or and concrete information about an alleged violation
supervisors, to the local Compliance Officer or report of the Roche Group Code of Conduct in one of certain
them to the Chief Compliance Officer (Dr Urs Jaisli, pre­defined categories.22 The Corporate Governance
direct phone number: +41 (0)61 688 40 18, e­mail: and Sustainability Committee and the Audit
urs.jaisli@roche.com). Such disclosures will be treated Committee of the Board of Directors are informed of
confidentially. In addition, as of the end of 2009, substantial violations and management’s corrective
employees may anonymously report irregularities or actions made.
complaints in their mother tongue via a ‘SpeakUp
Line’. Starting in December 2013, a new compliance The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the General
tool on Group level, the so­called Roche Group Code Counsel and also submits regular reports to the
of Conduct Help & Advice Line, was introduced Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
which strives to provide guidance in case of questions and as needed to the Audit Committee of the Board
or uncertainties about the interpretation of the Roche of Directors.
Group Code of Conduct and its reference documents.
It furthermore will serve as a platform for ideas and
suggestions concerning those documents.
Non-applicability/negative disclosure
It is expressly noted that any information not contained (as provided in the SIX Swiss Exchange Corporate
or mentioned herein is either non­applicable or its Governance Directive and the Commentary thereto).
omission is to be construed as a negative declaration
21 roche.com/code_of_conduct
22 roche.com/risk-management120Remuneration Report | Roche
121
Material topics covered in this chapter
Executive remuneration
Our
Remuneration
Report
shows the commitment to a fair, performance­based and results­oriented
compensation policy that links employees’ interests with those of various
other stakeholder groups.
Modern and attractive conditions are key aspects for Roche’s interaction with its employees, partners and society in general.122
1. Principles
Roche’s success depends substantially on the For a global company like Roche, market­competitive
expertise, motivation and performance of its remuneration plays a key role along with a performance­
employees. This conviction forms the basis of our based, transparent compensation structure. To ensure
compensation policy. that compensation packages are competitive, both the
structure and individual components are regularly
Roche aims to remunerate all employees fairly, benchmarked against Swiss, European and international
transparently and in line with market conditions, criteria. Our remuneration guidelines and their
to enable them to participate appropriately in the underlying principles are also subject to regular
company’s success. We pursue this goal by providing outside comparisons.
competitive, performance­based and results­oriented
compensation. However, compensation policy is only one factor in
safeguarding Roche’s future success. Another key
We strive for a balanced mix of fixed and variable element is a corporate culture that offers employees
compensation components geared to each employee’s conditions in which they can make their best possible
position and management responsibility. contribution to the shared corporate goal of improving
healthcare to patients. This includes a sound value
Compensation Firstly, the variable components are intended to create system that is based on integrity, courage and passion.
policy: additional financial incentives to achieve corporate At the same time, our decentralised management
roche.com/ goals and to keep innovation at a consistently high approach plays a major role with its wide scope for
rewards level while increasing the value that the company individual decision­making, respectful interactions,
creates for all stakeholder groups. Secondly, in order openness to diversity, wide­ranging training and
Sound value to allow employees and managers to participate in the development opportunities and an attractive working
system: company’s business success, adequate compensation environment. An unidimensional diminishment to
roche.com/ measures are key. Both objectives are incentivised by questions on remuneration would fall by far too short.
living_our_ annual bonus payments and long­term securities­
values based programmes. Roche is committed to a fair, performance­based
and results­oriented compensation policy that links
employees’ interests with those of various other
stakeholder groups.Remuneration Report | Roche
123
2. Remuneration decision process and
approval framework
2.1 Overview The terms of the long­term oriented Performance
Each year the Remuneration Committee of Roche’s Share Plan (PSP) awards are decided annually by the
Board of Directors decides the remuneration of Board Board of Directors, acting upon recommendations from
members and the members of the Group’s Corporate the Remuneration Committee (as of 2019 see 3.1.6).
Executive Committee.
Remuneration decision process and approval framework
Beneficiary
Remuneration Board of Directors (BoD) Corporate Executive Decision by Approval by
components Chairman (C) Committee (CEC) incl.
CEO Roche Group
Base pay/remuneration √ √
Bonus √ (C only) √ Remuneration Committee
Stock-settled Stock – √
Appreciation Rights Annual General
Performance Share Plan – √ Board of Directors upon Meeting
recommendation from
Remuneration Committee
Decisions on pension √ (C only) √ Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee tracks market data Since 2014, total aggregate amounts which are based
on salaries at other leading global pharmaceutical on these decisions have been submitted to the General
companies1 and at major Swiss companies2 and reports Meeting for approval implementing the ‘Ordinance
its findings to the full Board. The external consulting against excessive compensation in listed corporations’
firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) assists the (Verordnung gegen übermässige Vergütungen bei
Remuneration Committee of Roche in performing börsenkotierten Aktiengesellschaften [VegüV]). The
market comparisons and in advising. Information on General Meeting shall vote annually and with binding
the Remuneration Committee’s remit, powers and effect on the approval of the remuneration (that the
procedures for making remuneration decisions can be Board of Directors has resolved) of the Board of
found in the Bylaws of the Roche Board of Directors3 Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
and in the Articles of Incorporation.4 They are also (for details see 4. and 5.).
outlined in the sections below on the principles
governing specific remuneration components (see 3.).
1 Peer set for 2018: Abbott Laboratories, AbbVie, Amgen, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline,
Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, Takeda (no change in composition of peer set compared to 2017).
2 ABB, Credit Suisse, LafargeHolcim, Nestlé, Sonova, Straumann, Swiss Re, UBS, Zurich Insurance.
3 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
4 roche.com/article_of_incorporation124
André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Peer set for 2018
Abbott Laboratories
AbbVie
Amgen
Astellas
AstraZeneca ABB
Bayer Credit Suisse
Roche
Bristol-Myers Squibb LafargeHolcim
Eli Lilly Nestlé
GlaxoSmithKline Sonova
Johnson & Johnson Straumann
Merck & Co. Swiss Re
Novartis UBS
Pfizer Zurich Insurance
Sanofi
Takeda Peer set for 2018
Market comparison companies for salary assessment
Pharma peer set
Major Swiss companiesRemuneration Report | Roche
125
2.2 Procedure for submitting total Board and Retrospective approval
Executive remuneration for shareholder approval Total aggregate bonus amounts for the Corporate
at the Annual General Meeting Executive Committee and the Chairman of the Board
Each year at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Directors for the financial year just ended will be
shareholders approve the total remuneration for the submitted retrospectively at each ordinary AGM for
Board of Directors and for the Corporate Executive separate and binding approval.
Committee as decided by the Board of Directors’
Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors, Prospective approval
respectively. All other Board and Executive aggregate remuneration
will be submitted prospectively to the AGM for separate
According to the approval at the AGM 2014, Roche and binding approval for the period between two
has committed itself to obtaining separate and ordinary AGMs.
binding shareholder approvals of the total remuneration
paid to the Board of Directors and to the Corporate
Executive Committee as follows:
Approval of total remuneration at the Annual General Meeting Financial year 2018 Financial year 2019
(AGM) 2019
Retrospective:
C
Chairman of the BoD (C):
Bonus
• Bonus for financial year 2018 (total amount)
CEC
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including
Bonus
CEO Roche Group:
• Bonus for financial year 2018 (total amount)
Prospective:
Board of Directors (BoD) including C: BoD
Base pay/remuneration
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2019–AGM 2020)
• Base pay/remuneration
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including
CEO Roche Group: CEC
Base pay
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2019–AGM 2020)
S-SARs
• Base pay RSUs
• Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) Indirect benefits
• Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) (see 3.1.6)
• Indirect benefits
Peer set for 2018 AGM 2018 AGM 2019 AGM 2020
1.1.2018 1.1.2019 1.1.2020126
3. Remuneration components
3.1 Overview of remuneration elements The remuneration components are linked to the
Remuneration to the members of the Board of employees’ performance, the company’s financial
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee performance and commercial success and thus
are composed of the following elements (for concrete align the interests of Roche and its employees with
composition see chart below: ‘Composition of those of shareholders.
remuneration to the Board of Directors and the
Corporate Executive Committee’): The LTI remuneration components are intended
to sustainably and homogenously and long­term
The fixed base salary is complemented with the oriented align management’s interest with those
annual variable bonus as Short-Term Incentive of shareholders and holders of non­voting equity
(STI) and with perennial remuneration elements securities and to give participating managers an
(S­SARs, PSP, as of 2019 see 3.1.6) as Long-Term additional incentive to achieve value growth in
Incentive (LTI). the form of long­term total shareholder returns.
Composition of remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
Annual
remuneration elements Description C BoD CEO Roche Group CEC
Base pay/ Monthly payment √ √ Q uarterly √ √
remuneration (see 3.1.1 below) payments
Bonus Annual payment √ For 10 years – √ For 10 years √ Cash
(see 3.1.2 below) blocked non-voting blocked non-
equity securities voting equity
and/or shares securities and/or
shares
Pensions etc. (see 3.1.7 below) √ – √ √
Perennial
remuneration elements
Stock-settled Stock (see 3.1.3 below) – – √ √
Appreciation Rights
(S-SARs)
Performance Share (see 3.1.4 below) – – √ For 10 years √
Plan (PSP) blocked non-
voting equity
securities and/or
sharesRemuneration Report | Roche
127
Variable, long-term
STI: Base salary
• Bonus
Indirect benefits (employer contribution):
LTI: • Pensions and insurance contributions
• Stock-settled Stock Roche • Roche Connect
Appreciation Rights • Tax consulting services
remuneration
• Performance Share Plan
Expense allowances
components
Others:
• Children’s schooling costs
• Foreign tax obligation
• AHV/IV/ALV
Fixed
3.1.1 Base pay (fixed) In December at the end of a reporting year or in
Base pay (cash payment) is determined for each January following a reporting year, the Remuneration
position based on salary market data of other leading Committee decides on the bonuses and their amounts
global pharmaceutical companies (see footnote 1) payable to the Chairman of the Board and the members
and of other major Swiss companies (see footnote 2) of the Corporate Executive Committee in respect of
and reflects individuals’ abilities, experience and the current reporting year, based on performance
performance over time. Pay adjustments are likewise against the aforementioned objectives. At the same
linked to individual performance and take into account time, the Remuneration Committee also decides in
prevailing market conditions and the company’s what form bonuses will be awarded, ie, cash payments
overall financial situation. and/or non­voting equity securities and/or shares.
The Remuneration Committee makes and reviews 3.1.3 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
the final decision on the individual base pay paid to (S-SARs) (long-term)
the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members S­SARs entitle holders to benefit financially from
of the Corporate Executive Committee and on the any increase in the value of Roche’s non­voting equity
remuneration of the other members of the Board. securities between the grant date and the exercise
date. As of 2012, S­SARs granted all vest together
3.1.2 Bonuses (variable) after three years (as of 2019 see 3.1.6) and then have
Bonuses are annually awarded for individual to be exercised within seven years of the grant date
contributions of value creation in a business year and (as of 2019 see 3.1.6). Unexercised S­SARs lapse
are meant to be an incentive to strive for outstanding without compensation. Since 2012, the fair value of
results and to create new business opportunities. S­SARs has been calculated at the grant date using
Bonus amounts are linked to Group and divisional the trinomial model for American call options (for
core profits, sales growth at constant exchange rates, details see page 139).
Operating Profit After Capital Charge (OPAC) based
on core operating profit, core earnings per share and S­SARs to the Corporate Executive Committee
non­voting equity security (NES) growth at constant are allocated individually at the Remuneration
exchange rates, product development pipeline, Committee’s discretion. In 2018 in addition, around
diversity of employees and managers, environmental 19,400 employees received S­SARs (for their new
goals and to the achievement of measurable and choice of the mix between S­SARs and RSUs as of
qualitative individual or functional performance 2019 and regarding changes in vesting and expiration
objectives. For competitive reasons, Roche does not periods, in the composition of the remuneration
disclose the individual performance objectives of components for the Corporate Executive Committee
members of its Corporate Executive Committee and the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
and of its Chairman. starting as of 2019 see 3.1.6).128
3.1.4 Performance Share Plan (PSP) (long-term) has been granted). They will be vested to the recipient
The PSP was established in 2002 for periods of three after three years only. Thereafter, resulting non­voting
years each and is based on a three­year comparison equity securities and/or shares may remain blocked
of the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) with 15 peer for up to ten years (for their new choice of the mix
companies (see footnote 1). between S­SARs and RSUs as of 2019 and regarding
changes in vesting and expiration periods, in the
In a respective year, the PSP consists of three composition of the remuneration components for the
overlapping performance cycles, with a new cycle Corporate Executive Committee and the Enlarged
starting at the beginning of each year and a cycle Corporate Executive Committee see 3.1.6).
finishing at the end of each year. In 2018, there were the
three overlapping performance cycles PSP 2016–2018, 3.1.6 Outlook 2019
PSP 2017–2019 and PSP 2018–2020, of which PSP Starting in 2019, subject to the approval of
2016–2018 closed on 31 December 2018 (see 5.7 and 5.3). corresponding changes to the Articles of
Incorporation at the Annual General Meeting 2019,
The plan’s key performance metric for an award, composition of the remuneration components of
the TSR, is calculated as a three­month moving the Long­Term Incentive (LTI) for the Corporate
average rate before the start of and before the end of Executive Committee and the Enlarged Corporate
the performance cycle. The payment of the PSP is Executive Committee will change. No new PSP awards
determined by the Board of Directors on an annual will be granted as of the end of 2018, whereby the
basis, acting upon recommendations from the Board of Directors, acting upon recommendations
Remuneration Committee. from the Remuneration Committee, must determine
the payment of the ongoing PSP 2017–2019 and PSP
Since 2016, PSP awards as a remuneration component 2018–2020 at the end of 2019 and 2020, respectively.
has been reserved for the Corporate Executive As of 2019, LTI of the Corporate Executive Committee
Committee and the Enlarged Corporate Executive and the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Committee, however, no new awards will be granted will be complemented with Restricted Stock Units
as of 2019 (see 3.1.6). (RSUs) and will be composed of 80% S­SARs and
20% RSUs (based on the already existing individual
The long­term incentives for the Corporate target value of the total LTI for Corporate Executive
Executive Committee comprised until 2018 PSP Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay
awards and S­SARs, approximately 50% each. measured on 1 January of a year). Vesting and
expiration periods are aligned for all S­SARs and RSUs
3.1.5 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) (long-term) (see below). RSU awards are allocated individually for
RSUs serve as a remuneration component for around the Corporate Executive Committee and Enlarged
19,600 eligible Roche employees. RSUs contain Corporate Executive Committee at the Remuneration
rights to receive non­voting equity securities and/or Committee’s discretion. Unlike all other participants
shares after a three­year vesting period plus a value of the two programmes, members of the Corporate
adjustment (being the amount equivalent to the Executive Committee and the Enlarged Corporate
sum of the dividend paid during the vesting period Executive Committee have no choice in determining
attributable to the number of non­voting equity the mix of RSUs and S­SARs, which will have a
securities and/or shares for which an individual award four­year cliff vesting.Remuneration Report | Roche
129
As of 2019, with the new grant in March 2019, The vesting schedule for S­SARs, currently three­year
remaining participants of the S­SARs and RSUs annual vesting, will also be aligned with a four­year
programmes will be offered a choice of three annual vesting schedule for any new grants.
combinations to determine the mix of Restricted Stock
Units (RSUs) and Stock­settled Stock Appreciation These innovative changes will make the Roche Long­
Rights (S­SARs, options are used instead of S­SARs in Term Incentive programme more attractive, enabling
some countries). The following options will be offered: Roche to attract, motivate and retain the best talent
and keep it aligned with the company’s long­term
Choice 1 Choice 2 Choice 3 success.
80% S-SARs 50% S-SARs 20% S-SARs
20% RSUs 50% RSUs 80% RSUs 3.1.7 Indirect benefits
As shown in 5.9 (5.3 [for the CEO Roche Group]
Offering this level of choice empowers participants and 4.3 [for the Chairman], respectively), members
to engage more fully in their total rewards, enables of the Corporate Executive Committee additionally
them to better understand a critical element of their received indirect benefits (payments in pension
compensation, increases the value of the programme, funds, MGB [Stiftung der F. Hoffmann­La Roche AG
and positions Roche as the first among its peer group für Mitarbeiter­Gewinnbeteiligung als Ergän zung
to provide this benefit. The expiration period for any der beruflichen Vorsorge, ie, employee profit­sharing
newly issued S­SARs will be extended from currently foundation supplementing occupational pension
seven years to ten years. This will give participants benefits], insurances, Roche Connect, payments for
an additional three years to exercise vested S­SARs. foreign tax obligation and tax consulting services
The vesting schedule for any newly issued RSUs will and annual expense allowances) and as shown
change from three­year cliff vesting to four­year under 5.10 individual members of the Corporate
annual vesting. Each year, 25% of the granted RSUs Executive Committee received payments for
will vest and will become available to participants. schooling costs for their children.
3.2 Weighting (fixed/variable, long-term) of 2018 remuneration components (at target and as percentage of total
remuneration in 2018)
90% 10%
Chairman
100%
Board of Directors
Corporate Executive Committee 40% 60%
(including CEO Roche Group)
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
fixed variable, long-term130
3.3 Ratio of the remuneration components relative to fixed base pay of the Corporate Executive
Committee 2018
Ratio of variable remuneration components (bonuses, S-SARs and PSP) relative to % of value of fixed base pay
STI (variable) LTI (long-term)
Criteria Bonus S-SARs PSP
Individual target value * 100% 66.66% 66.66% **
Minimum 0% 0% 0%
Maximum 200% 66.66% 133.33%
Performance criteria Group objectives (Group and Value development determined Value development determined
divisional business performance) by performance (plus a value by performance (plus a value
and individual objectives adjustment for dividends) of adjustment for dividends) of
considering core profits, sales NES after grant NES/shares after grant.
growth at constant exchange Group performance of TSR in
rates, Operating Profit After relation to TSR performance of
Capital Charge (OPAC) based on peer set (TSR definition see 5.7)
core operating profit, core
earnings per share and non-voting
equity security (NES) growth at
constant exchange rates, product
development pipeline, diversity of
employees and managers,
environmental goals
Split in %
a) Group objectives 70% n.a. 100%
b) Individual objectives 30% n.a. –
n.a. – not applicable
* Assessed in consideration of the performance of competitors and the macro-economic development
** Based on annual base pay measured at 1 January of first year of cycle
For all further details please refer to the following
sections of this Remuneration Report.5
5 See also in the Finance Report Note 31 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related parties’, page 120) and Note 6 to the
Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, page 170).Remuneration Report | Roche
131
4. Remuneration of the Board of Directors
4.1 Resolution and approval Directors 2018’ table on page 132 for their Board
Remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of activities. Roche paid legally required employer’s
Directors and of members of the Board of Directors contributions of total CHF 120,473 to Swiss social
was decided at the Remuneration Committee’s security programmes providing retirement, disability
discretion, taking into account market comparisons. and unemployment benefits (AHV/IV/ALV) for the
members of the Board of Directors beside the legally
The remuneration is in form of cash payments and is required contributions separately stated for the
annually tracked against market data on directors’ pay Chairman of the Board of Directors.
at other leading global pharmaceutical companies
(see footnote 1) and other major Swiss companies The basic remuneration of the Board of Directors
(see footnote 2) which is assisted by the consultancy (excluding the Chairman) has remained unchanged
of PwC. since 2001.
As in the previous year, in 2019, the Board of With the exception of the Chairman of the Board
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate of Directors (bonus in form of blocked shares) and
bonus of the Chairman of the Board of Directors to Dr Severin Schwan as an executive member of the
the General Meeting for the 2018 financial year for Board, members of the Board of Directors were not
retrospectively binding approval. awarded any shares, non­voting equity securities or
S­SARs.
The maximum amounts of the total aggregate
remuneration of the Board of Directors for the period There are no loans or credits granted to the members
between the ordinary General Meeting 2019 and the of the Board of Directors.
ordinary General Meeting 2020 will be tabled in 2019
as in the previous year for the General Meeting’s In his capacity as a member of the Chugai International
prospectively binding approval (see 2.2). Council (CIC) of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
André Hoffmann received in 2018 honoraria
4.2 Amount of remuneration to the members of amounting to a total of USD 40,000 (CHF 39,123).
the Board of Directors
In 2018, the members of the Board of Directors6 For his advisory service on the Genentech Scientific
received remuneration and additional compensation Review Board, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton received in
in form of quarterly fixed cash payments as shown 2018 honoraria amounting to a total of USD 10,000
in the ‘Remuneration of members of the Board of (CHF 9,781).
6 For a list of members, their positions and their committee memberships and chairmanships see page 107.
DETIDUA132
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2018 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration Additional special
Basic remuneration for committee members/chairs 7 remuneration Total remuneration
Ch. Franz, Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 8 – 39,123 439,123
(see page 131)
J. Bell 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
J. Brown 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
A. Hauser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
R.P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 9,781 339,781
(see page 131)
A. Oeri 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
S. Schwan (see ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group is reflected in total
remuneration for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P.R. Voser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
Total 9 3,100,000 360,000 48,904 3,508,904
7 With the exception of members of the Presidium (Chairman, Vice-Chairman) Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve
on and CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
8 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
9 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 351,618 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUARemuneration Report | Roche
133
4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman (in form of shares blocked for ten years, payable in
of the Board of Directors March 2019) will be put for shareholder binding vote
As Chairman, Dr Christoph Franz received total at the 2019 ordinary Annual General Meeting (AGM).
remuneration for 2018 as shown below. The
Remuneration Committee’s bonus proposal (adopted The Chairman’s total remuneration is contained in the
in late 2018) in respect of the 2018 financial year total remuneration of the Board of Directors in 4.4.
DETIDUA
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2017 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration Additional special Total
Basic remuneration for committee members/chairs 10 remuneration remuneration
Ch. Franz, Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 11 – 39,392 439,392
J. Bell 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
J. Brown 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
A. Hauser (since March 2017) 250,000 12 30,000 – 280,000
R.P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 18,465 348,465
A. Oeri 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
S. Schwan (see ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group is reflected in total
remuneration for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P.R. Voser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
P. Baschera 75,000 13 7,500 13 – 82,500 13
(retired in March 2017)
Total 14 3,125,000 367,500 57,857 3,550,357
10 With the exception of members of the Presidium (Chairman, Vice-Chairman) Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve
on and CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
11 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
12 Prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2017.
13 Prorated remuneration paid for the period January to March 2017.
14 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 427,155 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.134
4.4 Total remuneration paid to the Board 4.6 Board remuneration subject to approval at
of Directors the Annual General Meeting
For the 2018 calendar year the members of the
Board of Directors received remuneration including 4.6.1 Submission of the Chairman’s total aggregate
bonuses and employer contribution of social bonus for a binding vote at the Annual General
securities’ beneficial parts totalling CHF 9,328,325 Meeting
(2017: CHF 9,364,757), excluding additional Remuneration to the Chairman of the Board of
employer’s contribution paid to AHV/IV/ALV Directors includes a bonus award of CHF 558,390 in
totalling CHF 351,618 (2017: CHF 427,155) that form of sharesblocked for ten years as shown in the
does not form part of remuneration. table in section ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the
Chairman of the Board of Directors’. The Board of
4.5 Remuneration paid to the former members Directors will submit the Remuneration Committee’s
of the Board of Directors bonus proposal (adopted in late 2018) for the Chairman
Former member of the Board of Directors Dr Franz B. of the Board, Dr Christoph Franz, in respect of the
Humer in 2018 received fees amounting to a total of 2018 financial year (payable in March 2019, excluding
USD 40,000 (CHF 39,123) for serving as a member legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/
of the Chugai International Council (CIC) of Chugai ALV) for the shareholder binding vote to the 2019
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. ordinary Annual General Meeting.
Former member of the Board of Directors William M.
Burns in 2018 received honoraria amounting to a
total of USD 40,000 (CHF 39,123) in his capacity as
a member of the Chugai International Council (CIC)
of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
No additional remuneration was paid.
DETIDUA
Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors (in CHF)
2018 2017
Base salary (in cash) 3,500,000 3,500,000
Bonus (subject to approval of the Annual General Meeting) 558,390 * 558,390 *
Pension funds/MGB 15/insurances/annual 1,687,311 ** 1,681,401 **
expense allowances
Total 5,745,701 16 5,739,791
* In form of shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares, based on the price at the date of transfer in March 2019 and April 2018,
respectively, after approval at the AGM 2019/AGM 2018, respectively), calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period
of 10 years (reduced market value: 55.839%) to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2019/as approved at the AGM 2018, respectively
** I ncluding employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
15 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
16 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 231,145 (2017: CHF 231,200) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUARemuneration Report | Roche
135
Retrospective approvals of the Chairman’s total aggregate bonus (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2019 AGM 2018 AGM 2017
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2018 financial year 2017 financial year 2016
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 558,390 ** 558,390 ** 558,390 **
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
** Bonus award (in form of shares, blocked for 10 years [calculation of number of shares based on the price at the date of transfer in March 2019/
April 2018/April 2017, respectively, after approval at the AGM 2019/AGM 2018/AGM 2017, respectively], calculation of value in consideration of
reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years [reduced market value: 55.839%] to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2019/
as approved at the AGM 2018 and AGM 2017, respectively)
4.6.2 Submission of the Board’s total aggregate Dr Severin Schwan’s remuneration as shown in 5.3
future remuneration for a binding shareholder vote which he receives in his function as CEO Roche Group
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2019 and member of the Corporate Executive Committee
ordinary AGM approve Board remuneration totalling is not included here but is part of the Corporate
not more than CHF 10,000,000 (excluding legally Executive Committee’s total remuneration.
required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the
2020 ordinary AGM.
Prospective approvals of the Board’s total aggregate future remuneration (in CHF)*
Proposal AGM 2019 AGM 2018 AGM 2017
Aggregate amount Aggregate amount Aggregate amount
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2019–AGM 2020 AGM 2018–AGM 2019 AGM 2017–AGM 2018
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
4.6.3 Reconciliation of the reported remuneration For comparison, from the 2017 ordinary AGM to the
with the shareholders’ approved remuneration for 2018 ordinary AGM actual remuneration amounted to
the members of the Board of Directors CHF 8,700,243 (excluding legally required employer’s
The 2017 ordinary AGM approved Board remuneration contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses).
totalling not more than CHF 10,000,000 (excluding
legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/
ALV and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at
the 2018 ordinary AGM.136
Prospectively approved total remuneration for the members of the Board of Directors in comparison to the actual total
payments made (in CHF) *
Total remuneration Total remuneration Total remuneration
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2018–AGM 2019 AGM 2017–AGM 2018 AGM 2016–AGM 2017
Maximum of total remuneration approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000
Actual total remuneration paid Calculation at end of period 8,700,243 8,637,246
Within the approved limit Calculation at end of period Yes Yes
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
4.7 Security holdings (‘Related parties’, page 120) and in Note 4 to the
Directors André Hoffmann and Dr Andreas Oeri and Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd
members of the founders’ families who are closely (‘Significant shareholders’, page 169). In addition,
associated with them belong to a contractually bound as at 31 December 2018 (as at 31 December 2017,
shareholder group with pooled voting rights. At the respectively) the members of the Board of Directors
end of 2018 this group held 72,018,000 shares (45.01% and persons closely associated with them held Roche
of issued shares). Detailed information about this shares, non-voting equity securities (NES) and
group can be found in the Finance Report, Note 31 to American Depositary Receipts (ADRs***) as shown
the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements in the table ‘Security holdings’ below.
Security holdings (shares and NES)
(as at 31 December 2018) (as at 31 December 2017)
Non-voting Non-voting
equity Close relatives’ equity Close relatives’
securities security securities security
Shares (NES) holdings Others Shares (NES) holdings Others
(number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number) (number/type) (number)
Board of Directors
Ch. Franz 16,014 4,810 – – 11,522 4,810 – –
A. Hoffmann – * 200 – – – * 200 – –
J. Bell 1,115 1,647 – – 1,115 1,647 – –
J. Brown 729 – – – 729 – – –
P. Bulcke – 4,000 – – – 4,000 – –
A. Hauser – 150 20 NES – – 150 20 NES –
R.P. Lifton – – – 300 ADRs*** – – – 300 ADRs***
A. Oeri – * 187,793 – – – * 187,793 – –
B. Poussot 500 500 – – 500 500 – –
S. Schwan (see ‘5.16 Security holdings’ (see ‘5.16 Security holdings’
Corporate Executive Committee on page 145) Corporate Executive Committee on page 145)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff – 2,100 ** – – – 621 ** – –
P.R. Voser – 5,000 – – – 5,000 – –
Total 18,358 206,200 20 NES 300 ADRs*** 13,866 204,721 20 NES 300 ADRs***
* Shares held by the shareholder group with pooled voting rights not listed
** Jointly held with close relative
*** Roche’s ADR (American Depositary Receipt), listed on OTCQX www.otcmarkets.com/stock/RHHBY/quote International Premier under the symbol
RHHBY, ISIN US771195104. Traded in USD, eight (8) ADRs represent one (1) underlying NES.Remuneration Report | Roche
137
5. Remuneration of the Corporate
Executive Committee
5.1 Resolution and approval In 2018, members of the Corporate Executive
Remuneration of the members of the Corporate Committee received remuneration for their work as
Executive Committee was decided at the Remuneration shown in 5.3–5.12. The amount of remuneration for
Committee’s discretion, taking into account market the CEO Roche Group, Dr Severin Schwan, is
comparisons. explained in 5.3 in detail.
As in the previous year, in 2019, the Board of Payments (base pay, bonus, S­SARs, RSUs, indirect
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate benefits such as employer contibutions for pension
bonuses of the Corporate Executive Committee to funds, MGB, Roche Connect, expense allowances
the General Meeting for the 2018 financial year for etc.) to Dr Michael Heuer, who was appointed as
retrospectively binding approval. CEO Roche Diagnostics a. i. as of October 2018, are
included and aggregated in the total remuneration of
The maximum amounts of the total aggregate the Corporate Executive Committee (see 5.12).
remuneration of the Corporate Executive Committee
for the period between the ordinary General Meeting 5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to
2019 and the ordinary General Meeting 2020 will be Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate
tabled in 2019 as in the previous year for the General Executive Committee
Meeting’s prospectively binding approval (see 2.2). Dr Severin Schwan, executive member of the Board
of Directors, received his remuneration in his primary
5.2 Amount of remuneration to members of the function as CEO Roche Group. It is reflected as the
Corporate Executive Committee highest total remuneration paid to a member of the
The general provisions assigning authority for decisions Corporate Executive Committee (see page 138) and
on Corporate Executive Committee remuneration to included in the total amount paid to the Corporate
the Remuneration Committee and to the Board of Executive Committee (see ‘5.12 Total remuneration
Directors are outlined on page 123, ‘2. Remuneration paid to the members of the Corporate Executive
decision process and approval framework’. Committee’, page 142).138
Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive Committee (in CHF)
2018 2017 17
Base salary 4,000,000 4,000,000
S-SARs 18 2,666,934 2,666,851
Pension funds/MGB 19/insurances 585,418 ** 578,506 **
Roche Connect 100,008 100,008
Bonus (subject to approval of the total aggregate bonuses for the Corporate Executive Committee
by Annual General Meeting)
– Blocked shares 2,791,950 20* 2,791,950 *
PSP 1,488,911 21* 1,488,970 22*
Other payments incl. expense allowance/for tax consulting services 127,314 62,778
Total 11,760,535 23 11,689,063 23
* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities/shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market
value: 55.839%)
** Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
17 For detailed calculation of the remuneration for 2017 and 2016 see Annual Report 2017, page 137.
18 Number of S-SARs 2018: 100,677, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 26.49. Trinomial model for American
call options value as described in ‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’,
page 139.
Number of S-SARs 2017: 85,476, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 31.20. Trinomial model for American
call options value as described in ‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’,
page 139.
19 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
20 Shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in March 2019 after approval at the
AGM 2019).
21 Target number of non-voting equity securities for PSP 2018–2020 (11,076 non-voting equity securities) multiplied per non-voting equity securities’
price averaged over the three months (October to December 2017) prior to the start of the performance cycle 2018–2020, CHF 240.74/non-voting
equity security.
22 Target number of non-voting equity securities for PSP 2017–2019 (11,565 non-voting equity securities) multiplied per non-voting equity securities’
price averaged over the three months (October to December 2016) prior to the start of the performance cycle 2017–2019, CHF 230.57/non-voting
equity security.
23 Includes an annual expense allowance (CHF 30,000), payments for tax consulting services (CHF 47,314; 2017: CHF 32,778) and anniversary payment
(CHF 50,000). Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 428,867 (2017: CHF 555,967) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
5.4 Base pay of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Base pay (in CHF)
2018 2017
R. Diggelmann (retired from the Corporate Executive Committee at the end of September 2018) 975,000 * 1,300,000
A. Hippe 1,600,000 1,600,000
G. A. Keller 1,500,000 1,500,000
D. O’Day 2,500,000 2,500,000
C. A. Wilbur 925,000 825,000
Total 7,500,000 7,725,000
* Prorated remuneration for the period from January to September 2018.
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Base pay to Dr Michael Heuer is included and
aggregated in the total remuneration of the
Corporate Executive Committee (see 5.12).Remuneration Report | Roche
139
5.5 Bonuses of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee (see 5.12). The total aggregate
Executive Committee amount of bonuses will be brought forward for a
The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors binding vote by the Annual General Meeting 2019.
determined the Corporate Executive Committee
members’ bonuses based on the performance 2018 Except for Dr Severin Schwan, all members of the
against the agreed objectives. For Dr Michael Heuer Corporate Executive Committee will receive the
a regular bonus of CHF 500,000 and a bonus for his bonus 2018 as a 100% cash payment which is due in
interim function of an additional CHF 500,000 (total: March 2019. Dr Severin Schwan will receive the bonus
CHF 1 million) is being proposed. It is included and in form of Roche shares which are blocked for ten years
aggregated in the total remuneration of the Corporate (see page 138). Bonus payment is due in March 2019.
Bonus (in CHF)
2018 2017
(subject to approval of the
total aggregate bonuses of the
Corporate Executive Committee by
the Annual General Meeting 2019)
R. Diggelmann (retired from the Corporate Executive Committee at the end
of September 2018) 900,000 1,350,000
A. Hippe 2,000,000 2,000,000
G. A. Keller 1,400,000 1,400,000
D. O’Day – 3,100,000
C. A. Wilbur 1,200,000 950,000
Total 5,500,000 8,800,000
5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights options. The trinomial model is an effective method
(S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate for valuation of American call options, as it considers
Executive Committee the possibility of exercising the option any time prior
The S­SARs shown in the 5.16.2 ‘S­SARs’ table on to maturity (called ‘American’ option, as compared
page 146 entitle holders to benefit financially from to a ‘European’ option, which only allows exercise at
any increase in the value of Roche’s non­voting equity their maturity date).24
securities (NES) between the grant date and the
exercise date. The strike price for S­SARs under the The numbers of S­SARs, the strike prices, expiry
terms of this multi­year plan was the closing price dates and grant values for S­SARs are shown in the
for Roche NES at grant date. All S­SARs vest three 5.16.2 ‘S­SARs’ table on page 146. The numbers of
years after the grant date. Vested S­SARs can be S­SARs as calculated at the time of issue have been
exercised (converted into NES) within seven years entered as values in the table on pages 140 and 138.25
of the grant date. Unexercised S­SARs lapse without S­SARs granted to Dr Michael Heuer are subject to a
compensation. yearly vesting and shown in the 5.16.2 ‘S­SARs’ table
and the fair value for 2018 is included and aggregated
The fair value of the S­SARs is calculated at the grant in the total remuneration of the Corporate Executive
date using the trinomial model for American call Committee (see 5.12).
24 For further information on the trinomial model for American call options: Please refer to Boyle, Phelim P.: ‘A lattice framework for options pricing
with two state variables’, The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Volume 23, Issue 1 (Mar 1988), 1–12, roche.com/trinomial-model.pdf
25 See strike prices in table 5.16.2 ‘S-SARs’, page 146.
DETIDUA140
Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) (in CHF)
S-SARs S-SARs
2018 2017
R. Diggelmann (retired from the Corporate Executive Committee at the end of September 2018) 866,700 * 866,923
A. Hippe 1,066,885 1,066,759
G. A. Keller 1,000,209 1,000,022
D. O’Day 1,666,724 1,666,829
C. A. Wilbur 566,939 500,198
Total 5,167,457 5,100,731
* Grant 2018: 32,718 S-SARs, grant value CHF 26.49 per S-SAR, price CHF 220.80, expiry date 15.3.2025
5.7 Performance Share Plan (PSP) of the other the sum of the dividend paid during the vesting
members of the Corporate Executive Committee period attributable to the number of non­voting
The PSP consists of overlapping three­year equity securities or shares for which an individual
per formance cycles, with a new cycle beginning each award has been granted) and requires that Roche
year. In 2018, there were thus three cycles in progress securities perform as well as or better than those of
(PSP 2016–2018, PSP 2017–2019 and PSP 2018–2020), 75% of the peer set. In the event that an investment
whereas PSP 2016–2018 closed on 31 December 2018 in Roche securities underperforms the average return
with none of the targeted shares awarded. delivered by the peer companies, fewer or no NES
or shares will be awarded.
Under the provisions of this plan, a number of
non­voting equity securities (NES) or shares have In 2018, NES were reserved under the plan for
been reserved for the participants in each cycle. The members of the Corporate Executive Committee as
number of securities actually awarded will depend on shown in the table on page 141 and on page 138. The
whether and to what extent an investment in Roche Board of Directors will decide on the actual level of
securities (shares and NES) outperforms the average NES, shares or cash equivalent awards for the PSP
return on an investment in securities issued by a set cycles 2017–2019 and 2018–2020 after the close of the
of peer companies.26 Comparisons are based on the 2019 and 2020 financial years, respectively. The aim
securities’ market prices and dividend yields, ie, of the PSP is to provide an incentive to participants
on Total Shareholder Return (TSR). To reduce the to achieve long­term value growth. Due to Roland
effect of short­term market fluctuations, security Diggelmann’s and Daniel O’Day’s resignations,
prices are averaged over the three months (October potential awards will be reduced.
to December) prior to the start of a performance cycle
and over the three months (October to December) Dr Michael Heuer is not participating in the PSP
at the end of the cycle. programme.
If Roche securities perform better than the average At the end of the PSP 2016–2018 cycle (based on a
of the peer set, the Board of Directors can elect to three­month average) with distributed dividends
increase the NES or shares award. The maximum totalling CHF 21.219 billion (2018: CHF 7.159 billion;
award is double the original­level reserved target 2017: CHF 7.073 billion; 2016: CHF 6.987 billion),
number of NES or shares according to the PSP (plus according to the terms of the plan, the participants
a value adjustment being the amount equivalent to received none of the originally targeted shares.
26 See footnote 1, page 123.
DETIDUARemuneration Report | Roche
141
5.8 Restricted Stock Units of the other members Roche Connect is a voluntary stock purchase plan
of the Corporate Executive Committee offering employees the opportunity to buy Roche
In 2018, as the only member of the Corporate non­voting equity securities (NES) up to an amount
Executive Committee Dr Michael Heuer received equal to 10% of their annual salary at a 20% discount.
RSUs before his appointment as CEO Roche NES purchased under this plan are subject to a
Diagnostics a. i. (see 3.1.5). holding period, which is four years in Switzerland.
5.9 Indirect benefits of the other members of In addition, members of the Corporate Executive
the Corporate Executive Committee Committee received annual expense allowances and
Employer contributions made in 2018 to social security some members payments for foreign tax obligations
schemes, pension plans and a Group­wide employee and tax consulting services as shown in the table on
stock purchase plan (Roche Connect) in respect of page 142.
members of the Corporate Executive Committee are
shown in the ‘Indirect benefits (employer contributions)’
table on page 142 and employer contributions as
shown in the table on page 138.
DETIDUA
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
2018 2017
Fair value at grant Fair value at grant
per non-voting per non-voting
equity security equity security
(NES), NES prices (NES), NES prices
averaged over averaged over
the three months Fair value of the three months Fair value of
Target number (October to target number Target number (October to target number
of non-voting December 2017) of non-voting of non-voting December 2016) of non-voting
equity securities prior to the start equity securities equity securities prior to the start equity securities
(NES) for of the performance (NES) for (NES) for of the performance (NES) for
PSP 2018–2020 cycle PSP 2018–2020 PSP 2018–2020 PSP 2017–2019 cycle PSP 2017–2019 PSP 2017–2019
(number) (value in CHF) (value in CHF) (number) (value in CHF) (value in CHF)
R. Diggelmann *** 3,600 240.74 866,664 3,758 230.57 866,482
A. Hippe 4,430 240.74 595,511 * * 4,626 230.57 844,857 *
G.A. Keller 4,153 240.74 558,274 * * 4,337 230.57 558,380 * *
D. O’Day 6,923 240.74 1,666,643 7,228 230.57 1,666,560
C. A. Wilbur 2,353 240.74 566,461 2,168 230.57 499,876
Total 21,459 240.74 4,253,553 22,117 230.57 4,436,155
* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 4 years (reduced market value: 79.209%)
** Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market value: 55.839%)
*** Retired from the Corporate Executive Committee at the end of September 2018142
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Indirect benefits (employer contributions) (in CHF)
2018 2017
Pension Payments Pension Payments
funds/ Annual for tax/tax funds/ Annual for tax/tax
MGB 27/ expense Roche consulting MGB 27/ expense Roche consulting
insurances * allowances Connect services insurances * allowances Connect services
R. Diggelmann ** 255,159 22,500 20,000 7,108 328,506 30,000 30,000 8,611
A. Hippe 335,418 30,000 39,996 13,378 328,506 30,000 39,996 15,545
G. A. Keller 122,226 30,000 37,500 – 115,314 30,000 37,500 1,623
D. O’Day 335,418 30,000 62,496 670,831 328,506 30,000 62,496 628,039
C. A. Wilbur 335,418 30,000 18,744 75,299 319,506 30,000 18,744 37,147
Total 1,383,639 142,500 178,736 766,616 1,420,338 150,000 188,736 690,965
* Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
** R etired from the Corporate Executive Committee at the end of September 2018
27 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
Payments (employer contibutions) of indirect benefits 5.11 Remuneration to former members of the
for pension funds, MGB, Roche Connect, expense Corporate Executive Committee
allowances etc. to Dr Michael Heuer are included and In 2018, pensions totalling CHF 2,057,784 (2017:
aggregated in the total remuneration of the Corporate CHF 2,049,180) were paid to former Corporate
Executive Committee (see 5.12). Executive Committee members.
5.10 Other remuneration and loans of members 5.12 Total remuneration paid to the members
of the Corporate Executive Committee of the Corporate Executive Committee
Based on contractual obligations, in 2018, Roche paid For the 2018 calendar year, the members of the
to individual members of the Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee received
Committee for their children’s schooling costs remuneration including bonuses and employer
totalling CHF 46,777 (2017: CHF 42,300). contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
and all payments to Dr Michael Heuer, CEO
All aforementioned additional payments are included Roche Diagnostics a. i., totalling CHF 39,272,132
in the total remuneration to members of the Corporate (2017: CHF 40,243,288), excluding additional
Executive Committee. employer’s contribution paid to AHV/IV/ALV
totalling CHF 1,792,838 (2017: CHF 1,975,317)
In 2018, there are no loans or credits granted to the that does not form part of remuneration.
members of the Corporate Executive Committee.
No additional remuneration other than the above
The maximum regular period of notice for members mentioned payments was paid to current or former
of the Corporate Executive Committee is 12 months. members of the Corporate Executive Committee.
There are no change­of­control clauses in the
employment contracts.
DETIDUA
DETIDUARemuneration Report | Roche
143
5.13 Executive remuneration subject to approval blocked for ten years, for all other members of the
at the Annual General Meeting Corporate Executive Committee as a 100% cash
payment, see 5.5) totalling CHF 9,291,950 in respect
5.13.1 Submission of Executive total aggregate of the 2018 financial year (2017: CHF 11,591,950),
bonuses for a binding vote at the Annual excluding legally required employer’s contributions
General Meeting to AHV/IV/ALV, and will submit this proposed total
The Board of Directors proposes awarding the members amount to the ordinary Annual General Meeting
of the Corporate Executive Committee bonuses (for (AGM) 2019 for a binding vote.
Dr Severin Schwan in form of Roche shares which are
Retrospective approvals of the members of the Executive Committee’s total aggregate bonuses (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2019 AGM 2018 AGM 2017
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2018 financial year 2017 financial year 2016
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 9,291,950 11,591,950 11,891,950
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
5.13.2 Submission of Executive total future aggregate incentives S­SARs (calculated at grant value without
remuneration for a binding shareholder vote considering reductions of value due to blocking periods
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2019 if applicable) and RSUs (see 3.1.6, calculated at the
ordinary AGM approves remuneration for the time of reservation of non­voting equity securities
Corporate Executive Committee totalling not more or shares, without considering reductions of value due
than CHF 38,000,000 (excluding legally required to blocking periods), contributions to pension benefits
employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and (excluding legally required employer’s contributions
excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the to AHV/IV/ALV) as well as contributions for expenses,
2020 ordinary AGM. payments for foreign tax obligations, tax consulting
services and Roche Connect.
The amount of Executive total future aggregate
remuneration is composed of base pay, long­term
Prospective approvals of the members of the Executive Committee’s total future aggregate remuneration (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2019 AGM 2018 AGM 2017
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
the period the period the period
AGM 2019–AGM 2020 AGM 2018–AGM 2019 AGM 2017–AGM 2018
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 38,000,000 41,000,000 41,000,000
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses144
5.13.3 Reconciliation of the reported remuneration excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the 2018
with the shareholders’ prospectively approved ordinary AGM.
remuneration for the members of the Corporate
Executive Committee For comparison, from the 2017 ordinary AGM to
The 2017 ordinary AGM approved remuneration for the 2018 ordinary AGM remuneration amounted to
the Corporate Executive Committee totalling not CHF 38,215,056 (excluding legally required employer’s
more than CHF 41,000,000 (excluding legally required contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses.
employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and PSP: assumption of maximum value).
Prospectively approved total remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee in comparison to actual total
remuneration effected (in CHF) *
Amount for the period Amount for the period Amount for the period
AGM 2018–AGM 2019 AGM 2017–AGM 2018 AGM 2016–AGM 2017
Maximum of total remuneration prospectively
approved by the AGM ** 41,000,000 41,000,000 41,000,000
Total remuneration calculated at end of Calculation at the end of
corresponding AGM–AGM period ** period AGM 2018–AGM 2019 38,215,056 40,001,760
Actual total remuneration realised
(for corresponding AGM–AGM period based on Calculation at the end of 2020 Calculation at the end of 2019
the actual amount calculated restrospectively after (after the end of the (after the end of the
the end of the corresponding PSP cycle) PSP cycle 2018–2020) PSP cycle 2017–2019) 24,022,793 ***
Within the approved limit Calculation at end of period Calculation at end of period Yes
Additional amount paid for new members of the
Corporate Executive Committee after approval by
the AGM and not within the approved total amount No No No
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
** Including assumption amount of 200% (maximum possible award) of shares/non-voting equity securities of the corresponding PSP cycle
*** Due to no award of shares under the PSP 2016–2018 cycle and their originally included calculation of 200% (maximum possible award), the amount
of the total remuneration for the period AGM 2016–AGM 2017 is reduced to CHF 24,022,793.Remuneration Report | Roche
145
5.14 Clawback According to the regulations of the PSP programme,
In addition to applicable statutory provisions, the originally targeted but not awarded NES or shares
Roche’s long­term incentive plans include the option shall lapse without any compensation upon notice of
to partially reclaim distributed compensation as a termination of employment being given for any reason
result of special circumstances (clawback). other than redundancy, disability or retirement.
If the employee voluntarily serves notice of 5.15 Guidelines for security holdings
termination of employment, S­SARs (see 5.16.2) In 2012, the Board of Directors decided that the CEO
and RSUs (see 3.1.5) which are unvested at the date Roche Group and other CEC members must acquire
of termination of employment lapse immediately shares and/or NES equivalent to two annual base
without any compensation. salaries (CEO Roche Group since 2018 equivalent to
five annual base salaries) and one annual base salary,
Upon termination of employment as a result of respectively, by the end of 2016 and retain these
serious misconduct, all S­SARs and RSUs granted and holdings for as long as they serve on the CEC. With
outstanding, whether vested or unvested, shall lapse the exception of Cristina A. Wilbur, who joined the
immediately without any compensation. According Corporate Executive Committee in 2016 and who
to the S­SARs plan rules, serious misconduct by the must fulfil the requirement by the end of 2020, all
participant may include (inter alia): other members of the Corporate Executive Committee
• activity leading to serious disciplinary action fulfil this requirement.
• repeated or willful failure to perform such duties as
have been reasonably assigned by Roche 5.16 Security holdings
• violation of any law or public regulation As at 31 December 2018 (as at 31 December 2017,
• commission of a crime respectively) the members of the CEC and persons
• gross negligence or willful misconduct in employment closely associated with them held securities as shown
• engaging in conduct bringing disgrace or disrepute in the tables ‘Shares and non­voting equity securities
to Roche and/or any of its subsidiaries (NES)’and ‘S­SARs’ below.
• violation of any of Roche’s directives and guidelines
relating to business conduct
Type of security Value to be acquired
CEO Roche Group Shares and/or NES 5 × annual base salary
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee Shares and/or NES 1 × annual base salary146
5.16.1 Shares and non-voting equity securities (NES)
(as at 31 December 2018) (as at 31 December 2017)
Close relatives’ Close relatives’
Shares NES security holdings Shares NES security holdings
(number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number/type)
Corporate Executive Committee Shares NES Shares
S. Schwan 175,890 35,270 – – 153,428 27,040 –
A. Hippe 6,970 19,956 – – 6,970 16,585 –
G.A. Keller 19,191 21,462 1,100 – 19,191 18,445 1,100
D. O’Day 3,065 19,432 – – 3,065 16,091 –
C. A. Wilbur – 3,955 – – – 3,141 –
M. Heuer 3 18,602 * – 729 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Total 205,119 118,677 1,100 729 182,654 81,302 1,100
n.a. – not applicable
* Excluding 4,897 RSUs
5.16.2 S-SARs
Number of S-SARs held on 31 December 2018
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Corporate Executive Committee
S. Schwan 100,677 85,476 89,517 59,997 54,453 30,000
A. Hippe 40,275 34,191 35,811 24,003 21,783 –
G. A. Keller 37,758 32,052 33,570 22,503 20,424 –
D. O’Day 62,919 53,424 55,950 30,000 27,231 –
C.A. Wilbur 21,402 16,032 15,339 4,164 5,754 4,594
M. Heuer ** 15,402 12,381 12,840 9,120 8,076 10,392
Total 278,433 233,556 243,027 149,787 137,721 44,986
Price (CHF) 220.80 251.90 251.50 256.10 263.20 214.00
Market price per NES on 243.40
31 December 2018 (CHF)
Expiry date 15.3.2025 16.3.2024 3.3.2023 5.3.2022 6.3.2021 7.3.2020
Grant value per S-SAR (CHF) 26.49 31.20 * 29.79 * 43.34 * 47.75 * 36.38 *
Since 1.1.2012:
– Trinomial model for American
call options
* V alues according to corresponding
annual reports
** E xcluding close-relative’s 460
S-SARs (2012: price: CHF 157.50;
expiry date: 8.3.2019; grant value per
S-SAR: CHF 24.41) holdings in totalStatutory Auditor’s Report | Roche
147
To the General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
We have audited the accompanying Remuneration An audit involves performing procedures to obtain
Report of Roche Holding Ltd for the year ended audit evidence on the disclosures made in the
31 December 2018. The audit was limited to the Remuneration Report with regard to compensation,
information according to articles 14–16 of the Ordinance loans and credits in accordance with articles 14–16
against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange of the Ordinance. The procedures selected depend on
Listed Companies (the Ordinance) contained in the the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of
sections marked as ‘audited’ with a grey line, including the risks of material misstatements in the Remuneration
the respective footnotes, on pages 120 to 146 of the Report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit also
Remuneration Report. includes evaluating the reasonableness of the methods
applied to value components of remuneration, as
well as assessing the overall presentation of the
Responsibility of the Board of Directors
Remuneration Report.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the
preparation and overall fair presentation of the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained
Remuneration Report in accordance with Swiss law is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
and the Ordinance. The Board of Directors is also opinion.
responsible for designing the remuneration system
and defining individual remuneration packages.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Remuneration Report for the year
Auditor’s Responsibility
ended 31 December 2018 of Roche Holding Ltd
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the
accompanying Remuneration Report. We conducted Ordinance.
our audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the Remuneration
Report complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of
the Ordinance.
KPMG AG
Mark Baillache Marc Ziegler
Licensed Audit Expert Licensed Audit Expert
Auditor in Charge
Basel, 28 January 2019
KPMG AG, Viaduktstrasse 42, PO Box 3456, CH-4002 Basel
KPMG AG is a subsidiary of KPMG Holding AG, which is a member of the KPMG network of independent firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative
(‘KPMG International’), a Swiss legal entity. All rights reserved.148
Independent Assurance Report on the Roche
Sustainability Reporting 2018
To the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee of Chemical Industry Council CEFIC and the ‘GRI Standards’
Roche Holding AG, Basel. published in October 2016 by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI);
• the Roche Group internal Corporate Reporting Manual,
We have been engaged to perform assurance procedures to provide ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidance—Economic Performance’
limited assurance on the aspects of the 2018 Sustainability issued June 28, 2018;
Reporting of Roche Holding AG, Basel and its consolidated • the Roche materiality determination process at corporate level
subsidiaries (‘Roche’) included in the Annual Report 2018 (‘Report’). based on the ‘GRI Standards’ published in October 2016 by the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); and
Scope and Subject matter • the defined guidelines, by which SHE, people and contributions
Our limited assurance engagement focused on the following data key figures, and sustainability risks and opportunities are
and information disclosed in the Sustainability Reporting of Roche internally gathered, collated and aggregated.
for the year ended on December 31, 2018:
• the management of reporting processes with respect to the Inherent Limitations
Sustainability Reporting in all material aspects and the The accuracy and completeness of sustainability indicators are
preparation of Safety, Security, Health and Environmental subject to inherent limitations given their nature and methods for
protection (‘SHE’), contributions, people key figures as well determining, calculating and estimating such data. Our assurance
as the related control environment in relation to the data report should therefore be read in connection with Roche’s internal
aggregation of these key figures; guidelines, definitions and procedures on the reporting of its
• the materiality determination process of Roche at group level sustainability performance.
according to the requirements of the ‘GRI Standards’ and as
disclosed on page 5 of the Report; Roche’s Responsibilities
• the design of the sustainability risks and opportunities The Roche Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
determination process based on Roche corporate-level activities, is responsible for both the subject matter and the criteria as well
disclosed on page 4 in the paragraph ‘Risk management’ of the as for the selection, preparation and presentation of the selected
Report; information in accordance with the criteria. This responsibility
• the people key figures disclosed on pages 72 to 75 of the Report and includes the design, implementation and maintenance of related
the SHE key figures (including greenhouse gas emissions for scope internal control relevant to this reporting process that is free
1 & 2 and scope 3 resulting from business travel, compressed air, from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
liquid nitrogen and waste) in the tables and graphs on pages 80
to 87 and page 98 of the Report; and Our Responsibility
• the figures on the Roche Group level in relation to the contributions Our responsibility is to form an independent opinion, based on our
and donations, disclosed on page 101 of the Report. limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come to our
attention to indicate that the identified sustainability information
We have not carried out any work on data reported for prior selected and contained in this report is not stated, in all material
reporting periods, nor have we performed work in respect of respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
projections and targets.
We planned and performed our procedures in accordance with the
Criteria International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000)
The management reporting processes with respect to the (revised) ‘Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of
Sustainability Reporting and key figures were prepared by Roche historical financial information’, and, in respect of greenhouse
based on the internal policies and procedures as set forth in the gas emissions, with the International Standard on Assurance
following: Engagements (ISAE 3410) ‘Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse
• the Roche Group internal Sustainability Reporting guidelines Gas Statements’, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance
based on the ‘Responsible Care Health, Safety and Environmental Standards Board. These standards require that we plan and perform
Protection reporting guidelines’ published by the European the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance on theIndependent Assurance Report | Roche
149
identified sustainability information prepared, in all material Reviewing relevant documentation on a sample basis, including
aspects, in accordance with Roche’s internal policies and procedures. Roche Group sustainability policies, management of reporting
structures and documentation;
A limited assurance engagement under ISAE 3000 (revised) and Reviewing the principles of the Roche materiality process
ISAE 3410 is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance providing the definition for the development of its adherence to
engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, GRI’s environmental, social and economic reporting requirements
including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures addressing the soundness of the identification process,
performed in response to the assessed risks. Consequently, the determination of impacted stakeholders, peer and competition
nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient review, integration of relevant regulatory requirements, integration
appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable of key organisational values and objectives and report prioritisation
assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained of material aspects;
with a limited assurance engagement than for a reasonable Inspecting the integration of the sustainability risks and
assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on the opportunities in the Group Risk Management Process and its
assurance practitioner’s judgement. adherence to the internal guidelines;
• Assessment of the processes and data consolidation
Our Independence and Quality Control Reviewing the management and Sustainability Reporting
We have complied with the independence and other ethical processes for SHE, contributions and people key figures; and
requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants Assessing the consolidation process of data at Roche Group level.
issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants,
which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, We have not conducted any work on data other than outlined in
professional competence and due care, confidentiality and the subject matter as defined above. We believe that the evidence
professional behaviour. we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our assurance conclusion.
Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and
accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control Conclusion
including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance Based on our work performed and described in this report on the
with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable identified Roche Sustainability Reporting 2018 nothing has come
legal and regulatory requirements. to our attention causing us to believe that in all material respects:
• the Roche Group internal sustainability reporting guidelines
Summary of work performed based on the ‘GRI Standards’ as well as the ‘CEFIC Guidelines’
Our assurance procedures included, amongst others, the following are not applied;
work: • the Roche materiality determination process at corporate level as
• Review of the application of Roche Group guidelines disclosed does not adhere to the principles and guiding factors
Reviewing the application of the Roche Group internal corporate (e.g. soundness, stakeholder determination, peer review, relevance
sustainability and contributions guidelines; of regulatory environment, integration of key organisational values
• Site visits and management inquiry and objectives) defined with the ‘GRI Standards’;
Visiting selected sites of Roche’s Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics • the design of the sustainability risks and opportunities
divisions in the USA, Germany, Greece, Colombia and Italy. The determination process at corporate level as disclosed does not
selection was based on quantitative and qualitative criteria; function as designed;
Interviewing personnel responsible for internal sustainability • the internal reporting processes to collect and aggregate SHE,
reporting and data collection at the sites we visited and at the people and contributions data are not functioning as designed and
Roche Group level to determine the understanding and application provide an appropriate basis for its disclosure;
of Roche’s internal sustainability guidelines; • the sustainability information mentioned in the subject matter and
• Assessment of the key figures disclosed within the Sustainability Reporting in the Roche Annual
Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence supporting selected Report 2018 is not stated in accordance with the reporting criteria.
SHE, contributions and people key figures (e.g. Roche accident
rate, energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions related to
energy consumption, water, waste, contributions to public policy PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
stakeholders, representation of women in key leadership roles)
concerning completeness, accuracy, adequacy and consistency; Christophe Bourgoin Fabienne Fricker
• Review of documentation and analysis of relevant policies
and principles Zurich, 30 January 2019150
Modern technologies, digitalisation and sophisticated data analysis support scientists at Roche in research and product development. The picture shows a scientist
preparing a sample for further analysis.
Key dates for 2019 Published by
F. Hoffmann­La Roche Ltd
Annual General Meeting Group Communications
5 March 2019 4070 Basel, Switzerland
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 11 11
First-quarter sales www.roche.com
17 April 2019
To order/download publications
Half-year results Internet: roche.com/publications
25 July 2019 E­mail: basel.warehouse-services@roche.com
Fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
Nine months sales
16 October 2019 Media Relations
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 88
E­mail: media.relations@roche.com
Investor Relations
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
E­mail: investor.relations@roche.com
Corporate Sustainability Committee
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 40 18
E­mail: corporate.sustainability@roche.comImprint | Roche
151
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking The statement regarding earnings per share growth
statements is not a profit forecast and should not be interpreted
This Annual Report contains certain forward­looking to mean that Roche’s earnings or earnings per share
statements. These forward­looking statements may for 2019 or any subsequent period will necessarily
be identified by words such as ‘believes,’ ‘expects,’ match or exceed the historical published earnings
‘anticipates,’ ‘projects,’ ‘intends,’ ‘should,’ ‘seeks,’ or earnings per share of Roche.
‘estimates,’ ‘future’ or similar expressions or by
discussion of, among other things, strategy, goals, All trademarks are legally protected.
plans or intentions. Various factors may cause actual
results to differ materially in the future from those Links to third­party pages are provided for convenience
reflected in forward­looking statements contained in only. We do not express any opinion on the content
this Annual Report, among others: (1) pricing and of any third­party pages and expressly disclaim any
product initiatives of competitors; (2) legislative and liability for all third­party information and the use
regulatory developments and economic conditions; of it.
(3) delay or inability in obtaining regulatory approvals
or bringing products to market; (4) fluctuations in The Roche Annual Report is published in German
currency exchange rates and general financial market and English.
conditions; (5) uncertainties in the discovery,
development or marketing of new products or new Our reporting consists of the actual Annual Report
uses of existing products, including without limitation and of the Finance Report and contains the annual
negative results of clinical trials or research projects, financial statements and the consolidated financial
unexpected side effects of pipeline or marketed statements. With regards to content, the Management
products; (6) increased government pricing pressures; Report as per the Articles of Incorporation consists
(7) interruptions in production; (8) loss of or inability of both aforementioned reports with the exception
to obtain adequate protection for intellectual property of the Remuneration Report.
rights; (9) litigation; (10) loss of key executives or
other employees; and (11) adverse publicity and Printed on non­chlorine bleached, FSC­certified paper.
news coverage.We share one purpose.Doing
now
what
patients
need nextWe believe it’s urgent to deliver medical
solutions right now—even as we develop
innovations for the future. We are passionate
about transforming patients’ lives. We are
courageous in both decision and action.
And we believe that good business means
a better world.
That is why we come to work each day.
We commit ourselves to scientific rigour,
unassailable ethics, and access to medical
innovations for all. We do this today to
build a better tomorrow.
We are proud of who we are, what we do,
and how we do it. We are many, working
as one across functions, across companies,
and across the world.
We are Roche.30
Contents
We believe it’s urgent to deliver medical
Overview
solutions right now—even as we develop 0 127 O Chu ar i s rt mra at ne ’g sy shareholder letter 38
innovations for the future. We are passionate 16 CEO’s shareholder letter
about transforming patients’ lives. We are Business performance
22 Group performance
courageous in both decision and action. 2 324 D Phia ag rmno as ct eic us t ip ce ar lsfo pr em rfa on rc me ance
And we believe that good business means Science and innovation 62
a better world. 4 512 I Dd ee vn et li ofy pi in ng g m die ad gi nc oa sl tn ice e ted sts and health apps
That is why we come to work each day. Access to healthcare
56 Joining forces to make a difference
We commit ourselves to scientific rigour, 60 Enabling sustainable healthcare funding
unassailable ethics, and access to medical People
AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 68 Learning and leadership development 72
innovations for all. We do this today to 70 World-class talent shaping the future
build a better tomorrow. Environment
78 Reducing energy and water consumption
We are proud of who we are, what we do, 22001177 80 Reducing emissions to air and water
and how we do it. We are many, working 8 918
C
S Pt ar
reo
tn
nm
g et rh
inem
gn i tn
ou
g m
n
lo
aci kat
el
y
ac o
dme iffmn erug
en
na
i ct
eig ese ment
84
as one across functions, across companies,
and across the world. 98 I Enn sut re ing gr bi ut siy ne si sn co nb tiu nus iti yness
100 Developing lasting partnerships
Corporate Governance
We are Roche. 1 10 07 8 B Co oa rr pd o ro af t D e Eir xe ec cto ur tis ve Committee 92
Remuneration Report
122 Principles
126 Remuneration components
E
102
Roche
| Annual
Report
2017
F. Hoffmann­La Roche Ltd
4070 Basel, Switzerland
© 2019
All trademarks are legally protected.
www.roche.com
HER JOURNEY TO
RECOVERY
The woman shown on the cover
of the Roche Annual Report this
year appeared on the cover of our
2017 report as well. Last year she
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
4070 Basel, Switzerland was in the midst of receiving
© 2018
treatment for her breast cancer All trademarks are legally protected.
www.roche.com when photographed and this came
through powerfully on the cover.
Now, a year later, she is enjoying
life again.
P A T I E N T S INNOVATION P A R T N E R S
We introduced Ocrevus for the A medicine for people with autism In collaboration with partners and treatment of two forms of multiple spectrum disorder is in phase III authorities we are developing
sclerosis. Ocrevus demonstrated studies. It is the most common our next-generation diagnostic tests superior efficacy by reducing neuro-developmental condition, and medicines with the aim
relapses and slowing the worsening characterised by difficulties of diagnosing and treating multi-
of disability caused by MS. regarding social interaction. drug-resistant bacterial infections. Cover shows woman diagnosed with cancer.
7 000 996
7 001 003