Annual Report
2014
PERFORMANCE I N N O V A T I O N E N G AGE ME N T
Reporting solid results, Roche From prevention to life- More than 80% of employees
will propose an increase of the extending medicines, important are proud to work for Roche.
dividend for the 28th year pipeline breakthroughs in 2014 Find out what the company is
running. Discover how the new included an HPV test for doing to create a great
Chairman, Christoph Franz, cervical cancer and survival workplace where people feel
plans to build on this strong data of nearly 5 years for a engaged and inspired to do
foundation. Roche breast cancer medicine. their best work.
08 52 108Contents
04 OPENING SECTION 52 INNOVATION
04 Roche in 2014 54 Diverse approaches to R&D
06 Our business priorities 55 Innovative R&D: targeted therapies
56 Leading innovations from our pipeline
65 Innovative approaches for clinical studies
08 LETTERS 66 Reliable supply to patients
67 Health IT: interpreting Big Data
08 Letter from the Chairman 68 Spotlight on HPV testing
12 Board of Directors 72 Value of diagnostic test results
14 Letter from the CEO 74 Building partnerships around the world
18 Corporate Executive Committee 76 Conducting responsible R&D
78 Pharmaceuticals pipeline
20 BUSINESS REVIEW AND
MARKET ENVIRONMENT 80 ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE
22 Solid growth in both divisions 82 An enormous global challenge
24 The big picture 83 Improving affordability
25 Focusing on value 86 Increasing availability of innovative products
25 Access to healthcare 87 Strengthening infrastructure
26 Technological advances 88 Increasing awareness and patient support
27 Growth of emerging markets 90 Spotlight on Africa
28 DIAGNOSTICS 94 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
30 Good sales growth in 2014 96 Integrity is at the core of everything we do
32 Setting new industry standards with new instruments 97 Increasing transparency
34 Adding value in healthcare 98 Engaging with our stakeholders
34 Diagnostics business model 100 Managing risk and crisis
36 Spotlight on Diagnostics Korea 101 Safeguarding patients
104 Spotlight on mental health
40 PHARMACEUTICALS
108 PEOPLE
42 Solid performance in 2014
44 Key products performing well 110 Engaging and energising our people
45 Significant breakthroughs in 2014 111 Recognising and rewarding employees
47 Making innovation accessible 112 Appreciating everyone’s contribution
48 Spotlight on biomarkers 113 Preparing the workplace of the future
114 Developing the full potential of our leaders
115 Making the most of employee careers
116 Spotlight on professional development36
48
120 ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITY 68
122 Reducing our environmental footprint
124 Occupational and mental health
125 Environmental sustainability
130 Security
131 Pharmaceuticals in the environment
131 Legislation and compliance
132 Remediation management
134 Spotlight on sustainability
138 Making a difference with philanthropy
140 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND
REMUNERATION REPORT
90
142 Corporate Governance
152 Remuneration Report
168 Report of the Statutory Auditor 116
170 CLOSING SECTION
170 Assurance Report
172 More on the Web
174 Impressum
176 Our purpose statement
104
134Roche | Roche in 2014
Roche in 2014
ROCHE IS A RESEARCH-BASED HEALTHCARE COMPANY founded in 1896 and headquartered in Basel,
Switzerland. We focus on creating truly innovative medicines and diagnostic tests in areas of unmet medical need.
Our business model drives our ambition to make a significant difference to patients, reaching as many people
in need as possible whilst continuously reinvesting in innovation to develop diagnostic tests and breakthrough
treatments.
47.5 14.29
billion Swiss francs Swiss francs
sales* core earnings per share
229 88,509
billion Swiss francs
market capitalisation employees
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Product pipeline
• Esbriet approved in idiopathic pulmonary • New molecular testing systems, the cobas • Anti-PDL1 immunotherapy medicine
fibrosis 6800 and cobas 8800, launched in bladder cancer
• RoActemra approved in early rheumatoid • HPV test for primary screening of cervical • Lampalizumab in geographic atrophy
arthritis cancer approved of the eye
• Avastin approved in cervical cancer and • New diagnostic test for syphilis launched • Cobimetinib and Zelboraf in advanced
platinum-resistant ovarian cancer • Investment of 450 million Swiss francs melanoma
• Gazyvaro approved in chronic lymphocytic over next three years in new diagnostic • ACE910, an innovative bispecific antibody,
leukemia manufacturing facility in China in hemophilia A
* Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average full year 2013).
4 | Roche Annual Report 2014Roche in 2014 | Roche
No. 1
in biotech in oncology
in in vitro diagnostics in hospital market
Acquisitions Sustainability Group
• InterMune in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis • Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Group • Christoph Franz elected as Chairman
• Seragon Pharmaceuticals in hormone leader for sixth year running of the Roche Board of Directors
receptor-positive breast cancer • Global access programme to test viral loads • 4 billion Swiss francs of investments
• Ariosa Diagnostics in non-invasive pre-natal in people with HIV infections launched announced in state-of-the-art R & D,
testing • 5.8 million people treated in 20 years production facilities and infrastructure
• Genia Technologies in next-generation gene through the Phelophepa train, a mobile • Increase in dividend proposed for the
sequencing health clinic in South Africa 28th consecutive year
• IQuum in molecular diagnostics • 71% fully engaged employees • More than 100 new external partnerships
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 5Roche | Our business priorities
Our business priorities
WE HAVE A CLEAR SET of business priorities aimed at achieving sustainable growth and delivering value to all
our stakeholders.
Focus on patients Excellence in science Personalised healthcare
We focus exclusively on developing innovative We strive to address unmet medical needs We combine our strengths in pharmaceuticals
medicines and diagnostic tests that help through excellence in science. Breakthrough and diagnostics to better fit treatments to
patients live longer, better lives. Two thirds innovation in science and technology patients. When genetic differences can be
of all known diseases are either still not increasingly allow us to understand precisely identified, the efficacy and safety of medicines
treated adequately or not treated at all. This what is malfunctioning in the body and can be improved enormously. To this end
medical need is an enormous challenge develop drugs to counter the problem. We we have a companion diagnostic strategy for
and better diagnostics and medicines can focus on oncology, immunology, infectious every molecule we develop.
make a huge difference to the lives of millions diseases, ophthalmology and neuroscience.
of patients and their families. However, we remain flexible and follow the
science as new insights become available.
Performance in 2014
19 million patients on a Roche top 25 selling 66 new molecular entities (NMEs) >350 personalised healthcare collaborations
medicine in the pipeline within Roche
More than 6 million women tested for HPV 11 pharmaceutical product approvals >15 companion tests in development
More than 6.5 billion test strips for blood >170 manuscripts puplished in 41 NMEs with companion diagnostic
glucose monitoring sold top-tier journals programmes in pipeline
6 | Roche Annual Report 2014Our business priorities | Roche
Access to healthcare Great workplace Sustainable value
We aim to bring our medicines and diagnostic We are committed to constantly maintaining We run our business in a way that is ethical and
tests to as many people in need as possible. and strengthening highly attractive aims to create long-term value for shareholders
Every healthcare system comes with different workplaces where every person feels valued and all our stakeholders. We want to create
challenges and we customise solutions and respected and can grow to his or her value through developing medical solutions and
for individual markets. We work with many full potential. Our people make our business. we aim for as many people to benefit from
different local partners to reduce barriers to They discover, develop and manufacture our them as possible. We believe that our success
accessing healthcare and establish innovative, products and ensure they reach the patients lies in our ability to develop strategies where
sustainable ways to bring effective and who need them. We believe that the key to both industry and society benefit in a
affordable healthcare to patients. our success lies in our ability to attract, retain sustainable way.
and motivate a highly skilled and diverse
workforce.
Performance in 2014
250,000 women screened for breast cancer 81% of our employees are proud to 11.5% improvement in eco-impact
in North Africa through a Roche mobile unit work for Roche
28th consecutive year dividend
1.3 million infants tested for HIV as part 71% fully engaged employees increase proposed
of Roche’s AmpliCare programme
48% of total workforce are women 6 times Group leader Dow Jones
Global access programme for HIV viral Sustainability Indices
load testing launched
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 7Letter to shareholders | Christoph Franz
8 | Roche Annual Report 2014Christoph Franz | Letter to shareholders
Supporting a strategy
of lasting success
2014 WAS ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR FOR ROCHE, with a solid business performance,
highly promising medical advances and ground-breaking investments. The Board of Directors is
once again proposing a dividend increase.
Dear Shareholders bladder cancer, a devastating disease with limited treatment
options. Our main goal will always be to use cutting-edge
After my first year as Chairman of the Board of Directors, science to offer patients a better quality of life and, where
I am very pleased to present you with solid results. In 2014, possible, to cure them or help them live longer.
despite challenging conditions in some of our markets,
particularly Europe, we delivered strong sales growth across In 2014, Roche invested close to 9 billion Swiss francs in
both divisions and reported a strong net income of 9.5 billion research and development. We are convinced of the
Swiss francs. enormous potential of modern biosciences and will continue
to rigorously pursue our efforts and investments in this area.
We also had some notable successes in research and As the world’s largest biotech company, we are in the best
development. Thanks to some of our medicines, we helped possible position to use our knowledge of disease biology
to improve the treatment of leukemia, pulmonary diseases to develop new treatments and tests that are better tailored
and skin disorders. We also introduced a test for the for specific patient groups, making them safer and more
detection of the virus causing cervical cancer. Once again, effective. But, of course, it’s always better to prevent than
millions of people were treated with our medicines in 2014, to treat — and as a global leader in healthcare diagnostics —
and thanks to our diagnostic tests, even more received Roche is playing a crucial role here. From early screening to
a reliable diagnosis for the basis of targeted, successful personalised medicines, our products can help to overcome
treatment. some of the major challenges healthcare systems are facing
today.
“Our main objective remains to
Innovation is at the heart of what we do. For us, this means
offer patients a better quality being open to good ideas, including ones generated outside
of Roche. In fact, about one third of our pharmaceutical
of life and, where possible, to cure
products were born out of a partnership, usually with a
them or help them live longer.” smaller biotech firm or university. We maintain an impressive
global partnership network spanning over 240 alliances,
underpinned by the targeted acquisition of technologies,
At last year’s Annual General Meeting, I made a commitment active ingredients and expertise. In 2014, we entered into a
to continue the course Roche has set to ensure that the number of important strategic partnerships. The acquisition
Group remains a driver of innovation in the healthcare of the biotech company InterMune, for example, significantly
sector. I am particularly impressed by the large number of strengthened our portfolio in the area of respiratory
projects in our pharmaceutical and diagnostic pipelines. We disorders with Esbriet, a treatment for a fatal lung disease.
are tackling serious diseases with high unmet need, such as
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 9Letter to shareholders | Christoph Franz
next, along with the unique challenges each system is facing.
“Sustainable success demands
Our success hinges on giving our employees sufficient
long-term thinking.” responsibility and latitude to adapt to their local situation. In
this context, our decentralised management style is a core
strength that we want to continue to foster.
Another important achievement for the Group in 2014 was
certainly the selection by the Dow Jones Sustainability Nonetheless, providing access to our innovative tests and
Indices as the world’s most sustainable company in the life medicines in economically weaker countries is a major
sciences sector for the sixth year running. For me, it’s just challenge, particularly in oncology, where treatments are
another indicator that we’re on the right track. Sustainable complex and the demands made on facilities, expertise and
success — and this is not only true for Roche — requires resources are high. We need to work with local partners,
long-term thinking and commitment. When it comes to the who best understand local barriers, to find ways to help
implementation and development of our long-term strategy, patients and also improve preventive screening.
Roche benefits from a tremendous advantage thanks to the
guidance, support and trust provided by the Hoffmann and Whilst our primary focus is always on developing innovative
Oeri families. To me, this is one of the Group’s biggest treatments and tests, 2014 was also a year of site expansions.
strengths. This is largely to provide more space for our growing
workforce, additional research infrastructure, and increased
production capacities. The biggest investment we announced
“Roche’s decentralised
was in our Basel headquarters, where we aim to invest
management style is a strength 3 billion Swiss francs over the next decade, primarily in a
new, modern research centre and in a second, state-of-the-
that we want to continue to foster.”
art office building. In addition, we will spend 450 million
Swiss francs on increasing our production capacity in China
over a three-year period in order to meet the growing
In 2014, I visited many of our 150 sites around the world to demand for our diagnostic tests. We are also investing in
meet our employees and also get to know the company’s key an IT hub at another site in Switzerland, in modern research
stakeholder groups. What really stood out for me were the laboratories in South San Francisco, and in expanding our
vast differences from one national healthcare system to the research and production capacities in Germany.
10 | Roche Annual Report 2014Christoph Franz | Letter to shareholders
I am delighted to propose Bernard Poussot and Professor
“In light of our good performance,
Richard Lifton as new members of the Board of Directors.
we propose a 3% dividend increase These two prominent figures would bring a wealth of
experience in the pharmaceutical sector and basic
to 8.00 Swiss francs per share
biomedical research respectively. Bernard comes from
and non-voting equity security.” Wyeth where he spent 23 years leading the company in
positions including President, CEO, and Chairman. Director
of the Yale Center for Genome Analysis, Richard is an
Roche is a very successful company with excellent prospects. award-winning scientist who provided valuable insights
However, I know from personal experience that it requires as a member of advisory boards of various leading
just as much effort to keep a company at the top as it pharmaceutical companies.
does to get it there. Roche is unique in that it is focused
on science-driven innovation, cooperative despite a With its clear strategic focus on innovative medicines and
decentralised structure, rooted in Switzerland, but open diagnostics, Roche is well positioned to continue growing.
to the world. We are deeply committed to sustaining this The Board of Directors and Management are committed
distinctive culture in the future. to ensuring that Roche remains one of the world’s most
successful research-based healthcare companies.
Whilst I look forward to addressing you in person at the 97th
Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Roche Holding Ltd on I would like to take this opportunity to extend sincere thanks
3 March 2015, I would like to highlight two important items — as does the entire Board of Directors — to our 88,509
on the agenda. employees, as well as to the Corporate Executive Committee,
for their achievements.
“We are proposing two prominent
I also wish to thank you, valued shareholders, for your
figures, with a wealth of experience confidence in our company.
in the pharmaceutical sector, as
new Board members.”
In light of our strong performance and solid outlook, the
Board of Directors is proposing a 3% dividend increase to
8.00 Swiss francs per share and non-voting equity security. Christoph Franz
Subject to your approval, this will be the 28th consecutive Chairman of the Board
dividend increase.
In addition to the re-election of existing members, the
AGM will see some changes on the Board of Directors.
Art Levinson decided to step down from the Roche Board
of Directors to avoid potential conflicts of interest following
his appointment as CEO of a research institution. Art has
been a major contributor to Genentech’s success over the
years. Under his leadership, Genentech has become one
of the most important biotech companies in the world. He
joined the Board of Directors of Roche in 2010, following the
integration of Genentech. On behalf of the Board, I would
like to thank him sincerely for his invaluable contribution to
the company’s overall success.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 11Roche | Board of Directors
Board of Directors
Prof. Sir John Irving Bell (1952) Dame DeAnne Julius (1949)
B, E B*, E
Prof. Pius Baschera (1950) Dr Christoph Franz (1960) André Hoffmann (1958)
A, E C, D*, E, Chairman Representative of the shareholder group with
posted voting rights, A, C*, D, E, Vice-Chairman
12 | Roche Annual Report 2014Board of Directors | Roche
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee E Non-executive director Roche Board of Directors
B Audit Committee F Executive director on 31 December 2014
C Remuneration Committee * Committee chairperson
D Presidium/Nomination Committee
Paul Bulcke (1954) Prof. Beatrice Weder di Mauro (1965) Dr Severin Schwan (1967)
B, E B, E F
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) Peter R. Voser (1958)
Representative of the shareholder group with C, E
posted voting rights, A*, E
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 13Letter to shareholders | Severin Schwan
14 | Roche Annual Report 2014Severin Schwan | Letter to shareholders
Building our capabilities
for the future
IT IS TESTAMENT to the strength of our portfolio and the commitment of our employees that we
were able to achieve eleven pharmaceutical product approvals and launch fourteen new diagnostic
instruments and tests.
Dear Shareholders Our net income in 2014 decreased by 10%. This was a result
of costs relating to restructuring of part of our debt, as
Our innovation based strategy and our focus on excellence well as impairments and restructuring programmes. The
in science led us to a number of significant breakthroughs underlying strength of our company was not affected and
for patients in 2014. A highlight was the unprecedented without these items, net income would have been 6% higher
clinical trial results for Perjeta, one of our medicines for a than in 2013. Core earnings per share were 14.29 Swiss
very aggressive type of advanced breast cancer, which francs, 5% higher at constant exchange rates. Excluding
showed that it could help patients live for as long as five a one-time double charge relating to the US Branded
years. Another was our new HPV test, which can detect Prescription Drug fee, core earnings per share were 7%
the virus that can cause cervical cancer earlier and is now higher.
approved for primary screening in the United States. As
we worked to deliver the next generation of medicines and We continue to make good progress with our product
tests, our financial performance remained solid. pipeline. In 2014 alone, three medicines were granted
Breakthrough Therapy Designation from the FDA, reflecting
Demand for our products was high in both divisions, with 4% the potential benefit these medicines could offer to patients:
growth in Pharmaceuticals and 6% in Diagnostics. I was very anti-PDL1, one of our immunotherapy medicines, showed
pleased to see a substantial contribution coming from our encouraging results in advanced bladder cancer, a disease
new products, particularly Perjeta and Kadcyla for HER2- that has seen no advances in treatment in 30 years and
positive breast cancer. Our oncology portfolio continues to affects 400,000 people worldwide. Lucentis, our eye
grow strongly, as does our immunology portfolio, especially medicine, which is already approved in a number of different
Actemra, our medicine for rheumatoid arthritis and Xolair indications, for use in diabetic retinopathy. And Esbriet,
for chronic hives and asthma. a medicine which we brought into the portfolio last year
5% 11
increase
in Group sales* pharmaceutical product approvals
3 14
FDA Breakthrough Therapy
Designations diagnostic product launches
* Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average full year 2013).
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 15Letter to shareholders | Severin Schwan
through the acquisition of InterMune, was approved in the primary endpoints; and one of our clinical trials of
US for the treatment of lung fibrosis in October. gantenerumab for treating the early stages of Alzheimer’s
disease was discontinued. Both results, however, have
We also had positive data from the combination of the new greatly helped advance our understanding of neurological
compound cobimetinib and Zelboraf, which demonstrated and psychiatric disorders. Neuroscience is an area of rapidly
remarkable improvements for patients with advanced evolving science and high unmet medical need, and with
melanoma, a deadly form of skin cancer. 15 new molecules in development, it will remain a focus area
for Roche.
“Innovation comes with an
“1.5 million people have been
inherent risk of failure.”
treated with Avastin since it was
first approved in 2004.”
Developing highly innovative medicines comes with an
equally high risk that a medicine in development may not
work as we had hoped and in this regard, 2014 was no
exception. Whilst the medicine Kadcyla has been shown to It is very encouraging to see just how many of our existing
significantly help patients as a second-line therapy in HER2- medicines are being approved for additional indications. One
positive breast cancer, last year’s trial results for patients of our cancer medicines, Avastin, was approved in two new
with previously untreated (first-line) advanced breast cancer indications in 2014, cervical cancer and platinum-resistant
unfortunately did not show the improvements we were ovarian cancer. Avastin is now used to treat seven different
hoping for. Kadcyla is a ground-breaking innovation in the cancers and is still at the forefront of a new generation of
treatment of this aggressive disease and we will continue treatment. In September, we had positive preliminary data
to study it in different settings and combinations. on Avastin in combination with the immunotherapy drug
candidate, anti-PDL1, in renal cancer; as well as positive
We had some setbacks in neuroscience during the year. phase III results in combination with our chemotherapy
Bitopertin, a medicine that was being developed to treat the medicine, Xeloda, in HER2-negative breast cancer.
negative symptoms of schizophrenia, did not reach its
16 | Roche Annual Report 2014Severin Schwan | Letter to shareholders
Our achievements come from the difference our employees
“Diagnostic testing is critically
make. We are committed to ensuring that our innovation
important in treatment decisions.” culture thrives at Roche through the diverse perspectives
that reflect our global business. We are continuing to invest
in new facilities and infrastructure for our employees and our
Modern diagnostics is an area with huge potential, not only science and we aim to retain our industry-leading levels of
in managing disease — from early diagnosis to monitoring — employee engagement. I would like to thank each and every
but in avoiding illness in the first place. In 2014, we launched employee for the difference they have made and to thank
a new test to assess fertility levels, as well as a test to predict you, our shareholders, for your continued confidence in
the likelihood of preeclampsia, a serious condition affecting Roche.
1 in 20 pregnancies. We were also able to speed up
development of a diagnostic test for the Ebola virus, which Looking ahead, for 2015, we expect low to mid-single digit
the FDA has approved for emergency use. Another very Group sales growth at constant exchange rates. Core
significant milestone for our Diagnostics business was the earnings per share are targeted to grow ahead of sales
launch of our new fully integrated laboratory testing systems, at constant exchange rates.* We also expect to further
the cobas 6800 and cobas 8800, which deliver faster and increase our dividend.
more accurate molecular test results.
I am convinced that our uncompromising focus on medical
innovation will continue to drive our business success well
“For millions of people, access to
into the future.
innovative medicines is a world
away.”
Whilst science and medicine are progressing at an incredible
rate, gaps in access to quality healthcare are growing.
I believe that as a healthcare company, we can be an Severin Schwan
important part of the solution to improve access to quality Chief Executive Officer
medicines and diagnostic tests. But we cannot do this alone.
The barriers to accessing healthcare provision are multiple
and complex. We are working in partnerships all over the
world to overcome these barriers, be they infrastructure,
affordability, training, supply or awareness.
This year we strengthened our approach with a new
framework to analyse the barriers to access to healthcare.
With this, we can analyse the root causes in individual
healthcare systems more systematically and identify the right
partners to work with to support improvements. 2014 also
saw the launch of a new strategy to bring more innovative
medicines into sub-Saharan Africa, where access is very
difficult. Another initiative that I am particularly proud of
is the Global Access Programme for HIV viral load testing,
which was also launched in 2014.
* This outlook excludes the benefit of 428m Swiss francs related to the divestment of filgrastim rights in 2014.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 17Roche | Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
Roland Diggelmann (1967) Silvia Ayyoubi (1953) Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
COO Division Roche Diagnostics Head Group Human Resources General Counsel
Dr Alan Hippe (1967) Dr Stephan Feldhaus* (1962)
Chief Financial and IT Officer Head Group Communications
18 | Roche Annual Report 2014Corporate Executive Committee | Roche
* Member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee Roche Corporate Executive Committee
1 Dr Richard Scheller retired on 31 December 2014. Dr Michael D. Varney became Head of gRED on 31 December 2014
and member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee on 1 January 2015.
Dr Richard Scheller* 1 (1953) Dr Severin Schwan (1967) Osamu Nagayama* (1947) Daniel O’Day (1964)
Head Genentech Research and CEO of the Roche Group Chairman and CEO Chugai COO Division Roche
Early Development (gRED) Pharmaceuticals
Dr Sophie Kornowski-Bonnet* (1963) Prof. John C. Reed* (1958)
Head Roche Partnering Head Roche Pharma Research and Early Development (pRED)
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 19Key facts | Business review and market environment
Business review and
market environment
20 | Roche Annual Report 2014Business review and market environment | Key facts
47.5
BILLION
Swiss francs in sales*
17,636
MILLION
Swiss francs in core operating profit
14.29
Swiss francs in
core earnings per share
Sales growth in all regions
North America Europe
+6% +3%
Japan
+6%
Asia—Pacific
Latin America +8%
+10%
* Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average full year 2013).
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 21Roche | Business review and market environment
Solid growth in both divisions
DEMAND REMAINED HIGH for our innovative medicines and diagnostic tests, in a year
with significant medical breakthroughs and strategic acquisitions to build new capabilities.
Group sales reached 47.5 billion Swiss francs in 2014. The Swiss franc rose against a number of currencies in 2014,
Growth in Pharmaceuticals was driven by medicines mainly the Japanese yen, along with a number of Latin
for HER2-positive breast cancer (+20%), as well as Avastin American currencies and the US dollar. Overall, this led to
(+6%). New products, Perjeta and Kadcyla for HER2- a negative impact on the results reported in Swiss francs.
positive breast cancer, made a significant contribution to
growth, more than offsetting declining sales of Xeloda, We had positive news from the pipeline in 2014, with three
a medicine that now faces generic competition. There was Breakthrough Therapy Designations from the FDA. We also
also strong demand for immunology medicines, notably had very positive results from the clinical trial study of the
Actemra (+23%) for rheumatoid arthritis and Xolair (+25%) combination of Perjeta, Herceptin and chemotherapy, which
for chronic hives and allergic asthma. Sales of Tamiflu increased survival time for patients with advanced HER2-
(+54%) increased considerably late in the year, as a result positive breast cancer to almost five years. In Diagnostics,
of the US flu epidemic. the FDA, along with a number of other health authorities,
approved our HPV test in primary screening for cervical
In Diagnostics, sales continued to be driven by the cancer. Overall, these advances in science reflected the
Professional Diagnostics business, which grew 8%, whilst strength of both the Pharmaceuticals medicine pipeline and
Molecular Diagnostics was 6% higher. There was also Diagnostics innovation. For more information, please see
positive early uptake for the new molecular laboratory the Innovation chapter of this Annual Report on page 52.
testing systems, launched during the year, the cobas 6800
and the cobas 8800.
Key figures 2014
In millions of CHF In millions of CHF % change % change
2014 2013 CER* CHF
Group sales 47,462 46,780 5 1
Pharmaceuticals Division 36,696 36,304 4 1
Diagnostics Division 10,766 10,476 6 3
Core operating profit 17,636 17,904 3 –1
Core net income 12,533 12,526 6 0
IFRS net income ** 9,535 11,373 –10 –16
Core earnings per share (CHF) 14.29 14.27 5 0
* CER: constant exchange rates average full year 2013.
** IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards.
22 | Roche Annual Report 2014Business review and market environment | Roche
Building up capabilities with strategic acquisitions francs, but will lead to interest savings over the longer
Roche made a number of acquisitions during the year, term. Intangible impairments increased by 1.1 billion Swiss
including InterMune, the developer of Esbriet, a medicine francs, in particular in Tissue Diagnostics, following the
for idiopathic pulmonary lung fibrosis, and Seragon reassessment of a product in late-stage development and
Pharmaceuticals, which is researching treatment for cuts in US laboratory test reimbursement. Costs for
hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. In Diagnostics, restructuring increased by 252 million Swiss francs due
acquisitions were made to expand into point-of-care to a non-recurring, one-time income effect in the 2013
molecular testing and add new technology in gene IFRS results.
sequencing.
The performance of the underlying business remained
Core operating profit and cash generation strong, with core earnings per share 5% higher at constant
Core operating profit increased by 3%, reflecting a double exchange rates, and stable in Swiss francs. Excluding the
charge of 202 million Swiss francs of the US Branded one-time double charge of the US Branded Prescription
Prescription Drug fee,*** following final regulations issued by Drug fee, core earnings per share were 7% higher. Based
the Internal Revenue Service, which advanced the timing on the strong business results, the Board of Directors
of recording the liability. Excluding this double charge, core has recommended the 28th consecutive dividend increase,
operating profit was 5% higher. 3% to 8.00 Swiss francs per share.
Operating free cash flow was 15.8 billion Swiss francs.
The strong cash generation of the underlying operations 14.29
was offset by higher capital investments in manufacturing
SWISS
facilities and other site development projects, resulting
FRANCS
in a 2% decrease at constant exchange rates. Free cash
flow was 5.3 billion Swiss francs, 1% higher at constant CORE EARNINGS PER SHARE
exchange rates.
Restructuring and impairments
IFRS net income was negatively impacted by debt Outlook for 2015
restructuring, impairments and restructuring costs in 2014. For 2015, we expect low to mid-single digit Group sales
The Group restructured part of its debt in 2014 to take growth at constant exchange rates. Core earnings per share
advantage of the low interest environment. Net of tax, this are targeted to grow ahead of sales at constant exchange
measure resulted in a one-time loss of 279 million Swiss rates.**** We also expect to further increase the dividend.
*** US Annual Fee on Branded Prescription Drug Manufacturers and Importers.
**** This outlook excludes the benefit of 428m Swiss francs related to the divestment of filgrastim rights in 2014.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 23Roche | Business review and market environment
The big picture
THE OUTLOOK for the healthcare industry remains positive, but there are significant challenges.
The world’s growing and ageing population is driving demand for healthcare services, whilst supply
is coming under increasing pressure.
Increasing access to healthcare is an expensive business Declining fertility rates have also played a role in these
for governments and the healthcare sector. Life sciences changing demographics, with the proportion of elderly
companies are faced with the challenge of delivering people continuing to increase. And medical breakthroughs
innovation and value in an environment of cost containment have meant that many more people can live longer whilst
and public budget restrictions. being treated for chronic conditions. Chronic diseases,
however, are still the leading cause of mortality worldwide.
In addition, the world has witnessed major gains in life Illnesses such as heart disease, stroke, cancer, chronic
expectancy in recent decades. Low-income countries have respiratory diseases and diabetes cause 63% of all deaths.2
made the most progress, increasing average life expectancy These illnesses are amongst the most costly, but the good
by nine years. And with increased life expectancy comes news is that they are often preventable.
increased healthcare costs. The proportion of people aged
over 60 years is growing faster than any other age group, The combined trends of ageing populations and an increase
a trend that has the potential to transform societies globally in chronic disease are expected to drive demand for
and see millions of people living with chronic diseases. healthcare services. Average annual worldwide spending
on healthcare is forecast to rise by 5.3% over the next
three years.2
Average life expectancy has
increased by six years, to 73 years
for women and 68 years for men
since 1990.1
CH RON IC DISEASES
7 5%
A L R E A DY
ACCOUNT FOR
OF EUROPE’S € 700 BILLION HEALTHCARE BILL3
24 | Roche Annual Report 2014Business review and market environment | Roche
Focusing on value
Most countries face a formidable challenge managing the For healthcare companies, this means closer scrutiny
rapidly increasing cost of healthcare, whilst simultaneously of new medicines or medical devices. More than ever,
improving patient outcomes and access to care. The companies must clearly demonstrate evidence of better
continuing pressure on healthcare budgets, combined with health outcomes at reasonable costs to an increasingly
muted economic growth over the last few years, has broad range of stakeholders. These include health
led many countries to introduce cost-control measures, technology assessment agencies, insurers and payers,
including prescription drug price cuts and evidence-based patient advocacy groups and hospital administrators,
medicine. The shift from volume- to value-based healthcare amongst others, that are playing an increasingly important
rewards providers for improving care and lowering costs role in the selection and purchase of medical products.
as a way to make health systems more sustainable. The primary effect of this trend has been to raise barriers
to reimbursement for all but high-value, innovative drugs,
especially cancer treatments.
The cost of Alzheimer’s care is
expected to reach 1.2 trillion US All healthcare stakeholders, however, share the goal to
define, measure and improve the value of care delivered
dollars in the US alone by 2050.4
to patients.
Access to healthcare
Access to healthcare remains a global challenge. Healthcare Improving access to healthcare is an objective in many
varies significantly from one country to another and even countries and central to many reform efforts, but finding
within a region or a country. Life expectancy in Romania, for affordable, effective solutions is an enormous task.
instance, is nine years less than in Spain.5 In some countries,
sophisticated medicines and tests are widely available, whilst Governments face challenges on many fronts. In addition
in others there is little or no basic infrastructure. Even in to the rising cost of healthcare, workforce shortages and
established markets, medicines can take years to become poor healthcare infrastructure can also hamper efforts
available to patients. to improve care. Patients often live in remote or
Healthcare spending worldwide varies dramatically6
<25
26–50
51–100
101–300
301–1,000
1,001–5,000
>5,000
Data not available
Not applicable
1 WHO. World Health Statistics 2014. | 2 Deloitte. 2014 Global healthcare outlook: shared challenges, shared opportunities. | 3 EFPIA contribution on
the Public Consultation of the European Commission’s Green paper on mobile health 2014. | 4 Alzheimer’s Association, 2014 Alzheimer’s Disease Facts
and Figures. Alzheimer’s Dementia, Use and Costs of Healthcare, Long-Term Care and Hospice. | 5 EFPIA. Health & growth working together for a healthy
Europe. A vision towards a life sciences strategy for Europe 2014. | 6 WHO. Health financing 2014. Per capita total expenditure on health at average
exchange rate (USD).
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 25Roche | Business review and market environment
difficult-to-reach regions, such as 80% of the population of towards achieving universal health coverage. This is
India, which also makes access to healthcare difficult defined as everyone having access to quality health
to improve. services without financial hardship. In practice, the aim
is for healthcare costs to be shared amongst entire
populations through pre-payment and risk-pooling, rather
The number of doctors for every
than shouldered by the sick. By 2030, the aim is for all
1,000 people worldwide is populations, independent of household income, expenditure
or wealth, place of residence or gender, to have at least
expected to remain virtually
80% essential health services coverage; as well as
the same throughout 2015.2 100% financial protection from out of pocket expenses.
The incidence of breast, lung, gastric and colorectal cancer 10 0
in many countries is also rising rapidly, especially in urban
areas in emerging markets. The adoption of Western diets
and sedentary habits, cigarette smoking and environmental
pollution have all contributed to the increase in cancer rates,
but access to proper treatment is patchy at best. And
whilst the number of cancer patients is increasing, the
percentage of those getting access to treatment is not. MILLION PEOPLE
An ageing population, increased unemployment and
FALL INTO POVERTY
economic pressures further aggravate inequalities in
access to healthcare.
EVERY YEAR TRYING TO
Eighty countries, backed by a consortium of supra-
ACCESS HEALTHCARE7
national bodies including the World Health Organization,
the World Bank and Save the Children, are taking steps
Technological advances
Companies in the life sciences sector have long embraced systems. This data helps payers and providers assess the
technology. Today, rapid and accelerating technological value of treatment guidelines, patient pathways and specific
advances are transforming imaging, genomics, proteomics, interventions. Importantly, it can also help to identify patients
diagnostics and other disciplines. New technology, at risk of developing specific diseases early by using
combined with medical breakthroughs, is also playing algorithms of disease risk factors from patient data. The
an important role in new approaches to improving patient challenge for the pharmaceuticals industry, however, is
outcomes and reducing costs with innovations such to find ways to properly compare and use in-house and
as personalised healthcare. real-world data, which is subject to different interpretations
and inconsistencies.
Even readily available and inexpensive technologies like text
messaging and smartphone apps are helping to improve
The biggest challenge is to
lives in developing countries. In the Middle East, Asia and
Africa, for instance, wireless and mobile telecommunication generate meaningful conclusions
has enabled patients living in isolated areas to gain access
from enormous volumes of data.
to healthcare and engage in their own care by monitoring
medical conditions and promoting health.
Key is also data from clinical trials, which provides insight Overcoming these challenges requires new investment
into the effectiveness of treatment, safety and disease in technology and partnerships amongst healthcare
management, and when combined with real-world data stakeholders.
has considerable potential to benefit patients and healthcare
7 WHO. Universal health coverage (UHC) 2014. | 8 The Economist Intelligence Unit. Healthcare 2015. | 9 IDF diabetes atlas. Sixth edition 2013.
26 | Roche Annual Report 2014Business review and market environment | Roche
Growth of emerging markets
Healthcare spending as a percentage of gross domestic Diabetes, for example, is growing exponentially in emerging
product (GDP) varies considerably around the world: from markets, and is expected to reach globally 590 million people
16.5% of GDP in North America and 10.6% in Western living with diabetes by 2035.9
Europe, to 7.6% in Latin America and around 6.5% in Asia/
Australasia and 5.8% Middle East/Africa.8 There are, however, significant challenges in emerging
markets, ranging from lack of infrastructure and trained
professionals, to affordability, and major differences
Spending on healthcare is growing
between local private and public healthcare.
significantly in many emerging
Market growth in the healthcare sector is closely connected
markets.
to GDP growth, population growth, an ageing population,
government spending and, in some regions, rising wealth.
So despite its challenges, emerging markets are expected
Although there are clear disparities between different to represent a third of the global pharmaceutical market
markets, growing prosperity, better nutrition and shifting by 2016.
disease patterns are driving growth in emerging markets.
The rise of emerging markets in healthcare spending (in billion US dollars)
2005 2010 2016
Rank Size Rank Size Rank Size
1. USA 249.2 1. USA 322.0 1. USA 350–380
2. Japan 84.9 2. Japan 111.2 2. China +1 155–165
3. France 33.3 3. China +6 66.7 3. Japan –1 105–135
4. Germany 33.1 4. Germany 45.0 4. Brazil +2 42–52
5. Italy 21.3 5. France –2 41.3 5. Germany –1 39–42
6. UK 16.4 6. Brazil +4 29.9 6. France –1 32–42
7. Spain 16.1 7. Italy –2 28.6 7. Italy 23–33
8. Canada 15.9 8. Spain –1 22.7 8. India +5 24–34
9. China 14.1 9. Canada –1 22.4 9. Russia +2 23–33
10. Brazil 11.8 10. UK –4 21.5 10. Canada –1 19–29
Emerging markets Placement movement
Source: IMS Health 2014.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 27Key facts | Diagnostics
Diagnostics
28 | Roche Annual Report 2014Diagnostics | Key facts
10.8
BILLION
Swiss francs in sales
+6%*
450
MILLION
Swiss francs
investment in China
8%
sales growth
in Professional Diagnostics
14
diagnostic products launched
* Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average full year 2013).
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 29Roche | Diagnostics
Good sales growth in 2014
THE DIAGNOSTICS DIVISION sales continued to increase strongly at 6% to 10.8 billion Swiss
francs. Professional Diagnostics, with 8% sales growth, was the main growth contributor led by its
immunodiagnostics business.
Sales of Molecular Diagnostics increased by 6%, with 8% The Professional Diagnostics business was the major
growth in the underlying molecular businesses. Sales were contributor to divisional performance in all regions,
up 10% in Tissue Diagnostics and 1% in Diabetes Care. especially in Asia—Pacific (+18%), with continued strong
sales in China.
Sales growth across the Diagnostics Division was driven
by demand in the Asia—Pacific region (+15%), with a strong In 2014, the cobas 6500, a new automated instrument for
performance in China (+23%). Sales also increased in urine analysis, the Elecsys Syphilis and the Elecsys anti-
Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA; +4%). Additional Müllerian Hormone tests were launched. Also, new study
contributions came from North America (+4%) and Latin results highlighted the value of the Elecsys preeclampsia
America (13%). In Japan, sales were flat. tests in predicting preeclampsia in pregnant women. This
test is already available in the EU and all countries accepting
Professional Diagnostics the CE mark, a market authorisation designation. The
Outperforming the market in all regions, Professional additional usage of these tests further broadens our portfolio
Diagnostics demonstrated strong growth at 8%. Growth for women’s health and reconfirms our commitment to this
was primarily driven by the immunodiagnostics business area.
(+13%), which now represents 26% of divisional sales. This
was supported by the clinical chemistry business (+7%)
and coagulation monitoring (+8%).
Sales growth of the Diagnostics Division by region
EMEA +4%
North America +4%
Asia—Pacific +15%
Latin America +13%
Japan 0%
30 | Roche Annual Report 2014Diagnostics | Roche
Top-selling diagnostics in millions of Swiss francs
cobas e602 Accu-Chek Aviva Nano cobas c502 BenchMark Ultra cobas 6800
Immunodiagnostics Blood glucose meters Clinical chemistry Tissue diagnostics Virology
2,797 2,159 1,626 716 530
+13% +1% +7% +10% +7%
Molecular Diagnostics Tissue Diagnostics
Sales rose by 6% with strong growth in the underlying Sales rose 10%, driven by 9% growth in the advanced
molecular businesses (+8%, excluding sequencing), with the staining portfolio, which includes immunohistochemistry
major contributions coming from virology (+7%) and human reagents (+10%). The CINtec franchise for cervical cancer
papillomavirus (HPV) screening (+48%). All regions, except diagnosis grew by 18%, showing continued good uptake.
Japan, showed positive sales development, with the biggest Regionally, growth was driven by EMEA, North America
growth contribution coming from North America as a result and Asia—Pacific. In North America, sales increased despite
of strong performance in HPV, blood screening and reimbursement reductions.
hepatitis C virus monitoring.
Diabetes Care
In 2014, the fully automated cobas 6800 and 8800 systems Sales were up 1% despite continuing challenging market
and assays for blood screening as well as virology testing conditions for the blood glucose monitoring portfolio in
were launched in markets accepting the CE mark. The cobas major markets, including the US. Sales increased in EMEA,
HPV test was approved for primary screening for cervical Asia—Pacific and Latin America, which strengthened the
cancer in Australia, Canada and the US. Three additional business unit’s global market leadership position in blood
diagnostic tests (MRSA/SA, C-difficile, HSV), which expand glucose monitoring. In North America, however, sales
the cobas 4800 menu, were launched in countries accepting were down 6% as a result of Medicare changes in the
the CE mark. reimbursement of test strips in the US and changes in the
number of reimbursed strips in Canada. In Japan, sales
Roche also made several important acquisitions in this space declined by 6% impacted by strong competition and the
including IQuum, Inc., Genia Technologies, Inc., and Ariosa bi-annual price cut by the health authorities.
Diagnostics, Inc. (completed in early 2015). IQuum provides
Roche with access to the LiatTM (Laboratory-in-a-tube) Sales of the premium product Accu-Chek Mobile grew 19%,
system, which performs rapid point-of-care molecular while Accu-Chek Aviva/Performa grew 7%. The Accu-Chek
diagnostic testing. The analyser and two initial assays, cobas Insight system, the new insulin delivery system combining
Influenza A/B and cobas Strep A, are CE marked and FDA- insulin pump and a blood glucose metre, and the Accu-Chek
cleared. Importantly, Genia brings Roche a single-molecule, Connect system, which connects a blood glucose metre
semiconductor-based DNA sequencing platform using to mobile applications via smartphones and web-based
nanopore technology. Finally, Ariosa adds a highly targeted platforms for Diabetes Care self-management, were launched
and accurate non-invasive prenatal testing service to in the EU in 2014. Additionally, efficiencies were gained
Roche’s portfolio. Ariosa’s proprietary HarmonyTM Prenatal across this business area with the implementation of specific
Test is a blood test that is performed as early as ten weeks initiatives started in 2013, helping to streamline processes
into pregnancy and designed to assess the risk of Down and decision-making.
syndrome and other genetic abnormalities.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 31Roche | Diagnostics
Setting new industry standards with
our innovative instruments
Fully automated instruments for molecular testing Enhanced result reliability and staff safety
Roche launched the cobas 6800 and cobas 8800 systems, A new, fully automated urine testing system, the cobas 6500,
two integrated and fully automated molecular testing consists of two modular analysers combining urine strip
systems, in Europe and markets accepting the CE mark. testing and digital urinary microscopy and allows tests for
23 parameters to help diagnose diseases such as urinary
The cobas 6800 system and cobas 8800 system represent tract infection, kidney disease and diabetes. It offers the
a new class of molecular diagnostic instruments which were highest throughput on the market, ensures high-quality
developed to meet the evolving needs of the medium and results and increases laboratory productivity significantly,
the high volume of molecular diagnostics laboratories. These whilst reducing manual steps and contamination risks for
systems are setting new industry standards with technical laboratory staff. The system is available worldwide except
innovation for throughput, speed of results, automation and in the US, where the launch coincides with an FDA
flexibility. clearance of the cobas u 701 and cobas u 601 modules.
The portfolio launched includes the cobas 6800 system and Additional diagnostic tests for women’s health
8800 system, and next generation tests for donor blood Cervical cancer is the third most common cancer in women,
screening as well as multiple tests for viral load monitoring. with approximately 270,000 women dying from this disease
each year. The most common cause of cervical cancer is
HPV infection.1
Setting new industry standards
for throughput, speed of results, Approvals of the cobas HPV test for primary screening in
Australia, Canada and the US in 2014 followed the CE mark
automation and flexibility.
designation in Europe. With this new indication, Roche’s
CINtec Histology test and the newly fully automated CINtec
PLUS Cytology kit, we offer the most comprehensive cervical
Each system provides results for the first 96 tests in less cancer screening portfolio in the industry, supporting
than 3.5 hours, with the cobas 6800 system delivering up physicians across the globe to screen, diagnose and treat
to 384 results in an eight-hour shift, and the cobas 8800 women with pre-cancerous lesions before full-blown cancer
system generating up to 960 results in the same amount of develops.
time. Both systems also allow for simultaneous processing
of multiple assays and are designed to enable up to eight If caught early, cervical cancer is one of the most preventable
hours (cobas 6800 system) and four hours (cobas 8800 and curable cancers with a survival rate of more than 90%.
system) of ‘walk-away’ time with minimal user interaction. In cases when the disease has advanced at the time of the
diagnosis, the average five-year survival rate is only around
32 | Roche Annual Report 2014Diagnostics | Roche
20%.2 (See the spotlight on Catherine Behrens, who worked Ariosa’s proprietary HarmonyTM Prenatal Test is a blood test
on the cobas HPV test, on page 68). that is performed as early as ten weeks into pregnancy. By
evaluating circulating fetal DNA found in maternal blood, the
test is designed to assess the risk of Down syndrome and
The survival rate with cervical
other genetic abnormalities.
cancer is more than 90%, if caught
From fertility and pregnancy testing to breast, cervical and
early.2
ovarian cancer management to monitoring and management
of chronic, age-related conditions like osteoporosis, these
tests further strengthen our broad portfolio of tests for
Assessment of ovarian reserve for pregnancy women’s health, providing clarity to women at every stage
Fertility issues affect one in ten couples, accounting for up of their lives.
to 80 million people globally and this number is on the rise.
Roche launched the new Elecsys anti-Müllerian Hormone Identifying syphilis in routine samples and
Fertility test which increases the accuracy of ovarian reserve donated blood
assessment compared to conventional methods. Syphilis is a sexually transmitted infection caused by the
bacterium Treponema pallidum. Some 36 million people are
Prognosing preeclampsia currently infected with syphilis worldwide, with 12 million
Results of the PROGNOSIS study are helping to support the new cases reported every year.3 The Elecsys Syphilis
extended use of the Elecsys Preeclampsia test to predict the immunoassay helps to detect patients infected with syphilis
absence of preeclampsia in pregnant women for one week in routine clinical practice and to make sure donated blood
and the development of preeclampsia within the subsequent is not infected with syphilis. This disease has re-emerged as
four weeks. The test results enable healthcare professionals a health concern in a number of developed nations over the
to avoid unnecessary hospitalisations, optimise prenatal care past decade.
and improve outcomes for mother and child.
Prenatal testing
The acquisition of Ariosa Diagnostics, Inc., brought a highly
targeted, accurate and non-invasive prenatal testing service
to Roche’s portfolio.
Key launches 2014
Area Product name Description Market
Instruments/Devices
cobas 6800/8800 next generation molecular (PCR) systems WW*
Laboratories cobas 6500 automated urinalysis work area platform EU
VENTANA Connect middleware providing connectivity to laboratory information systems WW
Accu-Chek Insight next generation insulin pump and blood glucose monitoring system EU
Diabetes Care
Accu-Chek Connect blood glucose meter with connectivity to mobile applications and cloud EU
Tests
MPX next generation blood screening test US
MPX (HIV, HCV, HBV), full NAT blood screening menu for cobas 6800/8800 WW*
HEV, DPX**, WNV***
Oncology
HIV, HBV, HCV, HBV virology tests for cobas 6800 and cobas 8800 WW*
HSV Herpes simplex virus detection on cobas 4800 EU
Syphilis Treponema pallidum detection (immunoassay) EU
MRSA/SA next generation assay on cobas 4800 EU
Microbiology
C-difficile diagnosis of infections and associated diarrhea EU
AMH assessment of ovarian reserve for fertility EU
Women’s Health
PE Prognosis short-term prediction of preeclampsia in pregnancy (claim extension) EU
* Excluding the US. | ** Parvovirus B19 and hepatitis A virus. | *** West Nile virus.
1 WHO. Sexual and reproductive health: New guidance for the prevention and control of cervical cancer 2015. | 2 National Cancer Institute. SEER Stat Fact
Sheets: Cervix Uteri Cancer. | 3 WHO. Global incidence and prevalence of selected curable sexually transmitted infections – 2008 (2012).
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 33Roche | Diagnostics
How we are adding value in healthcare
The huge potential of modern diagnostics in keeping people a disease from getting worse — or even — before it starts.
healthy by preventing diseases or guiding treatment decisions Modern diagnostics reduce costs by diminishing health
is often overlooked. The value of diagnostics lies in knowing. problems, decreasing hospitalisation and avoiding
Tests performed on patients’ tissue samples, blood or other unnecessary treatment. The future of sustainable healthcare
fluids provide crucial answers about a disease. Whether it depends on diagnostics. In 2014, approximately three billion
is the risk for a disease or a patient’s response to treatment, tests were conducted with Roche tests (excluding Diabetes
a sample of blood gives physicians and caretakers critical Care), supporting physicians in their decision-making.
knowledge, enabling them to intervene early and to actively
manage health conditions.
Three billion test results — three
Today, diagnostics is no longer just a stepping stone to billion decision points supporting
treatment. It is about intervention. It is about better disease
optimal patient care.
management and better patient care. It is about preventing
Our business model
Instruments Reagents Calibration/ Services
Controls
Sales
Our customers’ needs for instruments, tests and services polymerase chain reaction-based molecular diagnostic
depend on their specific focus and the way they organise testing or tissue analysis.
their business. This in turn results in a diversity of commercial
models that Roche offers to meet this demand. Overall, Running a broad portfolio of tests on this installed base
our sales are generated predominantly by the reagents allows economies of scale for our customers since it helps
business. Additional contributions come from sales of the laboratories to optimise their operations by ensuring
instruments, fees for calibration, controls, as well as from efficient usage of their resources, including people and
services provided to the laboratories. As the market leader space. Upon regulatory approval, our new tests can be run
in in vitro diagnostics, Roche operates a large number without delay on the existing instrumentation to rapidly
of instruments in laboratories worldwide, with more than benefit patients worldwide. The high number of Roche
55,000 instruments for immunodiagnostics and clinical instruments placed in laboratories for immunodiagnostics
chemistry alone. Beyond that, we also offer systems for and clinical chemistry and our broad test menu for these
systems are the key contributor for the continued strong
Sales generated predominantly by reagents growth the Division has reported for many years now.
Reagents Business environment
In recent years, the in vitro (IVD) diagnostic market has grown
Instruments 3%–5% annually to 48 billion Swiss francs in 2013 and is
expected to reach more than 60 billion Swiss francs by 2018.
Future growth prospects continue to be positive on the
basis of further technological and scientific advances and
a growing global patient popultion.
34 | Roche Annual Report 2014Diagnostics | Roche
Sales of immunodiagnostic tests, in Swiss francs
The diagnostics market continues
to be financially attractive.
2,797
2,571
2,321
1,957 1,987 Regulatory requirements are becoming more fragmented,
with many countries expanding their guidelines. At the
same time, regulations in China, the EU and the US are
becoming increasingly stringent. Whilst these dynamics
create headwinds for the overall market, they tend to
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
favour companies such as Roche with extensive regulatory
expertise and experience.
The market is characterised by differing testing technologies
and continued innovation. The competitive landscape New opportunities triggered by new knowledge
is fragmented despite consolidation driven by mergers The constantly expanding knowledge of molecular causes of
and acquisitions, with new entrants coming in from diseases and an increasing availability of targeted medicines
various industries. Emerging markets provide the largest require complementary diagnostics capabilities. These
opportunities, with healthcare access and infrastructure developments support physicians’ approaches in treatment
developments driving growth. decision-making.
The classic blood testing market (immunodiagnostics and Additionally, companion tests support payer decisions,
clinical chemistry) continues to exhibit robust growth with allowing the reimbursement of targeted medicines for only
the opportunity for more efficient and expanded testing. those patients with a high likelihood to benefit. Roche is the
The molecular diagnosis market (including sequencing) only company with both Diagnostics and Pharmaceuticals
is considered as the highest growth (8%–10%) segment in Divisions, and this combination continues to position Roche
IVD. Tissue diagnostics will benefit from further market at the forefront of personalised healthcare.
penetration globally and point-of-care diagnosis will increase
in importance as technologies advance and decentralised Beyond this, the re-emergence of infectious disease-causing
diagnosis expands. micro-organisms (e.g. bacteria, viruses or fungi), including
tuberculosis and multi-drug-resistant strains of these micro-
Meanwhile, diabetes self-testing will continue to face organisms, is increasing the need for fast and reliable testing.
reimbursement and economic challenges while the
fundamental need for blood glucose monitoring will further
increase.
EONE’s new diagnostic laboratory with Roche leading-edge technology in Incheon, South Korea (see page 36).
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 35Diagnostics | Spotlight on Diagnostics Korea
36 | Roche Annual Report 2014Spotlight on Diagnostics Korea | Diagnostics
“Passion and
teamwork were the
keys to success.”
EunOck Kim
EunOck’s first task as a project manager was a huge challenge: construct
Roche’s most advanced diagnostics system for South Korea’s largest commercial
laboratory — and complete it in record time.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 37A race against time to install
leading-edge technology
THE FIRST large-scale use of cobas connection modules means faster and more reliable test results
for thousands of patients.
After completing a Master’s degree in bio-engineering at My task was to bring together all the teams directly involved
Kyung Hee University, Seoul, Korea, I began working at — installation, workflow and information technology, customer
Roche Diagnostics Korea in 2010 as a sales representative. service — into one smoothly functioning operating unit
In 2012, I was transferred to the Workflow & IT team and and bridge any gaps to EONE’s needs. We also received
chosen to lead a project for our top customer, EONE, as invaluable support from Services, Finance, Logistics,
a project consultant. Sales and Marketing, Communications and other colleagues
throughout Roche Diagnostics Korea.
EONE is South Korea’s largest commercial laboratory,
serving dozens of hospitals and clinics. The lab screens To mobilise everyone to meet these tough deadlines, I drew
300,000 blood samples and performs 2.5 million other on the people and communication skills I had learned as
types of diagnostic tests every month. Physicians and a sales representative. I relied on checklists and project
patients depend on EONE for accurate and timely results. management software to stay on top of thousands of
details and track progress, as well as on the continuous
With the demand for testing rising 10% every year, EONE’s commitment of everybody on the team. Our motto was
existing diagnostic platforms were reaching their capacity ‘palli, palli’, a phrase used in Korea to mean ‘hurry, hurry’.
limits. In the summer of 2012, staff members approached
Roche about constructing a new laboratory in Incheon, In Germany, Roche Diagnostics manufacturing teams
about one hour away from their existing lab in Seoul. were under pressure to deliver all of this high-tech
equipment in record time. Our Chief Operating Officer,
EONE’s requirements included nine of our most advanced Roland Diggelmann, ensured that the project was a top
analytical diagnostic platforms, the cobas 8000, as well as priority. By December 2012, the equipment had arrived,
six p 612 pre-analytical platforms and our latest innovation, so we were able to assemble and test the new systems.
the cobas connection modules (CCM). The CCMs transport
test samples automatically in closed tubes between multiple That was the most intense phase of the project because we
analytical and pre-analytical systems — speeding up the only had a little more than two months to finish one of our
screening process and reducing the chance for human error. largest projects ever. This task required presence on site
At that time, no one at Roche Diagnostics Korea had ever
installed cobas connection modules on this scale. In
addition, EONE needed to complete the laboratory by the PROJECT COMPLETED IN
end of the Lunar New Year holiday on 12 February 2013, 8
MONTHS
when millions of Koreans returned to work. That meant we
had only eight months to complete a job that normally
takes from one to two years.
INSTEAD OF 12–24 MONTHSSpotlight on Diagnostics Korea | Diagnostics
CA PAC IT Y THROUGHPUT
FOR TESTING INCREASED BY INCREASED BY OVER
19% 11%
around the clock for many of us. Complications ensued Another leading laboratory in Korea, Seoul Clinical
when the customer suddenly asked for additional Laboratories, wants to partner with Roche in constructing
capabilities, such as separating the data read-outs for a new diagnostics centre. We signed the contract in August
screening tests based on immunology from those based 2014 and our customer needs the lab completed by the
on chemistry. Our information technology team worked end of the Lunar New Year holiday in February 2015.
at top speed on the new requests.
“This was the largest laboratory
I was at the Incheon site to coordinate the work. Because
the biological samples we used to test the diagnostics Roche Diagnostics Korea ever
systems arrived at 22:00, midnight and 02:00, we relied on
installed.”
energy drinks and coffee to get through the night. All of
us were driven by the passion to succeed.
I am leading this project as well. The experience gained
“That commitment and the total
from EONE should help us, but once again we have a large
support of all functions at Roche number of complex tasks to complete in a very short
timeframe.
Diagnostics Korea helped us
achieve this nearly impossible
task.”
We finished the project on time. And after the go-live date,
we needed only two weeks to stabilise the system and
eliminate remaining bugs — the older system had taken six
months to stabilise.
EONE was extremely pleased with the results. “Now we
understand why Roche is the leader in this field,” they told
us. With the new laboratory up and running, the staff could
see an immediate difference. Capacity for testing increased
by 19% and overall throughput speed rose by over 11%.
News about EONE’s new laboratory spread fast, and
representatives from other labs wanted to see it in action,
particularly the cobas connection modules. I arranged
schedules for visitors from Australia, China, India, Portugal,
Poland and Egypt.
The visitors from Poland and Egypt returned home and
convinced their colleagues to acquire similar diagnostics
systems. It makes me proud that Roche Diagnostics Regular operation after only two weeks: the customer was very pleased by the rapid
Korea can share best practices with other countries. stabilisation of the processes, increased capacity and throughput of the new laboratory.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 39Key facts | Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals
40 | Roche Annual Report 2014Pharmaceuticals | Key facts
36.7
BILLION
Swiss francs in sales
+4%*
5%
growth in oncology
13%
growth in immunology
23%
contribution from
personalised healthcare
* Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average full year 2013).
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 41Roche | Pharmaceuticals
Solid performance in 2014
SALES INCREASED 4% in the Pharmaceuticals Division, with strong growth coming from
the oncology and immunology portfolios.
Sales increased 4% in the Pharmaceuticals Division, with very positive. Sales did not, however, reflect demand as
the oncology portfolio performing very strongly, particularly patients in the US are currently transitioning from a patient
medicines for HER2-positive breast cancer (+20%). Sales assistance programme to normal commercial supply.
of new cancer products made a significant contribution, as
did sales of Avastin, which were 6% higher. In immunology, In Europe, 3% higher sales were driven by solid growth in
sales also grew strongly in treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, Germany and the UK, particularly in sales of HER2-positive
with Actemra/RoActemra up 23% and MabThera/Rituxan up breast cancer medicines. In the UK there was also some
12% in this indication. Sales of Xolair for chronic hives and stockpiling of Tamiflu. Ongoing pricing pressure had an
asthma were also higher, up 25%. These increases more impact on sales in a number of markets, however demand
than offset lower sales of oral chemotherapy drug Xeloda, remained high.
which now has generic competition in key markets; and
hepatitis medicine Pegasys, which faced competition from Sales in the International region were 2% higher, with strong
a new generation of treatment. Tamiflu (+54%) also grew growth in Latin America, in particular Venezuela, Argentina
very strongly towards the end of the year as a result of the and Brazil, as well as in Algeria. In Russia, sales declined
flu epidemic in the US. significantly, as a result of local economic conditions, whilst
sales in the Middle East were impacted by a change in
In the US, sales were 6% higher, with medicines for HER2- distributor. In China, sales were 4% higher, with demand
positive breast cancer driving growth, along with Tamiflu increasing in the fourth quarter, and continued strong
(+62%). Xolair and Avastin also grew significantly, up 25% growth for key products such as Herceptin, MabThera/
and 6% respectively. Xolair was FDA-approved to treat a Rituxan and Actemra/RoActemra. Growth was negatively
new indication, a form of chronic hives, in 2014. Early uptake impacted by the base effect of strong Tamiflu sales in 2013,
of Esbriet, our newly acquired medicine for lung fibrosis was as well as competition for Tarceva.
Sales growth of the Pharmaceuticals Division by region
Europe +3%
Asia—Pacific +4%
North America +6%
Latin America +9%
Japan +7%
42 | Roche Annual Report 2014Pharmaceuticals | Roche
Growth-driving products 2014 in millions of Swiss francs
Avastin Herceptin Actemra/RoActemra Perjeta Kadcyla
Oncology Oncology Immunology Oncology Oncology
6,417 6,275 1,224 918 536
+6% +7% +23%
In Japan, 7% higher sales were driven by strong demand for The 2014 performance also reflected the continued increased
HER2-positive breast cancer medicines, as well as Avastin contribution from personalised healthcare, a key focus for
and Actemra. In the osteoporosis segment, there was solid Roche. Not all patients respond the same way to a medicine,
sales growth for Edirol, as well as Bonviva. Early uptake was however, using specific diagnostic tests, it is possible to
very strong for the newly approved Alecensa (alectinib), in predict how well a patient responds to treatment for some
ALK-positive lung cancer. diseases or conditions. Sales of products with a companion
diagnostic test on label now represent 23% of
Pharmaceuticals Division — sales by therapeutic area Pharmaceuticals Division sales.
2014 2013 % change A strong contribution from personalised healthcare
Therapeutic area (mCHF) (mCHF) (CER)
Oncology 22,797 22,553 5
23.4%
Immunology 5,087 4,628 13 20.9%
17.7%
Infectious diseases 3,194 3,180 4 16.3%
14.7%
Ophthalmology 1,701 1,689 2
Neuroscience 726 810 –6
Other therapeutic areas 3,191 3,444 –3
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Total sales 36,696 36,304 4
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 43Roche | Pharmaceuticals
Key products performing well
Avastin (+6%), for advanced colorectal, breast, lung, kidney, Lucentis (+2%, US only), for eye conditions, wet age-
cervical and ovarian cancer, and glioblastoma (a type of brain related macular degeneration, macular edema following
tumour). Sales in the US (+6%) were driven by growing retinal vein occlusion and diabetic macular edema. Growth
demand in colorectal, cervical and ovarian cancer, whilst in was driven largely by increased adoption of Lucentis in
Europe growth of 3% stemmed from increased demand in treating diabetic macular edema. Lucentis has been granted
treatment of ovarian cancer and strong demand across other Priority Review and Breakthrough Therapy Designation by
indications. In Japan, sales were 9% up, with higher sales the FDA for treatment in diabetic retinopathy.
in breast cancer, as well as ovarian cancer and malignant
glioma. In the International region, growth of 12% was driven Actemra/RoActemra (+23%), for rheumatoid arthritis,
by launches in a number of markets for ovarian cancer systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis and polyarticular
treatment, as well as in colorectal cancer. juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Demand was strong in all
regions, particularly the US (+31%), Europe (+22%) and
Herceptin, Perjeta, Kadcyla (+20%), for HER2-positive Japan (+19%), driven by increased use in monotherapy
breast cancer and Herceptin for HER2-positive metastatic and earlier use in treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, with
(advanced) gastric cancer. Herceptin sales were particularly significant uptake of the new subcutaneous formulation. In
strong in the US (+12%), as demand increased with use in the International region, sales were 14% higher driven by
combination with Perjeta in treating HER2-positive breast strong launches in China and Turkey and continued fast
cancer. In Europe, where the subcutaneous formulation uptake in Australia and Argentina. RoActemra was approved
is now available in many markets, sales increased 3%. Sales to treat early-stage rheumatoid arthritis in the EU in 2014.
in Japan were 1% higher, with use with Perjeta. In the
International region (+8%), sales growth was strong in Latin Zelboraf (–12%), for BRAF V600 mutation-positive
America, with high demand in the public sector; as well as metastatic melanoma. As the standard of care is now moving
in Asia, where growth came particularly in China from the to combination targeted therapy in advanced melanoma,
patient assistance programme. Perjeta sales (918 million Zelboraf has been under intense competitive pressure, as
Swiss francs) grew in all regions, with strong uptake in the expected, particularly in the US. In Europe sales were stable,
US, Germany and France. Kadcyla sales (536 million Swiss and in the International region (+41%), there was strong
francs) continued to grow well in Europe and the US, and growth in a number of markets including Argentina and
in Japan, where Kadcyla was approved in 2014 and early Brazil. Clinical trial data for Zelboraf in combination with
uptake has been very positive. cobimetinib have shown very positive results and the data
was filed with the FDA and EMA in 2014. Zelboraf was
MabThera/Rituxan (+2%), for common forms of blood approved in Japan in 2014.
cancers, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, follicular lymphoma and
chronic lymphocytic leukemia; as well as for rheumatoid Gazyva/Gazyvaro (49 million Swiss francs), for treatment
arthritis and certain types of ANCA-associated vasculitis. of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Initial uptake in Europe
Sales were up 6% in Europe, where demand increased in has been positive, whilst limited use of chlorambucil (the
the treatment of follicular lymphoma, as well as for chronic chemotherapy medicine approved with Gazyva), as well
lymphocytic leukemia. In the US, sales were 1% higher and as competition have impacted uptake in the US. In late
reflected a base effect from the release of sales reserves December 2014, the FDA approved a supplemental biologics
in 2013 (from the 340B programme). Excluding this effect, licence application expanding Gazyva’s label to include data
sales in the US in 2014 were 5% higher. In the International which showed significant improvements for Gazyva plus
region (–1%), sales were impacted by economic conditions chlorambucil over MabThera/Rituxan plus chlorambucil. As
in Russia. Sales remained strong in Latin America, where of January 2015, Gazyva has been approved in 40 different
demand increased in key markets. countries worldwide.
20%
INCREASE IN SALES
OF MEDICINES FOR HER2-POSITIVE BREAST CANCER
44 | Roche Annual Report 2014Pharmaceuticals | Roche
Avastin is the first medicine to target and inhibit VEGF activity thereby inhibiting angiogenesis — a critical process in tumour development.
Significant breakthroughs in 2014
2014 had some very positive clinical trial results. In HER2- There were some important approvals during the year,
positive metastatic breast cancer, a particularly aggressive including Gazyvaro for chronic lymphocytic leukemia in
form of the disease, we saw unprecedented data on Perjeta, Europe; Esbriet to treat idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis in the
which, when combined with chemotherapy and Herceptin, US. Esbriet was developed by InterMune, a company we
increased survival time for patients to almost five years. acquired during the year; and Alecensa (alectinib), which
In advanced melanoma, we also had very good clinical trial was approved in Japan in 2014, to treat ALK-positive lung
results for the combination of cobimetinib and Zelboraf, cancer. Further global studies of this medicine are ongoing.
which halved the risk of the disease worsening. Roche now
has over 30 different combination therapies in its oncology With innovation, there is of course an inherent risk of failure
pipeline. and unfortunately we had some disappointing clinical trial
results during the year. Bitopertin, for the negative symptoms
of schizophrenia, which did not meet its primary endpoints;
Cancer immunotherapy is a key
and one of our gantenerumab studies in early-stage
focus area for Roche. Alzheimer’s disease, which was discontinued after a futility
analysis.
We are making important advances in immunotherapy, which There was also a study of our antibody–drug conjugate,
uses the body’s own immune system to fight cancer. We have Kadcyla, both alone, and in combination with Perjeta, in first-
7 investigational medicines in 5 types of cancer currently in line treatment of HER2-positive advanced breast cancer. The
development. Our most advanced investigational medicine in results did not show the hoped for superiority to Herceptin
this area, anti-PDL1, was granted FDA Breakthrough Therapy with chemotherapy, however, these results do not impact
Designation for the treatment of bladder cancer. It also existing use of Perjeta or Kadcyla, both of which have been
showed promising early results in combination with Avastin shown to extend survival in this type of breast cancer.
in renal cell carcinoma and other solid tumours. There was
also positive news from two phase III studies of Avastin Further information about our pipeline can be found in the
in HER2-negative breast cancer. Avastin was approved in Innovation chapter of this Annual Report on page 78.
platinum-resistant ovarian cancer and cervical cancer during
the year, and is now used to treat seven different cancers.
In hemophilia A, early data on ACE910, an innovative
bispecific antibody, showed an encouraging reduction in
bleeding rates for all patients on the trial. Lampalizumab,
the first potential treatment for geographic atrophy, initiated
phase III clinical trials in September.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 45Roche | Pharmaceuticals
11
PRODUCT
APPROVALS
Pharmaceuticals Division approvals in 2014
Product Description
US approval Xolair chronic idiopathic urticaria (hives)
Avastin cervical cancer
Avastin platinum-resistant ovarian cancer
Esbriet idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
EU approval MabThera (subcutaneous formulation) non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
RoActemra (subcutaneous formulation) rheumatoid arthritis
Gazyvaro chronic lymphocytic leukemia
RoActemra early rheumatoid arthritis
Avastin platinum-resistant ovarian cancer
Japanese approval Alectinib ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer
Zelboraf BRAF-positive metastatic melanoma
46 | Roche Annual Report 2014Pharmaceuticals | Roche
Making innovation accessible
As populations age and life expectancy increases, demands
We have initiatives all over the
on healthcare systems are growing exponentially. Healthcare
costs are rising and innovative medicines are expensive to world to help patients in need
develop.
access our medicines.
Our aim is for our medicines to
be available to anyone who needs In 2014, we took some significant steps in improving access
to our medicines. We launched a new framework to
them.
systematically analyse barriers to healthcare in different
markets, supporting our affiliates to identify the root causes
and find new solutions. We also launched a strategy to
We are working closely with healthcare authorities and improve access to women’s cancer and hepatitis medicines
other healthcare stakeholders to develop solutions to bring in sub-Saharan Africa, an area where access to innovative
our medicines to more patients. medicines is a particularly difficult challenge.
The barriers to accessing healthcare are multiple and Further information can be found in the Access to
complex, ranging from a lack of trained medical professionals Healthcare chapter of this Annual Report on page 80.
and the necessary infrastructure to supply medicines safely,
to low levels of awareness and affordability issues.
Our initiatives range from medical training to education,
screening programmes, patient assistance programmes and
funding solutions. We are also developing innovative pricing
models, which better reflect the benefits the medicine brings
in different indications.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 47Pharmaceuticals | Spotlight on biomarkers
48 | Roche Annual Report 2014Spotlight on biomarkers | Pharmaceuticals
“To understand
biology, you need to
be able to measure it.”
Michael Cannarile
Michael and his colleagues discovered biomarkers that helped to identify
the optimal dose for a new cancer drug. The use of these biomarkers for similar
therapeutic molecules is gaining acceptance at Roche.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 49A biomarker model that is
almost 100% predictive
USING BIOMARKERS for a cancer receptor antibody at an early stage accelerated dose selection
to maximise therapeutic benefit for patients.
As a scientist, it is incredibly exciting to receive confirmation ROCHE OFFERS
that an experimental molecule actually works in humans
the way you hypothesised. That is especially true when the
SIX MEDICINES
molecule was designed to fight a life-threatening disease
like cancer.
REQUIRING A COMPANION
I became interested in science as a teenager. I could not TEST. THESE CONTRIBUTE
understand why there was no available cure for cancer and 2 3%
people had to die. I was determined to understand the
biological basis of this disease. That is why I ultimately went
into pharmaceutical research and joined Roche in 2009.
I work as Biomarker and Experimental Medicine Leader
for Roche Pharma Research and Early Development in
Penzberg, Germany. My focus is on developing biomarker TO THE SALES OF ROCHE’S
strategies to explain and predict responses in patients
PHARMACEUTICALS DIVISION
treated with drug candidates. In simple terms, a biomarker
is any biological parameter used as an indicator of disease
process or drug response. 5 0%
At Roche, biomarker teams play a vital supporting role that
links Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. In the early stages of
discovery, these biomarkers can provide us with insights on
the disease biology and the mode of action of a therapeutic
molecule.
OF ROCHE’S PIPELINE
Our Diagnostics colleagues are involved in the early phases
IS DEVELOPED WITHIN
of a project — a collaboration that is quite unique to Roche.
Their ultimate goal is to develop a reliable biomarker-based P E R S O NALI S E D
test, known as a companion diagnostic, which will help us
predict which patients will respond to our targeted therapies. H E A L T H C A R E
This is central to our concept of personalised healthcare.Spotlight on biomarkers | Pharmaceuticals
In 2010, we were nearing the end of preclinical testing of a
promising new cancer therapy with our anti-CSF-1 receptor
antibody. This receptor is overexpressed on the surface
of some tumour cells. The same receptor is also present on
specific types of macrophages, white blood cells that
are normally a beneficial part of the body’s immune system.
These macrophages are present in many tumour types.
Tumours sometimes hijack these macrophages and use them
to stimulate tumour growth and prevent other cells from
attacking the tumour efficiently. Therefore, colleagues in
Drug Discovery developed an antibody that binds to and
eliminates CSF-1 receptor-expressing cells.
Up to that point, experiments with the CSF-1R antibody had
only been performed in laboratory pre-clinical tests. We
still did not have data with the clinical version of the antibody
targeting human macrophages.
The next step in the clinical development of the antibody, per
regulatory requirements, was to test its safety profile. Here Michael: “Early and close collaboration between Roche Pharmaceuticals and Roche
is where we saw an opportunity. Beyond safety parameters, Diagnostics is crucial for the development of reliable biomarker-based tests.”
we wanted to know whether our biomarker hypothesis
and assays were accurate and whether there was a dose-
dependent response to the therapy. Another goal was to
“Using biomarkers early enabled
develop a mathematical model correlating the drug exposure
to the biochemical and physiological response of the body. us to avoid exposing study
participants to excessive doses
Amending the standard toxicity testing protocol, however,
presented some challenges. The implementation of of the compound and related
biomarkers increased the complexity and the budget
potential side effects.”
significantly. Furthermore, the additional data generation
and interpretation represented a potential risk for the tight
development timelines for phase I clinical testing. Hence,
we needed to explain the expected benefits for the patient Now that we have progressed in phase I monotherapy
to our colleagues. In the end, with the help of colleagues studies with this new cancer drug candidate, we can look
from Discovery and Pharmaceutical Sciences, we successfully back and see that our biomarker model generated in
incorporated these markers into the study protocol. preclinical testing was almost 100% predictive of what
happened later in humans.
The results were very encouraging. They supported our
hypothesis on the mode of action of the antibody, validated As a result, the implementation of biomarkers for
our assays and provided a rationale for the appropriate dose pharmacodynamics (biochemical and physiological
to treat the first patient. That meant we did not need to responses) as well as mode of action in primate studies
expose study participants to insufficient or excessive doses is gaining more acceptance at Roche for this new type
of the therapy, and thus potential side effects. By shortening of targeted therapy. Further clinical development of the anti-
standard dose escalation procedures, we also accelerated CSF-1R antibody will focus on identifying a predictive marker
the timelines of the phase I trial. that enables physicians to select patients with the highest
likelihood of response. The identification of a predictive
marker will trigger the development of a companion test for
the safe and effective use of the therapeutic drug.
ROCHE DIAGNOSTICS IS
To me, this is what personalised healthcare is all about —
CURRENTLY DEVELOPING knowing which medicines will work for a specific group
of patients. We’re not there yet, but it is an important step
MORE THAN 15 in understanding cancer and how best to treat it.
NEW COMPANION TESTS
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 51Key facts | Innovation
Innovation
52 | Roche Annual Report 2014Innovation | Key facts
66
new molecular entities in clinical
development
>30
cancer drug combinations
in clinical development
11
Pharmaceutical product approvals
14
diagnostic launches
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 53Roche | Innovation
Diverse approaches to
Research and Development
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS has been made to find new medicines that transform the way we treat
diseases. Today, there are answers for illnesses, such as metastatic melanoma, that only a few years
ago had no effective therapies.
However, millions of people worldwide continue to suffer partnerships and alliances with more than 240 external
from debilitating conditions, that have limited treatment companies and institutes. Compounds successfully
options and poor prognosis. At Roche, we invest in research developed by gRED, pRED, Chugai and our partners
and development (R & D) to transform science into medicines progress into our global late-stage development
and diagnostic tests to address these patient needs. organisation.
We draw on expertise from within the company and partners The know-how that our experts in the Pharmaceuticals and
throughout the world to maximise our productivity. Our Diagnostics Divisions have in molecular and cellular biology
diverse approach to research and early development is as well as in biochemical and signalling pathways of diseases
carried out by four organisations: Genentech Research and is the basis of developing innovative medicines that offer
Early Development (gRED), Roche Pharma Research and significant benefits to patients in need. This expertise also
Early Development (pRED), Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., allows for the development of tests to screen for disease-
Japan, a member of the Roche Group, and our Diagnostics causing factors in the body.
Division. Roche’s partnering functions maintain close links to
external research organisations and we currently have
Core Research and Development expenditure in 2014
8,913 +4%
million (CER)*
Roche Group Swiss francs 18.8% of sales
7,876 +4%
million (CER)
Pharmaceuticals Swiss francs 21.5% of sales
1,037 +3%
million (CER)
Diagnostics Swiss francs 9.6% of sales
* Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average full year 2013).
54 | Roche Annual Report 2014Innovation | Roche
Innovative R & D: focus on targeted
therapies
From basic research to late-stage development, innovative technology, a leading proprietary platform to discover and
approaches are applied throughout the entire R & D process. develop new RNA-based therapies.
These advances include the use of new and industry-leading
technology platforms to discover targeted therapies, clinical Advancing antibody engineering technologies
trial modelling and innovative patient recruitment methods With its long history in antibody development and
for clinical studies. production, Roche is also a leader in highly sophisticated
antibody engineering technologies including:
The future of RNA therapeutics research • Antibody–drug conjugates
The majority of today’s medicines are small molecules, which • Glycoengineering
are manufactured through chemical synthesis and have well- • Bispecific antibodies
defined chemical structures. Large molecules, including • Brain shuttle technology
monoclonal antibodies, represent a class of medicines which
is produced in animal and plant cells. But many disease Antibody–drug conjugates (ADCs) are a new class of highly
targets are very challenging or even impossible to reach with potent biologic medicines built by attaching a small molecule
small molecules or antibodies. or other therapeutic agent to an antibody, with either a
permanent or stable linker. The antibody targets a specific
antigen only found on target cells. Once it binds to the cell,
Roche is a leader in highly
it triggers internalisation of the antibody, together with the
sophisticated antibody medicine. This delivers medicine with a very high specificity
to the target cells, maximising their efficacy and minimising
engineering technologies.
systemic exposure and side effects. At Roche, we have
several ADCs in clinical studies for different types of cancer,
neurological disorders or infectious diseases.
To overcome these limitations, Roche is developing so-called
ribonucleic acid (RNA) targeted medicines as a new Glycoengineering approaches generate new kinds of
therapeutic modality. Representing an entirely new class of antibodies where the attachment of sugar molecules
medicines, these RNA therapeutics are expected to broaden significantly enhances capacity to recruit immune cells, like
the range of ‘drug-able’ disease targets. In 2014, Roche natural killer (NK) cells, macrophages/monocytes and
acquired Santaris Pharma A/S, a Danish biopharmaceutical neutrophils. By designing and controlling the types of sugar
company, which pioneered locked nucleic acid (LNA) molecules in a specific region of the antibody, the affinity
Roche’s leading capabilities in antibody engineering enabled the creation of new antibody variants to improve treatments of complex diseases such as cancer,
viral infections and inflammatory diseases.
Antibody-cytokine fusions Antibody–drug conjugate
Glycoengineered antibody Brain shuttle antibody fusion
Antibody
Brain shuttle Bispecific antibody
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 55Roche | Innovation
of the antibody for immune effector cells is increased. This One approach is an innovative bispecific antibody platform,
allows more effective antibody-dependent cellular which greatly boosts antibody penetration into the brain by
cytotoxicity and improved targeting of cancerous cells. binding to the transferrin receptor, a molecule that normally
transports another protein into the brain. One arm of the
Bispecific antibodies are a new generation of biologically bispecific antibody is connected to the transferrin receptor
engineered antibody medicines developed at Roche. while the other arm inhibits the activity of β-secretase,
Engineered bispecific antibodies combine the binding a molecule that is required for the production of the toxic
specificity of two antibodies in one molecule. Some of these β-amyloid peptide that is hypothesised to cause Alzheimer’s
antibodies were pioneered by applying the Roche invented disease.
CrossMAb technology, others by different in-house
proprietary technologies. Bispecific antibodies are designed In a series of high-profile publications, the research team
to bind two molecules simultaneously. The applications has reported key features of transferrin receptor-bispecific
of bispecific antibodies are broad, including neutralising antibody design, including optimal affinity, in vivo safety,
two different disease-causing proteins at the same time and molecular cellular mechanisms.1 They have also recently
for conditions such as aberrant blood vessel growth shown that the transferrin receptor-bispecific platform
(angiogenesis) or for physically bringing two types of cells works in non-human primates, setting the stage for testing
into close proximity, such as cancer cells and immune cells. in humans, and potentially opening the human brain to
In addition to cancer drugs, candidates are also tested in a wide range of antibody therapeutics.
ophthalmology, asthma and hemophilia.
The second approach, the so-called brain shuttle, also uses
Antibodies can be powerful therapeutic agents, but their use transferrin receptors to transfer investigational antibodies
in treating brain disorders, such as Alzheimer’s disease, has from the blood through the blood-brain barrier into the
been difficult because of the blood-brain barrier, which limits brain, but employing a different type of antibody design.
uptake of antibodies into the central nervous system (CNS). In a preclinical mouse model of Alzheimer’s disease, Roche
Different technologies have been developed within Roche’s scientists showed that enhanced transport of antibodies
early research and development organisations to overcome through this barrier was associated with a marked
this natural barrier. improvement in amyloid reduction in the brain, increasing
the target engagement in the brain by over 50-fold
compared to the parent antibody.2
Leading innovations from our pipeline
We take a focused approach to increase our chance of Oncology
success in highly complex diseases. We focus on a select Roche has been at the forefront of cancer research for
group of disease areas including oncology, hematology, more than 50 years, discovering and developing cancer
neuroscience, immunology and inflammation, ophthalmology, diagnostics and treatments with the aim of giving patients
infectious and rare diseases. better options and constantly improving outcomes.
Tremendous progress has been seen in the treatment of
many forms of cancer, including breast, cervical, colorectal,
Decreases in cancer mortality, age-standardised rate per lung and skin cancers, with especially good progress in
100,000 men some blood cancers.
250
Progress in cancer care has led to
200
150 better patient outcomes, including
100 decreased mortality rates.
50
0
Nonetheless, cancer continues to be a major public health
1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010
issue with incidence rates on the rise globally. According
France UK Japan USA Australia to the World Health Organization (WHO), 8.2 million people
Source: WHO. died of cancer in 2012, with more than 2.2 million patients
56 | Roche Annual Report 2014Innovation | Roche
Priming and activation 3 4 Trafficking of T-cells to tumours
(APCs & T-cells) (CTLs)
CEA-IL2v, Anti-OX40
5 Infiltration of T-cells
into tumours
blood vessel
(CTLs, endothelial cells)
Avastin
lymph node
2
tumour
Cancer antigen
presentation 6 Recognition of cancer
(dendritic cells/APCs) cells by T-cells
Anti-CD40
(CTLs, cancer cells)
Anti-PD-L1, Anti-CEA-TCB
Release of cancer 1 Killing of cancer cells
cell antigens 7 (immune and cancer cells)
(cancer cell death) IDO inhibitor, Anti-CSF-1R
Source: Chen & Mellman, Immunity (2013); APC = Antigen Presenting Cells; CTL = Cytotoxic T-Lymphozytes.
dying from lung, breast, colorectal and cervical cancers inhibitor cobimetinib plus Zelboraf (vemurafenib), a BRAF
alone. WHO expects that the absolute number of cancer inhibitor, lived significantly longer without their disease
cases will continue to grow and estimates that some worsening or death, as compared to Zelboraf alone. The
22 million people will be diagnosed with cancer within the combined therapy reduced the risk of disease worsening
next two decades. or death by half with a median progression-free survival
of 9.9 months for cobimetinib plus Zelboraf compared to
By increasing our understanding of the underlying disease 6.2 months with Zelboraf alone. Phase III study results of the
biology, we are confident that we will provide even better coBRIM study have been filed with EU and US authorities.
cancer medicines and tests in the years to come. The
development of medicines which target and attack the Next-generation medicine against metastatic breast cancer
specific way cancer cells work, grow and communicate has Every year, over 450,000 women die from breast cancer.
been our main focus in cancer research. This has led to the Almost 60% of breast cancers depend on the hormone
development of a number of targeted therapies. Now we estrogen and the estrogen receptor to grow and spread;
are combining such targeted therapies to further block cell so-called hormone receptor-positive breast cancer.4 Current
signalling that leads to cancer growth or initiate signalling treatment approaches have limited effect.
that leads to cancer cell death, thus improving treatment
outcomes. Our broad pipeline including our cancer A next-generation class of selective estrogen receptor
immunotherapy portfolio allows for a range of early-stage degraders has been designed to block estradiol action at the
combinations with our in-house drug candidates. estrogen receptor and also eliminate the estrogen receptor
from the cell altogether. The lead compound RG6046, an
Promising study results in the fight against solid tumours orally administered selective estrogen receptor antagonist
Metastatic melanoma is the most aggressive and deadly and degrader, is currently in phase I clinical trials for patients
form of skin cancer. In approximately half of all melanomas, who have hormone receptor-positive breast cancer and
there is a cancer-causing BRAF mutation. When melanoma have failed current hormonal agents.
is diagnosed early, it is generally a curable disease, but most
people with advanced melanoma have a poor prognosis. Cancer immunotherapy
More than 232,000 people worldwide are currently At Roche, we are investing heavily in cancer immuno-
diagnosed with melanoma.3 therapies, which help a person’s own immune system fight
cancer. Our cancer immunotherapy R & D programme is
Presented in September 2014, the results from the phase III comprised of more than 20 investigational candidates.
coBRIM study demonstrated that people with previously Cancer immunotherapy has the potential to fundamentally
untreated BRAF V600 mutation-positive, advanced change the treatment paradigm for people with cancer.
melanoma who received Roche’s investigational MEK
1 Sci Transl Med 2011 84ra44; Sci Transl Med 2013 183ra 57; J Ex Med 2014 Vol. 211 No. 2; Sci Transl Med 2014 261ra154. | 2 Niewoehner J. et al. Neuron.
81,49–60, 2014. | 3 WHO. Globocan. Estimated cancer incidence and prevalence worldwide in 2012. | 4 Boyle P. et al. The State of Oncology 2013.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 57Roche | Innovation
One of our investigational monoclonal antibodies, RG7446
Cancer immunotherapy — a
(anti-PDL1, MPDL3280A), is designed to interfere with a
protein called PD-L1. It targets PD-L1 receptors expressed potential paradigm shift in cancer
on tumour cells and tumour-infiltrating immune cells,
treatment.
preventing them from binding to corresponding receptors
on the surface of T-cells, thus blocking the body’s immune
defence. By inhibiting PD-L1, RG7446 may enable the
activation of T-cells, restoring their ability to effectively In October 2014, Genentech Partnering entered into a
detect and attack tumour cells. The results from a phase I strategic collaboration with NewLink Genetics Corporation
open-label study showed that RG7446 shrank tumours in for the discovery and development of small-molecule IDO
52% of people who were mostly pre-treated for metastatic (indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase) pathway inhibitors for the
urothelial bladder cancer (mUBC) and whose tumours were treatment of cancer. We believe IDO is a compelling target
characterised as PD-L1-positive by a diagnostic test being for cancer immunotherapy and are very interested in
developed by Roche. In the study, 86% of responding combining RG6078 with investigational immunotherapies
patients had ongoing responses at the time of data cut-off; in our pipeline, such as RG7446 (anti-PDL1) and RG7888
the median duration of response was not reached. The FDA (anti-OX40). The ability to leverage the molecules in our
granted RG7446 Breakthrough Therapy Designation in mUBC. pipeline and evaluate biologically driven combinations gives
us a competitive advantage in the cancer immunotherapy
Combination strategies are a central component of RG7446 space.
development and we believe they will play an important role
in future treatment options. We are currently studying Boosting the body’s own defences
multiple combinations with approved and investigational For decades, scientists have strived to fuse anti-tumour
medicines in addition to immune doublets, both within and antibodies with interleukin 2 (IL-2), an immune-stimulatory
outside our own pipeline and across a broad range of protein, with the goal of delivering IL-2 into tumours and
tumours. The first combination data of the investigational thereby targeting the immune response where it is needed.
cancer immunotherapy RG7446 and Avastin in untreated When administered in an untargeted manner, IL-2 can
patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma show that be highly toxic, causing non-specific autoimmunity and
this combination is safe and well tolerated. inflammation. Roche scientists have worked to increase
the affinity of IL-2 to target tumour antigen instead.
A new agonist antibody, RG7888 (MOX0916), is in
development to inhibit OX40, a receptor on T-cells that A leading example of Roche’s highly sophisticated
promotes antigen-dependent effector T-cell activation capabilities in antibody engineering is RG7813, our
and regulatory T-cell inhibition. Preclinical research shows carcinoembryonic antigen-interleukin 2 variant antibody
durable tumour responses with the anti-OX40 agonism. (CEA-IL2v). RG7813 represents a major advance in both
The phase I clinical trial on RG7888 started enrolment in taming and targeting IL-2 for improved cancer immuno-
fall 2014. therapy — avoiding the challenges related to autoimmune
Molecular modelling: the computer-based three-dimensional representation of molecules is an ideal approach to visualise large molecules such as proteins or
nucleic acids.
58 | Roche Annual Report 2014Innovation | Roche
side effects while delivering IL-2’s anti-cancer potential Dosing and scheduling modifications have been
where it is needed. This molecule combines an engineered implemented to minimise risk of TLS going forward, and
version of IL-2 having a better safety profile, with an antibody to date, no additional cases have been reported under
against a protein expressed on several cancers, CEA. This the modified protocol.
new interleukin 2 variant is designed to reduce stimulation
of immunosuppressive regulatory T-cells, and also shows In late 2014, early-stage data for venetoclax as well as for
reduced pulmonary toxicity. RG7813 is in phase I clinical our MDM2 antagonist RG7388 were presented in acute
studies. myeloid leukemia (AML), the most common acute leukemia
in adults. MDM2 is a protein that blocks the tumour-
Targeting the colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor suppressing activity of p53, leading to the survival and
The humanised monoclonal immunoglobulin G1 antibody proliferation of cancer cells. RG7388 is designed to disrupt
RG7155 specifically targets colony-stimulating factor 1 the interaction between p53 and MDM2, to help restore
receptor (CSF-1R) by attacking a sub-set of immune cells activity that stops tumour growth and promotes apoptosis
known as macrophages. These macrophages contribute
to tumour growth by suppressing the local immune system A representative of Roche’s highly innovative antibody–drug
and promoting growth of cancer cells. RG7155 has been conjugates, polatuzumab vedotin, consists of an anti-CD79b
designed to target and deplete tumour-associated monoclonal antibody that is linked to a potent microtubule-
macrophages expressing CSF-1R in the tumour tissue. disrupting agent. By combining a highly selective antibody
Thanks to innovative trial designs, Roche has been able to with a potent chemotherapy drug, polatuzumab vedotin can
start early combination studies with chemotherapy in the deliver the cell-killing payload directly to the cancer cells
treatment of breast and ovarian cancer while completing while sparing normal tissues. This compound is now in phase
dose escalation studies as a single agent. Current data II clinical studies in NHL, a form of blood cancer that kills
show that RG7155 is well tolerated and has a very broad more than 200,000 people per year worldwide.
applicability in combination therapy across various tumour
types. Phase Ib combination studies are ongoing to establish A new approach in hemophilia
if the depletion of tumour-associated macrophages supports Outside of blood cancers, Roche is also developing
the immune system in fighting tumours, leading to enhanced medicines for other blood disorders with high unmet need.
efficacy in malignancies. Hemophilia A, the most common type of hemophilia, is a
genetic disorder that results in reduced levels or lack of
Hematology clotting factor VIII. The worldwide incidence is estimated
For more than 20 years, Roche has been developing at more than 400,000 people. Approximately 75% of people
medicines that redefine treatment in hematology, or diseases with hemophilia around the world still receive inadequate
of the blood. Roche’s pipeline includes the small-molecule treatment or have no access to treatment.5 The current
Bcl-2 inhibitor venetoclax, which is developed in treatment approach for hemophilia A is intravenous infusion
collaboration with AbbVie, and the antibody–drug conjugate of replacement factor VIII concentrate to prevent or stop
polatuzumab vedotin (anti-CD79b), a small-molecule bleeds.
antagonist of MDM2.
RG6013 a bi-specific antibody, mimics the function of factor
Venetoclax is designed to selectively block the function VIII by simultaneously binding to factors IXa and X, and
of Bcl-2 proteins with the goal of re-activating the ‘self- thus can promote blood clotting in patients lacking factor
destruct’ mechanism in cancer cells called apoptosis. Bcl-2 VIII and in those who have developed inhibitors against
plays a central role in suppressing cell death, encouraging factor VIII. RG6013 is the first bispecific antibody developed
tumour growth and causing resistance to chemotherapy. in hemophilia. It was licensed from Chugai, Japan, in summer
Bcl-2 becomes highly active in cancers such as non- 2014. Orphan drug designation has been granted in Europe
Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia and the US in December 2013 and January 2014.
(CLL) and other B-cell neoplasms, as well as many solid
tumours such as some types of breast, colon, lung and Data presented in December 2014 demonstrate that the
prostate cancer. anti-Factor IXa/X antibody when given subcutaneously is
highly effective in hemophilia A patients — significantly
A phase Ib study of venetoclax tested in combination with reducing the number of bleeding episodes. It was also
Roche’s anti-CD20 antibody MabThera/Rituxan showed shown to be well-tolerated and safe; showing no evidence
remarkable clinical activity in patients with relapsed/ of thrombogenic events (excessive blood clotting).
refractory CLL. This clinical study also revealed strategies
for improving the safety of this powerful drug combination, Neuroscience
particularly starting with lower gentler doses of venetoclax Roche has been active in diseases affecting the central
to avoid potential toxicities caused by the very rapid killing nervous system (CNS) since the 1960s and has introduced
of leukemia cells, so-called tumour lysis syndrome (TLS). innovative medicines, including Madopar for the treatment
5 National Hemophilia Foundation. About bleeding disorders.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 59Roche | Innovation
of Parkinson’s disease. Today, Roche has one of the Colombia. The Banner Alzheimer’s Institute and Genentech
industry’s largest and most diversified pipelines of jointly lead this study in collaboration with the National
investigational medicines for neurological disorders with Institutes of Health.
the goal to develop more effective treatment options for
people with chronic and potentially devastating diseases. The investigational fully human, monoclonal antibody
gantenerumab is designed to decrease levels of aggregated
Developing better treatments for Alzheimer’s disease β-amyloid. In 2014, enrolment for a phase III study of
Today, 44 million people worldwide have dementia, and gantenerumab in people with mild dementia due to AD
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) represents up to 80% of those (Marguerite RoAD) was initiated and recruitment is ongoing.
cases. The number of diagnoses is expected to quadruple Additionally, gantenerumab is included in the Washington
by 2050 — making AD one of the most serious health issues University-sponsored Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer
of the 21st century.6 Current AD treatments focus on Network-Trials Unit (DIAN-TU) study. This worldwide clinical
alleviating symptoms, but are unable to stop the disease study is evaluating multiple investigational medicines in
from destroying memory and thinking skills, leading to the individuals at risk for, or with, a type of early onset AD
inevitable stage when patients are no longer able to care caused by a genetic mutation.
for themselves.
In December 2014, Roche announced the decision to
discontinue the phase III SCarlet RoAD study of
By 2050, the incidence of dementia
gantenerumab in prodromal (pre-dementia) AD, based
is expected to quadruple.6 on results of a pre-planned futility analysis.
Therapy with the investigational monoamine oxidase-B
Roche has a broad AD R & D pipeline that focuses on several inhibitor RG1577 aims to reduce decline in cognition,
proteins and pathways believed to play an important role function and to ameliorate the behavioural problems in mild-
in the disease. β-amyloid is a protein that accumulates in to-moderate AD. The phase IIb MAyflOwer RoAD study
the brains of people with AD and is hypothesised to play a investigating 12 months of treatment with RG1577 as add-on
central role in disease development and progression. Roche to standard of care in AD will complete in 2015.
is developing multiple molecules, including crenezumab and
gantenerumab, to target this pathway. Several programmes in multiple sclerosis
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune-mediated disease
Crenezumab is an investigational, fully humanised, of the CNS and is one of the leading causes of neurological
monoclonal antibody designed to target all forms of disability in young adults. In MS, a malfunctioning immune
β-amyloid. Two phase II studies (ABBY and BLAZE) system attacks healthy nerve tissue, which affects the
evaluated whether crenezumab delayed cognitive and transfer of electrical signals within the CNS and from the
functional decline in people with mild-to-moderate AD. CNS to the body. Approximately 2.3 million people
Although ABBY did not meet its co-primary endpoints in worldwide are affected by MS.7
people with mild-to-moderate AD, it showed a positive trend
in cognition observed with greater effect in people with Ocrelizumab is a recombinant humanised monoclonal
mild disease who received a high dose of crenezumab antibody that selectively depletes CD20-expressing B-cells,
intravenously. A similar treatment effect was observed in while preserving the capacity of B-cell reconstitution and
BLAZE, a smaller study that investigated primarily effects pre-existing humoral immunity. Innate immunity and total
on disease biomarkers. Crenezumab is also being evaluated T-cell number are not affected. B-cells are believed to
in a separate Alzheimer’s Prevention Initiative (API) trial in contribute to nerve cell and myelin damage in the brain
Millions of people with Alzheimer’s disease in the US
13.8
14
11.6
12
10 8.4
8
5.8
6 4.7 Ages 65–74
4 Ages 75–84
Ages 85+
2
0
2010 2020 2030 2040 2050
Source: Alzheimer’s Dementia: The Journal of the Alzheimer’s Association 2014.
60 | Roche Annual Report 2014Innovation | Roche
and the spinal cord of people with MS. In a phase II study, compound alongside improvements in social behaviour and
in patients with relapsing-remitting MS, ocrelizumab met its communication.
primary endpoint, significantly reducing signs of disease
activity compared with placebo. Furthermore, in exploratory In addition, in 2014 we started a phase II trial investigating
analyses, ocrelizumab significantly reduced signs of disease a GABA-A α5 Negative Allosteric Modulator (RG1662) in
activity compared with interferon β-1a, a commonly people with Down syndrome. Preclinical data have shown
prescribed MS treatment. that by selectively modulating GABA-A receptors in the
brain, it may be possible to stimulate learning and memory
Ocrelizumab is currently being investigated in two phase III pathways, leading to improvements in cognition and
trials in people with the relapsing forms of the disease as well behaviour in Down syndrome. We expect the trial to report
as in another phase III trial in people with primary progressive in 2016.
MS. Results from these trials are expected in 2015.
Novel pain therapies
Roche also partnered with Inception Sciences and Versant Chronic pain is another area of significant unmet medical
Ventures in 2014 to explore groundbreaking new science need impacting roughly 20% of the world’s population. Of
to advance the treatment of MS. The objective of this those individuals who experience moderate to severe pain,
collaboration is to develop novel therapies that promote only 25% achieve adequate relief with currently available
remyelination of damaged nerve sheaths as a result of MS treatment options in part due to a combination of insufficient
disease progression. efficacy and dose-related side effects. For example, the
opioid drug class is associated with poor tolerability (e.g.,
Partnering for Parkinson’s disease nausea, dizziness, respiratory depression and constipation)
Roche has re-entered the Parkinson’s disease (PD) field, an and the potential for addiction and abuse. As a result, there
area where we have made significant progress in the past is a significant need for novel pain medicines with new
with the development of Madopar and Tasmar. In 2014, our mechanisms of action.
partner Prothena initiated early development of a monoclonal
antibody, RG7935 (PRX002), targeting α-synuclein, a The voltage-gated sodium (Na+) channel, Nav1.7, expressed
molecule that may be a cause for motor and cognitive primarily in pain-sensing nerve fibres, has been identified as
functions in PD. A phase I study will evaluate the safety a potential target for novel pain therapies. Notably, humans
and tolerability of the compound in healthy volunteers. with a rare genetic defect that results in defective function
of this gene are unable to experience acute or inflammatory
Upcoming data in neurodevelopment disorders pain, suggesting that pharmacological inhibition of this
Roche continues its commitment to finding new treatment channel could have effects on pain sensations. In
options for patients with neurodevelopment disorders. collaboration with Xenon Pharmaceuticals, potent and
We expect a phase II trial investigating the V1a receptor isoform-selective inhibitors of the Nav1.7 channel with
antagonist RG7314 in people with autism spectrum disorder promising preclinical profiles have been discovered. A first
to complete in 2016, where we will evaluate the safety of the Nav1.7 inhibitor, RG7893, is currently in phase I clinical trials.
6 Alzheimer’s Disease International. Dementia statistics. The global voice on dementia | 7 National Multiple Sclerosis Society. Who gets MS?
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 61Roche | Innovation
Immunology and inflammation asthma attacks were reduced by 60% in lebrikizumab-
Roche’s immunology medicines include rheumatoid arthritis treated patients with a high level of the biomarker periostin,
treatments MabThera/Rituxan and Actemra/RoActemra, compared to only 5% in patients with a low level of
Xolair in asthma and Pulmozyme for cystic fibrosis. In periostin.8 The data also showed that in patients with high
addition to these immunology medicines, Roche’s late- periostin levels, lebrikizumab improved lung function.*
stage-pipeline projects include etrolizumab being studied Results from the phase III clinical trials are expected in 2016.
in ulcerative colitis and lebrikizumab for severe asthma. A companion test is being developed at Roche.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic disease of
the gastrointestinal tract. IBD commonly presents as either Ophthalmology
Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis and is associated with Globally, age-related macular degeneration (AMD) ranks
significant morbidity, including surgical interventions, third as a cause of blindness after cataract and glaucoma.
hospitalisations and increased risk of colon cancer. In the It is the primary cause of blindness in industrialised
US alone, Crohn’s disease may affect as many as 700,000 countries.9 Phase III clinical studies have been initiated for
people. lampalizumab, an investigational drug for geographic atrophy
(GA), an advanced form of AMD, which can result in
Etrolizumab is a gut-selective antibody and targets beta7 blindness. The phase III study programme with two trials
resulting in a dual mechanism of action blocking a protein called Chroma (GX29176) and Spectri (GX29185) are
called alpha4beta7 to keep white blood cells from entering evaluating the safety and efficacy of lampalizumab and its
the gut, and also blocking another protein called potential to slow the progression of GA. The studies will also
alphaEbeta7. AlphaEbeta7 is thought to keep white blood confirm if GA patients with a specific genetic biomarker,
cells lodged in the mucosa of the gut. This dual mode of complement factor I, may benefit more from lampalizumab
action may not only make etrolizumab more effective, but it treatment.
may also mean that the pre-treatment alphaEbeta7 level
could be a biomarker for the disease. A companion test is Diabetic retinopathy is the most common diabetic eye
being developed within Roche’s personalised healthcare disease. In the US, it impacts nearly 7.7 million people and is
strategy. Etrolizumab is now in phase III development. the leading cause of new cases of blindness. Due to the
emerging diabetes epidemic, diabetic retinopathy is an
Toward a new option in advanced asthma increasing global health issue. In December 2014, Lucentis
Over 300 million people suffer from asthma worldwide, and (ranibizumab injection) was granted Breakthrough Therapy
250,000 die of asthma each year. Mild and moderate forms Designation status for diabetic retinopathy by the FDA. If
of the disease can be treated adequately with current approved, diabetic retinopathy will be the fourth indication
medications, but around three million people in the US for Lucentis.
and Europe suffer from severe, uncontrolled asthma. We
are currently developing lebrikizumab for the treatment Roche is also pioneering the development of the highly
of severe uncontrolled asthma. New data from the LUTE/ innovative bispecific monoclonal antibody RG7716, targeting
VERSE phase IIb studies investigating lebrikizumab in two angiogenic growth factors — anti VEGF and Ang2. This
patients with severe uncontrolled asthma showed that novel approach will be explored for diseases of the eye
Age-related macular degeneration negatively impacts vision and is the third-leading cause of blindness.
62 | Roche Annual Report 2014Innovation | Roche
including wet AMD and diabetic macular edema. The A wider net in influenza treatment
compound RG7716 is currently in a phase I trial. Seasonal influenza or the flu is an acute viral infection which
circulates each year. A serious public health concern, it can
Infectious diseases cause severe illness and death in high-risk populations such
The WHO recently highlighted that bacterial resistance to as the very young, elderly or chronically ill. It is estimated
common antibiotics has reached alarming levels in many that seasonal influenza causes three to five million cases
parts of the world and that in some settings few treatment of severe illness each year worldwide, resulting in 250,000
options remain effective for common infections.10 to 500,000 deaths. A vaccination against influenza is seen
as the most effective way to prevent infection. Separately,
Global public health authorities have come together to antivirals such as Tamiflu are valuable treatments in reducing
declare that, without urgent, co-ordinated action, the world symptoms and complications in patients with influenza,
is heading toward a post-antibiotic era, in which common although they need to be given within 48 hours of onset
infections, which have been treatable for decades, could kill of symptoms to be most effective.
once again. In the US, at least two million people become
infected with antibiotic-resistant bacteria and at least 23,000 Roche is developing an antibody (RG7745), which targets
people die each year as a result of these infections and all seasonal strains of influenza A by binding to a conserved
25,000 people die in the EU according to the WHO report part of the hemagglutinin protein on the surface of the virus
on antimicrobial resistance.11 that does not change from season to season. The antibody
inhibits hemagglutinin-mediated fusion of viral and hosts cell
Roche has a long and impactful history in the development membranes and prevents replication of the virus by blocking
of antibiotics, including Rocephin and Bactrim, and is entry of viral RNA to the cell nucleus.
committed to the research and development of medicines
for the treatment of drug-resistant infections. Our lead Preclinical survival data indicate that RG7745 may be
compound, RG7929, is a new class of antibiotic designed to effective as a single agent and additive benefit may be
treat severe hospital-acquired bacterial infections caused by provided by combination with other anti-influenza drugs
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a bacteria that accounts for one in such as Tamiflu, which inhibits the release of new virus from
every ten hospital-acquired infections in the US and is listed the infected cell. This molecule has successfully completed
as one of the six most dangerous drug-resistant microbes. a phase IIa clinical study demonstrating significant anti-viral
activity and improved clinical symptoms. A global phase IIb
In partnership with Polyphor, a Swiss-based company, clinical study for patients hospitalised with influenza A
RG7929 is currently in phase II trials. In 2014, the compound infection was initiated for the 2014/2015 flu season.
was designated as a qualified infectious disease product
(QIDP) for the treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa Hepatitis — a remaining challenge
infections. A QIDP designation provides certain incentives for Hepatitis B continues to be a major global health problem
the development of new antibiotics, including priority review, despite the availability of a hepatitis B vaccine (since 1982)
eligibility of fast-track status, and a five-year extension of that is 95% effective in preventing infection. The disease
market exclusivity if the product is approved in the US. results in approximately 780,000 deaths every year due to
Seasonal risk areas for influenza
November–April
April–November
Year-round
8 Corren J. et al. Lebrikizumab treatment in adults with asthma. The new journal of medicine 2011. | 9 WHO. Prevention of blindness and visual impairment:
Priority eye diseases. | 10 WHO Europe. New report: antibiotic resistance, a global health threat. | 11 WHO. Antimicrobial resistance: Global report on
surveillance 2014. | * Maximum amount of air that can be forcibly exhaled in one second.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 63Roche | Innovation
the acute or chronic consequences of the infection.12 Roche discontinued its Fragile X development programme
Pegasys has been one of the mainstays of chronic hepatitis for basimglurant (RG7090) due to lack of efficacy. However,
B treatment in adults, and we are continuing our legacy in the primary indication for this molecule continues to be
this area with the composition of one of the most advanced treatment-resistant major depressive disorder and a recent
early development pipelines in the industry. phase II trial produced encouraging results, in which
basimglurant was added on top of standard-of-care anti-
Extending our commitment to virology in China depressant therapy for patients who had previously failed
The Roche Innovation Center Shanghai, China, is a key to respond to conventional medicines.
hub for the research and development of treatments for
infectious diseases and celebrated its 10th anniversary this The phase III METLung study failed to show clinical efficacy
year. While infectious diseases remain the major causes of of onartuzumab in combination with Tarceva in non-small
morbidity and mortality in China, there has been substantial cell lung cancer and was stopped. Evaluating the
progress in their control, which has led to significant implications of these study results, as well as those from
knowledge and expertise in China. some of our phase II studies, across the onartuzumab
clinical programme led to the decision to discontinue the
With our commitment to the fight against infectious diseases, development of this compound in 2014.
Roche will invest 136 million Swiss francs in the development
of a state-of-the-art research centre in Shanghai. The centre In Alzheimer’s disease (AD), the phase III SCarlet RoAD
will be the focal point for all R & D efforts in Shanghai and will study of gantenerumab in prodromal AD (pre-dementia) was
facilitate collaboration in scientific excellence, both internally discontinued in late 2014. The decision was based on results
and with the Chinese scientific community. The building is of a pre-planned futility analysis. However, Roche continues
expected to be completed in 2018. a broad research programme targeting different mechanisms
of Alzheimer’s disease progression. This includes the phase
Rare diseases III Marguerite RoAD study of gantenerumab in people with
Roche is building up a portfolio of investigational medicines mild dementia due to AD.
for rare diseases. In spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), Roche
is developing a SMN2 RNA-splicing modifier in its unique In advanced breast cancer (aBC), the phase III MARIANNE
collaboration with a biotech (PTC Therapeutics) and a study evaluated three HER2-targeted regimens — Kadcyla
patient organisation (SMA Foundation). Subsequent to a plus Perjeta, Kadcyla alone, and Herceptin plus taxane
single-dose study in healthy volunteers, the phase Ib chemotherapy — in previously untreated patients with HER2-
MOONFISH multiple-dose study has now been initiated positive aBC. The study showed the three regimens helped
to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the compound people live without their disease worsening (PFS) for a
in adults and children with SMA. similar amount of time, meeting its non-inferiority endpoint.
However, neither Kadcyla-containing treatment arms
Projects that missed key milestones significantly improved PFS compared to Herceptin and
The research and development of innovative medicines in chemotherapy. In their approved indications Perjeta and
areas of unmet medical need is a high-risk venture. In 2014, Kadcyla help people with HER2-positive aBC live longer.
read-outs of several key studies led us to discontinue or
re-evaluate related development programmes.
The bitopertin schizophrenia programme was discontinued
after a review of the totality of data from the phase III studies
which did not show consistent evidence of clinical efficacy
to support further development at this time. We continue to
evaluate bitopertin in a phase II trial as an add-on treatment
to selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors for the treatment
of obsessive compulsive disorder.
12 WHO. Global alert and response (GAR): Hepatitis B 2014.
64 | Roche Annual Report 2014Innovation | Roche
EMMA’s compelling data visualisations and analytics deliver real-time insights into patient enrolment and management.
Innovative approaches in design and
recruitment for clinical studies
Multiple methods are used to design the clinical trials Imaging for precision medicine
needed to show safety and efficacy of new drugs. Further, Our scientists are working at the cutting edge of imaging
many alternatives exist to establish dosing regimen, patient science to develop and deploy new tools to visualise the
profile, sample size, trial duration, measures of drug effect effect of new medicines in patients. The data gathered helps
and drug combinations. At Roche, we are constantly asking to inform drug development decisions and treatment options
how we can optimise our clinical trial methodologies to bring for patients, ultimately leading to improved outcomes.
medicines and diagnostic solutions to patients faster. Imaging scientists at Roche are working in collaboration with
Roche Diagnostics and academic groups to develop
Computer modelling in clinical trial design innovative new ways of assessing the efficacy of this new
One key challenge in trial design is evaluating the class of treatments.
performance of all possible designs at the outset. Our
Clinical Trial Simulation (CTS) tool uses computer simulations A data-driven, clinical operations environment
to predict the outcomes of different possible clinical trials Our focus on innovation has also helped to drive better,
and helps select the most informative. data-driven clinical trial management, which is helping
accelerate the transition of new molecules from early- to
Within Roche, the clinical pharmacology function is late-stage product development. Several approaches are
developing new CTS capabilities to redefine the way we investigated, including a new programme called Navigate.
develop drugs and optimise the dose of these drugs. Clinical Launched in 2013, this multi-year initiative is integrating
pharmacologists have long been experts in pharmacokinetic process and the latest information technology, to empower
and pharmacodynamic modelling that is used to study the and transform how study teams use data. The Enrolment
link between doses of drugs and their respective effects, to Measurement and Management Application (EMMA) is
help optimise the choice of dose. Such modelling informs one of the first automated clinical trial tools created from
us of the possible effects of the drug we are studying, and Navigate and is enabling study teams to more accurately
when combined with modelling of the disease it provides plan, track and manage patient screening and enrolment.
the capability to simulate potential clinical trial scenarios.
As a best-in-industry tool, EMMA collects large quantities
Implementing CTS requires new software tools, and Roche of operational data in real time, synthesises and makes the
has collaborated with external partners to develop Simulo, information immediately available to study teams in the form
an innovative, cloud-based drug trial simulator, that provides of graphic visualisations and user-defined tables. The ability
the ability to simulate and analyse virtually limitless numbers to see a trial’s performance from multiple perspectives helps
of clinical studies. shorten the clinical development lifecycle.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 65Roche | Innovation
Reliable supply to patients
Roche Pharma Global Technical Operations is tasked with manufacturing network hosts approximately 25% of total
ensuring the availability of Roche medicines worldwide. global biologic production capacity, making Roche the
We are engaged in activities ranging from the scale-up of largest manufacturer in the biotech sector.
production processes to all aspects of manufacturing, from
drug substance to packaging and ultimately to delivery of Activities to re-open the previously idled drug substance
medicines to more than 190 countries globally. Executing production unit in Vacaville, California, are on track and will
these responsibilities in a dynamic and complex business further increase Roche’s biologic manufacturing capacity
and regulatory environment requires constant vigilance and significantly. The company will invest about 250 million Swiss
innovation. francs and will offer work places for an additional 200 highly
skilled people. The additional Vacaville capacity is expected
to be operational in the first quarter of 2016.
Ensuring reliable supplies to
patients worldwide from At the Oceanside site in California, Roche is investing
approximately 120 million Swiss francs into a second
clinical studies to newly approved
purification line to further increase its manufacturing
products. flexibility. This will enable the site to process two products
simultaneously. Oceanside plans to add approximately
50 highly skilled positions and is expected to be operational
Roche’s current pipeline of 66 New Medical Entities (NMEs) by the first quarter 2016.
is one of the strongest in the industry. Scaling up production,
meeting the increasing stringent regulatory requirements, At our manufacturing site in Penzberg, Germany, Roche will
preparing for the launch of multiple new products and also expand its biologics capabilities. The company will be
providing medicines to patients upon their approval is an investing a total of 400 million Swiss francs over the coming
extraordinary challenge for our technical operations. To four years. This expansion project will be operational in 2018.
ensure that Technical Operations can deliver Roche’s robust
pipeline including compounds which have received FDA New production facilities
Breakthrough Therapy Designation, we have implemented In Basel, Switzerland, Roche has begun the construction of
several innovative processes and methods. These include a production centre for antibody–drug conjugates (ADCs).
establishing seamless handover processes and streamlined The new ADC facility will support the manufacturing of
product launch sourcing decisions as well as increasing Kadcyla, a first-of-its-kind medicine used for the treatment
the organisation’s capacity and capability. of breast cancer, as well as future antibody–drug conjugates.
This new centre will cost approximately 190 million Swiss
Biologics capacity expansion francs and is planned to be operational in August 2016.
With some of the world’s most sophisticated
biopharmaceutical production plants, the Roche
66 | Roche Annual Report 2014Innovation | Roche
The Roche pipeline of small molecules requires special progress was made in 2014. This includes clearer
facilities for highly potent drugs. In May 2014, the governance for sourcing decisions and better defined
construction of a launch facility in Basel for high-potent strategic supply plans over the product lifecycle.
active pharmaceutical ingredients was approved. This new
state-of-the-art facility will support the commercial launch Supplier relationship centre in South San Francisco
and early market supply of important products. The co- Roche has established a dedicated Supplier Relationship
location of this launch facility with the technical development Centre (SRC) in order to work more closely with key
team will enable effective and efficient knowledge transfer suppliers on innovation. In 2014, Roche increased the scope
and thus help simplify registration processes with the of the SRC to form an Innovation Centre of Excellence
authorities. to include more external partners and drive innovative
strategies. We introduced a new fast-track process to
End-to-end product management deliver more ideas and value in shorter time. To date, 45
In order to manage our supply chain more effectively on innovative business cases have been approved and 32 are
an end-to-end basis, an enhanced technical product in progress or have been implemented.
management approach was implemented and significant
Health IT: interpreting Big Data
Whilst data-driven business models have been employed in Prior to drawing conclusions about potential strategic
other industries for quite some time, the complexity of the opportunities resulting from Health IT and Big Data
healthcare environment represents major challenges for data regulatory aspects, data ownership and confidentiality,
mining and usage of ‘Big Data’. need to be addressed.
Within our own clinical studies, huge volumes of data are Several initiatives are ongoing to enhance real-world data
being generated, for example, in oncology with the (RWD) and real-world evidence (RWE) capabilities at
sequencing of cancer tissues to identify cancer-driving Roche. RWD/RWE provide information on the benefits and
mutations. Cross-analysis of large patient cohorts, follow-up risks of our medicines in real-world settings. This helps
of patients over time and studies combining several drug us make informed decisions on development strategy, to
candidates generate enormous volumes of data that need improve medical practice and to make our medicines
to be understood and interpreted. Combining this in-house accessible to the right patient at the right time. Many
information with external real-world data poses challenges countries are already using RWD/RWE for informed
in terms of comparability of information since a large part reimbursement decisions on medicines and this is expected
of real-world data is unstructured or prone to subjective to grow in the future. These activities are setting the initial
interpretation. Thus, generating meaningful conclusions that foundation and enhance the infrastructure and capabilities
benefit patients and the healthcare systems is extremely for leveraging RWD/RWE.
challenging.
A new function, ‘Real World Data Science’ (RWD-S), was
Nevertheless, several areas demonstrate the potential for created in Product Development in 2014. The purpose of
such activities: RWD-S is to translate RWD into evidence and insights to
• Identifying patients who are at risk of developing specific enable better decisions for our medicines to improve patient
diseases early, by using algorithms that combine different care. RWD-S can influence global teams to appropriately
disease-related risk factors using patient data incorporate RWD options to meet global and affiliate needs.
• Supporting physicians’ decision-making in complex RWD-S focuses on building RWD capabilities at Roche and
diseases, such as cancer. The intrinsic complexity of fostering partnerships that shape the RWD environment.
cancer with its many subgroups, the multiple disease As a strategic partner with the research, development and
drivers combined with the increasing number of targeted commercial organisations, RWD-S aspires to be an effective
medicines require new approaches in medical data connector across the organisation. With the understanding
interpretation and long-term patient care of evidence needs for our medicines, having knowledge of
• Analysing real-world patient data in collaborating with available data sources and analytical expertise and capacity,
healthcare providers, patient registries and other related our RWD-S will be well equipped to generate RWD/RWE
sources to understand the benefits and risks and cost- that benefit the various organisations at Roche as well as
effectiveness of our treatments in real-world settings. people in need of our differentiated products.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 67Innovation | Spotlight on HPV testing
68 | Roche Annual Report 2014Spotlight on HPV testing | Innovation
“My dream
was always to have a
direct impact on
women’s health.”
Catherine Behrens
Catherine, a trained gynecologist, led a team effort to get FDA approval for a
new indication using the human papilloma virus (HPV) test as the primary
screen for cervical cancer. This diagnostic tool has the potential to reduce the
incidence of cervical cancer in women.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 69New options to detect a virus
that causes cancer
CATHERINE ventured far from her comfort zone in testifying before an FDA Advisory Panel
to obtain approval for the cobas HPV test in primary screening.
After getting my PhD in molecular endocrinology at the In 2009, I began working with Roche as a consultant on a
University of California at San Francisco, I went to medical clinical trial for a new DNA-based HPV test. I was asked to
school at Stanford, and also completed a residency join the company six months later as the Clinical Leader for
programme there in obstetrics and gynecology. the study, known as ATHENA. For me as a gynecologist, it
I became very committed to patient care, which postponed was my dream to have a direct impact on women’s health.
my plans to return to research. Sometimes, though, I
wondered how much impact I was having on the 15–20 ATHENA was unprecedented in its scope and complexity.
women I saw each day and how much more I would have in Over 47,000 American women at 61 sites in 23 states were
research. screened using Roche’s DNA-based cobas HPV test.
I cannot tell you how many extra hours my colleagues and
An issue that troubled me was the screening procedure for I put into this study.
cervical cancer. The standard of care for detecting cervical
pre-cancer using cytology, known as the Pap smear, had What makes the cobas HPV test unique is the ability to
reduced the incidence of cervical cancer by an impressive detect, with a high rate of accuracy, the 14 highest risk
75%. The test, however, involved looking at tissue samples subtypes or genotypes of HPV — including the strains HPV
under a microscope, which means a chance of human error. 16 and 18, which are responsible for about 70% of all
There were also many borderline Pap smears that did not cervical cancers.
provide us physicians with a clear basis for making
decisions. On the other hand, we began to think that HPV, In 2011, the FDA approved the cobas HPV test as an adjunct
the principal cause of cervical cancers, would be a better test to the Pap smear. It was an exciting moment for the
target for screening. team, of course, but the work was not over.
IN MORE THAN
99% EVERY YEAR, CERVICAL CANCER
KILLS MORE THAN
270,000
CERVICAL CANCER
WOMEN14
IS CAUSED BY HPV INFECTIONS13Spotlight on HPV testing | Innovation
In 2013, we submitted new data to the FDA for the purpose for the 12 other high-risk genotypes can be screened with
of getting the cobas HPV test approved as the first-line Pap smear to see if further interventions are warranted.
primary screening test for cervical cancer.
The cobas HPV test could be important for women around
Since evaluating a new primary screening tool for HPV was the world — according to WHO about 270,000 deaths occur
uncharted territory for the FDA, they appointed an Advisory every year due to cervical cancer. In a number of countries,
Panel comprising leading experts in the field. As the Clinical there is a lack of infrastructure and training to perform
Leader for ATHENA, I was expected to present the trial data Pap smears. For them, it may make sense to leapfrog this
and answer questions before this panel which convened technology, and go directly to the screening process using
outside of Washington, D.C. the cobas HPV test, which is largely automated.
I had never done anything like this before. It meant going
“I feel truly priviledged to be a
well out of my comfort zone. I knew good preparation was
key, so I worked closely with the HPV team and practised my part of a global team that could
presentation often with my colleagues. We tried to anticipate
have an impact on the future of
possible questions and prepared approximately 500 backup
slides with additional data. women’s healthcare.”
On 12 March 2014, we faced 13 members of the FDA
Advisory Panel and an audience of over 200 people for nine The cobas HPV test complements other products in the
hours. My testimony and the question-and-answer period Roche portfolio. The CINtec and CINtec Plus tissue-based
were recorded on video and posted online as part of the tests, approved in Europe, are helping to identify those HPV-
public record. positive women who would benefit most from treatment
of the early disease (pre-cancer) stages.
At the conclusion of the hearing, there were three questions
posed by FDA representatives to the Advisory Panel experts Avastin, a cancer medicine from Roche, has been approved
regarding the safety and effectiveness of the cobas HPV test in the US in 2014 to treat metastatic cervical cancer.
as a primary screening tool. The panel voted unanimously
in the affirmative to all three questions. My colleagues and I
were really pleased!
“We faced the FDA Advisory
Panel for nine hours of
presentations and questions. They
voted unanimously in favour of
the cobas HPV test.”
Following the FDA approval, during a transition period, there
will be co-testing, as many physicians continue screening
with the Pap smear and add on the cobas HPV test. Outside
the US, our test has been made available in the EU, and we
are preparing filing or have filed in a number of countries
to broaden the availability of this test to women around the
world.
Both methods of testing work well together. As a primary
screen, the cobas HPV test with its increased sensitivity
casts a wide net to detect the presence of the virus. Those
women who test positive for the most dangerous HPV
strains, subtypes 16 and 18, should undergo further Catherine: “The ATHENA study caused an enormous amount of extra hours for many of us,
checking for pre-cancerous cells. Women who test positive but it was enormously gratifiying to work on developing a test which could help to save lives.”
13 WHO. Human papilloma virus (HBS). | 14 WHO. Sexual and reproductive health: New guidance for the prevention and control of cervical cancer 2015.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 71Roche | Innovation
The value of diagnostic test results
Diagnosing heart attacks preeclampsia who are not going to develop the disease
A heart attack, or acute myocardial infarction (AMI), is a in the short term. From an economical perspective this
common cardiac event in which the blood supply to an area may help save expenditures by healthcare systems on
of the heart is interrupted, causing the cardiac muscle unnecessary hospital admissions or excessive medical
cells to die. There are over seven million fatalities from AMI treatment.
worldwide annually. Fast and reliable diagnosis of heart
attacks is critical for AMI patients as every delay between Tumour characterisation and therapy monitoring
onset of symptoms and treatment increases the mortality Liquid biopsy is an innovative, alternative method for
risk. assessing cancer genetic status based on blood drawn from
the patient. Currently, patients with advanced cancer require
The Roche-sponsored TRAPID-AMI clinical study showed an invasive tumour tissue biopsy for diagnosis; requiring the
that a novel approach to diagnose or exclude heart attacks tissue to be sent to a laboratory for review and molecular
in patients with acute chest pain reduces the typical testing. Clinicians rely on the identification of the correct
observation time of three to six hours to just one hour. This molecular target to take the right treatment decisions,
accelerated one-hour approach is based on the Elecsys including targeted drug therapies. Occasionally, there is not
Cardiac Troponin T high sensitive test from Roche and will enough tissue-based sample material available or a patient
enable physicians to treat the patients much earlier. In case is not healthy enough to have the tissue biopsy procedure
of heart attack, saving time avoids additional damage to the performed; in which case having an alternative solution is
heart and is important to maximise the efficaciousness of valuable. Studies have shown that tumours release proteins,
treatment. Additionally, for cases where the diagnosis of nucleic acids and cancerous cells into the blood. Because
heart attack is excluded, faster exclusion may reduce patient blood samples can be easily obtained, the concept of a
anxiety and help to alleviate emergency room workload. blood-based biopsy has long held promise as a non-invasive
complement to traditional biopsy techniques.
Improving prediction of preeclampsia
Preeclampsia affects about one in twenty pregnancies and With a new molecular test for lung cancer patients in
is one of the leading causes of fetal and maternal morbidity development, Roche will enable clinicians to evaluate the
and mortality. In the current guidelines, the diagnosis of current health status of their patients, determine which
preeclampsia is based on the clinical parameters of biopsy to perform, tissue or liquid, and ultimately allow
hypertension and proteinuria, but both are poor in predicting clinicians to bring the right treatment to the right patient and
the clinical onset of the disease and disease progression. ensure that the therapy they have selected remains relevant.
Results of the PROGNOSIS study showed that the Elecsys Next generation sequencing
immunoassay sFlt-1/PlGF ratio is useful for the short-term Roche is developing an integrated genomics portfolio for
prediction of preeclampsia. It provides physicians with a next generation sequencing (NGS). Adding to internal
reliable tool to identify women at high risk of developing potential breakthrough technologies we acquired Genia
preeclampsia and who require intensified monitoring. At the Technologies, Inc., Bina Technologies, Inc. and Ariosa
same time, the Elecsys immunoassay sFlt-1/PlGF test allows Diagnostics, Inc. as well as technology of AbVitro and
physicians to confidently release women with suspected AvanSci. Collaboration agreements with Stratos Genomics,
Fast and reliable diagnosis of heart attacks is critical for the initiation of specific medical care
Conventional troponin test *
High sensitivity troponin test *
Faster rule-in Faster appropriate therapy
TRAPID-AMI Reduced time to diagnosis
Faster rule-out Reduced Emergency Department crowding
1. 2. 2. 2.
0 1 3 6
* Source: Hamm et al (2011). Eur Heart J 32:2999-3054. Time since admission (hours)
72 | Roche Annual Report 2014Innovation | Roche
Modern diagnostic tests allow the identification of specific cancer-causing genetic mutations, thus enabling physicians to apply targeted therapies.
The Garvan Institute, Cornell University and University of Our focus is to advance NGS in specific application areas.
Washington complement these acquisitions. Ariosa is the first in a series of efforts to expand our menu
in the NGS market. Ariosa’s HarmonyTM Prenatal test for
Genia’s proprietary single-molecule electrical detection non-invasive prenatal diagnosis using circulating fetal DNA.
technology could reduce the cost of sequencing while Circulation DNA has the promise of providing non-invasive
increasing speed and sensitivity. A Roche expert team is early testing in many segments including pregnancy, cancer
actively working with Stratos and once their Xpandomer and transplantation. The acquisition of Bina complements
conversion chemistry has been developed, Roche will likely our existing technologies and enables the development of
explore how to use it with Genia’s protein nanopore platform. this end-to-end sequencing workflow solution.
Diagnostics Division — key product launches planned for 2015
Area Product name Description Market
Instruments/Devices
cobas c 513 dedicated HbA1C analyzer EU
cobas t 411 core laboratory coagulation analyzer EU
Laboratories cobas 8100 V2 integrated pre- and post-analytical solution WW
cobas 6800/8800 medium- to high-volume automated real-time PCR US
VENTANA HE 600 automated H&E staining platform WW
Accu-Chek Active no-code next generation blood glucose meter, no coding of test strips WW
Diabetes Care Accu-Chek Connect blood glucose meter with connectivity to smartphones,
mobile applications and cloud US
Point of care CoaguChek Pro II professional system for PT and aPTT testing EU
Tests
Blood screening MPX test multiplex blood screening test for cobas 6800/8800 systems US
Infectious Influenza A/B + RSV test point-of-care detection on cobas LIAT US
diseases HTLV test human T-lymphotropic virus test EU
HBV test quantitative HBV viral load test for cobas 6800/8800 EU
HIV-1 test quantitative HIV-1 viral load test for cobas 4800 EU
Virology
HCV test quantitative HCV viral load test for cobas 4800 EU
HBV test quantitative HCV viral load test for cobas 4800 EU
Genomics and
Oncology EGFR test V2 detection of EGFR mutations in plasma EU
Cardiology cobas h 232 Troponin T test point-of-care test version of Elecsys cTNT-hs EU
WW — Worldwide. | PT — prothrombin time. | aPTT — activated partial thomboplastin time.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 73Roche | Innovation
Building partnerships with leading
institutions around the world
Roche was one of the first healthcare companies to innovation, Roche maintains close contact with academia
recognise the importance of external innovation and as well as biotechnology companies. A candidate compound
Genentech Partnering and Roche Partnering were will go through a series of checkpoints and studies driven
established as organisational structures. The objective is jointly by the partner and Roche to increase the likelihood
to marry external scientific expertise and technology of success in clinical development, and ultimately provide
breakthroughs with Roche’s internal drug discovery pipeline new options to patients.
aligned with our overall R & D strategy. We focus on well-
defined therapeutic areas and optimal synergies between
Externally sourced compounds
external innovation and Roche’s own R & D portfolio and
development/manufacturing expertise. The resulting contribute about one third of
diversity of views, cultures and approaches, which is a
pipeline and Pharmaceuticals
hallmark of R & D at Roche, promotes creativity and
innovation. total sales.
Roche Partnering
Roche Partnering (RP) was founded over ten years ago to Our mission is to follow the science, find true innovation and
provide the company with an additional pillar of innovation. build strong, win-win alliances with our partners. This
RP screens about 2,500 opportunities each year, from early includes early-stage collaborations with leading academic
development and platform technologies up to phase III centres to foster the development of novel targets,
molecules and merger and acquisition opportunities. As of molecules, technologies and platforms.
2014, RP is managing close to 190 external partnerships
around the world. About 35% of Roche’s R & D pipeline
compounds are externally sourced, and Roche-partnered
MORE THAN
products contribute over a third of total Pharmaceuticals 100
sales.
In 2014, RP signed 55 new agreements, including three
acquisitions, four product transactions, 37 research and NEW
technology collaborations and 11 product out-licensing
agreements. The RP team searches for novel compounds
EXTERNAL PARTNERSHIPS
that address unmet medical needs and have the potential
ACROSS THE ROCHE GROUP
to become first-in-class, best-in-class or best-in-disease
medicines. Committed to discovering truly cutting-edge
74 | Roche Annual Report 2014Innovation | Roche
RP is comprised of a multi-disciplinary workforce with strong to complement small- and large-molecule antibodies and
expertise from therapeutic areas and business development protein therapeutics research.
with offices in Basel, New York, South San Francisco, Tokyo
and Shanghai. RP works closely with internal partners in An example of a Roche technology that supports a partner’s
multiple functions, enabling in-depth expert assessments to R & D is the agreement developed between Roche and
select the most promising external projects. The overarching Prothena to tackle Parkinson’s disease. It includes a
principle is seeking only the best of external innovation that programme to test and use the Roche brain shuttle
will create the most fruitful synergies with Roche’s in-house technology to potentially increase the delivery of antibodies
pipeline and expertise. targeting α-synuclein into the brain, to improve their potency
for treatment of Parkinson’s disease.
Innovative agreements beyond traditional
partnerships Genentech Partnering
Roche offers creative deal structures that go beyond the In 2014, Genentech Partnering and Genentech’s Research
traditional partnership agreement to create win-win alliances Contracts group signed 55 new agreements including
tailored to the assets and partner companies. Roche’s one acquisition, five product transactions, 11 research and
partners also benefit from Roche technologies, such as the technology collaborations, and 38 academic research
brain shuttle technology. Partners can also take advantage collaborations.
from Roche’s expertise in diagnostics, both to identify the
most suitable patients for a treatment as well as to measure In 2014, the acquisition of Seragon Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
the effect of a drug. a privately held biotechnology company based in San Diego,
California, was completed. The Roche Group obtained
A recent example of a new partnering approach is the ‘build- the rights to Seragon’s portfolio of investigational next-
to-buy’ deal with Versant Ventures and Inception Sciences. generation oral selective estrogen receptor degraders
The collaboration resulted in a new start-up company called (SERDs) for the potential treatment of hormone receptor-
Inception 5, which will research and develop novel small- positive breast cancer. In 2014, breast cancer claimed
molecule therapies that aim to promote re-myelination of the lives of nearly 40,000 women in the US, and up to half
nerve sheaths damaged as a result of disease progression of these women had a disease driven by the estrogen
in multiple sclerosis patients. Inception 5 builds on recent receptor.15 Although medicines have been approved for
discoveries in the field and will use a proprietary screening the treatment of hormone receptor-positive breast cancer
platform developed by investigators at the University of for decades, more treatment options are needed. These
California in San Francisco, pursuing multiple molecular investigational SERDs complement our existing R & D
targets for re-myelination. Versant provides equity financing programmes, strengthen our pipeline, and could one day
to the company and Roche will fund the research based on redefine the standard of care for hormone receptor-positive
a series of milestones. Roche retains an exclusive option to breast cancer.
acquire Inception 5 upon a first lead compound reaching the
filing stage of an investigational new drug application. In the neuroscience field, we entered into a second
collaboration with our strategic partner Xenon for pain
In the rare diseases area, Roche is collaborating with genetics, with the goal of discovering and validating new
Canadian venture firm AmorChem to develop a new therapeutic targets and mechanisms for treating pain. The
therapeutic approach for myotonic muscular dystrophy pursuit of targets with human genetic validation is core
type 1, or Steinert disease. Currently, there is no approved to our pain strategy, but developing drugs against such
treatment available to slow or stop disease progression. targets is highly competitive. This collaboration seeks to put
Based on research carried out at University of Montreal, the Genentech in a first-in-class position for novel therapeutics
new approach aims to interfere with the splicing alteration to treat pain by leveraging Xenon’s expertise in genetic
caused by the genetic defect. Discovery will take place validation of targets. Our aim is to discover highly validated
at AmorChem’s medicinal chemistry contract research targets that could yield novel non-opioid-based mechanisms
organisation, NuChem Therapeutics, and the University of to treat pain.
Montreal laboratories. Roche will provide scientific support
and will contribute R & D funding together with AmorChem.
To propel the discovery of RNA-targeting therapeutics,
Roche acquired Santaris Pharma A/S, Denmark — now
integrated in the R & D organisation as the Roche Innovation
Center Copenhagen. RNA therapeutics research may
produce a new modality, or a unique class of medicines,
15 Breastcancer.org. U.S. Breast cancer statistics 2014.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 75Roche | Innovation
Conducting responsible R & D
All of our R & D activities are conducted with the highest Roche clinical trial statistics 2014
ethical standards. We have published several position Number of patients in clinical trials by World Bank country classification*
papers on our R & D activities in areas such as genetics, stem
cells and animal research. We routinely review and update 367
Low income
these positions and our policies for research involving either
3,588
humans or animals, taking into account scientific Middle income
developments and public concerns. 70,073
Upper middle income
Clinical trials 293,255 High income
Clinical trials are critical for determining the safety and
efficacy of new medicines. All of our clinical trials are * Source: World Bank, July 2014,
compliant with Good Clinical Practice guidelines, an
international quality standard. The information from our Animal welfare
trials is shared with regulatory authorities and payers. We continue to seek alternatives to the use of animals in
studies, with technologies such as computer simulation or
in vitro testing using differentiated cells or induced
In 2014, more than 360,000
pluripotent stem cells. In Switzerland, we support the 3R
patients were involved in our Research Foundation which funds the development or
improvement of methods based on the 3R strategy. This
clinical trials.
approach aims to use alternatives to animal testing whenever
possible (Replace); improve existing methods so that fewer
laboratory animals are required (Reduce) and improve
Clinical trials existing methods so that animals experience as little
discomfort and distress as possible (Refine).
2014
Number of clinical trials 1,809 In 2014, we used 328,655 animals in our internal research,
Number of healthcare a 7.8% decrease from 2013. The number of animals used by
centres involved 32,750 contract research organisations working on Roche’s behalf
Number of patients in phase I–IV clinical trials 367,283 decreased to 50,669 compared with 62,636 in 2013.
Approximately 97.7% of the animals used were mice and rats.
76 | Roche Annual Report 2014Innovation | Roche
All major research sites were awarded continued full Overall, the policy goes beyond European and American
re-accreditation status by the Association for Assessment industry guidelines, which came into effect 2 January 2014,
and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International, and we are now at the forefront of the data-sharing
underscoring our commitment to ensuring animal welfare. movement identifying new ways to share clinical research
with the scientific community.
In October 2014, plans were announced to build a new
in vivo research facility at the Basel site in Switzerland. The For more details, please see www.roche-trials.com/
new state-of-the-art building, planned for completion in dataSharingPolicyInformation.action
2018, will meet the highest requirements of animal welfare
and set a new standard in our industry for preclinical in vivo
biology research.
Clinical-data sharing
In January 2014, Roche announced its next step in sharing
clinical trial data and providing access to analysable patient-
level data to researchers.16 Since June 2013, Roche has also
provided access to Clinical Study Reports (CSRs) and other
summary reports. This new approach provides a balance
between our commitment to sharing data from our trials,
while safeguarding patient confidentiality and the regulatory
process. Both CSRs and analysable patient-level data are
anonymised to respect the privacy of patients participating
in our trials in accordance with relevant laws and
regulations.
16 www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com | * Based on Gross National Income per Capita in 2013: Low income: USD 1,045 or less, Lower middle income:
USD 1,046 to USD 4,125, Upper middle income: USD 4,126 to USD 12,745, High income: USD 12,746 or more.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 77Roche | Pharmaceuticals pipeline
Pharmaceuticals pipeline
WE FOCUS on a select group of disease areas including oncology, hematology, neuroscience,
immunology, inflammation, ophthalmology, infectious and rare diseases.
Project ID Project/Product Indication Phase: I Il Ill IV
Oncology
RG7421 cobimetinib + Zelboraf metastatic melanoma
RG105 MabThera sc CLL
RG4352 Avastin recurrent cervical cancer
RG12732 Perjeta HER2+ BC neoadjuvant
RG4351 Avastin glioblastoma 1st line
RG4351 Avastin ovarian cancer 1st line
RG4351 Avastin relapsed ovarian cancer, platinum-sensitive
RG435 Avastin NSCLC adjuvant
RG1273 Perjeta HER2+ mBC 2nd line
RG1273 Perjeta HER2+ BC adjuvant
RG1273 Perjeta HER2+ gastric cancer 1st line
RG3502 Kadcyla HER2+ gastric cancer 2nd line
RG3502 Kadcyla +/– Perjeta HER2+ mBC 1st line
RG3502 Kadcyla HER2+ BC adjuvant
RG3502 Kadcyla + Perjeta HER2+ BC adjuvant
RG3502 Kadcyla + Perjeta HER2+ BC neoadjuvant
RG7159 Gazyva DLBCL 1st line
RG7159 Gazyva iNHL, rituximab refractory
RG7159 Gazyva follicular lymphoma 1st line
RG7204 Zelboraf melanoma adjuvant
RG7446 PD-L1 MAb NSCLC 2nd line
RG7601 venetoclax (Bcl-2) CLL relapsed/refractory
RG7601 venetoclax + Gazyva CLL 1st line
RG7853 alectinib (ALK inhibitor) NSCLC
RG435 Avastin + Tarceva EGFR mut+ NSCLC
RG3502 Kadcyla HER2+ NSCLC
RG6013 FIXa/FX bispecific MAb hemophilia A
RG6046 SERD ER+ (HER2-neg) mBC
RG7155 CSF-1R MAb PVNS, solid tumours
RG7221 Ang2-VEGF MAb colorectal cancer
RG7321 pictilisib solid tumours
RG7421 cobimetinib + paclitaxel triple negative breast cancer
RG7440 ipatasertib (AKT inhibitor) solid tumours
RG7446 PD-L1 MAb NSCLC 2nd/3rd line
RG7446 PD-L1 MAb + Avastin renal cell carcinoma
RG7446 PD-L1 MAb bladder cancer
RG7596 polatuzumab vedotin (CD79bADC) hematologic tumours
RG7599 lifastuzumab vedotin (NaPi2bADC) platinum-resistant ovarian cancer
RG7601 venetoclax (Bcl-2) CLL relapsed/refractory 17p deletion
RG7601 venetoclax (Bcl-2) DLBCL
RG7601 venetoclax (Bcl-2) + Rituxan relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma
RG7604 taselisib (mutant selective) solid tumours
RG7686 glypican-3 MAb liver cancer
RG6016 LSD1 inhibitor AML
RG6046 SERD (2) ER+ (HER2-neg) mBC
RG6061 HIF1 alpha LNA solid tumours
RG6078 IDO inhibitor solid tumours
RG7116 HER3 MAb solid tumours
RG7155 CSF-1R + PD-L1 MAb solid tumours
RG7304 Raf & MEK dual inhibitor solid tumours
RG7388 MDM2 ant solid & hematologic tumours
RG7446 PD-L1 MAb + Tarceva NSCLC EGFR+
RG7446 PD-L1 MAb + Zelboraf +/– cobimetinib metastatic melanoma
RG7446 PD-L1 MAb + Avastin + chemo solid tumours
RG7446 PD-L1 MAb + cobimetinib solid tumours
RG7446 PD-L1 MAb + ipilimum./IFN solid tumours
RG7446 PD-L1 MAb solid tumours
RG7446 PD-L1 MAb + Gazyva lymphoma
RG7450 Steap 1 ADC prostate cancer
RG7597 HER3/EGFR DAF + cobimetinib KRAS mut+
RG7601 venetoclax (Bcl-2) + Gazyva CLL
RG7601 venetoclax (Bcl-2) hematology indications
78 | Roche Annual Report 2014Pharmaceuticals pipeline | Roche
Project ID Project/Product Indication Phase: I Il Ill IV
Oncology
RG7741 ChK1 inhibitor solid tumours and lymphoma
RG7775 MDM2 (4) IV prodrug AML
RG7787 MSLN PE cFP oncology
RG7802 CEA CD3 TCB solid tumours
RG7813 CEA IL2v solid tumours
RG7841 ADC solid tumours
RG7842 ERK inhibitor solid tumours
RG7876 CD40 iMAb + PD-L1 MAb solid tumours
RG7882 ADC ovarian cancer
RG7888 anti-OX40 MAb solid tumours
Inflammation / Immunology
RG1569 Actemra giant cell artheritis
RG3637 lebrikizumab severe asthma
RG7413 etrolizumab ulcerative colitis
CHU Actemra large-vessel vasculitis
CHU Suvenyl enthesopathy
CHU IL-6R MAb neuromyelitis optica
RG1569 Actemra systemic sclerosis
RG3637 lebrikizumab idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
RG6062 Esbriet SSc — interstitial lung disease
CHU IL-31R MAb atopic dermatitis
RG7625 NME autoimmune diseases
RG7880 NME autoimmune diseases
Infectious D iseases
1 US only:
RG7227 danoprevir HCV
FDA submission decision pending
RG7745 Flu A MAb influenza
2 Approved in US, submitted in EU
RG7790 setrobuvir HCV
3 Submitted in US
RG7929 LptD antibiotic bacterial infections
RG6080 DBO β-lactamase inhibitor bacterial infections
Personalised Healthcare project
RG7689 NME infectious diseases
RG-No Roche Genentech managed
RG7795 TLR7 agonist HBV
CHU Chugai managed
RG105 M abThera is branded
Metabolic/Cardiovascular
as Rituxan in US and Japan
CHU URAT 1 inhibitor gout
RG1569 A ctemra is branded
RG7697 GIP/GLP-1 dual ago type 2 diabetes
as RoActemra in EU
RG7641 aldosterone synthesis inhibitor metabolic diseases
Neuroscience
AML acute myeloic leukemia
RG1450 gantenerumab Alzheimer’s disease
AMD age-related macular degeneration
RG1594 ocrelizumab RMS
(wAMD = wet AMD)
RG1594 ocrelizumab PPMS
BCC basal cell carcinoma
RG1577 MAO-B inhibitor Alzheimer’s
CLL chronic lymphocytic leukemia
RG1662 GABRA5 NAM Down Syndrome
CMV cytomegalovirus
RG1678 bitopertin obsessive compulsive disorders
DLBCL diffuse large B cell lymphoma
RG7090 basimglurant (mGlu5 NAM) treatment resistant depression
DME diabetic macular edema
RG7314 V1 receptor antagonist autism
EGFR epidermal growth factor receptor
RG7412 crenezumab Alzheimer’s disease
ER estrogen receptor
RG7203 PDE10A inhibitor schizophrenia
HBV hepatitis B virus
RG7342 mGlu5 PAM schizophrenia
HCV hepatitis C virus
RG7345 TAUpS422 MAb Alzheimer’s disease
MAb monoclonal antibody
RG7410 TAAR1 ago schizophrenia
mBC metastatic breast cancer
RG7893 Nav1.7 inhibitor pain
iNHL non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
RG7800 SMN2 splicer spinal muscular atrophy
NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer
RG7935 a-synuclein MAb Parkinson’s disease
PPMS primary progressive multiple sclerosis
RA rheumatoid arthritis
Ophthalmology
RMS relapsing multiple sclerosis
RG36453 Lucentis diabetic retinopathy
RVO retinal vein occlusion
RG7417 lampalizumab (factor D) geographic atrophy
sc subcutaneous
RG3645 Lucentis sustained delivery AMD/RVO/DME
SSc systemic sclerosis related interstitial
RG7716 VEGF-ANG2 MAb wAMD
lung disease
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 79Key facts | Access to healthcare
Access to healthcare
80 | Roche Annual Report 2014Access to healthcare | Key facts
19
MILLION
patients treated with a
Roche top 25 selling product
1.3
MILLION
infants tested for HIV
in sub-Saharan Africa
11,446
patients treated with Herceptin in China on
Roche patient assistance programme
10,726
pathologists, surgeons and techicians
trained through Roche SPHERE programme in Asia
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 81Roche | Access to healthcare
An enormous global challenge
SIGNIFICANT BREAKTHROUGHS in diagnosing and treating serious diseases, as well as
improvements in the delivery of healthcare, have steadily improved health outcomes and increased
life expectancy in recent decades.
Universal access to medical innovation and quality healthcare, developing innovative approaches in collaboration with
however, remains a global challenge, particularly in emerging international and local players, Roche strives to make
and developing countries. In many countries, there are severe a significant impact in addressing this disparity for many
shortages of equipment, medical professionals, medicine patients around the world, supporting the universal
supplies and a lack of awareness of disease prevention. healthcare coverage goal, which aims for everyone to
Added to this, with the adoption of more Western dietary access quality healthcare services without financial
habits and sedentary lifestyles, the incidence of cancer is hardship.
rising in these countries and healthcare infrastructure
is often inadequate. Innovative solutions are required to
address these problems and make sure more patients in
need have access to medicines and diagnostic testing. 1 BILLION
In 2014, Roche developed a comprehensive strategy to
improve this situation. We are systematically analysing
PEOPLE LACK ACCESS
the root cause of barriers in each individual market — in
both developing, as well as established markets. We are TO BASIC HEALTHCARE1
also identifying the key healthcare stakeholders to partner
with and support improvements in access. Through
82 | Roche Annual Report 2014Access to healthcare | Roche
Reaching more patients in need
Improving affordability. We are developing new pricing Strengthening infrastructure. We have established
models that are tailored to the benefit the product delivers programmes to strengthen local, national and regional
along with the ability of local payers to pay, rather than capacities, including health systems. Building facilities,
a uniform global price. We are also working on expanding training healthcare professionals and transferring skills
reimbursement in the public market, along with private and expertise.
health insurance.
Increasing awareness and patient support. We
Increasing availability of innovative products. We support community partners to run screening, awareness,
are exploring ways to bring our innovative medicines and counselling and other support programmes that empower
tests to the market faster, through supporting regulatory people with the knowledge to safeguard and manage their
harmonisation, supply chain issues and other barriers. own health.
Improving affordability
We recognise that despite improvements in healthcare personalised reimbursement models that differentiate the
infrastructure and funding, innovative medicines and price to reflect the benefit that the treatment delivers to
diagnostics remain beyond the reach of many patients in patients.
need. People may have access to quality healthcare in the
private sector, for example, where incomes are higher, Personalised reimbursement models have the potential to
but the public health system may not offer the same level be of significant value to all stakeholders, speeding up
of access. patient access to innovative treatments and reducing the
financial pressure on prescribing, by enabling the benefit
of a medicine to be better reflected in its price. However,
Even in countries with advanced
to implement this kind of model we need to be able to track
healthcare systems, treatment may the use of our medicines, which requires close collaboration
between healthcare providers, as well as supporting
not be fully reimbursed.
infrastructure to share data easily without compromising
patient confidentiality.
As a result, many patients are unable to either start We have initiated a number of pilot projects in Europe over
treatment or continue a full treatment course. To ease the last two years, to address these issues and work closely
these barriers, we have developed innovative pricing with the local healthcare stakeholders to bring the concept
models, tailored to the needs of patients in different to fruition. In the UK, for example, we have now completed
healthcare systems. the pilot phase and are working with the National Health
Service (NHS), which has a unique dataset on cancer
Personalised reimbursement models medicine use. This Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy dataset
With our increased understanding of disease pathology, (SACT) has the potential to provide better intelligence
we have realised that similar mechanisms and pathways about how cancer drugs are used and what benefits they
are relevant in different types of tumours. This progress bring patients. We have been able to demonstrate tangible
in science has brought us medicines that improve patient benefits from the pilots about how this data can be the
outcomes in a variety of diseases, but the extent of the basis for more flexible commercial schemes, linking the
benefit for patients can differ between diseases. There are price to the specific benefit to patients and the NHS.
also an increasing number of combination therapies being This also allows SACT data to be used to administer the
developed, that require more than one medicine to achieve necessary commercial schemes to ensure budget
optimal outcomes for patients. This has led us to create efficiencies for the NHS.
1 WHO. Universal health coverage 2013.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 83Roche | Access to healthcare
Reimbursement driven by the benefit of the therapy to the patient
Today Future
Unit-based pricing Personalised reimbursement models
Reimbursement driven by volume of therapy used Reimbursement driven by value therapy delivers
to the patient
Price differentiated by indication
Undifferentiated price per vial Price differentiated by combination
Price differentiated by treatment course
Further pilot programmes demonstrating similar benefits are and now includes the Ukraine, Georgia, Ecuador, Egypt,
also underway throughout Europe, notably in Spain, where Pakistan and India.
we have worked with the Government to have personalised
reimbursement models included in new regulations. Over Patient assistance programmes
the last two years, Roche has been building awareness We recognise that for many patients, including those living
and understanding of the concept, as well as how best to in developed countries, affordability can be a significant
implement supporting technologies. Several projects are barrier to starting or continuing treatment. Even patients
now underway in different regions to build patient registries with insurance may not be able to pay for treatment if it is
and records to determine the value of medicines in not fully covered by individual insurance plans. To reduce
treatment. In Catalonia, which has a population database this barrier, we provide patient assistance programmes that
of 7.5 million people, infrastructure for personalised help underinsured and uninsured patients to access our
reimbursement will be available in 2015. medicines.
Differential pricing In China, for example, Roche has entered into a partnership
In countries with little private insurance or public with the Cancer Foundation of China to increase access
reimbursement, people are often required to pay the majority to the breast cancer treatment Herceptin, which is not fully
of costs themselves. To address this disparity, we are piloting covered in the public healthcare system. For a course of
a number of differential pricing models, including local therapy, patients pay for the first six treatments and Roche
packaging or second brands of our products, in partnership provides the remaining eight free of charge via the
with local manufacturers and government organisations. Foundation. In addition, Roche China is working with
regional governments to help them reimburse patients for
The programmes include reduced prices to governments to part of their out-of-pocket expenses. As a result, more than
facilitate reimbursement for medicines prescribed through 25,197 patients have been treated with Herceptin since the
public healthcare systems. We are establishing differential launch of the programme in 2011 — patients who otherwise
pricing programmes in a number of countries for some of our would not have had access. In 2014 alone, 11,446 patients
therapies, including Pegasys (hepatitis C and B), MabThera/ accessed Herceptin through our patient assistance
Rituxan (non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic programme.
leukemia) and Herceptin (HER2-positive breast and gastric
cancer). As we learn from these programmes, we plan to Another way in which we are working to make sure
expand differential pricing to our new innovative products. medicines are affordable is in the Philippines, where there
is limited public funding of healthcare. The government-
Second brands owned Philippine Healthcare Insurance Corporation provides
In some emerging markets, we sell second brands of our only basic national healthcare coverage, which excludes
products which are manufactured at the same sites and treatment with biologics, a relatively new class of drugs that
subject to the same quality control as the original Roche includes Herceptin, our targeted therapy for HER2-positive
product. However, we package second brands under breast cancer.
different names and may produce them in slightly different
forms, such as in vials rather than syringes. This second To improve access to Herceptin, and help patients adhere to
brand programme was expanded into more countries in 2014 the full treatment duration, we established the Roche Patient
84 | Roche Annual Report 2014Access to healthcare | Roche
Assistance Programme. Physicians refer financially
In many countries, insurance
constrained patients to the programme for an assessment by
an independent third party of their ability to pay. Patients policies are difficult to design,
unable to pay the full price of Herceptin receive a discounted
with data on survival rates and
price based on their financial status.
treatment costs hard to find.
Helping establish health insurance
Patients’ access to innovative treatments, including cancer,
depends on a number of factors of which funding is a key To improve the availability and usability of such information,
one. When public health systems cannot guarantee or pay Roche has made a concerted global effort to share data
for timely access to appropriate treatments, private about cancer frequency and the cost of treatment. The aim
insurance funds are often the only alternative. is to enable insurers to better understand and predict the
cost of cancer insurance.
Out-of-pocket payments can
31
become financially catastrophic
for individuals. MILLION
INSURANCE
Private health insurance can play a key role here in providing POLICIES
coverage that offers access to treatment as well as
IN FOUR YEARS TO COVER
protection from financial risks.
CANCER CARE IN CHINA AS A
RESULT OF A ROCHE INITIATIVE
We have been working closely with insurance companies
to help design products for their local markets. In Colombia,
we are collaborating with Fasecolda, Colombia’s association
of private health insurers, to collect cancer-related data in
the country. The data will be published and become publicly
available, enabling insurers to create coverage that protects
cancer patients from the financial impact of their disease
and offers greater access to healthcare possibilities. We are
developing similar programmes in other countries in Latin
America, as well as in Asia and Africa. In countries where
the public healthcare system fails to cover the costs of all
treatments, private insurance is an invaluable way to bridge
the gap and ensure that patients do not fall into poverty as
a result of healthcare costs.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 85Roche | Access to healthcare
Increasing availability of innovative products
Although inadequate infrastructure and a lack of trained
Access to innovative medicines is
medical professionals are often barriers stopping patients
accessing medicines, slow and inconsistent regulatory especially difficult in sub-Saharan
processes, along with poor supply chain management
Africa.
can also present barriers. We are working at a local level
to address some of these challenges and help reduce
bureaucracy and inefficiencies in healthcare systems.
Africa is a continent which has the potential to be the next
A common delay is the regulatory approval process. China. Economic growth in many countries is improving and
Many developing countries first require a Certificate healthcare spending is increasing, however, the development
of Pharmaceutical Product from the EMA and the FDA of healthcare systems varies considerably. Healthcare
before starting their own approval process. However, infrastructure is often poor, supply chains complex and
in recent years, some emerging markets have become expensive; and properly trained medical professionals are
more autonomous, requiring not only European and US thin on the ground. In 2014, we launched a strategy to
approvals for medicines, but their own approval as well. address this and improve access to innovative medicines
Roche is working closely with local authorities and global in areas of Africa where they are not readily available. Our
organisations to harmonise regulatory processes, allowing aim is to initially focus on key diseases where we believe
the approvals to happen in parallel, rather than sequentially. we can make a difference: hepatitis, as well as breast,
This enables companies to start the process much earlier ovarian and cervical cancers. In December, Roche signed
and shave many months, or even years, off an approval. an agreement with the government of the Ivory Coast to
develop a programme to increase access to viral hepatitis
Distribution of biologic medicines, which require constant and breast cancer treatments.
cool temperatures, can also be a significant challenge.
We work closely with governments, local manufacturers Through partnerships with governments and other
and distributors to provide training and develop locally stakeholders, we aim to build disease solutions which
appropriate supply chain capabilities to ensure safe, reliable support infrastructure development, support training
delivery of high-quality medicines to patients. In Asia, Roche and education and improve supply chain. We also plan
has been working with suppliers to develop and qualify a to work with private insurers to create policies that cover
portable Medication Mobility Kit to enable patients to carry treatment for cancer and that have regional, rather than
their cold medicines from the pharmacy to their home. a local risk pool. We also have plans to develop centres
of excellence, as well as create a pan-African platform
for healthcare professional education to train specialists.
There is enormous scope to make a difference to patients
in this part of the world.
86 | Roche Annual Report 2014Access to healthcare | Roche
Increasing availability of innovative products Strengthening infrastructure
Roche has established a number of programmes aimed
10,726
at improving local, national and regional capabilities and
infrastructure. These range from educating and training
healthcare professionals; to helping establish clinics and
laboratories; to strengthening local manufacturing
capabilities and supply chains.
PATHOLOGISTS, SURGEONS
We believe that activities such as these are the most
AND TECHNICIANS TRAINED
sustainable means of addressing local health needs
and helping develop healthcare systems for the future. THROUGH ROCHE SPHERE
PROGRAMME IN ASIA IN 2014
Improving testing capabilities
Timely and reliable diagnostic tests provide valuable
information on a patient’s health status, which not only
improves patient care, but also helps control healthcare The initiative calls for improving laboratory capacity to
costs. ensure that all people living with HIV can be linked to
effective, high-quality HIV treatment services. To support
the initiative, we have committed to expanding access to
As populations age and the burden
our HIV tests through a special pricing scheme for qualifying
of chronic disease increases, so organisations in eligible countries.
does the importance of diagnostics
Socio-economic burden of illness
in achieving good health. Illness not only has a profound impact on patients and their
families, but it can also put a significant burden on society,
especially in lower and middle income countries. In the
Breast cancer testing ASEAN region, Roche is conducting a study in conjunction
In Asia—Pacific we are helping improve awareness, testing with the George Institute for Global Health to assess the
and treatment of breast and gastric cancers with our broader burden of cancer in the region. The aim of the study
SPHERE programme (Scientific Partnership for HER2 Testing is to support policy makers in making informed choices on
Excellence). The aim is to integrate HER2 testing of patients cancer resource allocation and improve support for cancer
at a single point of diagnosis to help patients receive prevention and testing, as well as treatment. It looks
accurate diagnosis of the disease and appropriate selection specifically at the economic impact of cancer on patients
for treatment. and their families, as well as the variation in management of
hospital and non-hospital costs and the impact on quality
SPHERE now operates in 12 markets in Asia: Bangladesh, of life. We hope that analysis such as this report will provide
China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, a strong basis for proper investment into cancer care.
Myanmar, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
HIV viral load testing
We further expanded access to HIV viral load testing
by joining with global and regional partners to launch a
global access programme, a key action step in response
to the Diagnostics Access Initiative launched during the
International AIDS Conference in July 2014. Our partners
include the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS,
the Clinton Health Access Initiative, the United States
President’s Emergency Plan For AIDS Relief and the Global
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 87Roche | Access to healthcare
Increasing awareness and patient support
Healthcare education and awareness are as important psychiatrists and advocacy groups, recommends a five-point
to a patient’s wellbeing as proper medical diagnosis and policy programme to address the problem of social inclusion.
treatment. For this reason, we help local partners to We are also actively participating in a number of initiatives
run screening, awareness and counselling programmes, created by the G7 World Dementia Council, as well as
and seek to empower people worldwide with the knowledge facilitating the bringing together of patient and caregiver
to safeguard and manage their own health. We support a groups in the recently established International Dementia
holistic approach to healthcare by producing newsletters, Forum. This forum aims to advance understanding of the
magazines and other publications aimed at helping people impact dementia has on the daily lives of patients and their
to make healthy choices and changing behaviours to prevent families, and the role therapeutics can play.
disease.
We also brought 137 delegates together from all over the
Supporting patient organisations world, between them covering 12 different therapeutic
We collaborate with patient organisations starting as early areas, with our International Experience Exchange in Vienna,
as the clinical trial phase. As the voice of patients and their Austria, to share best practice in bringing about policy
families, these organisations help us learn more about what change and understanding in care. A similar event was
it is like to live with a disease and the role that drug therapies held for 59 delegates representing patient groups from
play in the management of the disease. We also support the ASEAN region in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The Chugai
patient groups in their efforts to change public policy. Academy for Advanced Oncology, which was founded by
Chugai, a member of the Roche Group, has also established
a similar event — the Japan Experience Exchange for Patient
Our interactions with patient
Organizations, which held two meetings in 2014.
groups help us develop the right
Another initiative during the year was to build on the findings
support tools for our products.
of a Roche-funded, but completely independent report,
The State of Oncology in 2013. Based on the report findings,
In 2014, we made significant progress partnering and
supporting healthcare patient groups, carers and
35
organisations in the field of mental health. Specifically,
we focused very heavily on social inclusion, which is often COUNTRIES
overlooked in mental healthcare and yet is one of the biggest
REPRESENTED
challenges. One of the concrete results of a subsequent
grant award was the publication of the Oxford Health Policy AT THE ROCHE INTERNATIONAL
Forum, Schizophrenia: Time to Commit to Policy Change PATIENT GROUP EXCHANGE IN 2014
report. This document, written by leading international
88 | Roche Annual Report 2014Access to healthcare | Roche
Roche Latin America hosted a forum in Guadalajara, Mexico, with 200 of Japan’s top oncologists hearing from world
to discuss how to improve cancer care. Today, the disease experts about the latest developments in cancer treatment
is responsible for 20% of all deaths in Mexico. Experts from and research.
the region came together, concluding that with the right level
of political will, Latin America could provide a global model Increasing awareness of disease
in cancer control which could be used in other regions. Education and understanding of disease and the treatment
available is very important in improving access to healthcare.
Educating healthcare professionals Roche undertakes disease awareness programmes all over
For healthcare professionals, we conduct training sessions the world, to help patients understand a disease, its risks,
in the proper use of our products, as well as publish and treatments and avoidance strategies. In the United Arab
present our research findings to help physicians and others Emirates (UAE), hepatitis C is a serious problem. This is a
stay abreast of the latest information on diagnostic tests disease that often has no symptoms and in the UAE there
and treatment options. The more understanding medical is urgent need for education about the risk of infection from
practitioners have of our drugs and diagnostic products, the contaminated instruments and certain traditional habits.
better treatment will be for patients. To help achieve this, we To raise awareness of hepatitis C in the UAE, we launched
publish an extensive range of educational and instructional the National Hepatitis C Awareness Campaign in late 2012,
materials, and host or support medical congresses and together with the Emirates Gastroenterology & Hepatology
events. Society. By 2014, the campaign had reached over 40% of
the population — 3.5 million out of 8.5 million people.
One example is our commitment to providing medical
education in therapeutic areas where there is significant In Indonesia, we are working to increase understanding
unmet need. Our ongoing support of the annual European of breast cancer and access to screening. We have an
Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) congress ranges early-detection campaign for oncology doctors, general
from major financial sponsorship, a science-focused booth practitioners, family welfare programme trainers and
and educational symposia, to grants and fellowships for midwives, to teach healthcare professionals the proper
scientists and doctors to participate in and contribute to technique for a clinical breast exam. The campaign is
the success of the congress. In 2014, Roche was honoured conducted in partnership with the Indonesia Cancer
by ESMO for ongoing support of Clinical Fellowships and Foundation and GE Healthcare Indonesia. In 2014,
Translational Fellowships. In Japan in 2014, the Chugai 1,600 doctors, midwives and family welfare programme
Academy for Advanced Oncology held its annual conference trainers were trained.
A selection of Roche initiatives in 2014 to improve access to healthcare
Initiative Country (countries) Description Impact in 2014
AmpliCare sub-Saharan Africa, parts Multi-faceted programme enabling early 1.3 million infants
of South America and Asia diagnosis of infants born to HIV positive tested for HIV
mothers
Changing Diabetes ® 9 countries in Africa and Increase access to care for children with 13,200 children
in Children* South-East Asia type 1 diabetes received free care
Genentech Access USA Help patients who are uninsured or denied Over 40,000 patients
to Care Foundation coverage to receive Roche/Genentech supported
medicines free of charge
SPHERE training 12 markets in Asia Train surgeons, pathologists and lab 10,726 healthcare
programme technicians to improve breast cancer testing professionals trained
Mobile breast cancer North Africa Provide free mammographies to women Over 250,000 women
screening buses in remote desert areas screened
Patient assistance China Improve awareness, testing and treatment 11,446 patients treated
programme of breast and gastric cancer with Herceptin
Roche Scientific Africa Purpose-built training centre to train lab 488 lab technicians
Campus technicians and strengthen diagnostics trained from 25
capabilities countries
Second brand Egypt Increase access to Hepatitis C treatment 34,139 patients treated
programme through differential pricing via a second brand
Transnet-Phelophepa South Africa Provide general healthcare, disease Over 375,000 people
healthcare train awareness, health education in rural areas reached
* Novo Nordisk programme
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 89Access to Healthcare | Spotlight on Africa
90 | Roche Annual Report 2014Spotlight on Africa | Access to Healthcare
“I want people to see
Africa as a continent
of opportunities.”
Charles Fordjour
Charles is passionate about increasing patient access to treatment in Africa.
He is the project leader of the Roche Africa Strategy, which aims to improve
access to innovative medicines in sub-Saharan Africa.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 91A mission to improve
healthcare in Africa
CHARLES FORDJOUR knows the medical realities of Africa. His story shows how one person’s
perseverance and ability to motivate others can make a difference.
I grew up in a village in the Brong Ahafo region of southern a fighting chance. When I left, I gave him my remaining free
Ghana. My father was a civil servant and my mother was a sample vials of the antibiotic.
schoolteacher. Both had modest salaries, and they struggled
to support me and my seven brothers and sisters. Three days later, I returned to the hospital. The doctor asked
me if I knew the child who was running through the halls,
While the other boys were out playing soccer, I often had to laughing and playing. He explained that it was the same girl
stay in bed with a high fever, sweating and nausea. Because who had been in a coma. I almost wept.
I was ill so often, the other kids called me ‘sickler’.
That doctor was instrumental in writing a protocol that
Many years later, I learned that the cause of my illness was became institutional policy in that teaching hospital in Ghana
probably malaria. This disease kills more than 5,000 children for treating severe infections with the Roche antibiotic for
every week in Africa. the first 48−72 hours. That change in healthcare policy has
saved many lives.
As a consequence of my illness, I had a lot of time to read.
I devoured every book I could get my hands on. That helped I worked my way up to being the Field Force Manager of the
me in school, and soon I became the best pupil in class. Roche affiliate in Ghana, and in 2008 was asked to become
Country Manager of Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country
When I was in secondary school, I went to see a pharmacist with over 170 million people.
and told him about the regular bouts of fever. He prescribed
the Roche anti-malarial medicine Fansidar and my symptoms
disappeared! That is when I decided to become a
pharmacist.
I worked my way through university by transporting raw
materials and mixing medicines that lecturers sold in their FOUR
own pharmacies. After graduating, I joined the Roche
affiliate in Ghana in 1998 as a sales representative. The
teaching hospitals that I called on were more than eight
hours apart by car over dusty, badly maintained roads that
turned to mud in the rainy season.
TIMES MORE PEOPLE HAVE
One day, I arrived at a hospital and saw that a young girl
HEPATITIS THAN HIV
was in a coma due to a bacterial infection. The doctor told
me that he wanted to treat her with the Roche antibiotic
IN SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA2
Rocephin, but it was too expensive. I pleaded with him to
treat the girl for at least the first 48−72 hours to give herSpotlight on Africa | Access to Healthcare
AN ESTIMATED
53,000
WOMEN DIE
FROM CERVICAL CANCER
IN AFRICA EVERY YEAR3
In Nigeria, healthcare authorities were mainly focused on
the communicable diseases like malaria, tuberculosis
and HIV. These decision-makers were unaware of the real
disease burden of hepatitis and women’s cancers.
“Patient access in Nigeria to
hepatitis diagnosis and treatment
has increased dramatically.”
We worked with the global organisation of Roche for a grant
to obtain reliable epidemiological figures, starting with
hepatitis. When the data was analysed, the prevalence of
hepatitis in the population was 12%−significantly higher
than the 8% estimate provided by the World Health
Organization (WHO) at the time and three times higher
than the prevalence of HIV.
That shocked healthcare authorities into action. Now there Charles wants to achieve a breakthrough in patient access to medicines
is a national policy in Nigeria to diagnose and treat hepatitis and tests in Africa.
B and C. Roche Diagnostics has leased sophisticated
screening tools at a minimal charge. Roche Pharmaceuticals
has made a large price reduction for the hepatitis drug I am convinced that our experience in Nigeria can serve
Pegasys. as a blueprint for the rest of sub-Saharan Africa. This is
a dynamic, urbanising region that already has 50 cities
As a result, patient access in Nigeria to hepatitis diagnosis with a population of more than one million. By 2040, the
and treatment has increased dramatically. Lives are being population is expected to reach two billion.
saved, but there is still much to be done. We are now
working to implement the same approach for breast, To achieve a breakthrough in patient access on this
ovarian and cervical cancer. continent, we must invest for the long term and work with
local authorities to shape healthcare policy. Roche cannot
do this alone. We need to partner with international
“I am passionate about creating a
foundations, private companies and non-governmental
healthcare environment in Africa organisations such as the UN and WHO.
with good diagnostic centres,
I believe we can eradicate hepatitis and greatly improve
affordable medicines and broad cancer treatments. And I want Roche to be known as
a leader in finding solutions.
insurance coverage.”
2 Global statistics AIDS.gov; Pan-African Medical Journal 2015; WHO: Globalcan | 3 WHO. Cervical Cancer.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 93Key facts | Responsible business
Responsible
business
94 | Roche Annual Report 2014Responsible business | Key facts
32
M I LLION
Swiss francs to support patient organisations
101
countries where the
Roche Group Speak-Up Line is in operation
5,000
business partner representatives
completed training on the Roche Supplier Code of Conduct
166
supplier sustainability audits
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 95Roche | Responsible business
Integrity is at the core of everything we do
WE DEMAND THE HIGHEST STANDARDS of ethics and integrity from all our employees
and business partners. Our commitment goes well beyond the legal and regulatory requirements
for compliance: it is a fundamental part of how we do business.
In 2014, we continued to strengthen compliance, both conflict of interest, abuse of company assets, expense fraud,
throughout our operations as well as with our external harassment and discrimination. The remainder related to
partners. During the year, 98.7% of our employees were violations of company integrity, such as good practice in
trained on a new integrity directive, which was launched at marketing, antitrust and false records. Out of 512 allegations,
the end of 2013. This directive is designed to further specify 104 were unfounded, 164 are still under investigation, and
and clarify the expectations outlined in the Roche Group 244 were founded. All allegations are subject to careful
Code of Conduct and it focuses on four areas: bribery and investigation and, if allegations are founded, adequate
granting of advantages; gifts and entertainment; dealing sanctions are taken. 157 employment contracts were
with business partners; and conflict of interest. terminated on the grounds of unethical behaviour. 13
agreements with business partners were also terminated
for the same reason.
We believe that integrity is key
to our long-term success. We expect the same standards from our business partners,
as we do for ourselves. Our Roche Supplier Code of Conduct
is included in contracts and we offer training in support. In
Two additional directives were also formalised during the 2014, we also launched a new internet site to give guidance
year; the first on interaction with healthcare professionals on compliance-related topics for current and prospective
and organisations; and the second on grants, sponsorships business partners. This guidance includes the Code, as well
and donations. Training and education on both directives as an anti-corruption compliance questionnaire. We also
will begin in 2015. conducted 166 supplier sustainability audits worldwide,
using a risk-based approach. We had more than 500 findings
All employees at Roche are trained on the Code of Conduct, from these audits and collaborated with the suppliers
which is supported by a Help & Advice Line for employees involved to resolve them quickly. We conducted 44 follow-up
to seek guidance on the interpretation of the Code. The aim audits. For more information please see our Suppliers
is to create an open culture to discuss issues and prevent website (www.roche.com/sustainability/for_partnership/
violations, and employees are also able to report non- suppliers.htm).
compliant behaviour. We do not tolerate retaliation against
employees raising a compliance concern in good faith.
In 2014, 80 employees contacted the Roche Group Speak- 98.7%
Up Line, which is now available in 53 languages in 101
countries. In 2014, we also expanded the scope of our
Code of Conduct reporting system to include all allegations
of breaches, whether material or not, across all Roche
affiliates. This increases transparency and gives us a more
OF OUR EMPLOYEES
comprehensive picture of how non-compliance allegations
are handled locally. Overall, with the new reporting system, WERE TRAINED ON A NEW
the Chief Compliance Officer received 512 reports relating
INTEGRITY DIRECTIVE
to alleged violations of the Code of Conduct. The vast
majority of reports related to personal integrity, such as
96 | Roche Annual Report 2014Responsible business | Roche
Increasing transparency
At Roche, we believe transparency is critical to a productive franc range and overall less than 3% of total contributions
and responsible business environment. and donations.
Clinical trial results from Roche-sponsored studies are Our employees in the United States can make personal
reported on Roche-trials.com and ClinicalTrials.gov, as well political contributions through Roche’s Good Government
as published in journals and at congresses. The Roche Data Committee and Genentech’s Political Action Committee
Sharing Policy reflects our commitment to increasing (GenenPAC). Both are voluntary political action committees.
transparency and sharing of clinical trial information, whilst In 2014, employees donated 328,252 US dollars to political
safeguarding patient confidentiality and the regulatory campaigns through these committees.
process. The policy provides the opportunity to request
global clinical study reports and other summary reports.
In addition, researchers may obtain access to analysable Contributions to healthcare institutions
patient-level data from our clinical trials after their requests Total amount: 136 million Swiss francs
have been reviewed and approved by an independent panel
50%
of experts. Access is approved on the basis of scientific Education of healthcare professionals
merit. In both cases, data is anonymised to respect the Education of patients
7%
privacy of patients participating in our trials in accordance and general public
with relevant laws and regulations.
43%
Research
We work closely with healthcare institutions and patient
organisations in areas where we have particular expertise
and can provide support and education. We fund many kinds
of activities including seminars for professionals and patient Contributions to patient organisations
organisations, as well as workshops and training. Total amount: 32 million Swiss francs
6%
Roche remains independent of any political affiliation; Treatment adherence projects
however, we do support a number of associations
16%
and political institutions. In Switzerland, we spent around Workshops, seminars and meetings
9.5 million Swiss francs, which includes payments
14%
to Interpharma, economiesuisse, scienceindustries, Educational grants
SwissHoldings and various chambers of commerce, financial Services contracted
3%
assistance to trade unions and donations to political parties with patient organisations
at the cantonal and federal level. Donations to political
61%
parties are each in the low-double-digit thousand Swiss Disease awareness and general education
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 97Roche | Responsible business
Engaging with our stakeholders
Engaging with our stakeholders is essential for stakeholders in 2014 to contribute our expertise on issues
understanding their expectations, needs and concerns. such as insurance coverage expansion, biosimilars, drug
By embedding their feedback into our strategy and our safety and security, corporate tax and payment and delivery
daily business, we are able to address our common issues reform.
and develop long-term solutions.
All employees working with government officials are
We interact with our stakeholders through a variety of expected to follow our good practice guidelines and act
communication channels, such as corporate websites and in an appropriate ethical and professional manner.
other publications. In addition, we participate in more formal
and structured engagement, such as meetings, forums Non-financial reporting
and other events, and carry out consultations and surveys. We have adopted the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4
reporting guidelines, which we disclose at the core
We have established Group-wide guidelines and policies to application level. We also report a number of additional
govern our interactions with key stakeholder groups. We indicators that are relevant to our business and stakeholders
capture stakeholder concerns at a local level and re-channel which go beyond the requirements for the core level.
them to the global list of strategic communication priorities.
This helps us incorporate stakeholder interests into Materiality
our strategic plans, as well as focus our communication To ensure we have identified the topics that affect our
on topics of most relevance to our stakeholders. stakeholders and that are relevant for our long-term
success, we have conducted a materiality analysis at the
Political and industry engagement corporate level amongst our key stakeholders, in line
As well as engaging with healthcare professionals and with our Strategic Framework, and described on the related
patient organisations, we are also active in consulting with Roche website (see page 172). In a first step, in 2013 we
government officials, industry bodies and other stakeholders defined an integrated process, criteria for inclusion and main
such as think tanks and academic institutions to participate drivers for the materiality assessment. In a second step,
in debate and develop effective laws, regulations and in 2014 we gathered stakeholder feedback through various
policies for public health. Key areas for discussion in the EU internal and external sources, conferences as well as regular
in 2014, for example, were regulations on a number of topics, interviews and one-on-one discussions conducted by Roche
including clinical trials; the Innovative Medicines Initiative experts. This enabled us to include the topics from those
(IMI2); data protection; and medical devices and in vitro stakeholder groups that we consider most important to our
diagnostic tests. business and to the healthcare sector: patient organisations,
employees, media, investors, payers, regulators and
In the US, the landscape remained heavily influenced governments. We also identified key corporate business
by the development of healthcare reform and the ensuing risks and opportunities through our internal risk framework
debates around it. Genentech worked closely with its (see page 100).
98 | Roche Annual Report 2014Responsible business | Roche
In a final step, we combined those various insights and The process and the results of our materiality analysis
identified 21 material topics that stood out as highly relevant have been endorsed by the Roche Corporate Sustainability
to us and our key stakeholders, and with a significant Committee and by our Chief Executive Officer.
economic, environmental or social impact. These 21 material
topics are reflected in our business priorities. We build Moving forward, we will maintain constant engagement with
concrete actions relating to them in our operational our key stakeholders at a global and local level and regularly
activities, and measure performance through defined update our materiality analysis.
indicators as described on the related Roche website (see
page 172).
Step 1 Step 2 Step 3
» »
Defining the materiality process Collecting stakeholder feedback Identifying material topics
Preparing our assessment Views from our stakeholders Our 21 material topics
• Confirm process, criteria and • Identify key stakeholders • Map the most significant
drivers to assess materiality of • Collect feedback through surveys economic, environmental and
key topics and internal experts social topics for our long-term
• Determine ability to influence success
topics and opportunities for • Address through operational
differentiation View from Roche activities and align with our
• Identify key corporate business strategic priorities
risks and opportunities through • Plan ongoing pro-active
our established risk framework engagement with key
stakeholders
Material topics actively managed by Roche
Stakeholders Roche
Compliance
Executive compensation Occupational accidents
Growth strategy
Employee engagement/retention Compensation/benefits
Data transparency on clinical trials
Pricing Patent policies
Organisational effectiveness
Product portfolio strategy
Disease awareness &
treatment education R & D pipeline strategy & Leadership commitments
personalised healthcare
Drug efficacy, safety & counterfeiting Community engagement
Sponsorship for patient Environmental responsibility
organisations
Sustainable healthcare Supply chain management
Biosimilars
Area of high interest to stakeholders Areas of strategic interest to Roche and stakeholders Area of high interest to Roche
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 99Roche | Responsible business
Managing risk and crisis
We have in place a full Risk Management Policy, which sets We have also updated our Group Influenza Pandemic Policy
out our approach for identifying, managing and reporting and supporting materials based on the latest World Health
internal and external risks and opportunities. We also use Organization Interim Guidance. This guidance, which is risk
stakeholder feedback to help manage social, environmental based, is to be evaluated at a national/local level. The Group
and economic risks and opportunities. Policy reiterates our strategy to promote preventative
measures to reduce infection risk, such as social distancing,
Using consistent methodologies and processes, we routinely personal protective equipment, vaccination provision (where
perform risk assessments at all levels of our organisation. possible), and to use antivirals as part of an influenza
A Group Risk Report, which covers all material risks, is pandemic management plan.
annually discussed with the Corporate Executive Committee
and reviewed by the Board of Directors. We regularly Sustainability risks and opportunities
update our risk management processes to raise awareness Business sustainability risks include risks affecting multiple
and understanding of risk throughout the Roche Group. parts of the company, as well as risks which may have longer
term impact. In 2014, Roche enhanced its Business
The Group Risk Management team provides advisory Sustainability Risk Assessment approach, which allows us
services to sites, affiliates, project and product teams. to assess emerging risks on an annual basis and to integrate
It monitors risk patterns in specialist areas such as social these into our existing Group Risk Management Process.
media, IT security, compliance and sustainability. E-Learning Using this approach, potential business sustainability risks
programmes, classroom training, workshops and risk were identified from literature review, risk intelligence
roundtables are in place to improve the understanding of sources and workshops with the Corporate Sustainability
risk and help employees manage them appropriately. In 2014, Committee. Each of these risks was then assessed by an
a Risk Forum concept involving a group of internal thought expert cross-functional team resulting in a short list of five
leaders was launched in order to raise risk awareness across business sustainability risks that have now been integrated
the organisation. into our 2014 Group Risk Management Process.
Additionally, we have established incident management The five business sustainability risks identified
teams throughout the Roche Group to ensure that we act for 2014 are:
quickly in an emergency. These teams regularly rehearse • Earthquake (Basel, Tokyo, South San Francisco)
different crisis scenarios, alerts and escalation procedures. • Inadequate strategies for Cloud, mHealth (use of mobile
We continue to strengthen our business continuity devices), eHealth (use of electronic devices) and social
management (BCM) to ensure that all our sites respond media
effectively to catastrophic events and deliver a minimum, • Cyber attack
acceptable level of key products and services. A Group • Issue response not yet optimised
BCM policy and guideline is in place, facilitating a consistent • Third-party relationships
and aligned local implementation. We are currently rolling
out the new BCM framework across the Group to make sure
Roche’s operations are resilient and capable of effectively
responding to major disruptions.
100 | Roche Annual Report 2014Responsible business | Roche
Safeguarding patients
Our priority is to make sure that the therapeutic benefits unreported adverse event reports and completed a safety
of a medicine outweigh the risks of side effects. Any assessment for each impacted product.
medicine can cause side effects and it is important for us
to understand and monitor adverse events that patients may In November 2013, the European Medicines Agency (EMA)
have experienced whilst on our medicines. To this end, confirmed the Roche assessment that, based on all available
we regularly audit the quality of our processes and systems safety information, the benefit-risk balance of the medicines
internally, in addition to supporting regulatory authority concerned was not impacted. All medicines remain
inspections. We also maintain strict product recall authorised without changes to the treatment advice for
procedures to ensure that we can withdraw products patients and healthcare professionals. Corrective and
rapidly should quality or safety problems arise. preventative actions resulting from the health authority
inspections have been completed or are being completed.
We have a systemised process
A further re-inspection by authorities in November and
to ensure that every product December 2013 resulted in additional findings, which are
being addressed. In parallel, EMA has initiated a procedure
is safe and effective throughout
to investigate whether Roche had infringed some legal
its lifecycle. obligations relating to the reporting of the adverse events.
On 14 April 2014, EMA issued its report to the European
Commission, which is now deciding how to proceed with
All Roche employees are required to complete training on this matter.
adverse events and immediately report any issue relating
to the safety or quality of our medicines. Adverse events are We have reinforced our processes throughout the
stored in a global database, reviewed by a qualified organisation to optimise our understanding, management
physician and reported promptly to the appropriate and communication of the safety profile of our medicines.
regulatory authorities, as required. Any report to the
company of an adverse event experienced by a patient on
We strive to go above and beyond
a Roche drug is included in the company’s safety database,
which is used to regularly evaluate whether the benefits what is required to protect the
of a medicine still outweigh the risks.
health and safety of the patients
Following an internal quality review at the end of 2011, Roche who rely on our products.
identified some unreported missed adverse events from its
Patient Assistance Program in the United States. Following
discussions with the relevant health authorities, Roche We are fully committed to meeting the highest standards of
conducted a retrospective global search to identify any Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and Good Pharmacovigilance
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 101Roche | Responsible business
Strengthening compliance across the organisation We have also separated our commercial and medical
organisations, differentiating clearly between non-
promotional activities of a medical or scientific intent and
Processes & promotional activities. This separation has also allowed
procedures for fully transparent budgeting and costs, as well as new
definitions of roles and responsibilities.
In support of this separation, we have established a Pharma
Plan Do Healthcare Compliance Office to ensure clear governance,
oversight and decision-making across the organisation.
Strategy & Continuous Records
governance improvement
Anti-counterfeiting and supply chain control
measures
Act Check
Counterfeiting of medical products is a serious and growing
global problem. The World Health Organization (WHO)
defines a counterfeit medicine as ‘one which is deliberately
and fraudulently mislabelled with respect to identity and/or
Organisational
effectiveness source.’ It estimates that counterfeiting, substandard
formulation, contamination, fakery, and active ingredient
substitution constitute a 431 billion US dollar market. 1
Practice (GVP) regulations and to meeting the evolving Illegally imported medicines may also not have been stored
expectations of health authorities around the world. We have or handled properly and could be contaminated, damaged
a Medical Compliance organisation that sets strategy or degraded. Patients are the ultimate victims of this criminal
and standards, and provides full visibility of all quality and activity.
compliance activities.
In answer to increasing global supply chain challenges and
Our new quality management system sets out the structure, international criminal activities, in 2010, Roche initiated a
responsibilities and procedures to help us identify, measure, ten-year programme to increase security in our supply chain.
control and enhance core quality and compliance processes. We are implementing a number of new technologies
Alongside this, we are simplifying all global processes and including overt and covert anti-counterfeiting features, 2D
procedures, as well as the associated documents and barcoding, mass serialisation techniques, tamper-evident
training. To support the implementation of the new quality packaging as well as tracking and tracing systems. In 2014,
management system, more than 160,000 training we increased supply of serialised products significantly,
assignments were completed in 2014. particularly those for China and the US.
To ensure that any significant compliance issues can be On completion of the programme, which is anticipated by
quickly tracked and acted upon, in 2014 we developed new 2018, every Roche product, folding box, case and pallet will
procedures for corrective action. This involved the have a unique identification. With the cooperation of health
introduction of tracking and reporting tools, in addition to authorities and other trading partners, this will ultimately
a comprehensive suite of training materials and guidance enable tracking and tracing from our manufacturing facilities,
on how to conduct a root cause analysis. They will be rolled through all global distribution channels and, then, to the
out in 2015. patient.
We are also working with international trade organisations
in support of industry-wide efforts to improve the safety
and security of the pharmaceutical supply chain. In addition,
9,000
we collaborate with health authorities, law enforcement
bodies and other government agencies in the countries
where our products are sold on traceability guidelines and
regulations.
We continue to explore the potential of new technologies
to support a worldwide trend towards digitisation of drug
EMPLOYEES WERE
supply chains. With ongoing advances in technology,
we expect intelligent packaging to allow for more interaction
TRAINED ON NEW QUALITY AND
within the healthcare systems, driving innovation
COMPLIANCE PROCESSES IN 2014 and efficiencies in other areas of our operations and
in healthcare generally.
102 | Roche Annual Report 2014Responsible business | Roche
Roche is using new technologies, including 2D barcoding and tamper-evident packaging, to bolster supply chain security.
Biosimilars The clinical profile of non-comparable biotherapeutic products
Biologic medicines (manufactured from biological sources) cannot be expected to be the same as the innovator biological
have become an essential part of modern medicine. Demand medicine, and remains unknown due to lack of quality
continues to rise for innovative Roche biologics such as side-by-side assessment showing similarity and/or lack of
MabThera/Rituxan, Actemra/RoActemra, Kadcyla and Perjeta, comparative clinical data. These potentially significant
as they play an important role in improving the lives of differences could put patients at risk of poor health outcomes.
patients.
Non-comparable biologics
At the same time, a second group of products has been
developed and commercialised, which their manufacturers of unknown quality and clinical
claim are similar to the original biologic medicine, biosimilars.
As the name implies, these products are similar, but not profile can pose a significant
identical, to the original product. To meet the claim of being
burden to healthcare systems
similar and follow the guidelines set by the WHO, a biosimilar
must be ‘similar in terms of quality, safety and efficacy to and society.
an already licensed reference product’. 2
Producing biosimilars is, however, far more complicated than Our view is that the risk of non-comparable biologics to
producing generic versions of off-patent, chemically patients and public health must be minimised or eliminated
synthesised medicines. The complex molecular structure and by appropriate comparative evaluations that are consistent
unique manufacturing process required make these products with WHO guidelines for biosimilars. The implementation of
difficult to reproduce. such oversight, however, is uneven globally. Some national
regulatory agencies have appropriate frameworks in place,
The challenges in producing biosimilars have given rise to whilst others are in the process of adapting theirs. We
a third group of products: non-comparable biologics. This new continue, meanwhile, to implement our strategy to innovate,
term has been proposed by the International Federation of expand and protect our biologic medicines and keep ahead
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations to describe of potential competition. We have amended the Roche
those medicinal products that are intended to copy the position on biosimilars reflecting new developments and
original biologics, but fail to meet science-based standards for it can be found on roche.com.
direct comparison. They also do not meet WHO guidelines
for quality, safety and efficacy.
1 WHO. Essential medicines and health products: General information on counterfeit medicines. | 2 WHO. Guidelines on evaluation of similar
biotherapeutic products (SBPs) 2009.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 103Responsible Business | Spotlight on mental health
104 | Roche Annual Report 2014Spotlight on mental health | Responsible Business
“Medical treatment
is just one part of
the solution.”
Lee Dunster
Lee has been instrumental in creating an International Working Group
with patient groups and policy makers to work towards a more holistic
view of treating schizophrenia. He is also helping to build a global network
for improving Alzheimer’s care.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 105Understanding the wider
implications of mental illness
LEE DUNSTER believes that social inclusion is an extremely important facet of mental illness
treatment. He is working with organisations worldwide to improve support for people in this
very challenging area.
I have looked at diseases and their impact on people from ONE IN FOUR
many different perspectives. I began my career as a research
scientist in microbiology and then went on to run a World
PEOPLE WORLDWIDE
Health Organization (WHO) collaboration centre in Kenya for
viral hemorrhagic fevers like Ebola and Rift Valley fever. My
ARE LIVING WITH A
wife and I helped to set up an early response and diagnostic
network in East Africa for these diseases, which remains MENTAL DISORDER3
active to this day. Drawing on this experience, I worked as
an adviser to the WHO in Egypt, focusing on regional
preparedness to support measles eradication. From there,
I became the Head of Research and Information for the UK
Multiple Sclerosis Society, where I was able to bring about Policy Manager was to bring together policy experts and
fundamental change to research funding and create a new mental health associations from around the world, so
programme focused on non-medical intervention to improve we could understand the needs of people affected by
quality of life for patients. schizophrenia. We learned that real benefits would come
when society provided the support and opportunities
I joined Roche in 2010 working in Global Public Policy and which could only be achieved by many different stakeholders
a year later I found myself in a new role to support our efforts working together.
to improve treatment for people living with schizophrenia.
A milestone in our international collaboration was the
Most of us think of schizophrenia in connection with the critically acclaimed report, made possible by a grant from
‘visible’ symptoms: hallucinations, delusions and self-harm. Roche, ‘Schizophrenia: Time to Commit to Policy Change’.
In fact, the ‘hidden’ symptoms of schizophrenia — a lack of This report brought together leading psychiatrists and
motivation, speech problems, withdrawal from people — advocacy groups to provide concrete recommendations
can be even more debilitating over the long term, leading for policy change.
to isolation and exclusion from family and society.
Collaborations with patient organisations from Europe,
Roche was developing a treatment to address these hidden the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, Hong Kong,
symptoms of schizophrenia. From the outset, however, it South Africa and Brazil, resulted in the formation of the
was clear that treatment alone would be unlikely to provide International Working Group (IWG) on Social Inclusion and
meaningful change and improve everyday living for people Schizophrenia. Many of these organisations had little, if any,
with schizophrenia. My goal as Senior International Public regular contact with each other, yet all shared a common
goal.Spotlight on mental health | Responsible Business
44
MILLION PEOPLE
WORLDWIDE ARE
LIVING WITH DEMENTIA4
The aim of working together was to identify how policy
changes could respond to the needs of people affected by
schizophrenia and introduce new initiatives to improve lives.
We found that the ‘hidden’ symptoms of schizophrenia could Lee is developing a dementia forum with leading patient associations in the field
be tackled by increasing social inclusion and challenging of Alzheimer’s disease.
stigma. This is also true for managing many other types
of mental illness. By sharing experience we can identify
opportunities to integrate people with schizophrenia Even though the clinical programme ended, Roche continues
into society. This includes education and jobs that help to support social inclusion and the efforts of the International
individuals regain self-esteem, independent living and Working Group. As the IWG knows, changing policy is a
social interaction. lengthy process and this is just the beginning.
Personal experience has helped shape my thinking about As Roche develops its presence in the field of neuroscience,
social inclusion. I have a 12-year-old daughter with autism we are building on the experience gained from the
and it remains a struggle to convince local authorities to International Working Group. Recently, I have started to
provide support to include her in everyday activities like develop a dementia forum with leading patient associations
mainstream schooling. My wife and I want her to have the in the field of Alzheimer’s disease. The insights being gained
same opportunities as everyone else to develop her talents from this partnership with patient groups are shaping the
and lead a full and independent life. way we conduct research and development as well as policy
objectives across the Roche neuroscience portfolio, which
includes multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer’s disease, autism and
“By working to overcome the stigma
Down’s syndrome.
associated with mental illness,
we can provide opportunities for “Effective treatment requires
inclusion into society.” a vision of the whole person
and all the factors influencing
There were high hopes for the Roche therapy, bitopertin, an individual’s quality of life.”
for treating schizophrenia. Unfortunately, in the final stages
the trials failed to demonstrate sufficient efficacy and were
halted early in 2014. Nevertheless, the studies did generate In all of these areas, social inclusion plays a crucial role.
valuable data that were openly shared with the medical Effective treatment requires a vision of the whole person
community and provided insights for developing future and all the factors influencing an individual’s quality of
treatments and the design of clinical trials. life. Whilst medical treatment is important, it is just one
part of the solution.
3 WHO. World health report: Mental disorders affect one in four people. | 4 Alzheimer’s Association. Alzheimer’s & dementia e-news.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 107Key facts | People
People
108 | Roche Annual Report 2014People | Key facts
81%
of our employees
are proud to work for Roche
71%
overall employee
engagement
Average employee profile
with Roche for 9 years
3 years in current role
41 years old
88,509
employees
North America Europe
22,992 38,770
Asia
20,530
Latin America
4,658
Africa
864 Australia
695
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 109Roche | People
Engaging and energising our people
GREAT COMPANIES are defined by people who embrace a shared sense of purpose, put extra
energy and passion into their jobs and identify with common goals. That is the kind of engagement
we aim for at Roche.
Our concept of engagement reflects the evolving needs Research shows that the level of engagement is a strong
of our workforce and the world around us. To stay aligned long-term predictor for organisational performance.
with what drives our employees, we ask for feedback at
regular intervals through our Global Employee Opinion
Survey (GEOS). This survey includes questions that measure Global Employee Opinion Survey results
engagement through drivers and statements about belief,
commitment and action.
+8 +9
Employees take GEOS seriously because they know their percentage points in percentage points in
opinions matter and concrete actions will be taken based participation since 2011 engagement since 2011
on their feedback. The first survey results in 2011 resulted
in the development of our Leadership Commitments, which 88%
71%
have become the foundation of how we manage and lead + 8
+9
people at Roche. 80%
62%
Engagement is directly linked
2011 2014 2011 2014
to our business success. Our target was to achieve 80% employee engagement by end 2014.
We achieved 71%, but this result still puts us among the best in class
in our industry.
110 | Roche Annual Report 2014People | Roche
Applause from peers across the globe
People at Roche work with colleagues from multiple
198,367
functions at locations around the world. With the online tool
Applause, employees can now recognise each other directly
through eCards or reward point nominations. It is simple, fast
and widely appreciated. Launched in 2014, Applause is now
live in 200 Roche affiliates, 109 countries and ten languages.
PEER-TO-PEER RECOGNITIONS
AMONGST OUR EMPLOYEES IN 2014
Recognising and rewarding employees
There are also numerous benefits for employees that vary
Recognition is a key driver of
from site to site. These may include discounts on buying
employee engagement. People Roche stocks, pension schemes, health insurance, childcare,
on-site fitness, medical facilities, flu vaccinations,
want to be acknowledged and
preventative health screenings, discounts with local retailers
appreciated by others. and transportation to the workplace. We also offer an
International SOS service to all employees and their
dependents if an emergency situation arises when travelling
The results of the Global Employee Opinion Survey have or living abroad.
triggered a paradigm shift in the culture of Roche.
Recognition is now firmly embedded in our Leadership In 2014, a Wellbeing Week was held for the second
Commitments. In 2014, we launched an innovative consecutive year at 110 Roche sites around the world.
programme of peer-to-peer recognition: Applause. And A wide range of activities were organised around four
whilst the emphasis is on recognising colleagues, managers main themes: healthy lifestyle, emotional wellbeing,
are notified each time an employee receives an Applause prevention practices and wellbeing resources.
award.
We strive for a performance-driven culture. This is based 71%
on continuous dialogue and feedback between managers
and employees. In 2014, 89% of employees surveyed in
an internal ‘pulse check’ agreed that ‘feedback discussions
with my manager support both my day-to-day tasks and
my development at Roche.’
OF EMPLOYEES ARE
In terms of compensation, we try to strike a balance
between a highly competitive base salary and performance-
SATISFIED WITH THEIR
linked rewards. In addition to bonuses linked to individual
achievements, Roche offers rewards linked to the overall BENEFITS AT ROCHE1
success of the company.
1 Results Global Employee Opinion Survey 2014.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 111Roche | People
Appreciating everyone’s contribution
At Roche, we strive to create an environment where
48%
everyone regardless of gender, race, ethnicity, sexual
preference or religious background can contribute Women
to our mission of delivering innovative diagnostics
in total workforce
solutions and developing life-saving drugs.
40%
Diversity and inclusion is a Women
high priority. in management level
For us, diversity and inclusion is a high priority. We want inclusion events in many Roche sites across the world. These
diversity to go beyond the visible differences to include events demonstrate our commitment and enthusiasm to
different educational backgrounds, professional knowledge, become a more diverse and inclusive organisation. These
personality types, thinking styles and life experiences. activities marked a fundamental shift toward viewing
We actively support and encourage an environment where diversity and inclusion as a critical success factor for our
everyone feels free to speak his or her mind. Only in that business and an element of successful leadership at all levels
way can we discover the best ideas and develop truly of the company. To maintain this momentum, we have
innovative solutions. diversity champions leading these efforts at our largest sites.
In 2014, senior leaders and some members of the Corporate Various parts of our worldwide organisation are at different
Executive Committee participated in various diversity and points on the diversity and inclusion journey. While certain
corporate goals apply worldwide, there is freedom for
affiliates to adapt to local culture and priorities.
Female representation among key leadership positions
Common understanding of diversity and inclusion
In 2014, the Roche Corporate Executive Committee
21.7%
discussed and agreed on what diversity and inclusion means
+ 66.9%
at our company. These definitions help to ensure that all
13%
employees across the globe share a common understanding.
Diversity refers to ‘the mix’: a wide range of visible and
2009 2014 invisible differences that exist among people. These include,
Our goal was to achieve 20% of women representation in key leadership but are not limited to, values, beliefs, physical differences,
positions by the end of 2014. With an achievement of 21.7%, we exceeded
this target.
How diversity and inclusion is linked to future growth
Emerging markets will be the most important growth driver access programmes that address the local needs of
for Roche over the next five to ten years. To succeed in these customers and patients.
markets, we must reflect their diversity in our decision-
making. This means ensuring that more global leaders are
recruited from countries such as China, Brazil, Turkey or
Russia. And vice-versa, we encourage Roche leaders from
developed countries to share best practices and gain
hands-on experience in emerging markets.
Creating a diverse group of decision-makers is only half the
story. Practicing inclusion is equally important. At Roche, our
leaders need to draw out expertise and knowledge from
different cultural norms. Integrating a wide range of
perspectives is crucial to developing new medicines or Daniel O’Day, Chief Operating Officer, Roche Pharmaceuticals
112 | Roche Annual Report 2014People | Roche
ethnicity, age, gender, experiences, thinking styles, are actively included, treated fairly and respectfully, have
backgrounds, preferences and behaviours. equal access to opportunities and resources, and can
be themselves while contributing fully to the organisation’s
Inclusion refers to ‘making the mix work’: proactive success.
behaviours that create an environment in which all people
Preparing the workplace of the future
Our world is changing rapidly, particularly in terms of groups of people engaged and productive requires
demographics, employee expectations and technology. leadership competence that is sensitive towards individual
In industrialised countries in Western Europe and Japan, needs, as well as flexible solutions in terms of compensation,
for example, the median age of the population is steadily work arrangements, technology, professional development
increasing while birth rates are decreasing, which means and social responsibility.
shortages of skilled labour in the years ahead.2
To attract and retain the best talent, Roche has a broad
outreach programme that includes a strong presence
As a global company, Roche is
on social media platforms such as Facebook and LinkedIn.
thinking ahead about what
Beyond traditional recruiting at universities and business
these trends mean for the future
schools, we collaborate actively with academic institutions
workplace. through webinars and by sharing business cases. Roche
also offers a number of internships and post-doctoral
research positions.
As more experienced employees postpone their retirement
in many developed countries and early-in-career people Roche has taken an innovative approach to seeking out the
begin employment, five generations will be working together, most capable people by positioning globally aligned ‘talent
from traditionalists and baby boomers to generations X, Y scouts’ in priority areas of our business. These specialists
and Z. proactively search for qualified candidates and build diverse
talent pipelines for positions that are difficult to fill and
These different generations have common requirements as critical for our business. Talent scouts also help to cover any
well as different values and priorities. Keeping these diverse prioritised gaps in our internal succession planning.
2 World population ageing 2013, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, United Nations.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 113Roche | People
Building for the future open plan offices and meeting rooms. Building 1 will not
Roche is investing over three billion Swiss francs in new only be the tallest building in Switzerland, but also one
research infrastructure and attractive workspaces at Basel of the most energy efficient, using waste heat generated
headquarters over the next ten years. The first part of the from production processes for warmth and ground water
construction project, Building 1, is slated for completion in for cooling. State-of-the-art video conferencing and
2015. It will feature open communication zones to enhance telepresence technology will limit the need for travel, further
collaboration among employees and modular office spaces helping us to keep our environmental footprint under control.
that can be adapted for the required mix of single offices,
Developing the full potential of our leaders
The results of GEOS in 2011 were a catalyst in clarifying The results of GEOS in 2014 show that employees
the expectations we have for managing and leading people appreciate the approach we are taking. Since 2011,
at Roche. Intensive workshops, involving many managers the scores for Senior Leadership have risen 9 percentage
at different levels, produced succinct, clearly worded points, 11 percentage points for People Focus, and
leadership commitments that have been embraced by 23 percentage points for Keeping Promises.
managers at all levels of our company. These commitments
were cascaded through our global organisation, with In addition to developing our current leaders, we also have
our leaders giving personal examples of what they mean a well-defined succession and talent management process
in daily practice. Developed by Roche for Roche, these to ensure that Roche has a robust and diverse pool of
commitments are our basis for good leadership. qualified candidates for critical positions. We identify
leadership ‘high potentials’ early in their career and provide
In 2014, these commitments continued to be translated into them with targeted development.
tangible processes that define the way we manage and lead
people. The leadership commitments are now embedded in Leadership experience in emerging markets
our performance management tool, 360-degree appraisals Roche is adapting its leadership programmes to reflect
of managers, employee recognition and the interview guide global megatrends. As most of the world’s future economic
for hiring new leaders. growth will come from emerging markets, Roche is investing
heavily in these countries. This includes our Leadership
Our leadership commitments are also a touchstone for Acceleration Programme in Pharmaceuticals, which
every development programme we design around encourages leaders from developed countries to do job
leadership. In 2014, over 1,500 managers went through the rotations in emerging markets and vice-versa. The goal
Leading@Roche suite of programmes. Catalyst addresses is to achieve a critical mass of diverse experience in our
personal leadership strengths and challenges with regard decision-making to reflect the special needs of patients,
to leading through change. Leading Leaders@Roche is physicians, healthcare providers and other stakeholders
about increased self-awareness and the ability to build trust, in these areas of the world.
commitment and engagement with people in complex
environments. Leading People@Roche focuses on bringing
our Leadership Commitments to life through role modelling.
80% 4.4
MILLION
OF KEY POSITIONS VISITS ON OUR CAREER
FILLED WITH INTERNAL WEBSITE IN 2014
CANDIDATES IN 2014
114 | Roche Annual Report 2014People | Roche
Our Leadership Commitments
“I firmly believe that each person at Roche deserves a great leader. Every day I strive to lead by example,
consistently demonstrating our values of Integrity, Courage and Passion.”
1. I take a genuine interest in people.
2. I listen carefully, tell the truth, and explain ‘the why’.
3. I empower and trust people to make decisions.
4. I discover and develop the potential in people.
5. I strive for excellence and extraordinary results.
6. I set priorities and simplify work.
7. I congratulate people for a job well done.
Making the most of employee careers
Personal initiative and self-awareness are the starting points Roche has a well-developed online jobs marketplace
for employee development at Roche. We offer a number that offers opportunities around the world, including
of online tools to help individuals identify strengths as well personalised alerts when desired job profiles are posted.
as skill gaps and then plan the training or job experience Employees who want the experience of working in another
that is needed to achieve their career goals. function or country can pursue shorter-term secondments
or job rotations and then return to their previous jobs.
Our leaders are focused on people, not just business results. We recognise that time to learn and develop outside of
An important part of their job is to help employees with Roche is also important. Once certain criteria have been
self-assessment and career planning through structured met, employees may also take time off from their work
conversations, supported by practical guidelines. through sabbatical programmes.
Roche is a learning organisation that invests heavily in
Global Leadership Development training courses to improve the skill base of our people.
This includes a huge online offering that employees can
access from any location and complete at their own pace.
39% 61% 44% 49%
7%
267 participants in 2013 1,919 participants in 2014
Catalyst Leading Leaders@Roche Leading People@Roche
Increase is due to the rollout of Leading Leaders@Roche in June 2013
and Leading People@Roche in 2014
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 115People | Spotlight on professional development
116 | Roche Annual Report 2014Spotlight on professional development | People
“A unique chance
to share my skills
and a life-changing
experience.”
Katrin Kühhirt
During a Roche secondment year in Uganda, Katrin touched the lives of
many children at an orphanage. She adapted to the realities of local healthcare
needs, made lasting contributions and gained new insights about herself.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 117Learning to overcome
personal barriers
KATRIN KÜHHIRT demonstrated the leadership skills and courage it takes to leave her normal
life behind and work for an entire year in Africa.
I have always felt a deep sense of satisfaction in helping the world’s poorest countries. By sharing their skills and
others. Perhaps it goes back to my childhood in East knowledge, employees have a human impact that goes
Germany before the Berlin Wall fell. I remember vividly beyond conventional financial aid. They return to their jobs
the thrill of receiving packages of food and clothing with invaluable insights into healthcare needs in other
from relatives in West Germany. parts of the world.
Thanks to the hard work of my parents, I was able to finance I chose to work with the Kids of Africa programme in Uganda.
my education as a pharmacist. I had intended to do volunteer This Swiss-based charity has created a school, a farm, a
work after graduation, but instead took a position in 2003 at healthcare clinic and ten individual homes run by local foster
Roche in Basel, Switzerland. mothers for orphaned and abandoned children. Their motto
is ‘We are family.’ The children are not put up for adoption
My current job is Quality Site Manager for Solid Dosage but grow up together in a healthy environment and receive
Forms. That means I inspect third-party manufacturers to an education so they can contribute to society. I liked this
ensure the quality of the drug-making process. Whenever combination of self-help and sustainability.
I walk into a pharmacy, I can see Roche medicines that
have been a part of my work. My first months in Uganda were not easy. I was not used
to the tropical heat and humidity, and food that mostly
I never forgot my desire to do humanitarian work. In 2013, consisted of rice, beans and a corn-flour mash known as
I got my chance with the Roche secondment programme. posho. The projects that I had planned didn’t materialise
This programme allows employees who meet certain criteria immediately. Accustomed to work at a rapid pace in
to spend up to one year on a hands-on project in some of Switzerland, I had to learn to slow down.
OVER ABOUT
28% 20%
OF THE LOCAL POPULATION LIVES OF UGANDANS LIVE ON
MORE THAN 5 KILOMETRES AWAY LESS THAN
FROM A HEALTH FACILITY3 A DOLLAR A DAY4Spotlight on professional development | People
One of the biggest challenges during my year with Kids of
“The projects that I had planned
Africa was taking charge of all ten children in our house
didn’t materialise immediately. while the regular ‘mummy’ was away. For four weeks, I got
the kids ready for school, cleaned, washed clothes and
Accustomed to work at a rapid
cooked, as well as entertained and counselled them.
pace in Switzerland, I had to
I also mentored several children, including Kevin. He was
learn to slow down.”
a stubborn boy who barely spoke and avoided eye contact.
Gradually, I gained his trust and we grew very close. Kevin
is like a son to me now, and we talk on the phone regularly.
I had not been particularly good with kids before, so it was a
steep learning curve. After settling in, I helped some of the Helping those children in Uganda has transformed me.
older children prepare for school exams and taught courses I am now more open to people and freer with my emotions.
on hygiene, diseases, sexual education and first aid. At work, I am more focused on what is really important.
I soon realised that many children could not see properly. The experience has also strengthened my connection to
I organised eye examinations and raised money through Roche. It is remarkable that a company sends employees
my network of family and friends in Europe to purchase abroad for a full year of personal development while
eyeglasses. It is amazing what a difference a simple pair continuing to pay their salaries and guaranteeing their
of glasses can make in the life of a child. jobs when they return.
Other initiatives had a connection to my professional training. The mission of our company is help people with innovative
I improved the process for purchasing and storing medicines. medicines. In some small way, my year in Uganda was an
I filled out medical records on simple notecards for each extension of that philosophy. By caring for those children,
child, set up a sick bay and put together first-aid kits. I may have changed some lives. The experience has certainly
changed mine.
When the day nurse left, the children often came to me
when they were hurt. I learned to overcome my fear of blood
and helped them bandage their wounds. I also accompanied
kids on visits to doctors and hospitals.
One day, I made a trip to a local hospital with one of our boys
to have a cyst on his throat removed. In the waiting room,
a young girl approached me with a warm smile. Her right arm
had been amputated above the elbow and her face was
severely scarred by burns. My first reaction was to turn
away, but she would not let me. Still smiling, she looked into
my eyes and led my hand to the stump of her arm. Then
she traced the burn marks on her face with my fingers. It
was an intense moment of acceptance and love. That little
girl taught me something profound about my humanity,
about overcoming my own barriers to reach out to others.
“It is remarkable that a company
sends an employee abroad for a
full year of personal
development…”
Katrin mentored Kevin during her year in Uganda and still has a close bond with him.
Besides that she is financing high school studies for other kids outside of the Kids of Africa
community. To help more of these children she founded her own association and sells
jewellery and sandals made by a local artist (www.mukisa.ch).
3 Ministry of health. Uganda’s health sector strategic and investment plan: Promoting people’s health to enhance socio-economic development
2010/11–14/15. | 4 The Republic of Uganda. Poverty status report 2014: Structural change and poverty reduction in Uganda.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 119Key facts | Environment and Community
Environment and
Community
120 | Roche Annual Report 2014Environment and Community | Key facts
12.9%
share in
sustainable energy
11.5%
improvement in
eco-balance
23.6%
reduction of
Roche accident rate
20
YEARS
supporting mobile healthcare clinic in South Africa
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 121Roche | Environment and Community
Reducing our environmental footprint
whilst production and sales grow strongly
AT ROCHE, Safety, Security, Health and Environmental Protection (SHE) forms an integral part
of our operations. We approach it with the same level of commitment as we do with any business-
related activity, striving for continuous improvement wherever possible and economically viable.
We monitor our performance regularly to ensure compliance In addition to spending 221.2 million Swiss francs for
with our high standards and objectives, as well as ensuring environmental purposes, our investments and operating cost
that our processes and equipment are state of the art. for safety and security amounted to 391.2 million Swiss
Prevention, however, is the key to effective SHE management francs. Hence, the total spending for SHE measures in 2014
to which we devote special attention. Our main tool is was 612.4 million Swiss francs, compared with 637.8 million
a professional risk management. Swiss francs in 2013, a decrease of approximately 4%.
Mid-term SHE goals*
20% 20%
share of improvement in
sustainable energy CO emissions per employee
2
20% <0.06
improvement of energy
consumption per employee Roche accident rate
15% <0.01
improvement of
eco-balance per employee Roche illness rate
* Goals for 2020 based on 2010 figures.
122 | Roche Annual Report 2014Environment and Community | Roche
Our total investments for SHE projects amounted to Group SHE audits
309.7 million Swiss francs, an increase of 38% compared
with 2013. 2014 2013 2012 2011
Internal audits
Improving and monitoring performance Follow-up 24 20 17 10
As a company with global production operations, Roche is First time 4 10 9 3
exposed to risks that could possibly damage people, goods, External audits
the environment and our reputation. Audits, consulting and
Follow-up 3 9 10 5
training on environmental protection and occupational
First time 8 21 48 42
health and safety minimise these risks. In Safety, Health and
Enviromental Protection, we employ 662 people worldwide
and additionally 520 people in Security. Expert teams at each In 2014, we followed up on 24 earlier audits and confirmed
Roche site identify risks and develop mitigation plans. They that improvements had been made in the interim period.
communicate policy and guidelines to employees and other Recommended SHE improvements following these audits
stakeholders and motivate them to implement the necessary included increasing the involvement of line management
measures. and improving risk analysis.
The effectiveness of our SHE management system is SHE materiality
reviewed frequently, with employees encouraged to identify In Group SHE, we are constantly aware of SHE material
areas for improvement and recommend changes as required. issues. We regularly gather information concerning SHE-
Using a database of SHE best practices, our employees related risks and opportunities from Roche affiliates as well
frequently share knowledge and exchange new ideas on SHE as consult with and listen to our stakeholder groups.
topics. In 2014, 32 proposals from this database were In a further step, we match the stakeholder issues with our
adopted by other areas within our organisation. internal strategic priorities and risks framework to produce
our materiality matrix.
Education, awareness and
Using this method we have been able to identify the material
training are the best ways topics which stand out as areas of interest to Group SHE
and its stakeholders. Such topics are actively managed by
to foster employee engagement
Group SHE:
and responsibility in SHE. • Climate change
• Compliance
• Diseases of civilisation (see page 27))
With this in mind, we conduct regular training sessions, • Energy and resources
regional conferences and workshops and provide online • Extremism and organised crimes (see page 102)
tools in local languages to employees. In 2014, our • IT-systems
employees participated in approximately 245,444 hours • Natural disasters
of SHE training. • Occupational and mental health
• Pharmaceuticals in the environment
Audits and assessments • Politics and legislation
Our policy is to audit critical sites, such as chemical, • Water
pharmaceutical and diagnostic manufacturing facilities,
every three years and other relevant sites periodically With a clear and defined process, Roche creates progress
according to risk. These audits assess SHE performance through target setting. In a series of workshops, aimed at the
against internal standards and stipulate future Roche Group, as well as discussions with internal and
improvements. Plant management and local SHE officers external experts, mid-term targets have been set for the
conduct more frequent checks and inspections to assess period 2015–2020. By knowing our material issues and what
compliance with SHE standards. we want to achieve we are able to set targets and initiate
action plans. The new goals are feasible but challenging and
We expect contract manufacturers, suppliers and service are in the areas of people, environment and business. For
providers to meet the same SHE standards as we do. more information, see related Roche websites on page 172.
To ensure compliance, we or third-party auditors retained
by us periodically inspect the operations of our suppliers
and issue recommendations for improvement. In the event
of non-compliance, we may either terminate a contract
or refuse to renew it.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 123Roche | Environment and Community
Occupational and mental health
Absences from work due to occupational accidents and
Accident rates at Roche are
occupational diseases (including unhealthy stress) have a
negative impact on the company. Providing a safe and very low, but we are working
healthy workplace for our employees is therefore a priority.
towards further reductions.
Our primary objectives are to keep the Roche accident rate
(RAR) below 0.07 by 2015, reducing it to below 0.06 by
2020, and to reduce the Roche illness rate (RIR) to less than
0.01 by 2020. (RAR corresponds to the number of working As RAR is at a very low level, single accidents resulting
days lost due to occupational accidents per employee in longer absences can result in sharp fluctuations.
per year. RIR corresponds to the number of working days
lost due to occupational illness per employee per year.) The incidence of reported cases of occupational illnesses
increased to 142 in 2014. Furthermore, the related working
Our approach days lost also increased to 1,547 from 1,268 in the previous
As a responsible employer, it is important to us to do year which increased the overall Roche illness rate to
everything possible to prevent work-related accidents 0.016 or 14% higher.
and illnesses. We therefore continuously improve our
occupational health and safety measures. We set realistic Employee safety and health
goals and run projects aimed at keeping accidents to a
minimum. We have established health and safety committees 2014 2013 2012 2011
at virtually all Roche sites engaged in technical activities, Roche accident rate 0.052 0.068 0.072 0.067
such as production, laboratories, workshops and Roche illness rate 0.016 0.014 0.018 0.025
warehouses, and at many other sites according to risk levels. Number of work-related
a ccidents 373 352 440 390
In 2014, we updated one of our Group directives to include
Work-related f atalities 1 1 1 0
mental health protection. As an integral part of any
Working days lost per
work-place risk assessment, all of our sites will perfom
year due to accidents 4,976 6,324 6,036 5,471
an evaluation of risks to mental health. Furthermore, we
Work-related a ccidents
maintain an integrated programme of employee consultation,
per million working
workplace inspections and training across all business
hours 2.18 2.11 2.92 2.67
areas. Our approach is to promote a strong safety culture
that allows all our employees to report and address safety
issues. We expect similarly rigorous policies from our Our occupational accident and illness profile remains
contractors. consistent with slips, trips, falls and repetitive strains
representing the majority of work-related incidents in 2014.
Our performance We sincerely regret that a third-party passenger died in
In 2014, we recorded 373 injuries resulting in a Roche a road traffic accident in Indianapolis, Indiana, while carrying
accident rate of 0.052. The number of days lost due out his duties.
to injuries decreased by 21% from 6,324 in 2013. As the
number of employees increased the worked hours went
up 3% and the RAR went down by 23.6%.
85%
SHE INVESTMENTS UP
38%
OF EMPLOYEES CONSIDER HEALTH
AND SAFETY TO BE IMPORTANT
124 | Roche Annual Report 2014Environment and Community | Roche
Environmental sustainability
Research, pharmaceutical and diagnostic manufacturing water, we obtain a view of the demand we place on the
are dependent on natural resources which are becoming Earth’s eco-systems. These points are added up and then
increasingly threatened. Roche’s environmental strategy related to the total number of employees, which enables
aims at using natural resources such as raw materials, fuel us to monitor our environmental impact per employee.
and water in a sustainable manner. In doing so, the company
decreases its environmental footprint, which, in turn, benefits Eco-balance
its stakeholders and society by reducing greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions, preventing water scarcity as well as other 2014 2013 2012 2011
environmental and health problems. The less Roche Primary
depends on non-renewable resources, the less vulnerable energy 39,101 41,542 41,201 41,374
it is to supply constraints and volatile market prices. Raw material 74,932 73,380 67,342 67,042
Water 1,786 1,908 1,919 1,981
At Roche, we generate high-value products with relatively
Emissions
low levels of energy used for our operations. In 2014, the
to the air 332,272 370,792 355,015 375,390
total energy use per million Swiss francs of products sold
Emissions
was 0.273 terajoules, which compares well with other
to water 66,657 86,994 53,059 54,988
pharmaceutical companies and chemical industries. By
Landfilled
setting goals, we are able to expand our business while
waste 30,508 21,066 26,487 22,967
utilising less energy and hence reduce emissions. As part of
Eco-balance 545,256 595,683 545,022 563,742
our commitment to sustainable development, we proactively
Environmental
seek to employ new and more sustainable technologies and
impact * 5.70 6.44 6.45 6.88
processes which minimise our environmental footprint.
Eco-balance
per million
By 2020, we will achieve a 15% CHF of sales 11.49 12.73 11.98 13.25
improvement of our eco-balance.
* Environmental impact per employee in million impact points.
Eco-balance We have established a Group-wide goal for eco-balance,
Eco-balance refers to the consumption of energy and which allows local site management the freedom to develop
resources and the emission of by-products and waste from locally appropriate strategies and objectives for reducing
our business activities. It describes the total environmental environmental impact. In 2014, our total environmental
impact of our operations. By allocating environmental impact impact per employee decreased from 6.44 to 5.70.
points to ecologically relevant parameters, such as the Approximately 61% comprised emissions to the air, of
consumption of natural resources and emissions to air and which approximately 86% was CO from energy use.
2
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 125Roche | Environment and Community
Our improvements in decreasing energy consumption, the Share of sustainable energy actual data and goal for 2020
volume of withdrawn water, emissions to air and water and
an increase in headcount had a positive effect on our
environmental impact. While the total use of raw material 87.1% 90.2% 91% 91.4%
80%
increased, the raw material efficiency (kg of raw materials
used per kg of products produced) improved by 8%.
20% 12.9% 9.8% 9.0% 8.6%
Natural capital
2020 2014 2013 2012 2011
Roche is committed to conserving eco-system services
and biodiversity. In order to provide us with an overarching Non-sustainable Sustainable
metric which assesses and compares our risks and
opportunities across operations, products and supply chains Today, approximately 87% of the energy used by Roche
we are exploring the idea of natural capital evaluation. This comes from fossil fuels: non-renewable and depleting
is a means of placing a monetary value on environmental sources such as coal, oil and natural gas. As a result, we
impacts along the entire supply chain of our business. produce GHG, mainly CO , and other waste products that
2
contribute to climate change and air pollution.
Roche is, however, faced with a number of challenges
associated with natural capital evaluation such as the lack
Our aim is to maximise efficient
of a harmonised framework and difficulties to gain access
to data if the impact analysed lies beyond the company energy usage and to increase the
premises. In general, putting the impacts into a regional
use of sustainable energy, while
context and to find data with adequate quality are also great
challenges. We are now investigating the best way forward. continuing to expand our global
business.
Energy management
Roche is committed to minimising its environmental footprint
in meaningful ways and contributing to a sustainable energy
future. To transform this vision into reality, we have set up Cutting-edge technology for optimised
energy-saving action plans across our sites. They include the constructions
implementation of innovative technologies and continuous We partnered with the Department of Energy’s FLEXLAB at
upgrading of infrastructure to improve energy efficiency. We Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, California, (picture
purchase energy-efficient equipment, including hybrid and below) to use state-of-the-art technology to optimise energy
diesel-efficient cars, and we review employees’ travel needs. efficiency of new buildings. Mounted on a rotating platform,
We also change work processes which is a complex task in it provides a realistic model of the new building to test the
highly regulated and approved facilities and we are focusing effects of sunlight on building temperature, measure the
our effects on a steady transition to the use of sustainable thermal properties of walls and windows, and get a precise
energy. idea about the comfort of the internal environment for
employees. This data was incorporated into the design of
The FLEXLAB provides state-of-the-art technology to optimise energy efficiency of new buildings, helping to save energy and water.
126 | Roche Annual Report 2014Environment and Community | Roche
new buildings, which will significantly reduce heating and the Californian sun for approximately 50 vehicles.
cooling demand for energy and water. Furthermore, four electric vehicle chargers were added,
allowing employees to plug in their electric cars and
Energy intensity and consumption purchase electricity needed for the commute home.
Roche is actively reducing energy intensity (measured at
Roche by energy used per employee), as well as increasing Energy Consumption terajoules
its use of energy from sustainable sources. Energy
conservation benefits the environment by avoiding air 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
pollution and reducing GHG emissions, and benefits Roche Total energy 12,968 13,470 13,279 13,371 14,486
by lowering costs and increasing reputational value. The Energy from
efficient use of energy also ensures business continuity and sustainable
a sustainable future for generations to come. sources 1,679 1,322 1,192 1,147 817
Energy
Our goal is twofold. First, we aim to reduce energy intensity consumption
in gigajoules (GJ) per employee by 20% by 2020, from 2010 per employee
levels. By about 2050, we expect to reduce energy (GJ/
consumption per employee by approximately 50% from 2005 employee) 136 147 158 164 176
baseline levels. Second, we plan to increase the proportion
of sustainable energy used to 20% of total energy consumed
by 2020.
Energy use by type
In 2014, our energy consumption decreased by 3.7% while
sales grew 5%, thus decoupling energy consumption from
34.0%
Natural gas
the growth of business. Our energy-saving activities resulted
31.1%
Grid electricity
in a:
• 4.7% decrease in energy used in buildings and stationary 3.7%
District heating
equipment (gas, fuel oil, waste, electricity, district heating)
20.6%
• 5.5% decrease in car fuel consumption Air travel
• 27.0% increase in sustainable energy use, bringing the total 0.9%
Waste
share of sustainable energy to 12.9% of consumption
1.3%
Oil
Our reduction efforts around business travel started to show
8.4%
effect in 2014. Although the energy consumption from air Car fleet
travel increased, it only did so by 0.4% compared to 2013,
now comprising 20.6% of the total energy consumption.
Air emissions
In 2014, our energy intensity improved by 7.5% reaching Our aim is to avoid, reduce, and control air pollutants in line
136 GJ/employee by the end of the year. We have, therefore, with our eco-balance goals. Despite the increased production
successfully reached and surpassed the Roche Group mid- resulting from our continued strong growth, it is our
term energy goal of 158.4 GJ/employee as well as taking one overall objective to keep emissions to the air at the low
more step towards reaching our 2020 goal of 140.8 GJ/ levels we have achieved in the past few years.
employee.
Our emissions strategy prescribes a continuous improvement
In absolute terms, we have decreased our overall energy at our manufacturing sites. This includes using flue gas
consumption by 10.5% over the last five years. Our energy scrubbers to reduce nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide,
intensity has behaved similarly decreasing from 176 GJ/ and various incineration and freezing processes to
employee in 2010 to 136 GJ/employee in 2014. reduce the release of volatile organic compounds (VOCs),
which may also reduce energy use.
Solar power
Genentech’s newest tool for minimising its impact on
the environment is the sun. A new 490 kilowatt photovoltaic
system represents its first foray into the world of solar
energy and is a step forward in Roche’s global efforts to use
20% of its energy needs from sustainable sources by 2020.
The power generated provides electricity for the Dixon,
California, US, site. Power can be generated pretty much all
year round as there is adequate sunshine, even in winter.
The solar arrays, which are installed on new parking lot
canopies as well as the building’s roof, also offer shade from
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 127Roche | Environment and Community
Emissions to air tonnes developed a software-based IT tool to calculate our
intercompany and direct delivery shipments that uses one
2014 2013 2012 2011 standard for all of our logistics service providers. This will
VOCs 120 114 122 124 provide the data basis required to manage these scope 3
Particulates 26 31 20 20 emissions in the coming years. It is certified as being
Nitrogen oxides 254 227 254 222 compliant with EU (ISO Standard 16258) requirements.
Sulphur dioxide 5 7 5 8 Shipments for all modes of transportation are assessed on a
single shipment basis, which allows us to identify emissions
drivers and focus on methods for emission reduction.
Emissions to air from Roche sites are at a very low level,
which means that new processes or activities, as well as the Another initiative to reduce GHG emissions at Roche is to
timing of sampling, can result in fluctuations as seen in the reduce our use of halogenated refrigerants, which are used
past few years. in cooling equipment and can remain in the atmosphere for
a long period of time. Since 2004, we have made significant
Greenhouse gas emissions and climate change progress reducing emissions of halogenated hydrocarbons,
In 2014, 39.1% of our GHG emissions originated from within eliminating all halons and reducing fully halogenated
our own facilities (scope 1) and amounted to 362,582 tonnes. compounds by 90%, except at the US Genentech and
GHG emissions originating from the transformation of Ventana sites, which came later into the reduction
purchased energy consumed by us (scope 2) made up programmes and have later target dates. Our plan was to
40.5% of the total and amounted to 376,159 tonnes. reduce halogenated refrigerants by 90% at all Roche sites
by 2015. However, recent acquisitions and the lack of
Roche’s responsibility to the environment means we actively alternatives in some countries means that fulfilling this goal
drive programmes which reduce GHG emissions. by 2015 is unrealistic. We nevertheless continue to examine
As the majority of our GHG emissions originate from the alternatives and work with refrigeration suppliers to make
transformation and use of energy, our goal for improving further reductions. For companies integrated into the Roche
energy efficiency also applies to GHG emissions, i.e. a 20% Group more recently, separate timelines are being set.
reduction, measured in tonnes per employee by 2020 from
2010 levels. We do not favour the use of carbon offset as an Halogenated hydrocarbons tonnes
alternative to driving our own efforts to reduce emissions.
We expect to achieve further reductions by substituting 2014** 2013 2012 2011
fossil fuels with energy from sustainable sources. Inventory 167.3 176.4 172.1 181.9
Emissions 2.6 3.7 2.6 3.8
Our combined scope 1 and 2 GHG
** Change in scope relating to ownership and percent occupancy
of a building.
emissions were cut by 10%.
Carbon Disclosure Project
This reduction was achieved by implementing energy-saving In 2014, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) ranked Roche
measures, reducing the amount of fuel we use to heat, cool second in the healthcare, pharmaceuticals and biotech
and operate our sites. sector of the DACH region (Austria, Germany, Switzerland).
Roche scored 99% in the Carbon Disclosure Index and
Transportation via our logistics service providers also achieved a Carbon Performance Rating of A–. This score
contributes to GHG emissions. To reduce our CO footprint qualified us for the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index for
2
in transportation we need to monitor our overall emissions the second successive year. The disclosure score confirms
in terms of our carbon accounting system. In 2013, we that we understand the business issues related to climate
CO equivalent emissions metric tonnes
2
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (base year)
Scope 1 356,348 396,588 388,061 419,306 451,073
Halogenated hydrocarbons 6,234 6,548 6,014 7,092 6,507
Scope 2 376,159 418,214 432,103 443,583 448,460
Scope 3 * 189,714 188,924 177,678 160,632 171,261
Total 928,455 1,010,274 1,003,586 1,030,613 1,077,301
Total emissions per million CHF
of sales (tonnes) 19.56 21.60 22.06 24.23 22.69
* Includes CO from business flights.
2
128 | Roche Annual Report 2014Environment and Community | Roche
change and are building climate-related risks and More than half of the water we draw is used in cooling
opportunities into core business. Roche’s performance score circuits. Even though this water is not chemically
signals that we are measuring, verifying and managing our contaminated, we analyse it before it is directly discharged.
carbon footprint. The CDP publishes these two indices in The rest is purified in treatment plants before it is released
order to increase transparency of GHG emissions reporting. to waterways.
Our performance
We record organic emissions into water after processing in
a waste water treatment plant as total organic carbon (TOC).
We only discharge waste waters and pollutants if they comply
fully with relevant regulations, including pre-treatment
requirements. At approximately 90%, measured as TOC-
Water management reduction, the elimination rates in our waste water treatment
Our business is dependent on reliable supplies of high- plants are already high. We seek to minimise further
quality water. Almost all chemical, biotech, pharmaceutical contamination of water by:
and diagnostics manufacturing processes involve water • Reducing discharges of toxic and poorly biodegradable
as a reagent, solvent, cleaning and cooling agent. For the substances and heavy metals
pharmaceutical industry globally, poor quality water is • Reducing the generation of waste water
resulting in higher costs for purification and greater risk of • Treating or pre-treating waste water, with ozone in some
product contamination. We also use water as an energy cases, for non- or poorly-degradable contaminants.
carrier in refrigeration and heating installations.
Our use of water has remained relatively unchanged over
Our approach the past years. In 2014, we withdrew 18.4 million m3 of water
Roche is aware that the demand for fresh water is increasing from different sources. Of this, approximately 16% was
and an effective water management is crucial to avoiding consumed, becoming a constituent part of a product, being
water scarcity. Therefore, Roche sites are either working on vaporised in refrigeration or air conditioning plants or
or implementing programmes to reduce water consumption used for irrigation. 53% of the water was not chemically
and recycle or reuse water. In our view, water supply and contaminated and could therefore be directly discharged.
use is best managed and monitored locally. For that reason. 31% was sent to treatment plants as chemically contaminated
our 2015–2020 SHE-Goal is to reduce water consumption waste water, resulting in the discharge of 141 tonnes
per employee by 10%, weighted according to the water of organic matter and 236 kilogrammes of heavy metals.
stress for that region.
A small increase in discharges
We also support global efforts to promote water protection
and conservation and to improve access to clean drinking compares favourably with our 5%
water. Furthermore, we aim to reduce total waste water
sales growth seen in 2014.
toxicity by 10% by 2020 from a 2015 baseline. In the
meantime, we continue to investigate reliable performance
indicators and measurement methods for establishing
a waste water toxicity baseline.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 129Roche | Environment and Community
Roche is aware which of its sites are located in regions Roche produced 27,142 tonnes of chemical waste and
where water is scarce and thus a valued commodity. These 31,794 tonnes of general waste which comprised 15,064
sites monitor the water situation locally and have procedures tonnes of construction and demolition waste. Activities
in place which ensure efficient water usage and business at our sites in Clarecastle, Ireland; Indianapolis, Indiana; and
continuity. Water-related issues can affect our reputation Nutley, New Jersey contributed to the increase seen in 2014.
and investors are increasingly showing interest in our water
policy and performance. Therefore, Roche participated Natural disasters
in the CDP’s water programme in 2014. Roche has operations in regions of the world which are
susceptible to natural disasters such as earthquake, tornados,
Waste management flooding. The financial risk of such an event is, however,
We accept responsibility for all waste generated at our minimal. In the necessity of having to suspend procedures
operations, including that previously deposited at our sites due to a natural disaster, Roche has the possibility to transfer
or landfills. We permit landfilling only as a last resort and, operations to another site thereby ensuring a continual
even then, only for inert materials such as slag or incineration supply and access to our products. To minimise the damage
ash. Depending on the availability of suitable local waste to our operations we have managed this issue by, for
treatment plants, we may dispose of non-hazardous general example, ensuring that threatened sites are earthquake-
waste in authorised landfills. proof or built to withstand tornados.
Our performance
Waste is a parameter of our eco-balance and, as such, our
waste reduction targets are reflected in our goal to improve
the Group’s eco-balance by 15% by 2020 compared to 2010.
Waste reduction goals are set at the local level primarily
because of large year-to-year fluctuations in waste from
construction and demolition activities. In 2014, for example,
Security
Protecting our employees, physical assets, critical information
Preventative measures are a
and the integrity of our brands and products are principal
concerns to Roche. priority in all aspects of security.
One focus in 2014 was the launch of the Global Logistics
Security Programme in the Pharmaceuticals Division. The Furthermore, a new Group Directive was issued in the
goal is to improve, systematically, the protection of our reporting year to give guidance on adequate security
products from theft or manipulation during transportation or measures for exposed Roche personnel and their families
storage in own or third-party warehouses. A small team working in high-risk countries.
led by Global Pharma Supply Chain and comprising security
and logistics experts from different regions, performed IT system security
training sessions and delivered guidance on risk assessment Roche is continually aware of the issues surrounding the
and auditing for the local logistics security officers. security and vulnerability of its IT systems and the ever
growing necessity to protect its intellectual property. The
A second security focus in 2014 was set by the Latin implications of digital fraud go far beyond the financial risks.
American Security Workshop held in Rio de Janeiro, Brasil. Despite the protective measures already being taken
Site security officers from all sites in Latin America by Roche, the occurrence of cyber-attack is considered
discussed challenges and good practices on three key possible. In an effort towards minimising such events,
topics for the region: personnel security, logistics security we identify attackers and threats, assess the likely target,
and product counterfeiting. assess the impact of an attack on the organisation and
finally, identify which assets are of high impact and require
prioritising in terms of protection.
130 | Roche Annual Report 2014Environment and Community | Roche
Pharmaceuticals in the environment
Traces of pharmaceutical products can enter the environment
Some of Roche’s best-selling
in a variety of ways, including the manufacturing process,
improper disposal of unused medicines, and through natural antibodies are judged to
metabolic processes following normal patient use. By far,
represent no significant risk
patient use is generally recognised as the primary
contributor. to the environment.
Evidence suggests that the exposure to the resulting trace
concentrations in surface, ground and drinking water does Rituxan, Avastin, Herceptin and Lucentis are monoclonal
not pose harm to human health. The risks to aquatic life are antibodies which generated a large proportion of Roche’s
thought to be greater. Scientific studies have not identified Group sales in 2014. They belong to a defined class of
any short-term effects from exposure to low-level active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) exempt from the
concentrations of pharmaceuticals, but more research is European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMA) guideline
being conducted to evaluate potential long-term impacts. on environmental risk assessment. They have a low excretion
rate and are judged to present no significant risk to sewage
Roche is acting on concerns about the impact of works and surface waters. They are therefore termed ‘benign
pharmaceuticals on the environment by considering the in nature’ and constitute environmentally sustainable
entire lifecycle of its products, of which many are crucial compounds. All of our chemical products are, however,
diagnostic tests or life-saving medicines. We have two goals: subjected to a rigorous environmental risk asessment.
first to safeguard the eco-system; and secondly, to protect
our business against potential long-term financial and
reputational risks.
Legislation and compliance
We meet all local laws or regulations. However, our Group of Chemicals (REACH) and requirements from the Globally
policies are often more rigorous than external standards. Harmonised System of Classification and Labelling of
We are fully on track with the registration of our chemical Chemicals. For eleven consecutive years prior to 2014,
materials according to the European legislation on we incurred no significant fines for SHE-related violations.
Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction In 2014, we incurred no fines.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 131Roche | Environment and Community
Focusing on remediation management
Waste is an inevitable by-product of any industrial phase technical investigation. Based on the findings, in 2013
operation — the pharmaceutical sector is no exception. the competent authorities decided that the landfill required
Since 1896, Roche has been researching, developing, remediation. After two years of refined planning, a complex
manufacturing and marketing high-quality innovative remediation project was permitted. Before the excavation
solutions for unmet medical needs. By its very nature, the work commences the required infrastructure will be finalised,
synthesis of chemical and pharmaceutical substances comprising a bypass road, a new temporary ship landing
results not only in the desired compound, but also in dock and a 20 metre deep pile wall surrounding the
by-products which ultimately have to be disposed of as excavation pit.
chemical waste. Historically, insufficient know-how along
with a lack of appropriate technical resources resulted The project is on track to be completed by 2021. The area
in landfilling as the common disposal method. However, with to be remediated will be enclosed and all waste material,
improved knowledge of geological characteristics and including contaminated soil down to the groundwater, will
adverse impacts associated with chemical contamination be removed. This waste will be packed and stored in special
of soil and groundwater, we are faced with a potential long- transport containers which will then be transported, by rail,
term risk for people and the environment. to disposal facilities in Europe for thermal treatment. With
careful planning and a step-by-step procedure Roche can
ensure a safe and efficient execution of a complex
Roche accepts full responsibility
remediation programme. The remediation will take place as
for all waste generated from quickly as possible, however, delivering a flawless execution
has utmost priority. After completion of the remediation the
our operations, including that
area will be available for industrial re-development. Further
previously deposited in landfills. information available at www.kesslergrube.com
In 2013, Roche ceased business operations at its site in
Roche believes that existing landfills which contain hazardous Nutley, New Jersey, after 84 years. To facilitate the sale and
wastes thereby threatening the environment should be repurposing of the property, Roche accelerated its
addressed proactively, even if this means applying solutions remediation efforts, which are under the oversight of the
exceeding the country’s legal framework. New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection
(NJDEP) and the US Environmental Protection Agency.
Roche deposited waste material in the Kesslergrube landfill
in Grenzach, Germany between the mid-1950s and 1961. Roche has already taken initial cleanup action to address
A former gravel pit, the now turned landfill received wastes soil and groundwater contamination while it prepares and
for 15 years thereafter. In 2005, the evolving legislation on submits final remediation plans to NJDEP for approval.
contaminated site management triggered a historical, multi-
At the site in Nutley, New Jersey, soil samples were collected and evaluated as part of extensive remediation efforts.
132 | Roche Annual Report 2014Environment and Community | Roche
Remediation is a complex process and a wide range of
Not only does Roche actively
technologies are being explored to determine the best
remedies to clean up the site safely and quickly. As part of manage its historical contaminated
the Nutley site environmental investigation, over 7,000 soil
site issues, we also strive to avoid
samples were collected and evaluated.
future liabilities.
The cleanup of soil is expected to be completed by the end
of 2015. Groundwater cleanup will take longer and Roche
is conducting quarterly monitoring, which will continue for The remediation process also involves being transparent
several years to ensure that the remedies are having a with local officials and residents in the communities
positive impact on contamination. After divesting the site surrounding the Nutley site regarding the extent of the
which is anticipated by the end of 2015, Roche will retain contamination, its impact and how Roche plans to address it.
responsibility for the environmental cleanup, monitoring As such, Roche hosted two public meetings in May and
and remedial activities on the Nutley site. October 2014, and will host additional meetings in the future.
Further information available at www.rocheusa.com.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 133Environment and Community | Spotlight on sustainability
134 | Roche Annual Report 2014Spotlight on sustainability | Environment and Community
“Sustainability
is part of everything
we do.”
Katie Excoffier
Katie switched careers to become Sustainability Manager at Genentech.
Her enthusiasm and ability to connect people have moved the needle in
engaging employees and reducing the company’s environmental footprint.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 135Employees drive
sustainability
BROAD EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION has helped Genentech reduce energy and water usage
by 33% and waste by 47% in five major buildings in only two years.
In 2005, after 20 years of working in R & D and management COSTS SAVED:
for a leading laboratory equipment manufacturer in California>, 1.5
US, I decided to take some time off. During that break, I saw
a compelling documentary about the urgency to act on
climate change. It inspired me to re-evaluate my career goals
and reflect on how I could contribute to positive change.
I decided to pursue an MBA in Sustainable Management,
which led to a job as a sustainability intern at Genentech in
2007. I knew the reputation of the company from my MILLION USD
scientific background in genetics and from living in the San
Francisco Bay Area. So, I was thrilled to be hired full-time
as Sustainability Manager in 2009.
Sustainability is a cross-functional issue that often requires a meaningful way at work. Many employees are
expertise and input from a range of different people. An environmentalists at home, but were not sure how to bring
important part of my job is to connect the right people and that lifestyle into the workplace. By enlisting employees
resources from across Genentech to make things happen. as sustainability ambassadors and through educational
I have assembled a Sustainability Council to develop our outreach, we were able to overcome that challenge.
sustainability strategy and goals and to encourage cross-
functional collaboration. I also liaise with other companies During my tenure, Green Genes has grown to 2,800 of the
to share best practices in sustainability and to leverage our total of 12,000 Genentech employees — a leading benchmark
collective influence to realise sustainability benefits. in terms of employee engagement in sustainability. In addition,
we have about 300 Green Guides with a deeper level of
training and environmental expertise. These Guides lead
“One of my tasks is to connect the
teams on Energy, Water, Recycling, Transportation,
right people and resources to make Wellbeing and Green BioPharma. I work with each team to
set up activities such as recycling month, Earth Week, beach
things happen.”
cleanups, Lunch & Learns and other awareness events.
That high level of engagement and evolved organisational
When I started my position as Sustainability Manager, there structure gave us a solid foundation for a new initiative in
was already a successful programme called ‘Green Genes’ 2012. Alongside other leading companies, we participated in
that engaged employees in environmental sustainability, and the US Green Building Council’s Best Buildings Challenge
part of my role was to provide deeper opportunities for and committed to reducing energy, waste and water usage
employees to live out their commitment to sustainability in by 20% within just two years. Our aim was to achieve theseSpotlight on sustainability | Environment and Community
reductions on a per-employee basis in five of our high-
occupancy buildings, which included energy- and water-
intensive lab buildings.
One of the challenges we faced as we launched the initiative,
known internally as Dash to 20, was a lack of detailed data.
So, we installed new water meters, smart lighting sensors
and Wi-Fi-enabled energy-use strips in office cubicles. With
more specific information, we were able to prioritise our
efforts and share progress with employees through touch
screen dashboards in the Dash buildings.
In June 2014, we concluded Dash to 20 with results that
exceeded our expectations, reducing energy and water
usage by 33% and waste by 47% per employee. The financial
returns on our investments showed that sustainability also
makes good business sense.
“We saved 12.5 million gallons of
Green Genes — Engagement for environmental sustainability exists at high levels,
water over two years, helping to employees welcome suggestions to implement it at their workplace.
conserve during a historic drought
in California.”
In partnership with the USGBC Building Health Initiative,
we are joining with other companies to make buildings as
The water savings were particularly important for our healthy as they can be for occupants. The first important
community, given that we are based in California, which is step is to require increased transparency from suppliers
experiencing one of the worst droughts in its history. about the content of building materials and office furniture,
In some areas, farmers are struggling to irrigate their crops, so that we can make more informed decisions about what
and wells for drinking water are drying up. By fine-tuning to purchase.
our airconditioning systems, replacing water-thirsty lawns
with drought-resistant landscaping and other initiatives, I see an increasing number of employees who want to do
we saved 12.5 million gallons (47,312,000 litres or 47.312 m3) something for the environment. If we build on that momentum
of water over two years. Our efforts helped to prevent and mobilise our colleagues, families and friends, we can
mandatory water restrictions that might jeopardise our make a meaningful difference in our impact on the world
production of life-saving medicines. around us.
The energy-efficient new building currently under
construction will contribute to these efforts by significantly
reducing heating and cooling demand for energy and water.
The construction was optimised by using the innovative
FLEXLAB technology (see page 126).
47%
ENERGY AND WATER
CONSUMPTION
DOWN BY
33%
D E C R EAS E
IN WASTE
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 137Roche | Environment and Community
Making a difference with philanthropy
SINCE ITS FOUNDATION almost 120 years ago, Roche has been committed to supporting people
in need through innovative and sustainable partnerships. We carefully choose our projects based on
criteria such as commitment, collaboration, and continuity to ensure the engagement and impact
will be long-lasting.
Pillars of our philanthropic engagement
Community and Humanitarian Science and Art and
environment and education culture
involvement social projects
Our focus: ongoing initiatives, sustainable projects and sponsorship.
Sustainable health partnerships contribution is an essential component of the programme’s
The Transnet-Phelophepa Healthcare Train, a mobile clinic sustainability.
bringing medical care and medicines to remote communities
in South Africa, celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2014. As Recognised around the world for its innovation and immense
the main external sponsor, Roche is proud of the initiative’s service to its people, Phelophepa has twice won the Sigma
success and significant impact. Since its start, Phelophepa* Theta Tau Award, a prestigious nursing award, and the
has provided primary care, dental and eye checks, treatments United Nations Public Services Award.
for diagnosed conditions, health education and counselling
to about 5.8 million people. In Japan, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., a member of the
Roche Group, also had a milestone anniversary of one of
their hallmark philanthropic projects in 2014. For 30 years
Counselling on hygiene and
running, Chugai has donated specially equipped para-transit
prevention could improve the vehicles to five organisations providing welfare services to
senior citizens and disabled people throughout Japan. Since
health of many people in villages
the programme began, Chugai has donated over 200 of
visited by the trains. these vehicles to support people receiving long-term
nursing care at home.
It is a service that many people in the region have come to Meanwhile, the Roche Children’s Walk gives every employee
rely on. Every year, Phelophepa’s two medicalised trains visit the chance to raise funds for children in need. Half of the
a combined total of about 70 communities, many of which donations are given to local projects and the rest goes
have only one doctor for as many as 5,000 patients. The to support schools and orphan day care centres in Malawi.
trains are operated by resident staff and a team of volunteer In 2014, 128 Roche sites participated in the Children’s Walk,
student doctors and nurses. Since the first journey in 1994, which is the largest number of participating sites since the
Phelophepa counts over 20,000 volunteers whose first walk in 2003. So far, donations have helped to support
138 | Roche Annual Report 2014Environment and Community | Roche
over 17,000 orphan children with school uniforms and over Another important initiative in the reporting year was a
5.6 million meals. disaster relief for earthquake victims in China. After a severe
earthquake killed more than 600 and injured 3,000 people
Innovative disaster response in Ludian County in Yunnan Province in August 2014, Roche
Roche also provides support and donations following natural China immediately activated a disaster response plan,
disasters. In order to ensure a sustainable response, reaching out to the local Red Cross and donating the value
we collaborate from an early stage with local Roche affiliates of about 145,000 Swiss francs and 15,000 doses of
and on-site implementation partners. Our contributions Rocephin. In addition, Roche China employees organised
range from material goods and logistic support to transfer fundraising activities to support ongoing disaster response
of knowledge and experience. efforts in the region.
Supporting innovation in arts and science
When a natural disaster occurs,
Roche also supports groundbreaking contemporary art,
Roche listens to the needs on the cultural projects and activities that explore the parallels
between innovation in art and in science. This forms the
ground and works with local
basis for the unique collaboration between Roche, the
partners to provide sustainable Lucerne Festival and the Lucerne Festival Academy. With
Roche Commissions and Roche Young Commissions, we
support.
again funded two philanthropic activities that promote non-
mainstream classical contemporary music composers.
Typhoon Yolanda, one of the strongest tropical storms ever In 2014, Olga Neuwirth was named the winner of Roche
recorded, devastated several parts of the Philippines in Commissions series. The Austrian composer ranks among
November 2013. Many small, poverty-stricken coastal the most important figures in contemporary classical music
communities, such as Naborot Island in the province of Iloilo, today. Her compositions will be premiered in 2016 and
were among the worst hit. In 2014, to help with restoration performed by the Lucerne Festival Academy Orchestra.
efforts, Roche Philippines committed to support 5,000
families and collaborated with MyShelter Foundation to
install solar bottle lights in homes on Naborot. The innovative
technology uses a recycled one-litre plastic bottle, small
solar panel, battery and LED light to provide a free source of
eco-friendly light. Installed through MyShelter Foundation’s
Liter of Light project, an initiative supported by Roche
Philippines, the bottle lights now brighten over 28,000
homes.
* ‘Phelophepa’ in Tswana and Sotho dialects means good, clean health.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 139Key facts | Corporate Governance and Remuneration Report
Corporate
Governance and
Remuneration Report
140 | Roche Annual Report 2014Corporate Governance and Remuneration Report | Key facts
After its foundation in 1896, Roche over the years specialised
as a leader in research-focused healthcare with combined strengths
in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics.
In 2014, for the 6th consecutive year, Roche has been recognised by the
Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) as the Group Leader in sustainability
within the pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and life sciences industry.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 141Roche | Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance
Roche is committed to serving all its stakeholders. As a basis The printed Annual Report contains selected links to
for the successful implementation of this commitment our the Roche website (www.roche.com). Readers are thus
Corporate Governance principles accordingly put the focus provided not only with a ‘snapshot’ of our company at
of our business activities on sustainable value creation and the reporting date but are also directed to sources which
innovation and prescribe a management culture conforming they can consult at any time for up-to-date information
to recognised standards of corporate governance and a about corporate governance at Roche. Whereas each annual
policy of transparent communication. report covers a single financial year ending 31 December,
our website contains information of a more permanent
A strong Board of Directors, which represents the interests nature, as well as the latest Roche news. The company’s
of the shareholders and all other stakeholders, and highly Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and the curricula vitae
skilled managers that act with integrity are extremely of the members of the Board of Directors and the Corporate
important. Executive Committee are published on our website.
In 2014, for the 6th consecutive year, Roche has been For further details please refer to the following report.
recognised by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI)
as the Group Leader in sustainability within the
pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and life sciences industry.
Sustainability is at the core of our business practices and
this award reflects our commitment to running our business
in a way that is ethical, responsible and creates long-term
value for stakeholders.
This Corporate Governance Report sets out the structures,
processes and rules which Roche takes as the basis for
well-functioning corporate governance. In doing so, Roche
complies with all relevant corporate governance
requirements, in particular with all applicable laws, the
Swiss Stock Exchange (SIX Swiss Exchange) directives
(including the commentaries thereto) and the Swiss Code
of Best Practice for Corporate Governance promulgated
by the Swiss business federation ‘economiesuisse’. The
company’s internal governance framework, particularly its
Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, embodies all the
principles needed to ensure that the company’s businesses
are managed and supervised in a manner consistent with
good corporate governance, including the necessary checks
and balances.1
1 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance.htm
142 | Roche Annual Report 2014Corporate Governance | Roche
Board of Directors
In implementing the ‘Ordinance against excessive to 13 and page 146 ‘Board of Directors and Corporate
compensation in listed corporations’ (Verordnung gegen Executive Committee’).
übermässige Vergütungen bei börsenkotierten
Aktiengesellschaften [VegüV]), at the 96th Annual General The Board of Directors also already introduced and
Meeting (AGM) of Roche Holding Ltd, on 4 March 2014, executed on the occasion of the AGM on 4 March 2014,
shareholders approved corresponding required amendments the mandatory votes on remuneration, as well as the
of the Articles of Incorporation and elected all members of remote electronic ballot by means of authorisations and
the Board of Directors standing for election, the Chairman instructions to the independent proxy.
of the Board of Directors, the members of the Remuneration
Committee and the independent proxy for a one-year term. On 4 September 2014, Arthur D. Levinson has resigned from
the Board of Directors and the Remuneration Committee
Shareholders elected Christoph Franz as new Chairman of with immediate effect.
the Board of Directors succeeding Franz B. Humer. Franz B.
Humer and William M. Burns decided not to stand for At the forthcoming AGM on 3 March 2015, the Board of
re-election and retired from the Board. Furthermore, the Directors nominates the Chairman, all remaining Members
AGM elected André Hoffmann, Pius Baschera, John I. Bell, of the Board of Directors for re-election and the following
Paul Bulcke, DeAnne Julius, Arthur D. Levinson, Andreas members of the Board of Directors as members of the
Oeri, Severin Schwan, Peter R. Voser and Beatrice Weder Remuneration Committee: Christoph Franz, André Hoffmann,
di Mauro as members of the Board of Directors for a new Peter R. Voser. Additionally, the Board of Directors nominates
term of one year as provided by the Articles of Incorporation. Bernard Poussot and Richard P. Lifton for election to the
For the first time the AGM elected Christoph Franz, André Board of Directors. Moreover, Bernard Poussot is nominated
Hoffmann, Arthur D. Levinson and Peter R. Voser as by the Board of Directors for election as a new member to
members of the Remuneration Committee. the Remuneration Committee.
At its organising meeting immediately following the AGM, As in 2014, the Board of Directors nominates BDO AG as
the Board of Directors has determined the structure and the independent proxy for the period from 2015 until the
composition of its remaining committees as shown below conclusion of the 2016 ordinary Annual General Meeting
(composition as at 31 December 2014, see also pages 12 of Shareholders for election by the AGM.
Name (year of birth) First elected
Board of Directors Dr Christoph Franz (1960) C, D*, E Chairman 2011
André Hoffmann (1958) A, C*, D, E Vice-Chairman 1996
(representative of the shareholder group with
pooled voting rights)
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) A*, E 1996
(representative of the shareholder group with
pooled voting rights)
Prof. Pius Baschera (1950) A, E 2007
Prof. Sir John Irving Bell (1952) B, E 2001
Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E 2011
Dame DeAnne Julius (1949) B*, E 2002
Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F 2013
Peter R. Voser (1958) C, E 2011
Prof. Beatrice Weder di Mauro (1965) B, E 2006
Secretary to the Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
Board of Directors
Honorary Chairman Dr Fritz Gerber (1929)
of the Board of Directors
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee. B Audit Committee.
C Remuneration Committee. D Presidium/Nomination Committee.
E Non-executive director. F Executive director.
* Committee chairperson.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 143Roche | Corporate Governance
Corporate Executive Committee
In 2014, memberships of the Corporate Executive Committee Information on each member of the Corporate Executive
remained unchanged. Committee and of the Enlarged Corporate Executive
Committee is listed below (composition as at 31 December
Richard Scheller, Head of Genentech Research and Early 2014, see also pages 18 to 19 and page 146 ‘Board of
Development (gRED) and member of the Enlarged Corporate Directors and Corporate Executive Committee’).
Executive Committee retired on 31 December 2014. As
of 1 January 2015, Michael D. Varney, former Head of Small
Molecule Drug Discovery, became Head of gRED and
member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
of Roche.
Name (year of birth) Position
Corporate Executive Committee Dr Severin Schwan (1967) CEO of the Roche Group
Daniel O’Day (1964) COO Division Roche Pharmaceuticals
Roland Diggelmann (1967) COO Division Roche Diagnostics
Dr Alan Hippe (1967) Chief Financial and IT Officer
Silvia Ayyoubi (1953) Head Group Human Resources
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954) General Counsel
Enlarged Corporate Executive Osamu Nagayama (1947) Chairman and CEO Chugai
Committee
Until 31 December 2014 Dr Richard Scheller (1953) Head Genentech Research and
As of 1 January 2015 Dr Michael D. Varney (1958) Early Development (gRED)
Prof. John C. Reed (1958) Head Roche Pharma Research and
Early Development (pRED)
Dr Stephan Feldhaus (1962) Head Group Communications
Dr Sophie Kornowski-Bonnet (1963) Head Roche Partnering
Secretary to the Corporate Per-Olof Attinger (1960)
Executive Committee
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (reporting years 2004–2008)
of Roche Holding Ltd KPMG AG (since 2009)
Auditor in charge: John A. Morris (2004–2010)
Ian Starkey (since 2011)
Chief Compliance Officer Dr Urs Jaisli (1956)
144 | Roche Annual Report 2014Corporate Governance | Roche
Information relating to Corporate
Governance
1 Group structure and shareholders 2 Capital structure
• Roche’s operating businesses are organised into two • Information on Roche’s capital structure is provided in
divisions: Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. The the Finance Report, Notes to the Financial Statements
Pharmaceuticals Division comprises the two business of Roche Holding Ltd (page 143). Additional details
segments Roche Pharmaceuticals and Chugai, whereas are contained in the Articles of Incorporation of Roche
Genentech as the former third segment has been Holding Ltd.2
integrated into Roche Pharmaceuticals. The Diagnostics • Movement in recognised amounts during the last three
Division consists of the following four business areas: financial years are detailed in the Finance Report,
Diabetes Care, Molecular Diagnostics, Professional Notes to the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd
Diagnostics and Tissue Diagnostics. (page 144).
Business activities are carried out through Group • The company has a share capital of 160,000,000 Swiss
subsidiaries and associated companies. Detailed francs, divided into 160,000,000 fully paid bearer shares
information on Roche Holding Ltd and on significant with a nominal value of 1 Swiss franc each. There are
subsidiaries and associated companies (including no restrictions on the exercise of the voting rights of
company name, listing information, domicile, share these shares. Upon deposit, shares can be voted without
capital, and equity interest) are listed in the Finance any restrictions.
Report, Note 31 to the Roche Group Consolidated • There is no authorised or conditional capital.
Financial Statements (‘Subsidiaries and associates’, • In addition, 702,562,700 non-voting equity securities
page 113). (NES) have been issued in bearer form. They do not
• Major shareholders are listed in the Finance Report, form part of the share capital and confer no voting
Notes 21 and 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated rights. Each NES confers the same rights as one share
Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche to participate in available earnings and in any liquidation
shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pages 84 and 111) proceeds following repayment of the share capital.
and in Note 4 to the Financial Statements of Roche Roche’s NES and the rights pertaining thereto (including
Holding Ltd (‘Significant shareholders’, page 144). the provisions protecting the interests of NES holders)
In addition, significant shareholders are published are described in §4 of the Articles of Incorporation of
on the relevant webpage of the disclosure office of Roche Holding Ltd.
SIX Exchange Regulation http://www.six-exchange- • Information on debt instruments which have been issued
regulation.com/obligations/disclosure/major_ and on outstanding bonds is provided in the Finance
shareholders_en.html. Report, Note 20 to the Roche Group Consolidated
• André Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman of the Board of Financial Statements (‘Debt’, page 79).
Directors and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, • Information on employee stock options is provided
and Andreas Oeri, member of the Board of Directors in the Finance Report, Note 26 to the Roche Group
and Chairman of the Board’s Corporate Governance and Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity
Sustainability Committee, serve in their respective compensation plans’, page 96), including detailed
capacities on the Board and its committees information on the ‘Stock-settled Stock Appreciation
as representatives of the shareholder group with pooled Rights (S-SARs) Plan’, the ‘Roche Restricted Stock
voting rights and receive the remuneration set forth in Unit Plan’, the ‘Roche Performance Share Plan’, ‘Roche
the Remuneration Report on page 157 and in the Finance Connect’ and the ‘Roche Option Plan’.
Report, Note 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated • Roche has issued no options apart from employee stock
Financial Statements (‘Related parties’, page 111). options as provided in the Finance Report, Note 26 to the
No other relationships exist with the shareholders with Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity
pooled voting rights. compensation plans’, page 96) and options issued in
• There are no cross-shareholdings. connection with debt instruments.
• Neither the options awarded to employees nor the debt
instruments which have been issued have any effect on
Roche’s share capital.
2 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 145Roche | Corporate Governance
3 Board of Directors and Corporate Executive responsibilities are defined in detail in the Bylaws of the
Committee Board of Directors.8
• Information on each member of the Board of Directors • All the committees are chaired by independent directors.
(including the years of their first election) and on each • According to the Bylaws of the Board of Directors, a
member of the Corporate Executive Committee is listed Board meeting may be convened without the Chairman
on pages 143 to 144. Members of the Board of Directors present at the request of any of its members. The Roche
have no age limit or restriction on their term of office. Board meets once a year to assess the Chairman’s
Curricula vitae of all current and of former members (of performance. This meeting, which is not attended by
the last five years) of both bodies and other information the Chairman, is chaired by one of the Vice-Chairmen.
(including information on board memberships, additional • As part of the Management Information System (MIS),
positions, memberships and activities) are available and the Board of Directors is informed about the most
continuously updated on the Internet.3 important issues, sales performance etc. on a monthly
• Rules pursuant to article 12 para. 1 point 1 VegüV on the basis. The Board has access to an electronic information
number of permitted activities of the Board of Directors platform which provides timely information to the Board
and the Corporate Executive Committee members are of Directors and the Board’s committees as does the
outlined in §22.4 of the Articles of Incorporation of Roche system of controls as set forth below.
Holding Ltd.4 • The Board of Directors has established a system of
• Since 2014 the Annual General Meeting elects all controls which is continuously monitored by the Audit
members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Committee, by the Corporate Governance and
Board of Directors and the members of the Remuneration Sustainability Committee and by the Board of Directors
Committee on an annual basis in elections in which each and consists of the following elements:
nominee is voted on separately (see §18 of the Articles — Report on operating and financial risks
of Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd4 and the Minutes (risk management system)
of the 96th Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, The Roche Group has established a risk management
held on 4 March 20145). process covering the entire company with a system
• With the exception of Severin Schwan none of the in place to identify and manage all type of risks
members of the Board of Directors in office at the end potentially affecting its business (including economic,
of 2014 has been a member of Roche’s Corporate environmental, and social impacts, risks and
Executive Committee or served in an executive capacity opportunities and containing stakeholder input).
at any Group subsidiary during the three financial years The Board of Directors is the highest governance
proceeding the current reporting period and they are body involved. Roche’s Risk Management Policy sets
for lack of existing business connections with any Group out the approach and accompanying responsibilities.
subsidiary independent. The Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions and
• The Principles of Governance (principles of delegation global functions conduct a formal risk assessment
and competence, reservation of powers and management process at least once a year and must develop risk
of a group of companies) of the executive bodies of the plans for their most material risks. These are
company include economic, environmental and social monitored and deviations reviewed in regular
topics. The principles together with the internal performance dialogues. The consolidated Group Risk
organisation of the Board of Directors, the division of Report including target risk profile is discussed by
authority and responsibilities between the Board and the Corporate Executive Committee and approved
management, the remits of the Board committees, and together with the Group Business Plan. All material
the information and control mechanisms available to risks are reviewed by the Board on a yearly basis.
the Board in its dealings with corporate management, The process is subject to regular reviews, with
are governed by the Bylaws.6 findings presented to the Audit Committee or the
• The Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd is organised full Board. The effectiveness of the risk management
so as to ensure that the Group conducts its businesses process is monitored by the Group Risk Advisory
responsibly and with a focus on long-term value creation. team and the overall process is regularly reviewed
To this end, the Roche Board has delegated certain by external auditors (last external review in 2013
responsibilities to several committees.7 Their composition with findings presented to the Corporate Executive
and chairpersons as at 31 December 2014 are described Committee and to the Audit Committee of the
on page 143. Each committee’s authorities and Board).
3 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/management/board_of_directors.htm
and http://www.roche.com/about_roche/management/executive_committee.htm
4 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
5 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/annual_general_meetings.htm
6 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
7 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/committees.htm
8 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
146 | Roche Annual Report 2014Corporate Governance | Roche
For details on risk management, including risk factors By conducting operational audits, Group Audit
and the Risk Management Policy see ‘Risk determines management’s response to the risks
Management & Compliance’ on our website.9 Financial surrounding business processes and systems, and
risk management is specifically described in the evaluates the appropriateness, completeness and
Finance Report.10 efficiency of the processes and controls. Action plans
— System of internal controls over financial reporting to implement necessary changes and enhancements
(see pages 125 and 127 of the Finance Report) are developed together with the business/auditee and
— Internal audit are tracked to completion.
Group Audit reports to the General Counsel, has — Statutory auditors, see page 149
direct access and gives regular briefings to the Audit — Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance Officers
Committee about ongoing activities and audit reports. in subsidiaries, see page 150
The Chief Audit & Risk Advisory Executive attends — Safety, Health and Environmental Protection
the Audit Committee meetings, as do the external Department11
auditors. — Corporate Sustainability Committee12
Group Audit is an independent appraisal function, — Science and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG), for
which evaluates and reviews the Group’s activities as issues relating to genetics and genetic engineering
a service to management. The annual audit plan with (established in 1999)13
yearly defined focus areas (e.g. emerging markets, • The members of the Corporate Executive Committee are
third-party management) is validated by Senior invited to attend meetings of the Board of Directors for,
Management and presented to the Audit Committee. and report in person on, those agenda items concerning
The Roche Group is committed to maintaining a high them. When the situation warrants, members of the
standard of internal control throughout its worldwide Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee may also
operations. Management is responsible for assessing be invited to attend. The Board committees invite the
the business risks in all aspects of its operation and for Chairman of the Board and Corporate Executive
implementing effective and efficient processes and Committee members to deliver reports at committee
controls whilst ensuring compliance with internal and meetings and may elect to commission independent
external rules and regulations. expert reports and call on the services of consultants.
Board and Board committees attendance 2014
Corporate
G overnance
Presidium/ and
Nomination Remuneration Audit Sustainability
Board C ommittee C ommittee C ommittee C ommittee
Number of meetings 9 5 3 5 3
Ch. Franz 8 4 3 4* 2*
A. Hoffmann 9 5 3 – 3
P. Baschera 9 – – – 3
J. I. Bell 9 – – 5 –
P. Bulcke 8 – – 5 –
D. Julius 8 – – 5 –
S. Schwan 9 – – 5* –
A. Oeri 8 – – – 3
P. R. Voser 9 – 3 – –
B. Weder di Mauro 8 – – 5 –
Franz B. Humer (until 4.3.2014) 1 1 – 1* –
William M. Burns (until 4.3.2014) 1 – – – 1
A.D. Levinson (until 4.9.2014) 3 – 1 – –
— Not a member of that committee.
* Invited as a guest to these Board committee meetings.
9 http://www.roche.com/corporate_responsibility/business_ethics/risk_management_and_compliance.htm
10 Additional information is provided in the Finance Report, Note 29 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements, ‘Risk management’, page 102.
11 http://www.roche.com/corporate_responsibility/environment.htm
12 http://www.roche.com/corporate_responsibility.htm
13 http://www.roche.com/research_and_development/who_we_are_how_we_work/ethics_in_rd/ethical_conflicts.htm
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 147Roche | Corporate Governance
• Each year several black-out periods are imposed during • Following rules on Remuneration, shareholdings and
which senior employees are prohibited from trading loans for the Board of Directors (Board) and the
in company stock. The following black-out periods are Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) are set forth
in effect for 2015: in the Articles of Incorporation (AoI)15:
26 December 2014 to 28 January 2015
1 April to 22 April 2015 Rules in Aol15 for
26 June to 23 July 2015
1 October to 22 October 2015 Content Board CEC
Black-out periods can be changed by the Chairman Rules on the principles applicable to §25.1–6 §25.1–6
of the Board of Directors if circumstances warrant. performance-related pay
• In 2014, the Board of Directors met for 9 meetings, Rules on the principles to the §25.7 §25.7
generally each from 3 to 6 hours in length**; in addition allocation of equity securities,
convertible rights and options
once for a full-day meeting** and once for a 3-day visit
to a major subsidiary**. The Board committees met as Additional amount for payments to §24.5
members of the Executive
follows in 2014:
Committee appointed after the vote
— Presidium of the Board of Directors/Nomination
on pay at the General Meeting of
Committee: 5 meetings (approx. 2 hours each**)
Shareholders
— Remuneration Committee: 3 meetings14 (approx. 2
Rules on loans, credit facilities and §25.1 §25.2
to 3 hours each**)
post-employment benefits and 3 and 3
— Audit Committee: 5 meetings (approx. 3 to 4 hours
Rules on the vote on pay at the §24 §24
each**)
AGM
— Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee:
3 meetings (approx. 3 hours each**).
The composition of the Board’s committees has remained 5 Participatory rights of shareholders
unchanged since 4 March 2014 (with the exception of • The participatory rights of shareholders are defined in
members of the Board of Directors who retired). Roche’s Articles of Incorporation15. As Roche shares are
• The Board of Directors regularly conducts an assessment issued to bearer, there are no restrictions on admission
(self-assessment/assessment by third parties via to Annual General Meetings, with the exception that
electronical survey) of its performance. shares must be deposited within a specified period
• Members of the Corporate Executive Committee have before the date of a meeting and an admittance card
a maximum ordinary notice period of twelve months. must be issued in the shareholder’s name, as provided
• There are no management contracts which fall within in §12 of the Articles of Incorporation. Any shareholder
the scope of Subsection 4.4 (annex) of the SIX Directive can elect to be represented by a third party at an Annual
on Information relating to Corporate Governance. General Meeting.
• The Articles of Incorporation contain no restrictions
4 Remuneration, shareholdings and loans on the exercise of voting rights, and the only quorum
• All details regarding remuneration, shareholdings requirements are those stipulated in §16, in conformity
and loans (content and method of determining the with the Swiss Code of Obligations.
compensation and the shareholding programmes, • Under §10.2 of the Articles of Incorporation, shareholders
basic principles and elements of compensation and representing shares with a nominal value of at least
shareholding programmes for serving and former 1 million Swiss francs can request the placement of
members of the Board of Directors and Corporate items on the agenda of an Annual General Meeting.
Executive Committee, together with a description of This must be done no later than 28 days before the date
the authorities and procedure for determining such) of the meeting.
are set forth in the separate Remuneration Report • The rules on the issue of instructions to the independent
on pages 152 to 167 and in the Finance Report, Notes proxy and rules on the electronic participation in the
21 and 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial AGM are laid down in the corresponding invitation to
Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche shareholders’ the AGM and are not regulated in the Articles of
and ‘Related parties’, pages 84 and 111), and are Incorporation.
listed in Note 6 to the Financial Statements of Roche
Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’,
page 145).
** These figures indicate the actual length of meetings and do not include the directors’ extensive pre-meeting preparations and post-meeting follow-up
activities.
14 Remuneration Committee members recuse themselves from deliberations and decisions on matters that affect their interests.
15 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
148 | Roche Annual Report 2014Corporate Governance | Roche
6 Change of control and defensive measures The statutory auditors are elected each year by the
• The Articles of Incorporation contain no provisions Annual General Meeting.
on the mandatory bid rule. Swiss law applies.
• There are no change-of-control clauses. Those Auditing services are provided as legally required.
components of remuneration based on Roche NES
would be terminated in the event of an acquisition, Audit-related services include assurance and accounting
and vesting period restrictions on pre-existing awards services provided by auditors but which are not
would be removed, so that all such options could be necessarily provided by the statutory auditor. These
exercised immediately. services include audits of pension funds and employee
benefit plans, internal control reviews which go beyond
7 Relationship to statutory auditors the legal requirements, and other attestation services,
At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd comfort letters, consents and consultation.
on 4 March 2014, the shareholders voted to appoint
KPMG AG (KPMG) as statutory auditors. Based on Tax services include services with respect to compliance,
the existing legal requirements of the Swiss Code of tax returns and tax advice except those services related
Obligations (Article 730a) concerning the maximum to the audit of tax.
term of office of seven years of the auditor in charge,
Ian Starkey replaced his predecessor John Morris as Other services include advice relating to process
auditor-in-charge starting with the business year 2011 improvements, regulations and trainings.
(information on how long the auditors and auditor-in-
charge have been serving in these capacities is provided The company has a formal policy governing the
on page 144). The statutory auditors participate in Audit engagement of the statutory auditor for non-audit
Committee meetings. They prepare written and oral services. The policy prohibits certain services from being
reports on the results of their audits. The Audit Committee provided but permits certain other services up to limits
oversees and assesses the auditors and makes agreed by the Audit Committee. Each potential non-audit
recommendations to the Board (for information on the service engagement is reviewed against this policy before
authorities and responsibilities of the Audit Committee, any authority to proceed is given.
see Article 8.1 of the Bylaws16). The statutory auditors
participated in 5 meetings of the Audit Committee in 8 Relationship to the independent proxy
2014. In recent years, BDO AG served as the independent
proxy and for the first time at the Annual General Meeting
The reports of statutory auditor on the Consolidated on 4 March 2014, shareholders elected BDO AG as the
Financial Statements and on the Financial Statements independent proxy for the period from 2014 until the
can be found on pages 126 and 149, respectively, conclusion of the 2015 ordinary Annual General Meeting
of this year’s Finance Report. of Shareholders. BDO AG was paid in 2014 for its
services according to expenditure totalling 22,421 Swiss
KPMG received the following remuneration for their francs (2013: 12,506 Swiss francs).
services as statutory auditors of Roche Holding Ltd and
as the auditors of other Roche companies (including The rules on the issue of instructions to the independent
Chugai): proxy and rules on the electronic participation in the
AGM are laid down in the corresponding invitation
2014 2013 to the AGM and are not regulated in the articles of
(millions of CHF) incorporation.
Auditing services 20.5 19.5
Audit-related services
— Accounting - 0.4
— Assurance 1.3 1.0
Tax services 1.2 1.3
Other services 0.7 0.5
Total 23.7 22.7
16 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 149Roche | Corporate Governance
9 Information policy uncertainties about the interpretation of the Roche
• As provided by §34 of the Articles of Incorporation17, Group Code of Conduct and its reference documents.
corporate notices are published in the Swiss Official It furthermore will serve as a platform for ideas and
Gazette of Commerce and in other daily newspapers suggestions concerning those documents.
designated by the Board of Directors (Basler Zeitung,
Finanz und Wirtschaft, L’Agefi, Le Temps, Neue Zürcher In addition, Roche has established a Business Ethics
Zeitung). Incident Reporting (BEIR) system which enables the
• Roche reports its half-year and full-year results in Chief Compliance Officer to capture, track and monitor
business reports (published in print and online formats) alleged violations, from initial reports by local Compliance
and at media events. In addition, detailed first- and Officers through to resolution. Business ethics incidents
third-quarter sales figures are published each year in are recorded in the system when the local management
April and October. The most current list of publication receives specific and concrete information about an
dates is available in English and German on the Internet.18 alleged violation of the Roche Group Code of Conduct in
• All relevant information and documents, including all one of certain pre-defined categories.22 The Corporate
media releases, investor updates19 and presentations to Governance and Sustainability Committee and the Audit
analyst and investor conferences are available on the Committee of the Board of Directors are informed of
Internet. Further publications can be ordered by e-mail, substantial violations.
fax or telephone:
basel.webmaster@roche.com, The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the General
tel. +41 (0)61 688 30 61, Counsel and also submits regular reports to the
fax +41 (0)61 688 41 96. Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
• The contact address for Investor Relations is: and to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations,
Group Finance, 4070 Basel, Switzerland; 11 Non-applicability/negative disclosure
tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 80, It is expressly noted that any information not contained
fax +41 (0)61 691 00 14. or mentioned herein is either non-applicable or its
omission is to be construed as a negative declaration
Additional information, including details on specific (as provided in the SIX Swiss Exchange Corporate
contact persons, is available on the Internet.20 Governance Directive and the Commentary thereto).
10 Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance
Officers network
The Chief Compliance Officer with his Compliance
Officers network is committed to ensuring that the Roche
Group Code of Conduct21 is consistently complied with
throughout the Roche Group. He also serves as a contact
person for shareholders, employees, customers,
suppliers and the general public on issues relating to
the implementation of and compliance with this Code.
Employees and other parties who become aware of
violations of the Roche Group Code of Conduct can bring
them to the attention of their managers or supervisors
or report them to the Chief Compliance Officer (Urs Jaisli,
direct phone number: +41 (0)61 688 40 18, e-mail:
urs.jaisli@roche.com). Such disclosures will be treated
confidentially. In addition, as of the end of 2009,
employees may anonymously report irregularities or
complaints in their mother tongue via a ‘Speak-Up
hotline’. Starting in December 2013 a new compliance
tool on Group level, the so-called Roche Group Code
of Conduct Help & Advice Line, was introduced which
strives to provide guidance in case of questions or
17 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
18 http://www.roche.com/media.htm
19 http://www.roche.com/investors.htm
20 http://www.roche.com/investors/contacts.htm
21 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/code_of_conduct.htm
22 http://www.roche.com/corporate_responsibility/business_ethics/risk_management_and_compliance.htm
150 | Roche Annual Report 2014Corporate Governance | Roche
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 151Roche | Remuneration Report
Remuneration Report
1. Principles The key principles underpinning this policy are:
Roche’s success depends on the abilities and dedication • Focus on value creation
of its entire people. Recognition of this forms the basis of our • Pay for performance
remuneration policy and system. • Enabling employees to share in the company’s success
• A balanced mix of long- and short-term remuneration
At Roche we strive to create new innovative products of components
benefit to patients. This requires outstanding performance • Market competitiveness
by all our employees. It takes continuous innovation to help • Fairness and transparency in remuneration decisions
patients, sustain revenues and create long-term value.
Innovation enables us to pay competitive compensation to
all our employees and distribute rising dividends to our 2. Remuneration decision process
shareholders (until 2014: dividend increase for the 27th year Each year the Remuneration Committee of Roche’s Board of
in a row). Directors meets at least twice and decides the remuneration
of Board members and the members of the Group’s Corporate
Roche regularly reviews its policy and principles on Executive Committee (base pay, bonuses, Stock-settled
remuneration. They are part of a framework of employee Stock Appreciation Rights [S-SARs] Restricted Stock Units
policies aimed at motivating and retaining current [RSUs] and policy decisions on pension benefits). The
employees, attracting talented new ones and helping all terms of Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are decided
Roche employees to perform at consistently high levels. annually by the Board of Directors, acting upon
Our remuneration policy is designed to foster value creation recommendations from the Remuneration Committee.
and reinforce a culture of performance and innovation. It In 2014 for the first time, total aggregate amounts which are
applies both to non-managerial employees and to managers. based on these decisions were submitted to the General
Meeting for approval implementing the ‘Ordinance against
The Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) excessive compensation in listed corporations’ (Verordnung
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Performance Share Plan gegen übermässige Vergütungen bei börsenkotierten
(PSP) remuneration components are intended to align Aktiengesellschaften [VegüV]). The General Meeting shall
management’s interests with those of shareholders and vote annually and with binding effect on the approval of
holders of non-voting equity securities and to give the remuneration (that the Board of Directors has resolved)
participating managers an additional incentive to achieve of the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive
continued value growth in the form of long-term total Committee (for details see 4. and 5.).
shareholder returns. By creating value for Roche investors,
management benefits as well. When no added value is The Remuneration Committee tracks market data on salaries
created for investors, management is ‘penalised’ by receiving at other leading global pharmaceuticals companies1 and
less. reports its findings to the full Board. The external consulting
firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) assists Roche in
performing market comparisons and in advising the
Remuneration Committee. Information on the Remuneration
Committee’s remit, powers and procedures for making
remuneration decisions can be found in the Bylaws of the
Roche Board of Directors2 and are also outlined in
the sections below on the principles governing specific
remuneration components.
1 Peer set for 2014: Abbott Laboratories, AbbVie, Amgen, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline,
Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, Takeda (compared to 2013: without Becton Dickinson).
2 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
152 | Roche Annual Report 2014Remuneration Report | Roche
3. Summary of main activities in 2014 interests with the interests of Roche’s shareholders for
The following were the key developments and decisions the Group’s long-term success.
in 2014: • Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards (variable): For the
• Over the past three years — which have proven decisive PSP cycle 2012–2014 175% of the targeted NES will be
for the Performance Share Plan — the year end prices of awarded (2013: PSP 2011–2013: 175% of the targeted
non-voting equity securities (NES) increased by 70% and NES awarded). In the case of the PSP 2007–2009, PSP
the value of shares by 61%. This has led to a 94.0 billion 2008–2010, PSP 2009–2011 and PSP 2010–2012 cycles,
Swiss francs rise in the value of our company, from there were no pay-outs or awards of targeted NES. The
138.5 billion Swiss francs to 232.5 billion Swiss francs, plan’s key performance metric for an award, the Total
which represents an 68% increase.* Shareholder Return (TSR), is calculated as a three-month
• Roche shares rose from 247.40 Swiss francs to 267.75 moving average at constant CHF exchange rates (see
Swiss francs over the past year and its non-voting equity ‘E. Performance Share Plan [PSP]’, page 161).
securities from 249.20 Swiss francs to 269.90 Swiss • In 2012 the Remuneration Committee decided that the
francs. Roche’s value rose in line by 17.8 billion Swiss Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and other CEC members
francs, from 214.7 billion Swiss francs to 232.5 billion must acquire Roche shares and/or non-voting equity
Swiss francs, over 2014.* securities (NES) equivalent to two annual base salaries
• Dividends have risen every year steadily over the past (CEO) and one annual base salary (other CEC members),
27 years, and a dividend of 6.728 billion Swiss francs was respectively, by the end of 2016 and retain these holdings
distributed in 2014. for as long as they serve on the CEC.
• The Remuneration Committee (assisted by the • In addition to applicable statutory provisions, Roche’s
consultancy of PwC) regularly tracked the base pay of long-term incentive plans include the option to partially
Roche directors and members of the Corporate Executive reclaim distributed compensation as a result of special
Committee against market data on payments at other circumstances (clawback, for details see page 164).
leading global pharmaceuticals companies (see
footnote 1) and at other major Swiss companies3. For all further details please refer to the following sections
• The base salaries (fixed) paid to Corporate Executive of this Remuneration Report4.
Committee (CEC) members, except for Roland
Diggelmann, remained unchanged in 2014.
• The bonus (variable) paid to CEC members for the 2014
financial year will consist entirely of cash payments
(except in the case of CEO Severin Schwan) and reflects
the sales growth and the increase of core earnings
per share at Constant Exchange Rates (CER), and the
progress of the product development pipeline.
• Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
(variable): As of 2012 S-SARs granted to CEC members
all vest together after three years and then have to
be exercised within seven years of the grant date.
Unexercised S-SARs lapse without compensation. Since
2012, the fair value of S-SARs has been calculated at the
grant date using the trinomial model for American options
(for details see page 160).
• 2013, Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) — rights to receive
non-voting equity securities after a three-year vesting
period plus a value adjustment (being the amount
equivalent to the sum of the dividend paid during the
vesting period attributable to the number of non-voting
equity securities for which an individual award has
been granted) — were introduced as a new remuneration
component partially replacing S-SARs and options. The
value of S-SAR awards is reduced to 65% and the 35%
balance will be awarded in the form of RSUs. The aim
is to further strengthen the alignment of management’s
3 ABB, Credit Suisse, Holcim, Nestlé, Swiss Re, UBS, Zurich Insurance Group, Actelion, Nobel Biocare, Sonova, Straumann, Synthes.
4 See also in the Finance Report, Note 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related parties’, page 111) and Note 6 to the
Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, page 145).
* Calculations on the basis of total number of shares and NES.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 153Roche | Remuneration Report
4. Remuneration components does not disclose the individual performance objectives
Base pay, bonuses, blocked non-voting equity securities of members of its Corporate Executive Committee.
(NES), awards of Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
(S-SARs), Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and a Performance In December at the end of a reporting year or in January
Share Plan (PSP) support the fundamental aims of Roche’s following a reporting year the Remuneration Committee
remuneration policy. These remuneration components decides the bonuses payable to the Chairman of the Board
are linked to the employees’ performance, our company’s and the members of the Corporate Executive Committee in
financial performance and commercial success and thus respect of the current reporting year, based on performance
align the interests of Roche employees with those of against the aforementioned objectives. At the same time the
shareholders. Remuneration Committee also decides in what form bonuses
will be awarded (cash payments and/or blocked non-voting
After explaining the principles that govern the various equity securities and/or blocked shares).
remuneration components, this report details the amounts
paid to each member of the Board of Directors, the C. Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
components of the Chairmen of the Board’s remuneration (S-SARs)
and the amount of each remuneration component paid A Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) plan
to each member of the Corporate Executive Committee for was introduced on 1 January 2005 establishing a uniform
the 2014 financial year. system of remuneration throughout Roche. S-SARs entitle
holders to benefit financially from any increase in the value
As in the previous year, in 2015, the Board of Directors will of Roche’s non-voting equity securities between the grant
separately submit the total aggregate bonuses of the date and the exercise date.
Chairmen of the Board of Directors and of the Corporate
Executive Committee to the General Meeting for the 2014 S-SAR awards are allocated individually at the Remuneration
financial year for retrospectively binding approval. Committee’s discretion.
The maximum amounts of the total aggregate remuneration D. Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
(excluding bonuses) of the Board of Directors and of the In 2013 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) — rights to receive
Corporate Executive Committee for the period between the non-voting equity securities and/or shares after a three year
ordinary General Meeting 2015 and the ordinary General vesting period plus a value adjustment (being the amount
Meeting 2016 will be tabled in 2015 as in the previous year equivalent to the sum of the dividend paid during the vesting
for the General Meeting’s prospectively binding approval period attributable to the number of non-voting equity
(see 5 B.). securities for which an individual award has been granted)
— were introduced as a new remuneration component
A. Base pay partially replacing S-SARs. The value of S-SAR awards was
Base pay (cash payment) is determined for each position reduced to 65% and the 35% balance is awarded in form of
based on salary market data of other leading global RSUs.
pharmaceuticals companies (see footnote 1) and of other
major Swiss companies (see footnote 3) and reflects RSU awards are allocated individually at the Remuneration
individuals’ abilities, experience and performance over Committee’s discretion and will be vested to the recipient
time. Pay adjustments are likewise linked to individual after three years only. Thereafter, resulting non-voting equity
performance and take into account prevailing market securities may remain blocked for up to 10 years.
conditions and the company’s overall financial situation.
E. Performance Share Plan
The Remuneration Committee makes and reviews the final The members of the Corporate Executive Committee and
decision on the individual base pay paid to the Chairman other members of senior management (currently some 150
of the Board of Directors and members of the Corporate individuals worldwide) participate in the Performance Share
Executive Committee and on the remuneration of the other Plan. The PSP was established in 2002 for periods of three
members of the Board. years each and is based on a three-year comparison of the
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) with 15 peer companies
B. Bonuses (see footnote 1).
Bonuses are awarded for individual contributions of value
creation in a business year and are meant to be an incentive In 2014 there were three overlapping performance cycles
to strive for outstanding results and to create new business (PSP 2012–2014, PSP 2013–2015 and PSP 2014–2016),
opportunities. Bonus amounts are linked to Group and of which PSP 2012–2014 closed on 31 December 2014.
divisional profits, sales growth, Operating Profit After Capital
Charge (OPAC), earnings per share and NES growth, The payment of the Performance Share Plan is determined
product development pipeline and to the achievement of by the Board of Directors on an annual basis, acting upon
measurable and qualitative individual or functional recommendations from the Remuneration Committee.
performance objectives. For competitive reasons, Roche
154 | Roche Annual Report 2014Remuneration Report | Roche
F. Ratio of Corporate Executive Committee variable remuneration elements (bonuses, S-SARs/RSUs and PSP)
relative to fixed base pay
Criteria Bonus S-SARs/RSUs PSP
Individual target value, assessed Max. 100% 65% S-SARs 33.33%
in consideration of the performance 35% RSUs (Based on annual base pay
of competitors (see footnote 1) and measured at 1 January
the macro-economic development of first year of cycle)
(in % relation to value of base pay)
Minimum 0% 0% 0%
Maximum 200% 150% 66.66%
(in % relation to value of base pay) (Cash payment/ (Value development (Value development
blocked NES/shares) determined by performance determined by performance
[plus a value adjustment [starting with PSP 2013–2015
for dividends] of NES cycle plus a value adjustment
after grant) for dividends] of NES
after grant)
Performance criteria Group objectives (Group Individual contributions Group performance of
and divisional business upon the Remuneration TSR in relation to
performance) and individual Committee’s decision at TSR performance
objectives considering profit, its own discretion of peer set
sales growth, OPAC
(Operating Profit After
Capital Charge),
earnings per share and
NES growth, product
development
pipeline
Split in %
a) Group objectives 70% n.a. 100%
b) Individual objectives 30% n.a. –
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 155Roche | Remuneration Report
5. Remuneration of the Board of Directors and a) Retrospective approval
the Corporate Executive Committee Total aggregate bonus amounts for the Corporate Executive
Committee and the Chairman of the Board of Directors for
A. Resolution the financial year just ended will be submitted retrospectively
Each year the Remuneration Committee of Roche’s Board at each ordinary AGM for separate and binding approval.
of Directors decides the remuneration of Board members
and members of Roche’s Corporate Executive Committee b) Prospective approval
(base pay, bonuses, S-SARs, RSUs and policy decisions on All other Board and Executive aggregate remuneration will
pension benefits). The terms of the Performance Share Plan be submitted prospectively by the Board of Directors for
are decided annually by the Board of Directors, acting upon separate and binding approval for the period between two
recommendations from the Remuneration Committee. The ordinary AGMs.
Remuneration Committee tracks market data on salaries
at other leading global pharmaceuticals companies (see The following pages provide detailed information on the
footnote 1) and at major Swiss companies (see footnote 3) remuneration paid to each member of the Board of Directors
and reports its findings to the full Board. Information on and each member of the Corporate Executive Committee
the Committee’s remit, powers and procedures for making for the 2014 financial year and include comparisons with the
remuneration decisions can be found in the Bylaws remuneration paid in the previous years.
of the Roche Board of Directors and in the Articles of
Incorporation after the approval of changes by the General 5.1 Remuneration of members of the Board of
Meeting on 4 March 20145 and are also outlined in the Directors. In 2014 the members of the Board of Directors6
preceding sections of this report on the principles governing received the fixed remuneration in cash payments shown in
specific remuneration components. the ‘A. Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors’
table on page 157 for their Board activities. Roche paid
The salaries and bonuses of the Chairman of the Board legally required employer’s contributions of total 155,431
of Directors and members of the Corporate Executive Swiss francs to Swiss social security programmes providing
Committee were decided by the Remuneration Committee, retirement, disability and unemployment benefits (AHV/IV/
taking into account revisions to Roche’s remuneration policy, ALV) for the members of the Board of Directors beside the
market comparisons and management changes. legally required contributions separately stated for Christoph
Franz and Franz B. Humer.
The remuneration of the Vice-Chairman of the Board and all
other Board members consists of fixed cash payments set The basic remuneration of the Board of Directors has
by and at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The remained unchanged since 2001 and remuneration of
Remuneration Committee (assisted by the consultancy of all members of the Board of Directors will again remain
PwC) tracked these cash payments of Roche directors unchanged for 2015.
against market data on directors’ pay at other leading global
pharmaceuticals companies (see footnote 1) and other major With the exception of Christoph Franz, Franz B. Humer
Swiss companies (see footnote 3). (bonus in form of blocked shares) and Severin Schwan
members of the Board of Directors were not awarded
B. Policy on and procedure for submitting total any shares, non-voting equity securities, S-SARs or RSUs
Board and Executive remuneration for shareholder for 2014.
approval at the Annual General Meeting
Each year at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) In his capacity as a member of the International Advisory
shareholders approve the total remuneration decided by Council (IAC) of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. André
the Board of Directors’ Remuneration Committee for the Hoffmann received honoraria amounting to a total of 20,000
Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee. US dollars (18,298 Swiss francs). Arthur D. Levinson
received payments for his consulting work and for serving
According to the approval at the AGM 2014, Roche has on the Board at Genentech amounting to 124,862 US dollars
committed itself to obtaining separate and binding (114,236 Swiss francs) until his resignation from the Board
shareholder approvals of the total remuneration paid to of Directors on 4 September 2014. William M. Burns received
the Board of Directors and to the Corporate Executive honoraria amounting to a total of 15,000 US dollars
Committee as follows. (13,724 Swiss francs) for serving as a member of the Board
of directors of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. of which he
retired in March 2014. Since October 2014, William M. Burns
as a new member of the International Advisory Council (IAC)
of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. received honoraria
amounting to a total of 5,000 US dollars (4,574 Swiss francs).
5 http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
6 For a list of members, their positions and their committee memberships and chairmanships see page 143.
156 | Roche Annual Report 2014A. Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors
2014 2013
Additional Additional
c ompensation Additional c ompensation Additional
2014 special 2013 s pecial
Remuneration for committee c ompensation Remuneration for committee c ompensation
2014 m embers/chairs 7 2014 2013 members/chairs 7 2013
(in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF)
Ch. Franz (see ‘B. Total remuneration paid to the Chairman 300,000 30,000
of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann 400,000 8 – 18,298 400,000 8 –
(see page
156)
P. Baschera 300,000 30,000 300,000 30,000
J. I. Bell 300,000 30,000 300,000 30,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 300,000 30,000
D. Julius 300,000 60,000 300,000 60,000
A. Oeri 300,000 60,000 300,000 60,000
S. Schwan (See ‘5.2 Highest total remuneration paid to (See ‘5.2 Highest total remuneration paid to
Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate
Executive Committee’, remuneration received in his Executive Committee’, remuneration received in his
primary function as CEO and reflected in total primary function as CEO and reflected in total
remuneration for the Corporate Executive Committee) remuneration for the Corporate Executive Committee)
P. R. Voser 300,000 30,000 300,000 30,000
B. Weder di Mauro 300,000 30,000 300,000 30,000
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors retired in 2014
Franz B. Humer 3,853,0459 – 3,137,41810 8,728,814 50,000 –
W.M. Burns 75,00011 – 18,298 300,000 30,000 23,171
(see page
156)
A.D. Levinson 225,00012 22,50012 114,236 300,000 30,000 276,656
(see page
156)
B. Gehrig n.a. n.a. n.a. 72,220 – –
L. J. R. de Vink n.a. n.a. n.a. 54,200 – –
Total 6,653,045 292,500 3,288,250 12,255,234 410,000 299,827
7 With the exception of members of the Presidium and the Vice-Chairmen, Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve
on and CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
8 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
9 Prorated remuneration for serving as Chairman of the Board for the period January to March 2014 amounting to CHF 1,000,000, bonus award of
CHF 2,791,950 (in form of shares blocked for 10 years [calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in April 2015
after approval at the AGM 2015], calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years [reduced market value:
55.839%] to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2015), employer contributions to employee stock purchase plan Roche Connect
(prorated for the period January to March 2014) amounting to CHF 18,750, payments for tax consulting services (CHF 34,214) plus prorated
remuneration Pension funds/MGB (Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung [employee profit-sharing foundation
supplementing occupational pension benefits]) of CHF 939. Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 1,152,438 (2013: CHF 379,434)
was paid that does not form part of compensation.
10 Franz B. Humer received in his advisory capacity to the Presidium 3,000,000 Swiss francs. Said remuneration was included in the amount of total
remuneration of the Board of Directors (ordinary General Meeting 2014 to ordinary General Meeting 2015) which shareholders approved at the AGM
2014. The total amount was paid in 2014. In 2014, Franz B. Humer received honoraria amounting to a total of USD 150,200 (CHF 137,418) for serving
as a member of the International Advisory Council (IAC) and as a new member of the Board of Directors of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. starting
1 April 2014.
11 Prorated remuneration for the period January to March 2014.
12 Prorated remuneration for the period January to September 2014.
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 157B. Total remuneration paid to the Chairman Severin Schwan, executive member of the Board of Directors,
of the Board of Directors received his remuneration in his primary function as CEO.
As Chairman, Christoph Franz received total remuneration It is reflected as the highest total remuneration paid to a
for 2014 as shown below. The Remuneration Committee’s member of the Corporate Executive Committee and included
bonus proposal (adopted in late 2014) in respect of the 2014 in the total amount paid to the Corporate Executive
financial year (payable in April 2015) will be put for Committee.
shareholder binding vote at the 2015 ordinary Annual
General Meeting (AGM).
Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors
Ch. Franz Ch. Franz
as Chairman of the Board of Directors as Member of the Board of Directors
2014 2013
(in CHF) (in CHF)13
Salary (in cash) 3,408,340* See ‘A. Remuneration of members of
the Board of Directors’, page 157
Bonus 558,390**
Pension funds/MGB14/insurances 68,047
Total (value) 4,034,777 15
* Prorated remuneration as member of the Board of Directors for the period March to December 2014 and as Chairman of the Board of Directors for
the period March to December 2014.
** Bonus award (in form of shares blocked for 10 years [calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in April 2015 after
approval at the AGM 2015], calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years [reduced market value:
55.839%] to be submitted for shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM).
C. Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights E. Board remuneration subject to approval
(S-SARs) at the Annual General Meeting
On 31 December 2014 Severin Schwan (being the only
member of the Board of Directors holding S-SARs due to a. Submission of the Chairmen’s total aggregate
his position as CEO) and the members of the Corporate bonuses for a binding vote at the Annual General
Executive Committee held Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Meeting
Rights (S-SARs) as shown in the ‘10. S-SARs’ table on Remuneration to the Chairman of the Board of Directors
page 167. includes a bonus award of 558,390 Swiss francs in form
of shares blocked for 10 years as shown above ‘B. Total
D. Total remuneration paid to the Board of Directors remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’.
For the 2014 calendar year the members of the Board of The Board of Directors will submit the Remuneration
Directors received remuneration including bonuses totalling Committee’s bonus proposal (adopted in late 2014) for the
11,131,154 Swiss francs (2013: 12,965,060 Swiss francs), Chairman of the Board, Christoph Franz, in respect of the
excluding additional employer’s contribution paid to AHV/IV/ 2014 financial year (payable in April 2015) together with the
ALV totalling 1,495,453 Swiss francs (2013: 579,927 Swiss bonus proposal adopted at the same time for the former
francs) that does not form part of compensation. Aggregate: Chairman of the Board, Franz B. Humer, in respect of the
12,626,607 Swiss francs (2013: 13,544,987 Swiss francs). 2014 financial year (payable in April 2015) of 2,791,950
Swiss francs in form of shares blocked for 10 years, see ‘A.
There are no loans or credits granted to the members of the Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors’,
Board of Directors. page 157, footnote 9 as a total amount of 3,350,340 Swiss
francs (in form of shares blocked for 10 years, excluding
No additional remuneration was paid. legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV) for
13 For detailed calculation of the remuneration for 2013 and 2012 see Annual Report 2013, pages 135–136.
14 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
15 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 187,584 (2013: CHF 19,326) was paid that does not form part of compensation.
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Roche | Remuneration Report
158 | Roche Annual Report 2014the shareholder binding vote to the 2015 ordinary Annual 5.2 Remuneration of members of the Corporate
General Meeting (AGM). Executive Committee. The general provisions assigning
authority for decisions on Corporate Executive Committee
b. Submission of the Board’s total aggregate remuneration to the Remuneration Committee and to the
future remuneration for a binding shareholder Board of Directors are outlined on pages 152 to 156 of this
vote Remuneration Report.
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2015 ordinary
AGM approve Board remuneration totalling not more than Severin Schwan, executive member of the Board of Directors,
10,000,000 Swiss francs (excluding legally required received his remuneration in his primary function as CEO.
employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding It is reflected as the highest total remuneration paid to a
bonuses) for the period ending at the 2016 ordinary AGM member of the Corporate Executive Committee (see below)
(at the ordinary AGM 2014 approved remuneration for the and included in the total amount paid to the Corporate
period ordinary AGM 2014 to ordinary AGM 2015 totalling Executive Committee (see ‘H. Total remuneration paid to the
not more than 11,000,000 Swiss francs [excluding bonuses]. members of the Corporate Executive Committee’, page 163).
For comparison from 2013 ordinary AGM to ordinary 2014
AGM actual remuneration amounted to 10,046,691 Swiss
francs, [excluding legally required employer’s contributions
to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses]).
Highest total remuneration paid to Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive Committee
2014 2013 16 2012
(in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF)
Salary 4,000,000 4,000,000 4,000,000
S-SARs 2,600,131 2,600,151 4,000,000
(Grant value according to trinomial model for
American call options 17)
RSUs (Restricted Stock Units) 781,694 18 * 781,687*
Pension funds/MGB 19/insurances 553,246 545,416 747,229
Roche Connect 100,008 100,008 100,008
Subtotal 8,035,079 8,027,262 8,847,237
Bonus
— Blocked non-voting equity securities/shares 1,340,136 20 * 1,116,780 * 2,512,755 *
PSP 2,574,419 21 2,736,881 1,137,058
Total (value) 11,985,408 22 11,916,938 12,537,385
* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities/shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market
value: 55.839%).
16 For detailed calculation of the remuneration for 2013 and 2012 see Annual Report 2013, page 137.
17 Number of S-SARs 2014: 54,453, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 47.75. Trinomial model for American call
options value as described in ‘Remuneration of members of the Corporate Executive Committee, C. Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)’,
page 160.
18 Number of RSUs 2014: 5,551, grant value CHF 252.19 (NES average market price over a 90 days period prior to the grant date on 6 March 2014) per
RSU, calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 10 years (reduced market value: 55.839%).
19 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
20 Shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in April 2015 after approval at the AGM
2015), calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market value: 55.839%).
21 Total estimated value for 2014: PSP 2012–2014: Award of 175% of the originally targeted NES awarded for 2012–2014 (15,888 NES in total), spread over
the relevant period of time i.e. 1/3 for the year 2014, value calculated using the year-end price as at 31 December 2014, CHF 269.90 per non-voting
equity security (NES). PSP 2013–2015 and 2014–2016: Estimated value calculated using the year-end price as at 31 December 2014, CHF 269.90 per
non-voting equity security (NES), based on the number of NES originally targeted (7,314 NES and 5,413 NES, respectively) subject to changes in the
number and value of NES awardable under the plan on 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, respectively, and spread over the relevant period
of time, i.e. 1/3 for the year 2014. The Board of Directors will vote on the actual allocation of originally targeted NES on 31 December 2015 and
31 December 2016, respectively, according to the TSR achieved.
22 Includes an annual expense allowance (CHF 30,000) and payments for tax consulting services (CHF 5,774). Additionally, employer contribution to
AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 1,261,596 (2013: CHF 1,284,456) was paid that does not form part of compensation.
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 159Remuneration of the remaining members of the Corporate Executive Committee
A. Base pay (in CHF)
Annual salary Annual salary Annual salary
2014 2013 2012
S. Ayyoubi 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,200,000
R. Diggelmann 1,150,000 1,000,000 647,750
A. Hippe 2,100,000 * 2,100,000 * 2,100,000 *
G. A. Keller 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
D. O’Day 2,000,000 2,000,000 1,575,000
Total 7,950,000 7,800,000 7,022,750
* Including CHF 500,000 for loss of pension rights granted by former employer (contractual agreement, each for 2012 to 2014).
B. Bonus Except for Severin Schwan, all members of the Corporate
The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors Executive Committee will receive the bonus 2014 as a 100%
determined the Corporate Executive Committee members’ cash payment which is due in April 2015. Severin Schwan
bonuses in December 2014 based on the performance 2014 will receive the bonus 2014 in form of Roche shares which
against the agreed objectives. The total aggregate amount are blocked for 10 years. Bonus payment is due in April 2015
of bonuses will be brought forward for a binding vote by the (see page 159).
Annual General Meeting 2015.
Bonus
Bonus Bonus Bonus
for 2014 for 2013 for 2012
Total Total Total
(in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF)
S. Ayyoubi 1,500,000 1,400,000 1,700,000
R. Diggelmann 1,300,000 1,200,000 600,000
A. Hippe 2,000,000 1,900,000 2,200,000
G. A. Keller 1,300,000 1,200,000 1,500,000
D. O’Day 3,000,000 2,500,000 2,300,000
Total 9,100,000 8,200,000 8,300,000
C. Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights The fair value of the S-SARs is calculated at the grant date
(S-SARs) using the trinomial model for American options. The trinomial
The S-SARs shown in the ‘10. S-SARs’ table on page 167 model is an effective method for valuation of American call
were introduced by Roche on 1 January 2005 in place of options, as it considers the possibility of exercising the option
stock options. S-SARs entitle holders to benefit financially any time prior to maturity (called ‘American’ option, as
from any increase in the value of Roche’s non-voting equity compared to a ‘European’ option, which only allows exercise
securities (NES) between the grant date and the exercise at their maturity date).23
date. The strike price for S-SARs under the terms of this
multi-year plan was the closing price for Roche NES at grant The numbers of S-SARs, the strike prices, expiry dates and
date. All S-SARs vest three years after the grant date. grant values for S-SARs are shown in the ‘10. S-SARs’ table
Vested S-SARs can be exercised (converted into NES) on page 167. The numbers of S-SARs as calculated at the
within seven years of the grant date. Unexercised S-SARs time of issue have been entered as values in the table on
lapse without compensation. page 161 and on page 159.24
23 For further information on the trinomial model for American options: Please refer to Boyle, Phelim P.: ‘A lattice framework for options pricing with
two state variables’, The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Volume 23, Issue 1 (Mar 1988), 1–12, www.roche.com/trinomial_model.pdf
24 See strike prices in table ‘10. S-SARs’, page 167.
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Roche | Remuneration Report
160 | Roche Annual Report 2014Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
S-SARs S-SARs S-SARs
2014 2013 2012
(value in CHF) (value in CHF) (value in CHF)
S. Ayyoubi 780,140 780,024 1,200,000
R. Diggelmann 780,140 650,256 366,150
A. Hippe 1,040,138 1,040,104 1,600,000
G. A. Keller 975,246 975,166 1,500,000
D. O’Day 1,300,280 1,300,185 1,300,000
Total 4,875,944 4,745,735 5,966,150
D. Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) component partially replacing S-SARs. The value of
2013, Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) — rights to receive S-SAR awards was reduced to 65% and the 35% balance
non-voting equity securities after a three year vesting is awarded in the form of RSUs.
period plus a value adjustment (being the amount
equivalent to the sum of the dividend paid during the RSU awards are allocated individually at the Remuneration
vesting period attributable to the number of non-voting Committee’s discretion and will be vested to the recipient
equity securities for which an individual award has been after three years only. Thereafter, resulting non-voting
granted) — were introduced as a new remuneration equity securities may remain blocked for up to 10 years.
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
RSUs RSUs RSUs RSUs
2014 2014 2013 2013
(number) (value in CHF) (number) (value in CHF)
S. Ayyoubi 1,665 419,896 2,107 332,668*
R. Diggelmann 1,665 419,896 1,755 349,824
A. Hippe 2,220 312,621** 2,809 559,918
G. A. Keller 2,081 524,807 2,633 524,836
D. O’Day 2,775 699,827 3,511 699,848
Total 10,406 2,377,047 12,815 2,467,094
Calculation of value 2013: Number of RSUs 2013 multiplied by grant value of CHF 199.33 (NES average market price over a 90 days period prior grant date
on 7 March 2013) per RSU (* calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 4 years, reduced market
value: 79.209%).
Calculation of value 2014: Number of RSUs 2014 multiplied by grant value of CHF 252.19 (NES average market price over a 90 days period prior grant date
on 6 March 2014) per RSU (** calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 10 years, reduced market
value: 55.839%).
E. Performance Share Plan (PSP) 2007–2009, PSP 2008–2010, PSP 2009–2011 and PSP
The members of the Corporate Executive Committee and 2010–2012 closed without any awards of targeted NES.
other members of senior management (currently some
150 individuals worldwide) participate in the Performance Under the provisions of this plan, a number of non-voting
Share Plan (PSP). equity securities (NES) have been reserved for the
participants in each cycle. The number of securities actually
In 2006 the PSP moved to overlapping three-year awarded will depend on whether and to what extent an
performance cycles, with a new cycle beginning each year. investment in Roche securities (shares and NES)
In 2014 there were thus three cycles in progress (PSP outperforms the average return on an investment in
2012–2014, PSP 2013–2015 and PSP 2014–2016,), whereas securities issued by a peer set of peer companies 25.
PSP 2012–2014 closed on 31 December 2014 with 175% Comparisons are based on the securities’ market prices and
of the targeted NES awarded (2013: PSP 2011–2013: 175% dividend yields, i.e. on Total Shareholder Return (TSR),
of the targeted NES awarded). In the previous years PSP which is calculated at CHF constant exchange rates. To
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche
25 See footnote 1, page 152.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 161reduce the effect of short-term market fluctuations, security In 2014 NES were reserved under the plan for members of
prices are averaged over the three months (October to the Corporate Executive Committee as shown in the table
December) prior to the start of a performance cycle and below and on page 159. The Board of Directors will decide
over the three months (October to December) at the on the actual level of NES or cash equivalent awards for the
end of the cycle. cycles 2013–2015 and 2014–2016 after the close of the 2015
and 2016 financial years, respectively. The aim of the PSP
If Roche securities perform better than the average of the is to provide an incentive to participants to achieve steady
peer set and Roche’s TSR increases at least 10% during a value growth.
cycle, the Board of Directors can elect to increase the NES
award. The maximum award is double the original level At the end of the PSP 2012–2014 cycle (based on a three-
reserved target number of NES according to the PSP plan month average) with distributed dividends totalling 18.933
(starting with PSP 2013–2015 cycle plus a value adjustment billion Swiss francs (2014: 6.728 billion Swiss francs; 2013:
being the amount equivalent to the sum of the dividend paid 6.340 billion Swiss francs; 2012: 5.865 billion Swiss francs),
during the vesting period attributable to the number of the TSR of the Roche securities (NES and shares) ranked
non-voting equity securities for which an individual award 5th, compared with its peer set of companies operating in
has been granted) and requires that Roche securities the same industry. Therefore, according to the terms of
perform as well as or better than those of 75% of the peer the plan, the participants received 175% of the originally
set. In the event that an investment in Roche securities targeted NES (see table below and on page 159 for details).
underperforms the average return delivered by the peer
companies, fewer or no NES will be awarded.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
2014 26 2014 2013 2012
Total
estimated
Awards of value of
175% of PSP awards
Target Target targeted (2012–2014, NES NES No NES
number number number 2013–2015 awarded in awarded in awarded in
of NES for of NES for of NES and 2014 for PSP 2013 for PSP 2012 for PSP
PSP PSP for PSP 2014–2016) 2012–2014 2011–2013 2010–2012
2014–2016 2013–2015 2012–2014 (value in CHF) (value in CHF) (value in CHF) (value in CHF)
S. Ayyoubi 1,624 2,194 4,765 772,206 428,714 412,592 –
R. Diggelmann 1,353 1,828 1,817 449,608 163,424 151,181 –
A. Hippe 2,165 2,925 6,354 1,029,601 571,671 412,592 –
G.A. Keller 2,030 2,742 5,957 965,252 535,931 515,595 –
D. O’Day 2,706 3,657 5,163 1,036,911 464,453 343,813 –
Total 9,878 13,346 24,056 4,253,579 2,164,193 1,835,773 –
F. Indirect benefits Roche Connect is a voluntary stock purchase plan offering
Employer contributions made in 2014 to social security employees the opportunity to buy Roche non-voting equity
schemes, pension plans and a Group-wide employee stock securities (NES) up to an amount equal to 10% of their
purchase plan (Roche Connect) in respect of members annual salary at a 20% discount. NES purchased under this
of the Corporate Executive Committee are shown in the plan are subject to a holding period, which is four years in
‘Indirect benefits (employer contributions)’ table on page 163 Switzerland.
and employer contributions as shown on page 159.
26 Total estimated value for 2014: PSP 2012–2014: Award of 175% of the originally targeted NES awarded for 2012–2014, spread over the relevant period
of time i.e. 1/3 for the year 2014, value calculated using the year-end price as at 31 December 2014, CHF 269.90 per non-voting equity security (NES).
PSP 2013–2015 and 2014–2016: Estimated value calculated using the year-end price as at 31 December 2014, CHF 269.90 per non-voting equity
security (NES), based on the number of NES originally targeted subject to changes in the number and value of NES awardable under the plan on
31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, respectively, and spread over the relevant period of time, i.e. 1/3 for the year 2014. The Board of Directors
will vote on the actual allocation of originally targeted NES on 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, respectively, according to the TSR achieved.
DETIDUA
Roche | Remuneration Report
162 | Roche Annual Report 2014Indirect benefits (employer contributions)
2014 2013
Pension Payments Pension Payments
funds/ for tax funds/ for tax
MGB 27/ AHV/IV/ Roche consulting MGB 27/ AHV/IV/ Roche consulting
insurances ALV 28 Connect services insurances ALV 28 Connect services
(in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF (in CHF) (in CHF)
S. Ayyoubi 90,567 561,427 15,000 2,908 433,257 524,925 10,000 1,620
R. Diggelmann 303,828 160,112 – – 303,256 84,764 – 1,538
A. Hippe 297,829 326,154 39,996 19,488 298,471 255,820 39,996 23,607
G. A. Keller 439,540 468,787 37,500 – 585,795 437,362 37,500 –
D. O’Day 297,351 619,852 49,992 101,534 297,320 405,781 34,372 21,800
Total 1,429,115 2,136,332 142,488 123,930 1,918,099 1,708,652 121,868 48,565
G. Other remuneration, emoluments and loans I. Executive remuneration subject to approval
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee at the Annual General Meeting
additionally receive annual expense allowances of 30,000
Swiss francs, totalling 180,000 Swiss francs. Based on a. Submission of Executive total aggregate bonuses
contractual obligations, in 2014, Roche paid to individual for a binding vote at the Annual General Meeting
members of the Corporate Executive Committee for their The Board of Directors proposes awarding the members
children’s schooling costs and foreign tax obligation of the Corporate Executive Committee bonuses totalling
totalling 516,817 Swiss francs. Expense allowances and 10,440,136 Swiss francs in respect of the 2014 financial year
aforementioned additional payments are included in the (2013: 9,316,780 Swiss francs) excluding legally required
total remuneration to members of the Corporate Executive employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and will submit this
Committee. proposed total amount to the ordinary Annual General
Meeting (AGM) 2014 for a binding vote.
In 2014, there are no loans or credits granted to the
members of the Corporate Executive Committee. b. Submission of Executive total future
aggregate remuneration for a binding
In 2014 pensions totalling 2,049,180 Swiss francs were paid shareholder vote
to former Corporate Executive Committee members. The Board of Directors proposes that the 2015 ordinary
AGM approve remuneration for the Corporate Executive
The maximum regular period of notice for members of the Committee totalling not more than 37,000,000 Swiss francs
Corporate Executive Committee is 12 months. There are no (excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/
change-of-control clauses in the employment contracts. IV/ALV and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the
2016 ordinary AGM (at the ordinary AGM 2014 approved
H. Total remuneration paid to the members remuneration for the period ordinary AGM 2014 to ordinary
of the Corporate Executive Committee AGM 2015 totalling not more than 36,000,000 Swiss francs
For the 2014 calendar year, the members of the Corporate [excluding bonuses]; for comparison, from 2013 ordinary
Executive Committee received remuneration including AGM to ordinary 2014 AGM remuneration amounted
bonuses totalling 42,904,327 Swiss francs (2013: 41,799,001 to 32,094,464 Swiss francs, [excluding legally required
Swiss francs) excluding additional employer’s contribution employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding
paid to AHV/IV/ALV totalling 3,397,928 Swiss francs bonuses]).
(2013: 2,993,108 Swiss francs) that does not form part
of compensation. Aggregate: 46,302,255 Swiss francs The amount of Executive total future aggregate
(2013: 44,792,108 Swiss francs). remuneration is composed of base pay, long-term
incentives (S-SARs and RSUs, calculated at grant value
No additional remuneration other than the above mentioned without considering reductions of value due to blocking
payments was paid to current or former members of the periods if applicable) and PSP (calculated at the time of
Corporate Executive Committee. reservation of non-voting equity securities and taking into
27 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
28 AHV/IV/ALV: Swiss social security programmes providing retirement, disability and unemployment benefits.
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 163Roche | Remuneration Report
account their potential to double), contributions to pension Upon termination of employment as a result of serious
benefits (excluding legally required employer’s contributions misconduct all S-SARs and RSUs granted and outstanding,
to AHV/IV/ALV) as well as contributions for expenses, whether vested or unvested, shall lapse immediately without
payments for tax consulting services and Roche Connect. any compensation. According to the S-SARs plan rules,
serious misconduct by the participant may include (inter alia):
• activity leading to serious disciplinary action
6. Alignment of interests between managers • repeated or willful failure to perform such duties as have
and shareholders/holders of non-voting equity been reasonably assigned by Roche
securities • violation of any law or public regulation
The S-SARs, RSUs and PSP remuneration components • commission of a crime
are intended to align management’s interest with those of • gross negligence or willful misconduct in employment
shareholders and holders of non-voting equity securities • engaging in conduct bringing disgrace or disrepute
and to give participating managers an additional incentive to Roche and/or any of its subsidiaries
to achieve continued value growth in the form of long-term • violation of any of Roche’s directives and guidelines
total shareholder returns. By creating value for Roche relating to business conduct
investors, management benefits as well. When no added
value is created for investors, management is ‘penalised’ According to the regulations of the PSP programme,
by receiving less. the originally targeted but not awarded NES shall lapse
without any compensation upon notice of termination
of employment being given for any reason other than
7. Clawback redundancy, disability or retirement.
In addition to applicable statutory provisions, Roche’s
long-term incentive plans include the option to partially
reclaim distributed compensation as a result of special 8. Guidelines for security holdings
circumstances (clawback). In 2012 the Board of Directors decided that the CEO
and other CEC members must acquire shares and/or NES
If the employee voluntarily serves notice of termination of equivalent to two annual base salaries (CEO) and one
employment, S-SARs and RSUs which are unvested at annual base salary, respectively, by the end of 2016 and
the date of termination of employment lapse immediately retain these holdings for as long as they serve on the CEC.
without any compensation.
Type of security Value
CEO Shares and/or NES 2 x annual base salary
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee Shares and/or NES 1 x annual base salary
164 | Roche Annual Report 20149. Security holdings parties’, page 111) and in Note 4 to the Financial Statements
Directors André Hoffmann and Andreas Oeri and members of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Significant shareholders’, page 144).
of the founders’ families who are closely associated with In addition, as at 31 December 2014 (as at 31 December
them belong to a shareholder group with pooled voting 2013, respectively) the members of the Board of Directors
rights. At the end of 2014 this group held 72,018,000 shares and persons closely associated with them and the members
(45.01% of issued shares). Detailed information about this of the CEC and persons closely associated with them held
group can be found in the Finance Report, Note 30 to the shares and NES as shown in the table ‘Security holdings’
Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related below and on page 166.
Security holdings
(as at 31 December 2014) (as at 31 December 2013)
Close Close
relatives’ relatives’
security security
holdings holdings
Shares NES (number/ Others Shares NES (number/ Others
(number) (number) type) (number) (number) (number) type) (number)
Board of Directors
Ch. Franz – 350 – – – 350 – –
A. Hoffmann – * 200 – – – * 200 – –
P. Baschera 1 4,600 – – 1 4,600 – –
J. I. Bell 300 1,647 – – 300 1,647 – –
P. Bulcke – 1,350 – – – 1,350 – –
D. Julius 350 2,050 – – 350 2,050 – –
A. Oeri –* 187,793 – – –* 187,793 – –
S. Schwan See ‘Security holdings’ See ‘Security holdings’
Corporate Executive Committee on page 166 Corporate Executive Committee on page 166
P. R. Voser – 3,600 – – – 3,600 – –
B. Weder di Mauro 200 800 – – 200 800 – –
In 2014 retired
Directors of the
Board
F. B. Humer n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 7,492 67,725 – –
W. M. Burns n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 3 84,735 – S-SARs see
Annual
Report
2013,
page 144
A. D. Levinson n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. – – – –
Total 851 202,390 – – 8,346 354,850 – –
* Shares held by the shareholder group with pooled voting rights not listed.
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 165Security holdings
(as at 31 December 2014) (as at 31 December 2013)
Close Close
relatives’ relatives’
security security
holdings holdings
Shares NES (number/ Others Shares NES (number/ Others
(number) (number) type) (number) (number) (number) type) (number)
Corporate
Executive
Committee
S. Schwan 91,279 14,065 – S-SARs/RSUs 10,000 68,518 – S-SARs/RSUs
see 10/11 see 10/11
S. Ayyoubi 8,104 12,923 – S-SARs/RSUs 3 16,032 – S-SARs/RSUs
see 10/11 see 10/11
R. Diggelmann – 853 – S-SARs/RSUs – 836 – S-SARs/RSUs
see 10/11 see 10/11
A. Hippe 6,970 8,184 – S-SARs/RSUs 2,885 6,851 – S-SARs/RSUs
see 10/11 see 10/11
G. A. Keller 19,192 7,638 1,100 S-SARs/RSUs 2,153 21,413 1,100 S-SARs/RSUs
shares see 10/11 shares see 10/11
D. O’Day 3 7,149 – S-SARs/RSUs 3 6,177 – S-SARs/RSUs
see 10/11 see 10/11
Total 125,548 50,812 1,100 15,044 119,827 1,100
shares shares
DETIDUA
Roche | Remuneration Report
166 | Roche Annual Report 201410. S-SARs
Number of S-SARs held by current and former members
of the Corporate Executive Committee on 31 December 2013
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Total
Corporate
Executive
Committee
S. Schwan 54,453 71,472 163,869 – – – – 289,794
S. Ayyoubi 16,338 21,441 49,161 – – – – 86,940
R. Diggelmann 16,338 17,874 15,000 12,732 6,489 29 4,263 29 5,295 29 77,991
A. Hippe 21,783 28,590 65,547 – – – – 115,920
G. A. Keller 20,424 26,805 61,452 – – – – 108,681
D. O’Day 27,231 35,739 53,259 – – – – 116,229
Total 156,567 201,921 408,288 12,732 6,489 4,263 5,295 795,555
Strike price (CHF) 263.20 214.00 157.50 140.10 175.50 145.40 188.90
Market price 269.90
per NES on
31 December 2014
(CHF)
Expiry date 6.3.2021 7.3.2020 8.3.2019 28.2.2018 4.2.2017 5.2.2016 25.7.2015
Grant value per 47.75 36.38* 24.41* 15.38 * 23.05 * 20.30 * 23.61 *
S-SAR (CHF)
Since 1.1.2012:
— Trinomial model
for American
call options
* Values according
to corresponding
annual reports
29 In his former position options held: All of the options shown in the table were issued by Roche as employee stock options. Each option entitles the
holder to purchase one Roche non-voting equity security (NES). Under the terms of this multi-year option plan, the strike price for options shown was
the closing price for Roche NES at grant date. All of the options shown are non-tradable. One-third of the options are subject to a vesting period of
one year, one-third have a vesting period of two years, and one-third a vesting period of three years. Unvested options lapse without compensation if
employment is terminated voluntarily (for reasons other than retirement), while vested options must be exercised within a limited period of time.
11. Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
Number of RSUs held by members RSUs RSUs
of the Corporate Executive Committee 2014 2013
on 31 December 2014 (number) (number)
S. Schwan 5,551 7,023
S. Ayyoubi 1,665 2,107
R. Diggelmann 1,665 1,755
A. Hippe 2,220 2,809
G. A. Keller 2,081 2,633
D. O’Day 2,775 3,511
Total 15,957 19,838
Grant value CHF 252.19 CHF 199.33
(NES average market price over a 90 days period (NES average market price over a 90 days period
prior grant date on 6 March 2014) per RSU prior grant date on 7 March 2013) per RSU
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 167Roche | Report of the Statutory Auditor
Report of the Statutory Auditor to the
General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd,
Basel
We have audited the accompanying remuneration report An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit
dated 26 January 2015 of Roche Holding Ltd for the year evidence on the disclosures made in the remuneration
ended 31 December 2014. The audit was limited to the report with regard to compensation, loans and credits in
information according to articles 14–16 of the Ordinance accordance with articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. The
against Excessive compensation in Stock Exchange Listed procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement,
Companies (Ordinance) contained in the sections marked including the assessment of the risks of material
with a blue line, including the respective footnotes, on pages misstatements in the remuneration report, whether due
152 to 167 of the remuneration report. to fraud or error. This audit also includes evaluating the
reasonableness of the methods applied to value components
Responsibility of the Board of Directors of remuneration, as well as assessing the overall presentation
The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the remuneration report.
and overall fair presentation of the remuneration report in
accordance with Swiss law and the Ordinance against We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
Excessive compensation in Stock Exchange Listed sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Companies. The Board of Directors is also responsible for
designing the remuneration system and defining individual Opinion
remuneration packages. In our opinion, the remuneration report for the year ended
31 December 2014 of Roche Holding Ltd complies with Swiss
Auditor’s Responsibility law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
accompanying remuneration report. We conducted our
audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards. Those
standards require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the remuneration report complies KPMG AG
with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance.
Ian Starkey François Rouiller
Licensed Audit Expert Licensed Audit Expert
Auditor in Charge
Basel, 26 January 2015
168 | Roche Annual Report 2014Report of the Statutory Auditor | Roche
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 169Roche | Independent Assurance Report
Independent Assurance Report on the
Roche Corporate Responsibility Reporting
To the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee • the Roche Group internal Corporate Reporting Manual,
of Roche Holding AG, Basel (‘Roche’). Version 2014.2 ‘Group Reporting Manual-Sustainability
Reporting’; and
We have been engaged to perform assurance procedures • the defined guidelines, by which SHE, people and
to provide limited assurance on the aspects of the 2014 contributions key figures are internally gathered, collated
corporate responsibility (‘CR’) reporting of Roche included and aggregated;
in the Annual Report 2014 (‘Report’).
The accuracy and completeness of CR indicators are subject
Scope and subject matter to inherent limitations given their nature and methods
Our limited assurance engagement focused on the following for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Our
data and information disclosed in the CR reporting of Roche assurance report should therefore be read in connection
and its consolidated subsidiaries for the year ended on with Roche’s internal guidelines, definitions and procedures
December 31, 2014: on the reporting of its CR performance.
• the management of reporting processes with respect to
the CR reporting in all material aspects and the preparation Responsibility and methodology
of Safety, Security, Health and Environmental protection The Roche Corporate Governance and Sustainability
(‘SHE’), contributions and people key figures as well as Committee is responsible for both the subject matter and the
the related control environment in relation to the data criteria as well as for selection, preparation and presentation
aggregation of these key figures; of the selected information in accordance with the criteria.
• the materiality determination process of Roche at Group Our responsibility is to form an independent opinion, based
level according to the requirements of the GRI G4 on our limited assurance procedures, on whether anything
guidelines and disclosed on pages 98 to 99 of the Report; has come to our attention to indicate that the identified
• the SHE key figures (including greenhouse gas emissions CR information selected and contained in this report is not
for scope 1 & 2 and scope 3 resulting from business travel) stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the
in the tables and graphs on pages 120 to 133 and people reporting criteria.
key figures disclosed on pages 108 to 115 of the Report;
• the consolidated data and information on the Roche Group We planned and performed our procedures in accordance
level in relation to the contributions breakdown, disclosed with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements
on page 97 of the Report; and (ISAE 3000) ‘Assurance engagements other than audits
• the people key figures disclosed on Roche’s website within or reviews of historical financial information’. This standard
the section ‘Non-Financial Reporting’ under sub-section requires that we comply with ethical requirements, plan
‘Performance’. and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited
assurance on the identified CR information.
Criteria
The management reporting processes with respect to the For the subject matter for which we provide limited
CR reporting and key figures were assessed against the assurance, the nature, timing and extent of procedures for
internal policies and procedures as set forth in the following: gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately
• the Roche Group internal CR reporting guidelines based on limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement.
the Responsible Care Health, Safety and Environmental We have complied with the independence and other ethical
Protection reporting guidelines published by the European requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional
Chemical Industry Council CEFIC and the ‘Sustainability Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards
Reporting Guidelines G4’ published in 2013 by the Global Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental
Reporting Initiative (GRI); principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence
and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
170 | Roche Annual Report 2014Independent Assurance Report | Roche
During 2014 we have not performed any tasks or services to We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient
Roche that would conflict with our independence, nor have and appropriate to provide a basis for our assurance
we been responsible for the preparation of any part of the conclusions.
report; and therefore qualify as independent as defined
by the Code of Ethics and applicable legal and regulatory Conclusion
requirements. Based on our work performed and described in this report
on the identified CR Reporting 2014 nothing has come to our
Summary of work performed attention causing us to believe that in all material respects:
Our assurance procedures included, amongst others, the • the Roche Group internal CR reporting guidelines based
following work: on the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as well
• Evaluation of the application of Roche Group as the CEFIC Guidelines are not applied;
guidelines • the Roche materiality determination process as disclosed
Reviewing the application of the Roche Group internal does not adhere to the principles and guiding factors
corporate CR and contributions guidelines; (e.g. soundness, stakeholder determination, peer review,
• Site visits and management inquiry relevance of regulatory environment, integration of key
Visiting selected sites of Roche’s Pharmaceuticals and organisational values and objectives) defined with GRI G4;
Diagnostics divisions in the US, India, and Brazil. The • the internal reporting processes to collect and aggregate
selection was based on quantitative and qualitative criteria; SHE, contributions and people data are not functioning
Interviewing personnel responsible for internal CR as designed and provide an appropriate basis for its
reporting and data collection at the sites we visited and disclosure; and
at the Roche Group level to determine the understanding • the CR information mentioned in the subject matter and
and application of Roche’s internal CR guidelines; disclosed within the CR reporting in the Roche Annual
• Assessment of the key figures Report 2014 and on the referenced webpages is not
Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence supporting stated, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
selected SHE, contributions and people key figures (Roche
accident rate, energy consumption, greenhouse gas
emissions related to energy consumption, halogenated Zurich, 23 January 2015
hydrocarbons, water, waste, contributions to healthcare
institutions, patient organisations, public policy bodies, and PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
philanthropic organisations, headcount/FTE data, labour
practice information, training and hiring costs) concerning
completeness, accuracy, adequacy and consistency;
• Inspection of documentation and analysis
of relevant policies and principles
Inspecting relevant documentation on a sample basis,
including Roche Group CR policies, management of Christophe Bourgoin Stephan Hirschi
reporting structures and documentation;
Inspecting the principles of the Roche Materiality Process
providing the definition for the development of its
adherence to GRI’s environmental, social and economic
reporting requirements addressing the soundness of
the identification process, determination of impacted
stakeholders, peer and competition review, integration
of relevant regulatory requirements, integration of key
organisational values and objectives and report
prioritisation of material aspects;
• Assessment of the processes and data
consolidation
Reviewing the management of/and CR reporting processes
for SHE, contributions and people key figures; and
Assessing the consolidation process of data at Roche
Group level.
We have not carried out any work on data reported for prior
reporting periods, nor have we performed work in respect of
projections and targets. We have not conducted any work
on data other than outlined in the subject matter as defined
above.
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 171Roche | More on the web
More on the web
1
Business Review
About Roche: www.roche.com/about
Our Business Priorities: www.roche.com/priorities
Investors: www.roche.com/investors
Personalised Healthcare (PHC): www.roche.com/personalised_healthcare
Sustainability: www.roche.com/sustainability
2
Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals: www.roche.com/products
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative: www.pharmaceuticalsupplychain.org
3
Diagnostics
Solutions for Diagnostics: www.roche.com/products
4
Innovation
Product Development Portfolio: www.roche.com/pipeline
Clinical Trials: www.roche.com/clinical_trials
Patient Safety: www.roche.com/managing_medication_safety
Research & Development Locations: www.roche.com/rnd_locations
Research Technologies: www.roche.com/research_technologies
Patents and Intellectual Property: www.roche.com/patents
Global Standards: www.roche.com/global_standards
Animal Welfare: www.roche.com/animal_welfare
5
Access to Healthcare
Access to Healthcare: www.roche.com/access_to_healthcare
Making Innovation Accessible: www.roche.com/making_innovation_accessible
Genentech Access Solutions: www.GenentechAccessSolutions.com
Patient Organisations: www.roche.com/patient-groups
172 | Roche Annual Report 2014More on the web | Roche
6
Responsible Business
Non-Financial Reporting: www.roche.com/investors/reporting/non-financial-reporting
Materiality: www.roche.com/materiality
Key Performance Indicators 2014: www.roche.com/performance
GRI G4 2014 Index: www.roche.com/gri-index2014
Reporting Centre: www.roche.com/reporting
Stakeholder Engagement: www.roche.com/stakeholder_engagement
Code of Conduct: www.roche.com/code_of_conduct
Roche Supplier Code of Conduct: www.roche.com/roche_supplier_code_of_conduct.pdf
Business Partner Information: www.roche.com/businesspartners
Suppliers and Service Providers: www.roche.com/for_partnership/suppliers
Responsibility Download Centre: www.roche.com/positions_policies_downloads
Human Rights: www.roche.com/human_rights
Risk Management and Compliance: www.roche.com/risk_management_and_compliance
Business Integrity and Responsible Marketing: www.roche.com/business_integrity_and_responsible_marketing
Anti-Counterfeiting: www.roche.com/counterfeiting
7
People
Employees: www.roche.com/about/people/employees.htm
Our People: www.roche.com/people
Sustainability for Employees: www.roche.com/for_employees
Careers: http://careers.roche.com
Roche Group Employment Policy: www.roche.com/employment_policy.pdf
8
Environment and Community
Safety, Health, and Environment: www.roche.com/environment
Our SHE Goals and Performance: www.roche.com/our_she_goals_and_performance
Our SHE Policies, Guidelines and Position Papers: www.roche.com/our_she_policies_guidelines_and_position_papers
Roche Commissions: www.roche.com/roche_commissions
Roche Continents: www.roche-continents.net/roche-continents
The Roche Children’s Walk: www.roche.com/childrenswalk
9
Corporate Governance and Remuneration Report
http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance.htm
http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
http://www.roche.com/about_roche/management/board_of_directors.htm
http://www.roche.com/about_roche/management/executive_committee.htm
http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/annual_general_meetings.htm
http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/committees.htm
http://www.roche.com/corporate_responsibility/business_ethics/risk_management_and_compliance.htm
http://www.roche.com/corporate_responsibility/environment.htm
http://www.roche.com/corporate_responsibility.htm
http://www.roche.com/research_and_development/who_we_are_how_we_work/ethics_in_rd/ethical_conflicts.htm
http://www.roche.com/media.htm
http://www.roche.com/investors.htm
http://www.roche.com/investors/contacts.htm
http://www.roche.com/about_roche/corporate_governance/code_of_conduct.htm
http://www.roche.com/trinomial_model.pdf
Roche Annual Report 2014 | 173Roche | Imprint
Published by Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd statements
4070 Basel, Switzerland This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 11 11 statements. These forward-looking statements may be
Fax +41 (0)61 691 93 91 identified by words such as ‘believes’, ‘expects’, ‘anticipates’,
‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘should’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘future’ or
Media Office similar expressions or by discussion of, among other things,
Group Communications strategy, goals, plans or intentions. Various factors may
4070 Basel, Switzerland cause actual results to differ materially in the future from
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 88 those reflected in forward-looking statements contained in
Fax +41 (0)61 688 27 75 this Annual Report, among others: (1) pricing and product
initiatives of competitors; (2) legislative and regulatory
Investor Relations developments and economic conditions; (3) delay or inability
4070 Basel, Switzerland in obtaining regulatory approvals or bringing products to
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 80 market; (4) fluctuations in currency exchange rates and
Fax +41 (0)61 691 00 14 general financial market conditions; (5) uncertainties in
the discovery, development or marketing of new products
Website or new uses of existing products, including without
www.roche.com limitation negative results of clinical trials or research
projects, unexpected side effects of pipeline or marketed
Corporate Sustainability Committee products; (6) increased government pricing pressures; (7)
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 40 18 interruptions in production; (8) loss of or inability to obtain
E-mail: corporate.sustainability@roche.com adequate protection for intellectual property rights; (9)
litigation; (10) loss of key executives or other employees; and
To order publications (11) adverse publicity and news coverage.
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 30 61
Fax +41 (0)61 688 41 96 The statement regarding earnings per share growth is not
E-mail: basel.webmaster@roche.com a profit forecast and should not be interpreted to mean
that Roche’s earnings or earnings per share for 2014 or any
Next Annual General Meeting: subsequent period will necessarily match or exceed the
3 March 2015 historical published earnings or earnings per share of Roche.
All trademarks mentioned enjoy legal protection.
Links to third-party pages are provided for convenience
only. We do not express any opinion on the content of any
third-party pages and expressly disclaim any liability for all
third-party information and the use of it.
The Roche Annual Report is published in German and
English.
The report consists of the actual annual report and of the
finance report and contains the annual management report,
annual financial statements and the consolidated financial
statements.
Printed on non-chlorine bleached, FSC-certified paper.
The Roche Annual Report is issued by
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Basel, Group Communications.
174 | Roche Annual Report 2014We believe it’s urgent to deliver medical
solutions right now – even as we develop
innovations for the future. We are passionate
about transforming patients’ lives. We are
courageous in both decision and action.
And we believe that good business means
a better world.
That is why we come to work each day.
We commit ourselves to scientific rigour,
unassailable ethics, and access to medical
innovations for all. We do this today to
build a better tomorrow.
We are proud of who we are, what we do,
and how we do it. We are many, working
as one across functions, across companies,
and across the world.
We are Roche.