Annual Report 20211896 Roche is founded
1904 Digalen, first standardised heart medication
1912 Roche present in nine countries on three continents
1929 Alice Keller, manager of Roche Japan, first female executive
1934 First company to mass-produce vitamins
1952 Rimifon, first treatment for tuberculosis
1968 First leap into diagnostics
1979 Cobas Bio, first automated lab device
1986 Roferon-A, genetically engineered cancer therapeutic
1991 Roche acquires PCR technology
1994 Roche launches Phelophepa, mobile health clinics in South Africa
1995 First protease inhibitor against AIDS
1997 MabThera/Rituxan, world’s first targeted antibody cancer drug
1998 Roche acquires Boehringer Mannheim
2002 Alliance with Chugai Pharmaceutical in Japan
2003 First Children’s Walk for global children’s charities
2009 Full integration of biotech pioneer Genentech
2011 Cobas 4800 HPV test to detect cervical cancer
2013 Kadcyla, antibody-drug conjugate for HER2-positive breast cancer
2015 Acquisition of Foundation Medicine
2017 Ocrevus, monoclonal antibody for multiple sclerosis
2018 Acquisition of Flatiron Health
2021 16 COVID-19 tests125 years of making
a difference in the
lives of millions
Each day, our breakthrough medicines and innovative
diagnostic solutions improve the lives of countless
people worldwide. This is our 125-year legacy. It is
also our promise for the future.
On our 125-year anniversary, we see every reason to
celebrate. Because life is about celebration – whether
creating new memories that resonate for years or
pausing to reflect on the precious moments of our past.
In 2021, we celebrated our history, our culture and
the enduring purpose that guides Roche’s next
125 years towards a sustainable, healthy future.
In 2021, we Celebrated Life.2Joint interview with André Hoffmann and Jörg Duschmalé | Roche 3
Stability and long-term thinking
André Hoffmann and Jörg Duschmalé are members of Roche’s founding
families and Board of Directors. On the occasion of our 125-year anniversary,
they share their thoughts on the past, present and future of the company.
Your ancestor Fritz Hoffmann founded Roche You are representing the fourth and fifth
125 years ago. What does this milestone generation of the founding families. How
anniversary mean to you? do you describe the role of the family in the
A. Hoffmann: I feel extremely proud. My great- company structure?
grandfather Fritz Hoffmann and so many other A. Hoffmann: The long-term family ownership
family members would be very pleased to see how helps provide stability to the company by
Roche has evolved over the years. This anniversary establishing an active partnership with management
is an important milestone, but a company that and the board for the company’s long-term success.
thinks sustainably and long-term will exist forever. You can think of the structure as a triangle that
unites the family, the Board of Directors and the
J. Duschmalé: Looking back on the rich history of Corporate Executive Committee. The Corporate
125 years and being able to shape the next chapter Executive Committee leads the company, the
of Roche as a new member of the Board of Directors Board of Directors sets the strategy and monitors
is of course a great privilege and something I am its implementation while the owner ensures the
very much looking forward to. Roche has always long-term direction. The separation of control and
played an important part in my life. execution is very important. I see my role as a family
representative not only as a privilege, but also as
What does that mean exactly? a major responsibility.
J. Duschmalé: Since my early childhood, Roche
was present in my life. There was always a feeling J. Duschmalé: The fact that the family has been
of being strongly connected to it and I was taught a part of the success story of Roche from the
about the lasting bond of our family with the beginning fills me with pride. Roche can continue
company and the corresponding responsibility. to count and rely on us as committed and loyal
Since I grew up in Basel, Roche was of course also majority shareholders. We want to pass on a healthy
visually present in the city. and sustainable company to the next generation
and I think it really is this long-term vision that we
André, you grew up in the Camargue in France. bring to the company. Being able now to boldly
Did Roche also play such a big role in your invest in areas that only will pay off in 10, 20 or
upbringing? even 30 years is certainly a big advantage, and
A. Hoffmann: For me it was a bit different. I that is what our stable family ownership can bring.
remember my father always spoke very proudly of
Roche, but because I didn’t grow up in Switzerland, What are some of the ways the family is
I didn’t have a constant connection to the company involved in decision-making?
back then. I started realising the actual importance A. Hoffmann: The family is engaged in the
and impact of the company in my teenage years. selection of the members of the Board of Directors.4
It is part of the governance of the company. It is Sustainability is not something you do alongside
important to us that the values and goals of the other business activities like marketing or sales.
company are represented by the individuals on To be truly sustainable, every action in which we
the board. This is something we pay attention to engage must be defined in terms of durability.
in the selection process. Traditionally, success is defined as positive cash
flows. This is too simple. Just measuring the
How does the family deal with internal financial consequence of a business activity fails
differences that affect important, forward- to measure the social, human and environmental
looking business decisions? impact that action is having. We should use the
A. Hoffmann: For us, the well-being of the natural, social and human capital in ways that
company has always been the common driver. We create sustainable, long-term value. This starts
share the same values, and this joint responsibility with constantly acting with an eye on the greater
also keeps us together as a family. With that we value and impact on society. When I connect this
can bring stability over the years. to Roche, thinking about tomorrow is part of our
history and legacy, and it’s equally important for
J. Duschmalé: As a family, we make it a priority our future.
to listen to one another and to always focus on
the most important thing: the long-term success Jörg, what is your perspective on sustainability?
of Roche. That helps in finding a common ground J. Duschmalé: I agree with André’s points.
which – as André says – benefits the company. Additionally, as a scientist, I associate sustainability
with Roche’s strength as an innovation powerhouse.
What is at the core of Roche’s success? In order to be successful for the long term, we
J. Duschmalé: Roche has managed to reinvent have to innovate at the frontier of scientific
itself again and again. The original idea was knowledge for the benefit of patients. It is often a
to produce medicines of the highest quality. matter of taking certain risks today that might not
Today, Roche is one of the largest biotech and appear lucrative in the short term, but can create
diagnostics companies in the world. We owe this sustainable value in the long term.
success to innovative research and the many
partnerships that we have entered into with You have been a researcher at Roche. How was
foresight and courage and we will continue to that time for you?
do so in the future. J. Duschmalé: It was a wonderful time for me. The
experience was an eye-opener on the importance
A. Hoffmann: This is a success that many teams of science and what great things can be achieved
and great talents around the world contribute to with it. I was able to experience first-hand what the
everyday. And we have done it in a sustainable culture and values of the company mean in everyday
way as we have kept societal and patient needs work. And what great personal commitment and
in our focus. perseverance it takes to advance a research idea
into a therapy that can save lives.
Talking about sustainable ways – you are known
for being a sustainability ambassador, André. What makes the Roche culture special for you?
Why do you believe this is such an important A. Hoffmann: It’s about the special people at
topic? Roche and how we interact with each other. All of
A. Hoffmann: To start with, let me state the us are driven by our passion to make a difference
obvious: The future is sustainable or there is for patients. It’s also about how we shape our
no future. If humanity is to continue to thrive, external partnerships. It’s not by coincidence that
it will have to think and behave sustainably. we are a partner of choice for many.Joint interview with André Hoffmann and Jörg Duschmalé | Roche 5
J. Duschmalé: I am convinced and have A. Hoffmann: We are in this position
experienced that Roche’s values are lived every because we as a family have invested in the
day. In addition, there is a company commitment company for the long term. Our assets essentially
that every employee knows: Follow the science. consist of Roche shares and this gives us the
That is what shapes us and I am very proud to be privilege and responsibilities of ownership. This
a part of this company. is why I see ownership not as a passive role
but as an active one. We commit ourselves to
A look into the future – how do you see Roche’s success in a very real way alongside
Roche in 20 years? the 100,000 employees who work at Roche. I
J. Duschmalé: I expect that we will focus don’t feel like an investor for myself. I see myself
even more on prevention and personalised as someone who prepares the company for the
therapies. It is also likely that there will be great next generation.
advances in therapeutic areas with great medical
need, such as neurological diseases. In the J. Duschmalé: I see it very similarly – the
future, I think the industry, in collaboration with shares give us the opportunity to influence
all healthcare stakeholders, must succeed in the company. The value of the share package
improving access to healthcare. I also believe would only be relevant for us if we were to sell.
that better availability of data will positively But we are committed to the long-term success
change research and make it more impactful. of Roche.
A. Hoffmann: Hopefully, Roche will be just The company still has its headquarters in
as successful as today. That is also our task: Basel. Did you ever discuss moving it to
to hand over a healthy company to the next another location?
generation of our family. A. Hoffmann: Even though we are active in
more than 100 countries today, our roots are here
What does success mean for you? in Switzerland. We are very happy with Basel as
A. Hoffmann: Roche is creating a better our location, but also with the research that can
future for millions of people. That is the greatest be conducted here. At the end of 2023 we will
success of all. Driving medical innovation open a new innovation centre with state-of-the-art
requires us to take bold risks. This requires lab facilities and I am looking forward to visiting it
room to manoeuvre. If there are not enough once it is finished.
profits, you cannot invest them sustainably.
But to focus only on profit maximisation is J. Duschmalé: We do research in Basel and
not right. Society does not only value profit- have a great network of partners to support us in
generating activities. I am delighted to witness this. As long as our headquarters location supports
everyday acts of generosity and kindness that us in bringing breakthrough innovations to patients,
do not lead to an invoice being sent! Acting we are in the right place.
graciously and in an altruistic way is one of the
things that makes us human. Let’s try not to The theme of Roche’s 125-year anniversary
forget it. This kind of thinking is how we will is Celebrate Life. How do you celebrate life?
continue to be a sustainable organisation in J. Duschmalé: Probably by enjoying a nice dinner
the years to come. with family and friends.
You are both part of a very wealthy and A. Hoffmann: I celebrate life when I am in
successful family. What significance does harmony with nature. And I wish the same to all
this have for you? of us.6Our purpose | Roche 7
Doing now what patients need next
We believe it is urgent to deliver medical solutions right now –
even as we develop innovations for the future. We are
passionate about transforming patients’ lives. We are
courageous in both decision and action. And we believe
that good business means a better world.
That is why we come to work each day. We commit ourselves
to scientific rigour, unassailable ethics, and access to
medical innovations for all. We do this today to build a
better tomorrow.
We are proud of who we are, what we do, and how we do it. We
are many, working as one across functions, across companies,
and across the world.
We are Roche.8Contents | Roche 9
Contents
Shareholder letters 10
Reporting and strategy 20
Diagnostics 28
Pharmaceuticals 42
Personalised healthcare 58
Access to healthcare 72
People and culture 84
Environment 96
Community engagement 108
Business ethics 118
Business performance 130
Corporate Governance 140
Remuneration Report 162
ar21.roche.com10Shareholder letters | Roche 11
Shareholder letters12Chairman’s shareholder letter | Roche 13
Dear Shareholders
Since its founding 125 years ago, Roche has Further milestones in our company’s history
worked to improve the health and lives of countless include our early adoption of biotechnology at a
people all over the world. Our anniversary time when almost nobody believed in it. We used the
year was no exception: In 2021 our more than discovery of monoclonal antibodies to revolutionise
100,000 employees and our partners developed, cancer therapy. With our PCR technology, we were
manufactured and provided global access to also pioneers in molecular diagnostics.
state-of-the-art diagnostics and treatments
for serious diseases including COVID-19. These For Roche, innovation has always been about
efforts were guided by the pioneering spirit that identifying and seizing opportunities. This will
has characterised Roche since its founding. remain so in the future as well. Digitalisation has
My sincere thanks for this. substantially increased the pace of our company’s
transformation since I became Chairman of the
The COVID-19 pandemic has dominated world Board of Directors. We view health data from
events for the past two years or so. It is not the medical practice as an opportunity to pursue the
first time that known or yet unknown pathogens ongoing development of personalised, and thus
have suddenly spread and presented us all with even more effective, medicine. At the same time,
major challenges, and it certainly will not be the our analysis of these data supports laboratory
last. Roche itself was established under the effect research and the development of new clinical trial
of a pandemic: Fritz Hoffmann had just taken up a concepts; it enables us to accelerate approval
position as a merchant in Hamburg in the summer procedures for innovative therapies and make
of 1892 when cholera broke out. As a result of them available to patients faster.
this experience, he decided to set up an industrial
pharmaceutical company on his return to Basel. Going forward, we want to use digitalisation to
His aim was to provide large quantities of effective achieve more medical progress at lower cost. We
medicines of uniform quality; this was still a will therefore once again increase our investment
revolutionary concept at the time. in research and development, even though our
R&D expenditure of 13.7 billion Swiss francs (+14%*)
During the 125 years since its establishment, last year already exceeds that of any other
Roche has repeatedly found the courage to healthcare company worldwide.
reinvent itself – guided by scientific progress. I was
recently reminded of this during a visit to Poland, One of Roche’s particular strengths is our long-
where Roche opened a branch back in the early term mindset. This privilege has a great deal to
last century. The impact of researchers such as do with the stability afforded us by the founding
Leo Sternbach, a Polish chemist, was enormous: In families. For this, too, I would like to express
the 1960s he discovered the benzodiazepines Valium my sincere thanks. Thinking sustainably is in our
and Librium, which have become indispensable in DNA. We are delighted and further motivated to
the treatment of anxiety, insomnia and nervousness. have been selected once again by the Dow Jones
Roche is still actively involved in the field of Sustainability Indices as one of the world’s most
neuroscience. Ocrevus for the treatment of sustainable companies in the healthcare sector.
multiple sclerosis is one of our most sought-after We received this recognition in 2021 for the
medicinal products. thirteenth year!
* Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2020)14
Last year we achieved an additional milestone: On behalf of the Board of Directors, I wish to
The extraordinary General Meeting at the end thank him sincerely for his valuable contributions
of November 2021 approved the buyback of the to Roche’s success.
Roche bearer shares held by Novartis for the past
20 years in a near-unanimous vote. I am confident I am delighted to propose Dr Jemilah Mahmood,
that this 19 billion Swiss francs transaction is in a doctor from Malaysia, as a new member of the
the best strategic and financial interests of Roche Board of Directors. She has great expertise in the
and all investors. It restores our full control over field of public health, especially in less developed
strategic decisions without requiring us to restrict regions of the world. Her particular experience
our operative scope. will enable her to help Roche make our medicines
and diagnostic products even more accessible to
The strong product pipeline that Severin Schwan people all over the world.
describes in more detail in his letter on page 17
and our financial figures – Group sales rose 9% to Roche is very special: focused on science-driven
62.8 billion Swiss francs and net income amounted innovation, committed to sustainability, rooted in
to 14.9 billion Swiss francs – confirm that Roche is Switzerland and open to the world.
on the right path. In light of our good performance,
the Board of Directors is proposing a 2% dividend I would like to thank you, our shareholders, for
increase to 9.30 Swiss francs per share and non- your confidence and loyalty.
voting equity security. Subject to your approval,
this will be the 35th consecutive dividend increase.
Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a
number of changes on the Roche Board of Directors.
After ten years as a member of the Board of
Directors, Paul Bulcke has decided not to stand Dr Christoph Franz
for re-election at the General Meeting in 2022. Chairman
Roche Board of Directors on 31 December 2021
Julie Brown (1962), B*, E, G
Bernard Poussot (1952), C, E, G
Dr Jörg Duschmalé (1984), Representative of the shareholder
group with pooled voting rights, B, E, G
Dr Christoph Franz (1960), Chairman, C, D*, E, G
Prof. Dr Hans Clevers (1957), A, E, G
André Hoffmann (1958), Vice-Chairman, Representative of the A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
shareholder group with pooled voting rights, A*, C*, D, E, G B Audit Committee
Dr Severin Schwan (1967), F C Remuneration Committee
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967), A, E, G D Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
Dr Patrick Frost (1968), B, E, G E Non-executive director
Paul Bulcke (1954), B, E, G F Executive director
Anita Hauser (1969), A, E, G G Independent member of the Board of Directors
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953), C, E, G * Committee chairpersonBoard of Directors | Roche 151166Shareholder letter CEO Roche Group | Roche 17
Dear Shareholders
Improving people’s lives by delivering medical The demand for effective treatments is also
innovations – that is what Roche has been about for extremely high for nervous system disorders.
125 years now. Many of our medicines which were Recent study data have highlighted the benefits
developed decades ago are still greatly benefiting of Ocrevus for multiple sclerosis, and Enspryng
millions of people today. The World Health for NMOSD, a rare disease affecting the central
Organization’s Model List of Essential Medicines nervous system. Roche is researching and
includes 32 of our products – a record high. developing over a dozen medicines to treat
neurological disorders, including Huntington’s,
In the future, too, Roche’s success will be based Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s disease.
on medical innovations. Despite all the successes,
there is still a great need for better therapies In Diagnostics, we have a world-leading portfolio
in many areas, such as cancer, dementia and of diagnostic solutions for COVID-19, and have been
infections, far beyond COVID-19. A need for working tirelessly since the start of the pandemic
effective treatments to give people with serious to constantly expand our range of coronavirus
diseases a better life or even cure them, a need tests. Roche is investing significant amounts in
for precision diagnostics to find the cause of establishing additional production capacity to
a disease and treat it at the earliest possible meet the continued high demand for routine
stage. Preventive diagnostics are also gaining diagnostics too.
increasing significance.
Innovative diagnostics are essential for prevention,
Looking ahead, I am pleased with the continued early detection and treatment decisions in infectious
high demand for our newly launched medicines diseases, cancer and other serious conditions.
and diagnostic tests as well as the development
of our product pipelines in both divisions. We have further expanded our leading position
in the area of infectious diseases with two
Last year, we continued to make significant targeted acquisitions. TIB Molbiol has brought a
progress for patients. Tecentriq became the first substantial number of tests to our broad portfolio of
cancer immunotherapy for people with early-stage molecular diagnostic solutions, while the acquisition
lung cancer to be approved – for many, this means of GenMark strengthens our commitment to
hope for a cure. Polivy is the first medicine in combating antibiotic resistance. We also launched
20 years to significantly improve outcomes in a three molecular PCR diagnostic test panels
form of aggressive blood cancer. to simultaneously detect common respiratory
pathogens out of one patient sample.
In ophthalmology, we were granted regulatory
approval for Susvimo, an innovative eye implant. Accurate diagnosis enables patients to receive
Susvimo offers an alternative to monthly injections the most appropriate treatment, and prevents
in the eyes and can thus make the lives of people them from being exposed to antibiotics they might
with wet age-related macular degeneration a great not respond to. However, diagnostic tests play a
deal easier. Furthermore, we applied for regulatory crucial role in more than just combating infectious
approval for Vabysmo, the first in a new class diseases. They can also help prevent other diseases,
of eye medicines that targets two key signalling such as cervical cancer or hepatitis C-related
pathways which cause retinal diseases. liver cancer.18
Digitalisation, an area in which Roche is investing Digital products, such as specific apps, are also
heavily, is becoming an ever more significant delivering ever better support for monitoring
factor in medical progress. Roche embarked on and treatment in other therapeutic areas such
strategic partnerships with Foundation Medicine as neurology or ophthalmology.
(FMI) and Flatiron Health several years ago because
we recognise that combining high-quality genomics Everything we have achieved would not have been
with real-world data (patient data from clinical possible without the 100,000 people who work for
practice) delivers completely new approaches. Roche worldwide, and I would like to thank them all
Where data sets are available in sufficient quantity for their exemplary dedication and commitment.
and quality, they represent an enormous potential Despite the challenges of the pandemic, our
going forward that is already within grasp today. people in research and development, production,
This is a crucial driver of our efforts to advance distribution and support functions around the
personalised healthcare. For now, the focus is world are working tirelessly to ensure that patients
on making a significant improvement for cancer continue to receive life-saving medicines and
patients by accelerating the discovery and diagnostics.
development of new cancer medicines.
I would also like to thank you, our shareholders,
To treat cancer effectively, it is first necessary to for the trust you have placed in our company.
understand the molecular mechanisms underlying
the disease. In autumn 2021, Roche therefore
partnered with FMI to launch a genome profiling kit
for personalised cancer research. The kit is the first
to enable researchers to use FMI’s comprehensive
genomic profiling assay in their own laboratories.
Digital solutions enable recording, structuring and
analysing of patients’ data, supporting clinical Dr Severin Schwan
decision-making and driving forward research. CEO Roche Group
Roche Corporate Executive Committee on 31 December 2021
Dr Alan Hippe (1967), Chief Financial and Information Officer
Claudia Böckstiegel* (1964), General Counsel
Dr Aviv Regev* (1971), Head Genentech Research and Early Development (gRED)
Dr William Pao* (1967), Head Roche Pharma Research and Early Development (pRED)
Dr Severin Schwan (1967), CEO Roche Group
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967), Chief People Officer
Bill Anderson (1966), CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals
Barbara Schädler* (1962), Head Group Communications
Dr James H. Sabry* (1958), Global Head Pharma Partnering
Dr Thomas Schinecker (1975), CEO Roche Diagnostics
* Member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive CommitteeCorporate Executive Committee | Roche 1920Reporting and strategy | Roche 21
Reporting and
strategy22
Our reporting approach
Roche is committed to transparent reporting and we endeavour to drive
our economic, social and environmental performance with the same
diligence as our financial performance.
Reporting scope and boundaries Risk Advisory team and the overall process
Our financial and non-financial reporting consists reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Board of
of the Annual Report, the Finance Report and Directors, and reviewed externally when appropriate.
the online report. It contains the annual financial Risk management is embedded at all levels of the
statements, consolidated financial statements and Roche Group. Our Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
non-financial performance indicators. It covers divisions and global functions conduct a formal
all regions and divisions of the Roche Group from risk and opportunity assessment process at least
1 January to 31 December 2021. The financial once a year and must develop response plans for
reporting scope is defined and outlined in our their most material risks and opportunities.
Finance Report, and there have been no significant
changes in scope in 2021 compared to 2020. Read more in ‘Corporate Governance’ on page 140.
GRI standards and materiality We also identify long-term business sustainability
We have followed the GRI (Global Reporting trends with associated risks and opportunities
Initiative) G4 guidelines since 2014, and transitioned on an annual basis and integrate these into our
to the GRI Standards in 2017. By using the GRI existing Group Risk Management Process. Each
guidelines, we disclose the most critical impacts year, emerging trends (including associated risks
of our activities on the environment, society and opportunities) are identified from internal
and the economy. In this respect, we conducted and external sources.
a first materiality analysis at the corporate
level in 2014. In 2018/2019, we conducted a Based on these findings the Sustainability Steering
second global materiality assessment including Committee prioritises and selects the top business
expert interviews and feedback from more than sustainability trends. Among those identified trends
600 stakeholders. The results of this assessment are healthcare evolution and societal crises.
are featured on pages 24 and 25 of this report
and are also published on our website (see link UN Sustainable Development Goals
on page 24). We support the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) within the sphere of
Risk management our corporate business strategy. We contribute
Our Risk Management Policy sets out Roche’s to a number of the SDGs and are particularly
approach to identifying, analysing, managing pleased to see a dedicated goal on health (SDG 3).
and reporting internal and external risks and This goal is closely connected with the achievement
opportunities. A consolidated Group Risk Report, of universal health coverage, which goes hand
which covers all material risks and opportunities, is in hand with better access to quality essential
discussed annually with the Corporate Executive medicines and diagnostics. This fits in perfectly
Material topic Committee and reviewed by the Board of Directors. with our vision to improve and save lives. Since
· Personalised healthcare The effectiveness of the Group Risk Management 2016, the SDGs have been an integral part of our
Process is regularly monitored by the Group annual reporting.
Report 2021: ar21.roche.com | roche.com/ar21e.pdf | roche.com/fb21e.pdf
Risk management: roche.com/risk-management | Key Performance Indicators: roche.com/performanceOur reporting approach | Roche 23
Examples of our contribution to the UN goals
are listed on our UN SDG webpage (see link on
Business sustainability trends
page 24) and are mapped to our material topics
as featured on page 25.
Healthcare evolution
As a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), Healthcare is moving towards a continuum of care approach, including
we commit to integrate the universal principles prevention, treatment and cure, offering a wider range of products and
in the areas of human rights, labour, environment service solutions. This is a unique opportunity to accelerate delivery of
and anti-corruption into our business strategy, truly integrated, patient-centric and personalised healthcare solutions.
culture and daily operations and to report on the For example, we have introduced our Navify Symptom Tracker, which
results achieved each year. We will publish our first offers remote monitoring of COVID-19 symptoms. We are also developing
Communication on Progress in the first quarter cloud-enabled integration engines to support digital health ecosystems
of 2022. and mobile apps for patients and healthcare professionals, like the
mySugr app to monitor and manage diabetes on a smartphone. The risks
External assurance and opportunities associated with this new digital health arena are
Our non-financial reporting has been verified by assessed and managed through the Group Risk Management Process.
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG (PwC), an independent
third party, focused on the materiality determination Societal crises
process, the design of the sustainability risks and Ineffective social models with limited economic and educational
opportunities determination process and on the prospects are likely to lead to dissolution of societal solidarity and
figures in the areas of safety, security, health and exacerbate mental health deterioration and youth disillusionment. We
environmental protection, people and contributions. consider that it is our role to drive public-private partnerships and
Since 2019, and as a result of Roche’s strengthened initiatives, working in collaboration with governments and healthcare
control framework, review procedures and providers, to tackle such risks. We also see an opportunity to demonstrate
reporting aspects, the figures related to our that we are an employer of choice, acknowledging the importance of
grants, donations and sponsorships to healthcare health and well-being of our employees. We provide various offerings to
and patient organisations have been subject to support employees and their families, from flexible working arrangements,
reasonable assurance performed by PwC. This parental leave for men and women, childcare facilities and other
figure is disclosed on the non-financial reporting provisions to help employees combine their career and family roles, to
key performance indicators webpage, including unpaid-leave options for people needing to care for an elderly relative.
the PwC assurance report.
See ‘Independent Assurance Report’ on page 190.24
Materiality and impact
Our purpose is Doing now what patients need next. How we identify
and meet those needs – what we do every day – must be sustainable if we
are to succeed. It is why sustainability is built into our business strategy
and part of everyone’s job at Roche.
Our approach is holistic and integrates the three 2019 to 2029. And we aim to reduce our own
dimensions of sustainability: greenhouse gas emissions to absolute zero by 2050,
• Society – how we contribute to a better while partnering with our suppliers to reduce their
tomorrow for all emissions for our mutual benefit.
• Environment – how we minimise our impact
on nature Economy
• Economy – how we invest in medical advances, Our business must meet the needs of patients
create jobs and ensure livelihoods and continue creating quality jobs that provide
people and their families with secure livelihoods,
What does this mean for each of us at Roche, while earning competitive returns for our investors.
every day? We do this by promoting innovation and by
translating science into pioneering medicines
Society and diagnostics that help patients live longer,
We contribute to a better society by enabling better and more productive lives – enabling them
the right treatment for the right patient at the right to support themselves and contribute to their
time for the right value. We do this by developing local economies.
new medicines and ways of diagnosing disease
and gaining insights from data. Our commitment As described in our strategy our set-up is designed
to expand access to these innovations will help for innovation. Our autonomous research and
more patients live longer, better lives. And development centres and alliances with more than
with this comes a deep respect for the human 250 external partners foster a diversity of scientific
rights of everyone we reach, especially patients, approaches and agility. Roche operates in over
business partners, suppliers, local communities 100 countries where our local teams implement
and, of course, our colleagues around the world. our strategy. We measure our performance and
It is why we emphasise employee safety, health report to all our stakeholders the progress towards
and development while promoting diversity and the goals we have set ourselves.
inclusion, integrity, mutual respect and equal
opportunities for all. Materiality assessment and stakeholder
engagement
Environment Engaging with our stakeholders is essential
The respect for a healthy planet and for the to build trust and an understanding of their
environment has always been a priority of expectations. By embedding their feedback in our
our founding families and the company. We strategy and our daily business, we are able to
are committed to halving the environmental jointly address our common issues and develop
impact of our operations and products from long-term solutions.
Sustainability: roche.com/sustainability | Materiality: roche.com/materiality | Stakeholder engagement: roche.com/stakeholder_engagement |
Key performance indicators: roche.com/performance | Our contribution to the UN SDGs: roche.com/un-sdgsMateriality and impact | Roche 25
In order to identify the topics that are particularly
relevant to Roche, our stakeholders and society
at large and to deliver lasting shared value, we
conducted an in-depth materiality assessment
Society Environment
at corporate level among our key stakeholders
in 2018/2019. Our approach to materiality
Sustainability
assessment is integrated – building on our Group
Risk Management Process – and inclusive, being
designed collaboratively with colleagues across
multiple functions. We gathered insights from a
broad range of internal and external stakeholders Economy
to identify the most important and pressing
issues that Roche should address in the next three
to five years. We identified 19 material topics,
clustered in eight main categories, that stood out
as highly relevant to us and to our key stakeholders.
To properly address these topics, we have then
aligned them with our current goals and are
measuring performance through our defined set
of indicators.
Our impact
Our impact Our 2021 performance Our material topics* Supporting UN SDGs
Society • 1 6.4 million patients treated with • Access to healthcare
How we contribute to a Roche medicines • Digitalisation
better tomorrow for all • 2 7 billion tests conducted with • Science and innovation
Roche Diagnostics products • Product quality and safety
• 80 new molecular entities in • Ethics and compliance
clinical development • Employee engagement
• 36% of women in executive positions
• 4 4% of women in management
• 80/100 employee engagement score
Environment • ~ 30% decrease in our environmental • Energy efficiency
How we minimise our impact per employee since 2019
impact on nature • 7 2% of our electricity coming from
sustainable sources
• 5 9% decrease in greenhouse gas
emissions since 2004
Economy • 21.83% of sales invested in R&D • Long-term mindset
How we invest in medical advances, • 100,920 employees
create jobs and ensure livelihoods
* Clustered material topics – for details see: roche.com/materiality26
Our strategy
We focus on finding new medicines and diagnostics and on establishing
data-based insights that evolve the practice of medicine and that help
patients live longer, better lives.
Our business environment is undergoing tremendous a seamless patient journey. We will continue to
change. We are facing new challenges due to the concentrate our energies on prescription medicines,
complexity of care and increasing pressure on in vitro diagnostics and increasingly data and
healthcare budgets. At the same time, we see new insights, rather than diversify into other sectors
opportunities arising from major advances in life like generics, biosimilars or over-the-counter
sciences and from digitalisation in healthcare. medicines.
In these turbulent times, we are guided by our Our delivery is to create value for all our
common purpose: Doing now what patients stakeholders: being a partner of choice; bringing
need next. Our company has been bringing significant medical benefit for patients, doctors
novel diagnostics and treatments to patients for and payers; offering a great place to work for
125 years. Patients are and will remain at the core employees; delivering a sustainable positive
of what we do. They are the reason we come to contribution to society; and earning competitive
work every day. returns for our investors.
What we do How we do it
We focus on our vision of fitting treatments to Ultimately, delivering on our commitments takes
patients: providing the right therapy for the right people with integrity, courage and a passion for
patient to ensure the best response at the right making a difference for patients. Our people are
time for the right value. Our approach combines our proud to say: We are Roche.
rich expertise in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics
with expanded data science capabilities to drive Our leadership inspires outcomes that matter
more effective and efficient research and to enable by embracing diversity and inclusion. Different
better therapeutic decisions for patients. backgrounds, perspectives and experiences, across
the entire organisation, foster innovative solutions
Our pursuit of excellence in science rests on four for the benefit of patients. Our ways of working
key elements: an exceptionally broad and deep enable agile and networked responses to the ever
understanding of disease biology; the seamless increasing pace of change by balancing the needs
integration of our capabilities in pharmaceuticals for stability, speed and flexibility.
and diagnostics; a diversity of approaches to
maximise innovation; and a long-term orientation. Our set-up is designed for innovation. Our
autonomous research and development centres
Working in partnership with third parties, we and alliances with more than 250 external partners
offer integrated solutions with improved medical, foster a diversity of scientific approaches and
health and economic benefits. We work with agility. Our global geographical scale and reach
many different stakeholders in the healthcare enables us to attract talent in the leading global
ecosystem to broaden access to our offerings for science clusters and to quickly bring our solutions
people who need them and, ultimately, to provide to people who need them.Our strategy | Roche 27
What we do How we do it
Our focus Our leadership
Fitting treatments to patients Inspiring outcomes that matter
Our distinctiveness Our ways of working
Excellence in science Agile and networked
Our delivery Our set-up
Value for all stakeholders Built for innovation28Diagnostics | Roche 29
Diagnostics30Diagnostics | Roche 31
Diagnostic solutions - the backbone
of treatment decisions
Whether it is cancer, infectious diseases or other serious health threats,
the quest for better solutions to healthcare’s greatest challenges depends
on diagnostics.
The COVID-19 pandemic profoundly raised In the first quarter of 2021, we also introduced
awareness of the role diagnostics play in disease the SARS-CoV-2 Antigen Self Test Nasal for
prevention and management. Although COVID-19 self-administered testing at home. The test
continues to dominate the healthcare landscape enables patients to gather a sample from the
and the pandemic remains a global threat, some front area of the nose rather than the nasopharynx
countries have made varying degrees of progress and can identify infectious SARS-CoV-2 in just
towards containing the virus. At the end of 2021, 15 minutes. Initially granted special approval in
there were more than 293 million confirmed cases several European countries, the test received
of COVID-19, and more than five million deaths. the CE mark in June, expanding its availability to
countries accepting the CE mark.
The spread of the virus has placed an enormous
strain on health systems and heightened the need We further supplemented our COVID-19 portfolio
or millions of tests. At Roche, we are proud of our in June with the launch of the SARS-CoV-2 assay on
industry-leading portfolio of 22 COVID-19 solutions, the cobas Liat system, making it the first 20-minute
and we remain committed to developing and point-of-care (PoC) PCR test to receive Emergency
bringing to market additional tests and solutions Use Authorization in the US for asymptomatic
to strengthen the global fight against the disease. screening. The test detects all currently known
SARS-CoV-2 variants, and brings fast PCR testing
In March 2021, we launched the cobas to near-patient settings, like clinician’s offices,
SARS-CoV-2 Set 1 variant test, which runs on our emergency rooms and urgent care clinics.
cobas 6800/8800 systems. Developed to detect
and differentiate SARS-CoV-2 mutations in known In December, we received FDA Emergency Use
variants, this research-use-only test can help Authorization for our COVID-19 At-Home Test,
scientists track mutation prevalence, assess the which uses a simple anterior nasal swab sample
spread of circulating variants, and monitor their for convenient self-collection and self-testing by
potential impact on treatments, vaccines, and public individuals aged 14 years and older, and by an adult
health measures. The test has a pre-optimised assay for children aged 2–13 years old. It can produce
design, ready-to-use test cassettes, and predefined accurate, reliable and quick results in as few as
software parameters, all of which reduce testing 20 minutes for SARS-CoV-2 and all known variants
complexity and shorten turnaround time. of concern, including Omicron.32
Navify Pass enables individuals to receive health credentials
easily and seamlessly on their mobile devices.
That same month, we added three additional
research-use-only (RUO) test kits for the detection
of mutations present in the novel B.1.1.529 Omicron
SARS-CoV-2 variant: VirSNiP SARS Spike ins214EPE
(RUO), VirSNiP SARS-CoV-2 Spike S371L S373P
(RUO), VirSNiP SARS Spike E484A (RUO). The
kits were developed with TIB Molbiol, our newly
acquired subsidiary.
The VirSNiP variant kits allow differentiation
between the range of unique mutations present
within the Omicron variant compared to other
SARS-CoV-2 variants and are for use on LightCycler
and cobas z 480 analysers. Using a technology
called quantitative polymerase chain reaction
(qPCR) they can help researchers with improved
variant detection and viral research, and are
among the first to address the range of unique
mutations of the Omicron variant.
Besides the novel assays, we also launched the
Navify Pass, a digital solution that allows people
125 years of milestones
to receive their COVID-19-related health data
in a mobile app. Available in various countries,
Revolutionising diagnostics including the United Kingdom and the Netherlands,
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a trusted way to create unlimited this solution can be used to facilitate access to
copies of DNA from just one original strand. The copied DNA can then be events and travel and enable a return to normality.
used reliably in a wide variety of tests to diagnose or monitor diseases,
or for basic molecular biology research. Point-of-care testing plays an essential and
increasingly important role in healthcare as
In 1983, Kary Mullis, a scientist at the Cetus Corporation, conceived PCR as it delivers high medical value solutions and
a method to copy DNA and synthesise large amounts of a specific target diagnostic information to patients and healthcare
DNA. Over the next two years, the team of Cetus scientists that recognised professionals wherever and whenever it is needed.
the potential impact PCR could have on molecular biology researched, The Roche point-of-care strategy focuses on
refined and made the theoretical process a reality. infectious diseases like COVID-19, influenza A/B
and sepsis, with tests for several other diseases
In 1991, Roche bought the rights to PCR from Cetus and invested in currently in development.
refining the science for use in molecular diagnostics to detect diseases.
Roche Molecular Diagnostics has not only defined and refined PCR, but
it has remained the clear leader and trailblazer of this technology.Diagnostics | Roche 33
Diagnostics beyond COVID-19
Unfortunately, during a pandemic, many people oesophageal cancer. A mutation of p53 is present in
with other serious diseases face delays in treatment half of solid tumour cancers and is the most common
and disease monitoring. To achieve the best genetic change identified so far in human cancers.
possible results, these patients depend heavily This test is especially impactful in oesophageal
on early diagnosis and rapid access to therapy. cancer, the sixth most common cause of cancer
To meet both COVID-19 and other testing needs, death worldwide. It can be particularly difficult to
we significantly increased installations of our treat as it often has no signs or symptoms in the
high-throughput systems cobas 6800/8800, and early stages.
have now installed more than 1,700. As a result,
every 24 hours, laboratories around the world can Also in support of our PHC approach towards
perform three million more tests than they could cancer care, we received FDA approval in October
before the pandemic. Health systems can use the for the Ventana PD-L1 (SP263) assay to be used
additional capacities for screening, diagnosis, and as a companion diagnostic to identify patients with
treatment monitoring in other areas, such as cancer, non-small cell lung cancer eligible for treatment
cardiovascular disease and women’s health. with our Tecentriq immunotherapy. The approval
was based on the results from the phase III
In spite of the pressures of meeting the ongoing IMpower010 study and expands our industry-leading
demand for COVID-19 tests, we launched several portfolio of companion diagnostics.
tests and solutions for other health conditions
in 2021. Many of these conditions are not only a We also launched the Elecsys Growth Differentiation
tremendous stress and strain on the patient, but also Factor 15 (GDF-15) immunoassay, which detects
on their loved ones and on the healthcare system. a specific form of weight loss known as cachexia
in patients with solid tumours. The test, which has
In oncology, we added important new tests to received the FDA Breakthrough Device Designation,
aid in the fight against cancer. In March, we helps determine eligibility for treatment that targets
expanded the label for the Ventana ALK (D5F3) this highly prevalent complication of cancer.
assay to identify ALK-positive lung cancer patients
who are eligible for targeted treatment with The Ventana MMR RxDx Panel, launched in April,
Lorbrena (lorlatinib, Pfizer). This assay is the only is the first FDA-approved companion diagnostic
immunohistochemistry test approved by the FDA for identifying patients with advanced or recurring
as a companion diagnostic for Lorbrena. The test endometrial cancer who are best suited for
has previously been approved as a companion treatment with GSK’s immunotherapy drug Jemperli
diagnostic for three other targeted treatments, (dostarlimab-gxly). Endometrial cancer is the most
including Xalkori (crizotinib, Pfizer), Zykadia (ceritinib, common gynaecologic cancer in the US and about
Novartis) and Roche’s Alecensa (alectinib). This 90,000 women globally die from endometrial cancer
label expansion advances Roche’s commitment each year. Currently, only limited treatment options
to personalised healthcare (PHC). It provides lung exist for women whose disease progresses on or
cancer patients with access to more treatment after first-line therapy; ours is the first companion
options and a better chance for progression-free diagnostic to identify endometrial cancer patients
survival, compared to the standard of care. eligible for anti-PD1 immunotherapy. The test was
also FDA approved in August to help determine,
A month later, we launched the Elecsys Anti-p53 based on cancer biomarkers, which patients with
immunoassay to help diagnose bowel, breast, and solid tumours may benefit from Jemperli.34
Our systems, tests and software solutions help laboratories
improve their efficiency, quality controls and information sharing,
and support physicians and patients in treatment decisions.
women are at increased risk for high-grade
cervical pre-cancer and require immediate further
diagnostic procedures, and which women may
need repeat testing or routine screening.
Improving CVD management
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) remains the leading
cause of death globally, claiming the lives of
nearly 18 million people each year.1 The COVID-19
pandemic has made management of this disease
even more challenging, especially as many patients
are unaware that they have the disease, and
are reluctant to seek care even if experiencing
classic symptoms like chest pain. Biomarkers
play a critical role in improving the diagnosis
and management of heart attacks and heart
failure. In April, we announced additional testing
capabilities for two key biomarkers: high-sensitive
cardiac troponin T (cTnT-hs) and N-terminal
pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP).
Heart failure affects more than 64 million people
In October, we announced the IMPACT (IMproving worldwide and places great stress on patients,
Primary screening And Colposcopy Triage) clinical caregivers and healthcare systems. Despite
trial data showing a clear benefit in using our treatment and hospitalisation, the outlook is poor.
CINtec Plus Cytology test for women who are at One of the new Elecsys NT-proBNP test extensions
higher risk of developing cervical cancer. More than can identify which patients with type 2 diabetes are
604,000 women are diagnosed with cervical cancer at greater risk for developing heart failure. Another
each year and approximately 342,000 die from helps identify patients at risk of developing atrial
this preventable cancer caused by infection with fibrillation, an abnormal heart rhythm that can
high-risk types of the human papillomavirus (HPV). lead to stroke, brain damage or death. The new
Results from the trial of more than 35,000 women extensions for Elecsys cTnT-hs testing help predict
aged 25–65 years, were published in the heart attack risk and mortality in non-cardiac
International Journal of Cancer. surgery patients, and can assess long-term
cardiovascular event risk in asymptomatic patients.
In the study, women who were positive for high-
risk HPV received a follow-up triage test to help Infectious disease threats beyond COVID-19
determine if their cervical cells were transforming Although COVID-19 retains the world’s attention,
to cervical pre-cancer. The biomarker-based a range of other infectious diseases affect millions
CINtec Plus Cytology test showed a significantly of people, and rank among the top three causes
higher sensitivity in detecting cervical pre-cancers, of death worldwide. We continue to develop tests
compared to Pap cytology. The Roche test aids and solutions for infectious diseases beyond
clinicians in more confidently determining which COVID-19.
1 Fact sheet on cardiovascular diseases. World Health OrganizationDiagnostics | Roche 35
In March, we launched the Elecsys Epstein-Barr identify multiple pathogens with overlapping
virus (EBV) immunoassay panel to improve EBV symptoms. These test panels can be run on the
staging in countries accepting the CE mark. cobas omni Utility Channel of the high-volume
Infecting more than 90% of the world’s population cobas 6800/8800 systems. These three new
by adulthood, EBV normally remains dormant, molecular diagnostic panels use a single patient
but can become threatening to those with sample to test for influenza A and influenza
weakened immune systems, such as transplant B as well as respiratory syncytial virus (RSV);
patients. This panel includes three immunoassays adenovirus (ADV), human metapneumovirus
to detect specific EBV antibodies: Elecsys IgM, (hMPV) and enterovirus/rhinovirus (EV/RV);
Elecsys EBV VCA IgG and Elecsys EBNA IgG. The and parainfluenza 1, 2, 3 and 4. The tests can
panel helps clinicians make faster decisions on be run together or alone. When compared to
treatment for transplant patients, and can also conventional diagnostic methods, these flexible
be used to rule out other acute infections, such syndromic panels reduce unnecessary testing
as undetected HIV. and provide important insights to clinicians
more quickly. Moreover, these tests can be
Also newly approved is a claim extension for our combined with our COVID-19 testing on the
Elecsys BRAHMS Procalcitonin (PCT) immunoassay cobas 6800/8800 systems.
to monitor patients on antibiotic therapy, which
is around 420 million patients a year. This aids Patients with respiratory infections often have
in identifying resistance and enables targeted signs and symptoms that are not specific enough
antibiotic use. It also detects severe bacterial to discern the root cause of the illness. This
infections in as many as 50 million patients a year latest set of syndromic respiratory solutions
for earlier therapeutic intervention. allows clinicians to choose the appropriate tests
based on the healthcare setting, any seasonal
With the completion of our GenMark Diagnostics outbreaks, and patient needs. By testing only what
acquisition, we have strengthened and broadened is medically relevant and necessary, they enable
our infectious diseases portfolio and taken a targeted therapy, avoid misuse of antibiotics and
major step into syndromic panel testing (also reduce unnecessary intervention.
known as multiplex testing). By detecting the most
common pathogens that cause disease together Through our acquisition of the TIB Molbiol Group
on a single rapid test, with a single patient sample, in December, we are able to further expand our
clinicians can prescribe the right therapeutic portfolio with more than 45 CE-IVD assays and more
within hours – rather than days, when compared than 100 research use assays on our LightCycler
with conventional testing algorithms. Roche and PCR systems and MagNA Pure sample preparation
GenMark can benefit patients, laboratories and systems. We have successfully partnered with
healthcare providers through this combined TIB Molbiol for more than 20 years and this
expertise and portfolio. collaboration was instrumental in creating our
first SARS-CoV-2 detection test in January 2020,
Acute respiratory infections, including serious mere days after this novel virus had first been
complications from infections with SARS-CoV-2, sequenced.
are among the world’s leading causes of death
and disability. In September, we launched three
respiratory test panels in CE markets to help36
Transforming healthcare through digitalisation
and advanced technology
In 2021, more than 27 billion tests were conducted pathology algorithms, uPath Ki-67 (30-9), uPath
with Roche products. This includes more than ER (SP1) and uPath PR (1E2) image analysis,
one billion tests to diagnose SARS-CoV-2 infections also for breast cancer. These three are important
or measure related antibodies. In addition, it biomarkers and they complete our digital pathology
includes millions of tests for other health conditions. breast panel of image analysis algorithms.
Over time, the thousands of data points individual
patients create throughout their journeys not only For earlier detection of liver cancer, specifically
help identify changes in their health, but also hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the CE mark
enable tracking of similar patient cohorts across was granted in November for our Elecsys GAAD
institutions and geographies. This will eventually algorithmic score, which combines gender, age and
allow for comparison of outcomes as well as Roche’s Elecsys AFP and Elecsys PIVKA-II assays.
predictive measures through artificial intelligence Liver cancer is one of the few cancers that is on
(AI) and machine learning. the rise and is responsible for 830,000 deaths a
year. However, when detected and managed early,
With the goal of improving patient care by patient five-year survival rates can increase up to
expanding access to innovative image analysis, we 70%. Our algorithmic score helps aid in diagnosis
launched the Digital Pathology Open Environment. of patients with chronic liver disease, such as
With this open environment, Roche is building an hepatitis or cirrhosis, when followed-up with CT or
open application programming interface (API) MRI scanning. This provides clinicians with more
framework to enable third-party companies accurate information to support their treatment
to deploy their algorithms within Navify Digital decisions and could help increase access to liver
Pathology, the cloud version of Roche uPath cancer testing.
enterprise software. In addition to the Digital
Pathology Open Environment, we announced In digitalisation for the point-of-care setting, the
in October collaborations with PathAI and Ibex cobas pulse system represents a major advance.
Medical Analytics for AI-based digital pathology This revolutionary new glucose management
applications. solution is the first professional blood glucose
meter with an Android-based operating system
Our growing involvement with AI underscores our loaded with industry-leading medical apps that can
belief that it holds significant promise for advancing perform essential functions for nurses, doctors
pathology imaging, which can benefit cancer and lab managers. With cobas pulse launched in
patients through more precise diagnosis. This in November, we believe that the system will serve
turn can help clinicians identify targeted treatments as a gateway to future digital health services and
that could lead to better results. medical practice.
For breast cancer, we announced in January the Improved lab management for improved
CE-IVD launch of our automated digital pathology patient outcomes
algorithms, uPath HER2 (4B5) image analysis Innovative tests, digital insights and enhanced
and uPath HER2 Dual ISH image analysis, to laboratory management solutions are transforming
help determine the best treatment strategy for healthcare and improving outcomes. With this new
each patient. In December, we launched three digital era come great opportunities to benefit
new research-use-only (RUO) automated digital patients and laboratories around the world. ByDiagnostics | Roche 37
Digitalisation in healthcare is continually improving our ability
to collect, curate and make sense of vast quantities of diverse
patient data.
identifying and developing innovative predictive
diagnostics, testing enables early detection
and treatment, which can significantly improve
outcomes. In addition, AI can help increase the
number of cases reviewed by pathologists while
reducing human error, improving accuracy and
enabling personalised treatment plans.
In the third quarter, we launched updated
and expanded lab analytical applications
for our customers, including Viewics LabOPS
Molecular. This newly expanded offering provides
insights across the entire menu of the Roche
cobas 6800/8800 systems using data directly
uploaded from the analytics to Roche.
Viewics LabOPS Core has been approved for
launch in several regions around the world, further
enhancing our digital diagnostics portfolio. This
application provides laboratory and hospital
personnel with an easier way to track, review
and identify operational trends and challenges.
Its visibility guides the decision-making process
towards optimising operations, customer delivery
and overall lab performance in a targeted and
efficient manner. LabOPS Core is providing a
set of turnkey analytics, thereby enabling data-
driven decisions to improve the operational
effectiveness of the clinical laboratories.
In 2021 we also launched new diagnostic
platforms such as the cobas pure, cobas pro
(high throughput) and cobas 5800. These new
systems will enhance our offering by enabling
comparable results for labs of different sizes – the
first two in the Serum Work Area space for core
laboratories, and the latter for molecular labs.
At Roche, our goal is to provide patient-centric
continuity of care at every stage of the patient
journey: from prevention to diagnosis through
treatment monitoring and after-care.38
Diabetes Care
Diabetes management is complex and personal, and handset. This algorithm analyses data in real time
achieving therapy goals is an ongoing challenge. and decides whether to stop insulin delivery, adjust
We believe that the more personalised and tailored basal rates, or even deliver an automatic correction
the therapy is, the better the outcomes. This is why bolus when needed.
we continue to implement solutions to leverage
our integrated personalised diabetes management Also in April, mySugr (acquired by Roche in 2017)
approach. announced the integration of the Novo Nordisk
NovoPen 6 and NovoPen Echo Plus into the mySugr
In April 2021, Diabetes Care began offering app logbook on iOS. The integration follows the
the Accu-Chek Insight insulin pump paired with collaboration agreement signed between Roche
Diabeloop’s hybrid closed-loop system within the and Novo Nordisk in 2019. Users can record their
scope of our previously announced partnership. insulin data in the mySugr app, track and combine
People living with diabetes in Germany, Italy, Spain, it with blood glucose values, activities, meals
Switzerland and the Netherlands are now able to and other relevant diabetes data. The solution
use the Accu-Chek Insight insulin pump as part is currently available in Sweden and Denmark as
of Diabeloop’s DBLG1 system, which features a well as in pilot projects in selected healthcare
self-learning algorithm hosted on a dedicated institutions in Germany and Austria.
The mySugr app is an integral part of the Diabetes
Care open ecosystem and offers features like
The mySugr app fully integrates with our RocheDiabetes structured documentation of data, accurate insulin
Care Platform. dose calculations, reminders and coaching to help
people better manage their daily diabetes routine.
It fully integrates with our RocheDiabetes Care
Platform which enables healthcare professionals
to have a comprehensive overview of all relevant
patient data and, as of 2021, also features
Remote Patient Monitoring – which is even more
important as people with diabetes are spending
significantly less time with their physicians due to
the COVID-19 pandemic.
In May 2021, we signed a collaboration agreement
with Eli Lilly and Company to integrate data from
the company’s connected insulin pen solution
into Roche’s open ecosystem through the mySugr
app. When paired with the mySugr app, the Tempo
Smart Button will automatically transfer data via
Bluetooth technology into the mySugr logbook
and thus into Roche’s open diabetes management
ecosystem.Diagnostics | Roche 39
Test results produced with our systems
27 billion
cobas 6800/8800 systems installed
Active in-licensing agreements 1772
300
Active out-licensing agreements
190
Diagnostics
facts
2021 COVID-19 tests
enabled per month
60+ million
New assays, panels and
algorithms in oncology
Diabetes Care 22
4
Diagnostics Tests and solutions currently
in our COVID-19 portfolio
new launches
22
2021
Digital decision support and
New assays, claim extensions
laboratory insight solutions
and solutions for infectious
38
and cardiovascular diseases
640
.Diagnostics | Roche 41
Lung cancer patient ‘going for the cure’
Amanda Nerstad, a mom with ALK-positive lung cancer, shares her story
on the importance of biomarker testing and raising money for a cure.
Jogging through the hills of her Tennessee home in Lemonade for a cure
the United States, Amanda found herself gasping Through neighbourhood lemonade stands inspired
for breath. A friend had just been diagnosed with by her daughters, and incredible support from
pneumonia, and the young mom wondered if she family and friends, the Nerstad family has raised
might have the same. USD 350,000 for lung cancer research since
2016. Among the projects they have helped fund
A trip to the doctor that day in 2016 launched a is an ALK vaccine study they hope will turn this
harrowing journey. Within days, Amanda, a non- terminal disease into a chronic illness. “We’re going
smoker who is diligent about health and fitness, was for the cure,” Amanda says. “Having ALK-positive
diagnosed with stage IV lung cancer. Told she might lung cancer has given us a platform to raise money
have as little as two weeks to live, Amanda’s first for research for that cure.”
thought was of her daughters, Isabella and Greta.
“I put notes in their lunchboxes every morning – have She is also driven to change the negative bias
a great day, Mommy loves you – and I thought, ‘who’s toward lung cancer patients. “Everyone wants to
going to write their notes?’ It was devastating.’’ know what you did to get lung cancer. No one ever
asks someone with breast cancer how they got
In search of clues to what was driving Amanda’s it, but one of the first questions everyone asks me
cancer, her oncologist ordered more tests. After is whether I smoked. It’s important to know that
nervously waiting for results from biomarker testing, anyone who has lungs can get lung cancer.”
the Nerstads found something powerful – hope.
Amanda is also dedicated to inspiring researchers
The welcome news and industry leaders – including Roche as we
Amanda, now 44, tested positive for a change in celebrate our 125-year anniversary – to drive
the anaplastic lymphoma kinase – or ALK – gene, innovation. “I hope that in the next 125 years, Roche
found in about four percent of non-small cell lung will help move research forward, and that annual
cancer cases. She was a candidate for targeted cancer testing will be available to everyone to
treatment specifically for people who test positive hopefully catch cancer early,” she says.
for this mutation. The first few months of treatment
left Amanda exhausted and ill. Then, her doctor Surrounded by positivity
suggested a new ALK-targeted therapy. Today she Amanda finds joy in making a difference for other
celebrates a complete metabolic response, with cancer warriors, and in the sweet moments wrapped
no evidence of disease and few side effects. in the love of family. “We are determined in every
aspect of our life because time is very important
Amanda is on a mission to spread the word about to us. We live in the now, and enjoy the moments.”
the importance of biomarker testing, sharing her And how lovely they are – laughter around the dinner
experiences with survivors – many young moms table and snuggles on the couch with a favourite
like herself. She fundraises through ALK Positive, a movie. “We surround ourselves with positivity, and
non-profit organisation that has raised more than embrace every day together,” Amanda says. “We
USD 3 million for ALK-positive lung cancer research. are going for the cure.”42Pharmaceuticals | Roche 43
Pharmaceuticals44Pharmaceuticals | Roche 45
Driving patient benefit
The burden of poor health is increasing; growing populations, higher
life expectancies, an increase in chronic diseases, and continued
discrepancies in access to healthcare – all of this means demand for
healthcare continues to grow and systems are struggling to keep up.
This is why both our industry and our society need Pharmaceuticals on AT-527, their investigational
to rethink how we innovate and how we can provide antiviral medicine for COVID-19.
care in a sustainable way.
Milestones in our COVID-19 portfolio
Roche has a long history of developing and Ronapreve
delivering breakthrough medicines that have made • In March, new phase III data showed that
a meaningful difference in the lives of millions Ronapreve reduced hospitalisation or death by
of people worldwide. But in today’s world, there 70% in non-hospitalised patients with COVID-19.
is more we can and must do. We are making • In April, a phase III prevention trial showed that
fundamental changes to the way we operate, how subcutaneous administration of Ronapreve
we work with our stakeholders and partners, and reduced the risk of symptomatic COVID-19
how we leverage developments in science and infections by 81%.
technology to deliver what matters most: more • In June, the University of Oxford announced
patient benefit at far less cost to society. preliminary phase III results from the UK
RECOVERY study in patients hospitalised with
It is time to be bold. New approaches are needed, COVID-19. Results showed that Ronapreve
and we are going to do our part to bring about reduced the risk of death in those who had not
solutions. mounted a natural antibody response of their
own (seronegative).
Our efforts during the pandemic – joining • In July, Japan was the first country to approve
forces for patients and society Ronapreve for treatment of mild to moderate
COVID-19 spurred us to rethink how we partner COVID-19, followed by EU approval for treatment
to develop diagnostics and treatment options, and prevention in November.
and to work at speeds we never could have • In September, phase II/III trial data showed that
imagined, all with the goal of delivering innovation Ronapreve significantly reduced viral load within
for patients. seven days of treatment in patients hospitalised
with COVID-19.
Building on our partnering efforts from 2020, • In September, the WHO recommended the use
we continued to work with Gilead Sciences on of Ronapreve in non-severe COVID-19 patients
a combination study evaluating two medicines who are at highest risk of severe disease, and in
(Roche’s Actemra/RoActemra and Gilead’s Veklury) patients with severe and critical infection who
in hospitalised patients with severe COVID-19- have a seronegative status.
associated pneumonia. We also furthered our • In October, Ronapreve (together with Actemra/
work with Regeneron on its antibody cocktail of RoActemra and AT-527) was included in the EU
casirivimab and imdevimab (Ronapreve) (please see Commission’s portfolio of the ten most promising
the story on page 55). And we worked with Atea COVID-19 treatments.46
Throughout the pandemic, our production and logistics teams have
demonstrated a deep commitment to serving patients worldwide.
• In July, the WHO issued new treatment guidelines
for COVID-19 which recommend interleukin-6
(IL-6) receptor blockers such as Actemra/
RoActemra for patients hospitalised with severe
or critical COVID-19.
• In December, the European Commission
extended the marketing authorisation for
Actemra/RoActemra to include the treatment of
COVID-19 in adults who are receiving systemic
corticosteroids and require supplemental oxygen
or mechanical ventilation. This decision came just
hours after the recommendation by the European
Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use reflecting the urgent
need for our medicines to tackle the COVID-19
pandemic.
AT-527
• In June, Atea Pharmaceuticals announced
interim results from the phase II AT-03A-001 trial
in hospitalised patients with moderate COVID-19
who were at high risk of poor outcomes. These
• In November, the new SARS-CoV-2 variant interim results indicated rapid and sustained
Omicron (B.1.1.529) was classified as a variant of antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2 in patients
concern by the WHO. While analyses have shown in a hospitalised setting.
that Ronapreve does not retain neutralising • In October, Atea Pharmaceuticals announced
activity against the Omicron variant, Ronapreve results from the phase II MOONSONG study
retains its activity against all other main of AT-527 in non-hospitalised patients with
variants of concern, including Delta. Activity mild or moderate COVID-19. The study did
of Ronapreve against potential future variants not meet its primary endpoint, showing no
will be continually assessed. significant reduction in viral load from baseline
when compared to placebo in the overall study
Actemra/RoActemra population.
• In June, Roche’s Actemra/RoActemra received • In November, Roche and Atea Pharmaceuticals
US FDA Emergency Use Authorization for the communicated that Roche decided to end its
treatment of COVID-19 in hospitalised adults partnership with Atea on the AT-527 programme
and children. to focus efforts on other COVID-19 activities.Pharmaceuticals | Roche 47
Pharmaceuticals clinical pipeline
Phase I Phase II Phase III Registration
27 5 6 1
Oncology
4 3 1
Inflammation/Immunology
6 7 4
Neuroscience
2 1
Infectious diseases
4 4 2
Ophthalmology
1 1
Metabolics
1
Others
Our pipeline of 80 new molecular entities covers a broad range of diseases, and highly innovative technologies are applied to create and produce the active molecules.48
Advancing clinical trials
Clinical trials are essential to medical progress. study comprises mostly European populations.
Data from trials helps scientists and clinicians With little representation from communities
understand how investigational medicines affect of non-European descent, it can be difficult to
different groups of people with specific genetic understand how diverse genetic variants play
markers for disease, and supports the development a role in the progression of a disease.
of more targeted, personalised treatments.
Closing the gaps – real world demographics
The more accurately the make-up of clinical matter
trials represents real-world demographics, the Over the past several years, we have been focusing
more robust the data, and ultimately the more our efforts on closing gaps in our clinical trials
effective medicines might be for patients who by ensuring accurate representation of patient
need them. populations around the world. In 2021, results
from a research collaboration between Genentech
We are deeply committed to addressing barriers and Stanford University, known as Trial Pathfinder,
to clinical trial participation, widening access were published in the scientific journal Nature.4
to expanded and innovative diagnostic and The study highlights how real-world data and
therapeutic solutions, and diversifying genetic artificial intelligence (AI) could be used to help
data by advancing inclusive research globally. address underrepresentation in clinical research
for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Missed opportunities
Across industry, around 80% of global clinical While recent studies show a majority of NSCLC
trial participants are of European ancestry, which patients do not meet the criteria to participate in
represents only 8% of the global population.1 clinical trials due to restrictive inclusion criteria,
Additionally, more than 87% of genomic data and 86% of trials fail to complete recruitment
available is of European ancestry, leaving a within the targeted time, Trial Pathfinder showed
significant amount of data undiscovered.2 that using a data-driven approach to eliminate
restrictive eligibility criteria could increase
These gaps mean that trial results are not always the total number of eligible patients by 107%,
applicable to all patient populations, and we miss to more than twice as many by including more
out on an enormous amount of valuable data women and African-Americans, as well as a
in our studies. Consider, for instance, that even broader range of ages, without compromising
though black women have a mortality rate for the study outcome.
breast cancer that is approximately 40% greater
than that of Caucasian women, they represent In 2020, as the pandemic disproportionately and
only 6% of women in trials studying the disease.3 devastatingly impacted people of colour, we
initiated a clinical trial of one of our investigational
Determining which treatments will work best for medicines for COVID-19 pneumonia. Global
which patients requires a great deal of clinical and trial sites that enrolled high-risk and minority
genomic data. Currently, data available for public populations were included in order to enhance
1 Total GWAS participants diversity. Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) Diversity Monitor
2 Cancer Facts & Figures for African Americans 2019–2021. American Cancer Society
3 Enrollment of racial/ethnic minority patients in ovarian and breast cancer trials: An FDA Analysis. Journal of Clinical Oncology
4 Evaluating eligibility criteria of oncology trials using real-world data and AI. NaturePharmaceuticals | Roche 49
We are deeply committed to addressing barriers to clinical trial
participation in patient populations around the world.
the understanding of the clinical profile of Actemra/
RoActemra in these patients, and to allow access
to underserved and minority populations, which
are not commonly represented in clinical trials.
Approximately 85% of participants represented
communities of colour, including Hispanic/Latinx,
Native American and black populations.
Advancing the participation of representative
patient populations
In 2021, Genentech initiated the Advancing
Inclusive Research Site Alliance, a coalition
of clinical research centres that are building
a sustainable ecosystem in order to facilitate
the inclusion of historically underrepresented
people in all clinical research. Together, we aim
to advance the participation of diverse patient
populations in our oncology trials, test recruitment
and retention approaches, and establish best
practices that can be leveraged across the
industry and other disease areas to help achieve
health equity for all people.
Our four inaugural partners who are successfully
including diverse populations in their clinical
trial efforts are: Mays Cancer Center in San
Antonio, Texas; O’Neal Comprehensive Cancer
Center in Birmingham, Alabama; West Cancer
Center in Memphis, Tennessee; and City of Hope
Comprehensive Cancer Center in Los Angeles,
California.
We recognise that bringing about real change
requires both partnership and industry-wide
investments. By partnering across the healthcare
ecosystem, we can collectively combine scientific
advances, new technologies, and real-world
data to create new standards for inclusive
clinical research.50
Shaping the next 125 years of science
The pace at which new drugs are discovered and with Adaptive Biotechnologies since 2019 to
developed is rapidly increasing. There has never develop a type of personalised cellular therapy.
been a more exciting time to transform how we
deliver care for patients, and we are committed Genentech further expanded its commitment to
to exploring uncharted areas to access previously cell therapies with a new collaboration signed with
unreachable targets. We, along with our partners, Adaptimmune Therapeutics in September 2021
envision a future where the latest and greatest to develop T-cell therapies for various solid
science and technology will drive innovation and tumours and with another collaboration entered
unlock the future of healthcare. in December 2021 with Lineage Cell Therapeutics
to further develop and commercialise their retinal
Gene therapy pigment epithelium (RPE) cell therapy for specific
Gene therapies have the potential to address ocular disorders. We also have ongoing partnerships
previously untreated diseases and replace existing with companies like BioNTech (mRNA-based) and
therapies with potential one-time treatments. On Nykode Therapeutics (DNA-based) to develop
a quest to follow the science and strengthen our therapies aimed at training the immune system to
presence in this promising emerging modality, two recognise the patient’s own neoantigens – similar
years ago Roche acquired Spark Therapeutics, a to the vaccines used to successfully provide
leading gene therapy company. Today, Spark’s immunity to SARS-CoV-2 infections.
expertise combined with Roche’s broad R&D skills,
commercial capability and global reach, along Advances in data and technology for patients
with those of our partners, puts us in the unique More than one million medical papers are
position to unlock the full potential of gene therapy. published each year. No clinician has enough time
to immerse themselves in the latest, increasingly
To further our work in this area, in August 2021, we complex research, and decide on the right therapy
entered into a research collaboration and license for each individual patient. Advances in data,
agreement with Shape Tx, who have developed technology and analytics will not only enable
a novel form of gene therapy that edits genetic clinicians to make better treatment decisions
messages at the level of mRNA without any changes faster, but they will allow us to solve problems and
to DNA. We are excited to work together with them bridge gaps across the healthcare ecosystem,
to develop therapies for certain targets in the areas from drug discovery, development and approval,
of Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, and to diagnosis, disease monitoring and access to care.
rare diseases. We envision a future where data, technologies and
analytics routinely accelerate drug discovery and
Cell therapy development, and enable better patient care. In
Cell therapy is another promising emerging 2021, employees across the Roche Group worked
modality with over 1,000 active cell therapy together with our partners to bring this future
studies ongoing worldwide and more than closer – as exemplified by the following initiatives:
500 product candidates under development.5 In
cancer immunotherapy, cell therapy is showing Discovering and selecting the best drug
potential to be an effective approach to harness a candidates
person’s immune system to fight cancer. To follow In drug discovery, there are many benefits
this hypothesis, Genentech has been collaborating to utilising artificial intelligence (AI). Roche’s
5 The clinical pipeline for cancer cell therapies. NaturePharmaceuticals | Roche 51
We envision a future where the latest and greatest science and
technology will drive innovation and unlock the future of healthcare.
Pharmaceutical Research and Early Development
(pRED) organisation developed a machine-
learning operationalisation platform (ML Ops)
that enables the embedding of machine-learning
models in the daily routines for non-data
scientists, bringing AI to their fingertips. Teams
are using the platform to predict different
properties for small molecules, enabling a faster
selection of good drug candidates. Following
the same aspiration, Roche and Genentech
have teamed up with companies like Reverie
Labs and Genesis Therapeutics to generate new
compound designs and predict their properties,
thereby advancing preclinical development
of small molecule medicines. In addition,
Genentech recently acquired Prescient Design,
which will support the application of ML to the
optimisation and de novo design of therapeutic
antibodies.
The power of prediction in clinical trials
AI and other computational approaches can
125 years of milestones
be used to analyse large amounts of data
gathered in clinical trials, leading to a better
understanding of patient outcomes. For example, Taking risks for patients
as part of our IMvigor010 study in urothelial For years, the origin of multiple sclerosis (MS) – an autoimmune disease
cancer, scientists looked into various biomarkers of the central nervous system – was a mystery. T-cells were identified as
that can be found directly in the blood to assess if the primary culprit and treatments for MS focused on them.
some patients with these specific biomarkers need
additional therapy. The retrospective analysis of Dr Stephen Hauser, current director of the Weill Institute for
the data showed that patients without a detectable Neurosciences, University of California (UCSF), and other researchers
amount of circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) had hypothesised that B-cells – another component of the immune system –
a better chance of becoming disease-free, and also played a critical role in causing the inflammation leading to MS.
better overall survival rates. These results led This research was met with scepticism in the scientific community and
directly to the initiation of another phase III study no academic funding was granted.
in adjuvant bladder cancer with a prospective
selection of ctDNA-positive patients. This Genentech was willing to take the risk and agreed to go forward with
outcome has the potential to change clinical an early-phase clinical trial that had an estimated 15% chance of
practice by improving the probability of success success. After three decades of research, they were able to refine a new
of clinical trials and allowing for smaller, shorter molecule, a breakthrough that opened up new treatment possibilities
trials focused on patients that need additional and revolutionised our understanding of MS.
treatments.52
Our increasing data and insights capabilities allow us to focus
on our vision of providing the right therapy for the right patient
at the right time.
Gathering and making sense of large
amounts of data
Advances in technology also highlight the
fact that an incredible amount of data is
being collected across various stakeholders,
countries and systems. Across the Roche Group,
we are focused on better ways to gather,
structure and make sense of data. Our Direct
Data Connection (DDC) initiative, for example, is
reinventing the flow of data from clinical trial
sites back to Roche. By automating the end-to-
end stream of patient trial data from electronic
health record (EHR) systems to sponsor electronic
data capture (EDC) systems, the DDC initiative
eliminates the need for duplicative, manual data
entry and allows real-time, error-free access
to clinical trial data. In 2021, this user-friendly
software solution was tested at sites around
the world, and received positive feedback
from site coordinators and study team members
who are now able to make real-time decisions
for patients.
Another example of our work in this area is our
new partnership with the Alan Turing Institute,
UK’s national institute for data science and
AI. Teams will develop and apply advanced
analytics methodologies to generate insights
from multiple types of healthcare data. This
will improve our understanding of the impact of
patients’ individual disease characteristics and
their response to different therapies, with the
ultimate goal of enhancing clinical care for people
around the world.Pharmaceuticals | Roche 53
Products out-licensing Acquisitions
agreements and divestments
1
8
Product, technology or
discovery licence agreements
15
Agreements derived from
Number of new
existing alliances
partnerships
9
in 2021
PHC agreements
Research and discovery
13
collaborations
14
Japan – Chugai US
5 6
Polivy Alecensa
MabThera/Rituxan MabThera/Rituxan
Evrysdi Tecentriq
Ronapreve 2 indications Actemra/RoActemra
Xolair
Major approvals Susvimo (port delivery system
with ranibizumab)
in 2021
China Europe
11 11
Avastin 2 indications Gavreto
Gazyva/Gazyvaro Tecentriq
Hemlibra Venclexta/Venclyxto + azacitidine
Kadcyla Actemra/RoActemra (COVID-19)
Tecentriq Enspryng
Tecentriq + pemetrexed Evrysdi
Enspryng Ronapreve 2 indications
Evrysdi Xofluza 3 indications
Xofluza 2 indications
Oncology Inflammation/Immunology Neuroscience Infectious diseases Ophthalmology54
The pandemic has drastically altered the scale and urgency needed
to develop and distribute COVID-19 treatments and diagnostic tests.Pharmaceuticals | Roche 55
Opening up new possibilities in the fight
against COVID-19
In the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, the The collaboration to jointly develop and increase
healthcare community looked for ways to global distribution of Regeneron’s COVID-19
address the ongoing situation around the world. antibody combination called for both parties to
Acknowledging the great responsibility we feel embrace a new mindset and challenge our ways
to society, coupled with our capabilities and of doing things.
expertise, we asked ourselves: “What can we
do to help?” The results were – in a word – amazing. Within
only 123 days, and while not knowing if the clinical
While we worked tirelessly to develop testing studies would be successful, the teams completed
solutions and to investigate some of our the drug substance technology transfer, a
medicines in COVID-19, we understood it would process that usually takes about nine months. It
take extraordinary mobilisation and collaboration only took six months from the day when Roche
across the entire healthcare ecosystem to defeat first received the manufacturing details until we
it. Strong partnerships have always been a delivered the first products to countries around the
cornerstone of our work at Roche – approximately world. Thanks to the shared vision and momentum
half of our medicines are the result of successful of this partnership, the trials for the antibody
collaborations with companies and institutions combination moved from phase I to phase III in
around the world. We knew we could contribute only 13 months. Data from the trials in early 2021
our scientific knowledge and clinical research were promising, particularly in prophylaxis and the
expertise in infectious diseases and in antibody- treatment of high-risk and hospitalised patients.
based therapeutics as well as our skilled workforce While we entered into bilateral agreements with an
and specialised manufacturing capabilities. The increasing number of countries where the antibody
pandemic has drastically altered the scale and combination was authorised for emergency use,
urgency needed to develop and distribute COVID-19 we received the first official approvals from Japan
treatments and diagnostic tests, leading us to in July, followed by the EU in November.
collaborate in new ways and to work at speeds we
never could have imagined. Now was not the time If it was not for a willingness to take risks as well
to go it alone, and that meant reaching out to all as the tireless effort and unwavering commitment
parties, including competitors, to see what we of all involved, none of this would have been
could do together. possible. Despite feelings of uncertainty and fear,
and the difficult operating conditions due to global
When we entered into our partnership with US lockdowns, the teams embraced the challenge
biotechnology company Regeneron, we embarked with an open mind and a goal in sight – to develop
on a journey full of new experiences, challenges and manufacture potentially life-saving medicines,
and one jaw-dropping milestone after another. the impact of which would be felt around the world.56Pharmaceuticals | Roche 57
An elusive diagnosis, a lifetime of perseverance
and hope
At age 17, Liz Adams was diagnosed with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) –
a rare neuromuscular disorder that results in the loss of motor neurons
and progressive muscle degeneration. Liz is now 39. Thanks to her positive
mindset, she feels more content than ever.
Liz was almost two years old when she started to language,” Liz explains. At that point, Liz was
walk. Throughout her childhood, she experienced walking with a cane. But she still enjoyed travelling
physical weakness. As she got older, she wondered and working, and developed an adventurous spirit.
why she frequently fell down, her hands shook, After returning home from Korea, she became an
and why she could not run as fast as her friends. By interpreter for the deaf, working in public schools
the time she was 13, her symptoms had worsened, in Fayetteville, North Carolina.
and she asked her parents to take her to the doctor.
“That started the long process of going from doctor Liz is now married and a mum of four kids –
to doctor, and nobody knew what was wrong with Sam, Joyful, Rebekah and David. While she now
me,” says Liz. uses a wheelchair, she enjoys exercising and
spending time outdoors. “I usually swim two to
Because SMA was not well known at the time, three times a week and regularly use the rowing
another four years passed until she was finally machine. That invigorates me a lot,” says Liz.
diagnosed. At that point, her parents were told She is also really excited about participating
there was nothing that could be done. Most in an upcoming 10 km race, the first one in
people with type 3 SMA lose their ability to walk her wheelchair. An overarching attitude of
at some point in their lives, and require mobility perseverance has really stuck with Liz her entire
support. “It was hard to hear that. But my dad life. “I love to set goals for myself. Setting high
was very determined to make the best of it,” she goals and trying to reach them, even if it’s a
adds. In the years following her diagnosis, Liz modified version of the original goal, motivates
and her parents figured out some exercises, read me a lot,” she explains.
and educated themselves about SMA, and built a
support system with friends and family. Liz is excited about recent scientific developments
in SMA, and is encouraged by the growth in
Liz went on to college, where she studied awareness of the disease over the last decade.
American Sign Language and pottery. “I’m a very “Starting from my personal experience in the late
hands-on person and a challenge does not turn 1990s when no therapy was available to having
me away. After I graduated, I lived in South Korea treatment options and possibilities, is just amazing!”
for 14 months, and taught English as a foreign concludes Liz with a smile.58Personalised healthcare | Roche 59
Personalised
healthcare60Personalised healthcare | Roche 61
The future of healthcare lies
in tailor-made solutions
Improving lives has always been at the heart of what we do. And, more
than once in our 125-year history, our commitment to innovative science
has led to life-changing discoveries for patients.
Recently, we have focused much of our attention Early and comprehensive diagnosis
on developing new technologies that can enable Advanced diagnostics and measurement tools
us to personalise healthcare. allow us to predict who is likely to become ill,
diagnose illness earlier, and understand the unique
Our efforts to develop an individualised approach characteristics of each patient’s condition and
to care date back to the early 1990s, when Roche response to treatment. Digital solutions can help
and Genentech pioneered what is now commonly close gaps along the care continuum in areas from
known as personalised healthcare (PHC). Back prevention to disease monitoring and are even more
then, bringing targeted treatments to patients effective when they incorporate third-party data.
was a goal. Today, it is a reality. By combining our
unique expertise in pharmaceuticals, diagnostics, One of the major challenges in diagnosis is the
and data-driven insights, we continue to move preparation of the specimen. DNA is especially
forward. And we remain united in our goal of complex to prepare for sequencing and prone to
integrating all elements of care in order to create human error. In 2021, we launched the Avenio Edge
a truly personalised experience for patients. System to simplify and automate next-generation
sequencing sample preparation, reduce human error
Introducing the care continuum and advance precision medicine for the future.
As part of our goal to expand personalised
healthcare, we have shifted from treating diseases We also recently introduced an open digital
to focusing on a holistic, people-centric approach pathology environment that enables pathologists
that spans the entire care continuum. This change to exchange data securely, and also provides
entails a fundamental shift in the way we understand access to Roche image analysis tools, as well
and deliver healthcare. as third-party technology. Among the first UN SDGs
collaborations within this framework was a joint
To ensure the care continuum approach is development agreement made in October 2021
successful, we are tapping into our deep internal with Ibex Medical Analytics, a global leader in
resources and expertise. At the same time, we are artificial intelligence (AI)-based cancer diagnostics.
capitalising on the strengths of our independent Under the agreement, we will jointly develop an Material topics
affiliates, such as Flatiron Health and Foundation embedded image analysis workflow for pathologists · Patient centricity
Medicine. And, we are also partnering with external to seamlessly access Ibex’s AI algorithms, insights · R&D efficiency
stakeholders across the healthcare ecosystem to and decision support tools using Navify Digital · Personalised healthcare
help deliver the right treatment to the right patient Pathology, which is the cloud version of our uPath · Real-world data
at the right time. enterprise software. · Preparedness for
ageing society62
Powered by data and analytics novel, more sensitive quantitative measures and
High-quality data and rigorous analytics make up patients are empowered to monitor themselves
the engine that drives PHC. But today, healthcare for a variety of diseases. The ability to establish
produces a vast amount of untapped data, which a deep understanding of a patient’s metrics, both
holds the potential to unlock valuable insights. on a daily basis and over time, can lead to more
The broad range of Roche diagnostic solutions tailored, more effective care.
alone produces billions of data points each
year. Every single one of them holds high-quality Data indicates that continuously reporting
information that could spark a small advancement symptoms of disease or effects of cancer therapy
in personalised healthcare. Brought together, can facilitate a shared approach to disease
they can contribute to longitudinal data on a management between patients and their care teams.
massive scale, enabling a more comprehensive It can also increase survival and improve quality of
view of patients. life, while reducing symptom burden, emergency
room visits, and hospitalisations.
Maximising the true potential of data and
data-enabled technology hinges on patient trust. The continued reliance on clinic visits as the
To build and maintain that trust, we maintain the primary way to assess and monitor patients remains
highest standards in data privacy, de-identification a fundamental limitation of healthcare. Personal
and security. Additionally, we are increasing our technologies, including wearables and medical
expertise in data handling and have added various devices, can allow patients to play a more active
digital health offerings to our portfolio. role in tracking and managing their health.
Early in 2021, Roche announced the launch Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an insidious and
of Navify Pass, an important expansion of our unpredictable disease that can be hard to track and
broad response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The measure. The launch of the smartphone application
cloud-based solution consists of a mobile app Floodlight in the US, Germany and Finland helps
for individuals and healthcare professionals, as make precision monitoring a reality for people living
well as a back-end tool for testing sites. Navify with MS. Through simple tasks, such as drawing a
Pass also enables unconventional point-of-care shape, the app enables physicians and patients
sites to fully digitise their workflows, from the to shed a light on the impact of the disease on the
first test performed to government reporting. individual patient. Furthermore, each data point
The application enables individuals to store contributes to a unique data set designed to move
results from self-administered tests, as well as MS research forward.
those administered in a medical facility or other
professional site. In collaboration with Moorfields Eye Hospital in
London, Roche piloted Home Vision Monitor, an
Remote patient monitoring and management interactive smartphone- and tablet-based app that
Roche has been at the forefront of diagnostics empowers patients to test and monitor changes
and disease monitoring for decades. In the in their vision. The app was designed for people
early 1980s, we were among the first to develop with diseases that affect the macula, such as
an at-home, automated, self-monitoring blood age-related macular degeneration and diabetes.
glucose meter for people with diabetes. Today, we More than 350 Moorfields patients have used the
are ushering in a new era in which physicians use app, with 70% claiming it offers them peace ofPersonalised healthcare | Roche 63
Navify Pass is a cloud-based solution consisting of a mobile
application for individuals and healthcare professionals, as well
as a back-end tool for testing sites.
mind in the knowledge they are documenting any
changes in their vision in between check-ups.
Partnerships and collaborations
Unlocking the full potential of PHC – and integrating
advances in medical science, data, and technology
into the care continuum – demands holistic thinking
and collaboration among stakeholders across the
healthcare ecosystem. As part of our commitment
to accelerating this effort, we are partnering with
other organisations to create new approaches
and solutions.
Roche joined the Autism Sharing Initiative, a
new project to build the first global network for
sharing genomics and clinical data to accelerate
breakthrough discoveries and precision healthcare
in autism. Using a new technology, the initiative
allows search and analysis to be performed across
multiple individual data sets while that information
remains in its protected local environments.
125 years of milestones
In June 2021, Genentech presented the results
of its collaborative efforts with PathAI, which
improved clinical assessments of non-small cell lung A turning point in cancer treatment
cancer. The partnership with PathAI accelerates For most of the last century, cancer was categorised only by its location
our understanding of patient response to lung in the body. As a result, treatment results varied significantly.
cancer treatments.
In September 1998, the FDA approved Roche and Genentech’s breast
While we develop our own innovative products and cancer therapy, Herceptin. In many regards, that approval marked a
digital solutions, we also work with stakeholders to turning point in cancer treatment.
jointly address obstacles, and make PHC solutions
accessible to patients around the world. In March The monoclonal antibody was specifically designed to treat patients with
2021, Roche Canada signed a memorandum of metastatic breast cancer whose tumours overexpress the HER2 protein.
collaboration with the British Columbia Cancer Herceptin was not only the first targeted treatment for a solid tumour,
Agency and the Canadian Personalized Healthcare but also the first drug to be paired with a companion diagnostic. By
Innovation Network known as PREDiCT (Precision identifying patients with an improved risk-benefit profile, those patients
Oncology Evidence Development in Cancer gained critical time that would otherwise have been spent in search of a
Treatment). If proven successful, the initiative will viable treatment.
generate and assess real-world evidence (RWE),
which may be used to shape new sustainable
reimbursement pathways for personalised cancer
treatments. This critical step in sustainable64
healthcare transformation can lead to better impact of the pandemic on the time elapsed
care at a lower cost, for people and society between diagnosis and the initiation of systemic
(please see the story on page 69). treatment in cancer patients. The American
Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) accepted this
Foundation Medicine and Flatiron Health, both study, as well as extensive additional work to help
independent affiliates of the Roche Group, are oncology practices assess and address frontline
pioneers in the field of healthcare data and impacts.
analytics. Together, they have built a clinico-
genomic database that links two of the largest As part of their leadership in RWE regulatory
sources of clinical and genomic real-world data and policy frameworks, Flatiron helped establish
(RWD) into an integrated data set that serves as the RWE Alliance, an industry organisation
a valuable resource for accelerating precision whose goal is to collectively identify, develop
oncology. Some 98,000 linked patient records and advocate technical, regulatory and policy
were available for research at the end of 2021, solutions that advance the use of RWE for
reflecting growth of about 40% in just a year. regulatory decisions.
Flatiron Health Furthermore, Flatiron has taken major steps to
Flatiron Health has continuously expanded its ensure that the interests and priorities of patients
US network of community oncology practices are considered in their research strategy. These
and academic medical centres; its community steps include the launch of formal mechanisms
oncology partners alone saw a daily average of for patient engagement in the US and the UK.
47,500 patients in 2021. In addition, 370 oncologists
are already using the Flatiron Assist decision Foundation Medicine
support tool to quickly select evidence-based Together, Roche and Foundation Medicine offer
treatment options for their patients. Also in 2021, a portfolio of comprehensive genomic profiling
Flatiron began to expand its network beyond the (CGP) tests for solid and haematological tumours.
US, building new partnerships to derive RWD from These tests enable easier, faster and better
hospitals and health networks in Europe and Asia. clinical decisions. As partners, the two companies
are leading the implementation and uptake of
Despite the impact of COVID-19 on traditional CGP around the world with the goal of developing
clinical trials, the Prospective Clinico-Genomic personalised treatment strategies in oncology,
(PCG) study – a partnership among Flatiron, as well as smarter, more efficient diagnostic
Foundation Medicine, Genentech, and US solutions. Foundation Medicine services are now
community and academic oncology practices – available in over 100 countries worldwide.
enrolled more than 940 patients with metastatic
lung cancer across 23 sites. The study was In August 2021, Japan’s health authorities
designed to more seamlessly integrate clinical approved the use and reimbursement of
research into clinical care, and offer participants FoundationOne Liquid CDx, a blood-based CGP
serial genomic testing they may not have test that analyses more than 300 cancer-related
otherwise had access to. genes in solid tumours. This provides a better
understanding of what is driving a patient’s
In 2021, Flatiron published several important cancer to grow and gives insight into personalised
studies, including one that highlighted the treatment options for each patient.Personalised healthcare | Roche 65
Foundation Medicine tests enable easier, faster and better clinical
decision-making through comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP).
Additionally, the FDA approved companion
diagnostic claims for FoundationOne CDx and
FoundationOne Liquid CDx in bile duct cancer and
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Foundation
Medicine now has 37 companion diagnostic
approvals across its two FDA-approved tests.
In partnership with Natera, Foundation Medicine
launched the FoundationOne Tracker, for research
use only. The Tracker is a personalised circulating
tumour DNA (ctDNA) monitoring assay that
combines Foundation Medicine’s tissue-based
CGP platform with Natera’s expertise in ctDNA
monitoring. In addition, Roche launched a new
genomic profiling kit that helps cancer researchers
sequence tumours without having to send tissue
samples to centralised laboratories. The Avenio
CGP kit powered by FoundationOne (research-
use-only) allows healthcare professionals to apply
high-quality CGP in their local labs, giving more
patients the opportunity to participate in a trial
that leverages CGP.
In 2021, Foundation Medicine also made several
updates across its portfolio to help expand access
to precision oncology. The integration with Flatiron
Health’s OncoEMR platform improves the efficiency
of clinical decision-making by enabling electronic
ordering, order tracking, and receipt of Foundation
Medicine’s CGP test results. The forthcoming
integration with Epic’s electronic medical record
system will also streamline access to genomic
insights for precision cancer care.
Genomic data also helps us to better understand,
diagnose and treat patients with rare cancers on
a more personalised level. The ongoing CUPISCO
study – a randomised trial using CGP to assign
patients with cancer of unknown primary (CUP) to
targeted or immunotherapy treatment – aims to
shed further light on a disease with a high medical
need. In addition, using FoundationCore, one of
the largest CGP databases in oncology, allows66
Genomic data helps us to better understand, diagnose and treat
patients with rare cancers on a more personalised level.
researchers to learn more about the characteristics
of NTRK fusion-positive cancers, a very rare
molecular subgroup of cancer.
Making PHC accessible for everyone
More than two decades have passed since Roche
took its first steps into the field of personalised
healthcare. Those initial efforts have led us
to where we are today – delivering innovative
personalised solutions that help millions of people
around the globe. Today, PHC is embedded across
our organisation. We maintain a clear focus on the
entire care continuum, and on our goal of making
PHC accessible to everyone.
Technology and science are constantly shifting
the boundaries. What seemed impossible yesterday
may be within our grasp today, and may transform
a patient’s life tomorrow. We are excited by the
opportunity to deliver better outcomes to more
people around the world through care tailored to
each individual.Personalised healthcare | Roche 67
Personalised healthcare –
The care continuum
Enabled by data and analytics
Early and accurate
diagnosis
Ongoing
remote care and
monitoring
Patient
Tailored
Rapid access to optimal
care plan
interventions
Countries with Foundation Flatiron Health patient records
Medicine services available for research
>100 3.2 million
+20% growth over 2020
PHC
Tests processed by Navify Pass facts Partnering deals signed
345,166 13
2021
Companion diagnostic approvals
Community cancer care sites for the two FDA-approved
in Flatiron Health US network Foundation Medicine tests
800 37
+7 major academic medical centres68
The combined power of advanced imaging technology, artificial
intelligence and large databases of real-world data provides
new insights into diseases.Personalised healthcare | Roche 69
Hope for the future of personalised cancer care
in Canada
For more than 20 years, Roche has helped Columbia and represents an important milestone
lay the scientific groundwork for personalised in transforming the healthcare system in Canada.
healthcare with treatments that target the
underlying biology of a person’s individual disease This collaborative project is aimed at reducing
and with targeted diagnostics that help doctors fragmentation and improving decision-making based
determine the right therapy for their patients. on learnings from patients in real time. PREDiCT –
Unlocking the value of advances in medical science, Precision Oncology Evidence Development in Cancer
data and technology towards a more personalised Treatment – is a programme piloting a framework
approach – and integrating them into how we that will help guide healthcare decision makers
care for people – demands holistic thinking and to utilise RWD in their clinical, regulatory and
collaboration among stakeholders across the reimbursement decisions. We are hopeful that this
healthcare ecosystem. We know that meaningful will mean earlier, more precise diagnosis for patients
change can only happen when we work together. and access to the right treatment at the right time.
Our ultimate goal is to scale this framework beyond
Real-world data (RWD), or patient data that is British Columbia to other provinces in Canada.
collected as part of routine healthcare practice We also know that what we learn from PREDiCT
instead of through clinical trials, is becoming may translate beyond borders to other Roche
increasingly important to fill gaps and capture affiliates worldwide.
insights that can help guide how a patient is
diagnosed and treated. The demand for RWD Although there is much work yet to be done, in
by regulatory, reimbursement and healthcare less than a year the PREDiCT collaboration is
decision makers continues to grow, particularly already showing signs of progress. More patients
for personalised cancer therapies that target in British Columbia are being diagnosed with more
rare mutations where traditional clinical trial precise testing at an earlier stage following a
evidence is limited and challenging to collect. cancer diagnosis. Additionally, key system changes
to integrate data have also begun which will allow
The tide is turning, however, and our recent decision makers to utilise the PREDiCT framework.
partnership in British Columbia, Canada, is setting Work is already underway to expand the programme
the stage for what we hope will lead to faster into new disease areas and geographies. PREDiCT
patient access to innovative treatments and is just one example of how we are partnering across
technologies across many disease areas. In March society to co-create new approaches and solutions,
2021, Roche Canada, the British Columbia Cancer being mindful of the urgency of this moment. To
Agency and the Canadian Personalized Healthcare us, personalised healthcare means far more than
Innovation Network signed a memorandum of improving treatment – it is about improving life for
collaboration which is the first public-private every person. And we are hopeful that our efforts
collaboration in personalised healthcare in British in this area will do just that.70Personalised healthcare | Roche 71
How targeting a cancer’s unique drivers
is transforming patient care
Kissing your young children goodnight every evening is a precious ritual
treasured by parents worldwide.
But Mary Bodley, 51, cherishes these moments cancer returned. Again, treatment was a success,
more than most – because she was not sure she and again she was given the all-clear. But just
would be around for her children. Six years ago, months later, she discovered a lump in her neck
Mary was diagnosed with invasive, ductal grade 2, and her worst fears were confirmed – the cancer
HER2-negative and ER-positive breast cancer. had returned once more.
When she received her diagnosis, her first thoughts Mary had an added complication: each time
were for her young family. “I was more scared her cancer returned, it evolved. It began as
about telling my family and the impact it would HER2-negative and ER-positive breast cancer,
have on my daughters,” Mary says. “It was there then recurred as HER2-positive and ER-negative,
and then that I knew I was going to fight this. I and finally as triple negative. Thankfully, genomic
was determined to see their communions and testing was able to provide treatment options
confirmations and hear about their first boyfriend that could work well with Mary’s tumour.
or girlfriend.”
“I’ve gone down several different treatment
Mary lives in County Dublin, Ireland, and is paths and they’ve kept me alive for six and a
currently on sick leave from her role as an Internal half years,” she says. “Genomic testing is a huge
Communications Manager at Roche Ireland. She part of that. The current treatment is working
firmly believes that the reason she has been able well and all my cancer tumours are stable at
to progress so far is a friend’s suggestion that the moment.”
she look into genomic profiling,
As Roche celebrates its 125-year anniversary,
Genomic profiling helps doctors tailor treatment Mary says: “It’s my hope that over the next
to a patient’s unique tumour based on its individual 125 years, Roche’s fantastic people will have
‘fingerprint’. The process can detect, from a tissue created and rolled out a medicine that can cure
or blood sample, mutations in a cancer’s DNA all forms of breast cancer. And, I also hope a
which may be driving its growth and identify specific bulletproof method for preventing breast cancer
treatments which can target that individual tumour. will have been created, which could be implanted
This allows doctors to refine and tailor treatment into all women from the age of 40.”
based on the mutation rather than the location of
the cancer in the body. “For now, their incredible work has given me
precious extra time which I am so grateful for
After a round of successful treatment, Mary was and I can still kiss my two girls goodnight every
given the all-clear. But, just two years later, her evening.”72Access to healthcare | Roche 73
Access
to healthcare74Access to healthcare | Roche 75
Striving for improved access
to healthcare around the world
At Roche, we know that life-changing innovation is only meaningful if it
reaches those who need it. We also understand that millions of patients
all over the world still do not have access to quality healthcare.
Multiple barriers continue to stand in their way, We know that every country has a different situation,
and the situation has been exacerbated by the and their healthcare systems present unique
ongoing pandemic, which is contributing to challenges. So we draw on our breadth of expertise
increasing global inequalities. and innovation that spans the patient journey, and
work closely with many partners to develop and
During this second year of the COVID-19 pandemic, deliver tailored access solutions that reflect each
healthcare systems around the world experienced country’s individual healthcare needs.
significantly increased pressure. Throughout
this time, we have continued to work closely with Now more than ever, it is important and urgent
governments, healthcare providers, laboratories, for us to acknowledge our shared responsibility
regulatory authorities, and organisations around to build resilient and sustainable healthcare
the world, not only by increasing our production systems. We believe that comprehensive UHC helps
of critical diagnostic tests and medicines, but support stable economies and strong societies,
also by helping strengthen healthcare systems and is fundamental to addressing inequality in
to support the fight against the pandemic and access to healthcare, particularly in LMICs. We are
minimise its impact. In parallel, we have worked accelerating our ongoing efforts in this area with
to help improve access to quality healthcare our goal to double the number of patients receiving
for non-communicable diseases, and to provide our innovative therapies in low- and lower-middle-
non-COVID-19-related diagnostics and treatments income countries by the end of 2026, and it remains
which have been delayed or even cancelled. our ambition to double patient access to novel,
high-medical-value diagnostic solutions to people
Our access strategy remains focused on addressing around the world.
root causes at both global and country levels.
We work in collaboration with global and local Tailoring solutions to LMICs UN SDGs
stakeholders, with a focus on pricing and access Around 80% of the world’s population lives in LMICs.
programmes, particularly in low- and middle-income We have long been committed to LMICs, and have
countries (LMICs) where we support their efforts to a range of programmes to broaden access to our
achieve universal health coverage (UHC). medicines and diagnostics in those countries.
We put access at the centre of our business, We believe in harnessing new technologies in
and consider it a key part of our commitment to healthcare to improve patient outcomes, including
improving patient outcomes. As we bring our in settings with limited resources. This is why we Material topics
innovations to patients, we look deeply into the are using digital solutions, such as Navify Digital · Long-term mindset
causes that prevent access to optimal healthcare; Pathology, to help with virtual diagnosis and to · Availability of healthcare
from screening and diagnosis to treatment. train pathologists virtually, which is particularly76
valuable in regions with limited pathology services, and key organisations active in the fight against
such as Africa. We are also developing new tools tuberculosis.
to support patients in taking a more active role • We continue to have a strong partnership with the
in their disease management. For example, we City Cancer Challenge (C/Can). Our joint mission
have created iThemba Life, a mobile health is to improve access to equitable, quality cancer
application which delivers HIV viral load results, care in cities around the world. As of December
education, reminders and support directly to users’ 2021, C/Can is working in 9 cities reaching
smartphones. The app empowers people living with an estimated 54.2 million people and brings
HIV to remain adherent to treatment and engaged together more than 1,200 health professionals,
in care. In 2021, we extended its functionality to 149 institutions and 77 global partners from
cover cervical cancer to address a key challenge around the world.
of loss to follow-up. • In the US, the Genentech Patient Foundation
provides free medicine to approximately
Programmes and partnerships that support 60,000 people each year.
access along the patient journey • Through a partnership with the ECHO Institute, we
Our strengths in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics are working to establish a remote telementoring
position us to play an early role in the patient programme for health workers in underserved
journey and identify barriers to access. We have or rural communities, enabling them to diagnose
learned a great deal through our partnerships and and treat patients faster and more effectively.
can apply those learnings to future initiatives. The ECHO platform connects national centres
of excellence to remote areas. In 2021, Roche
Examples of our programmes and partnerships: was setting up ECHO clinics in various countries
• In 2021, we expanded our Global Access Program (Philippines, Indonesia, Pakistan, India, Malaysia,
to include SARS-CoV-2 PCR testing to increase Guatemala and Canada for their First Nations
access in low- and middle-income countries Population), with several already launched.
during the ongoing pandemic. • Roche officially joined the Go Further Partnership,
• We have been awarded World Health which was established in 2018 as an innovative,
Organization’s (WHO) prequalification for HIV public-private partnership between the
and HCV tests, and WHO guidelines now include U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief
cobas MTB and cobas MTB-RIF/INH tests, all on (PEPFAR), the George W. Bush Institute, UNAIDS
the cobas 6800/8800 systems. For patients living and Merck. Go Further is committed to creating
in areas with limited healthcare resources, WHO a healthier future for women and aims to reduce
prequalification ensures access to the highest- new cervical cancer cases by 95% among
quality diagnostics. women living with HIV in 12 African countries.
• Our Diagnostics Division continued its partnership
with the non-profit organisation (RED) on a shared Our responsible approach to medicine pricing
mission to emphasise the importance of diagnostic Because we endeavour to ensure that affordability
testing in the fight against COVID-19 and the is not a barrier to access, we take the pricing of
ongoing HIV/AIDS epidemic, and to mitigate our medicines and innovations very seriously. Our
further impact of COVID-19 on health systems in pricing strategy reflects the WHO’s definition of fair
order to reach patients where access is limited. pricing, balancing the need for both affordability
• Roche joined the World Economic Forum’s Ending and incentives for innovation with the needs of
Workplace TB initiative, a coalition of companies patients today and tomorrow.Access to healthcare | Roche 77
We have long been committed to low- and middle-income countries
in order to broaden access to our medicines and diagnostics.
Like other healthcare stakeholders, we believe
that differential pricing can be an effective
solution to address affordability constraints of
a specific country. Our International Differential
Pricing (IDP) approach allows our local organisations
to adjust prices to reflect a country’s relative
income and their ability to pay, ensuring that our
innovations are fairly priced and can reach patients
in need. This approach has been proven to greatly
improve patient access to innovative medicines,
particularly in developing countries where price
is a primary barrier.
Partnering to improve access in women’s health
Our work in women’s health exemplifies our tailored
approach to access. Roche is committed to a
woman’s health at every stage of her life, supporting
needs around reproduction, fertility and pregnancy,
as well as disease prevention and treatment through
a variety of diagnostic screenings, monitoring
assays and innovative medicines. Our efforts to
support and improve women’s health are aligned
125 years of milestones
with the WHO’s Global Strategy for Women’s,
Children’s and Adolescents’ Health, 2016–2030,
and its Every Woman Every Child movement. Revolutionising the care of people living with HIV
Since entering the diagnostics space in 1968, Roche has had a strong
A key example of this commitment is our work in focus on infectious diseases. Following the identification of HIV in
women’s cancers, such as breast and gynaecologic the 1980s, we were at the forefront of developing diagnostics for
cancers. In our efforts to combat cervical cancer, HIV, particularly molecular tests for early infant diagnosis and viral
we work with countries to further strengthen load testing to monitor treatment response. This revolutionised the
healthcare systems and help establish national management and care of HIV-positive patients.
cervical cancer programmes to eliminate the
disease. Over 85% of annual cervical cancer To enable equitable access to HIV testing in resource-limited settings,
deaths occur in LMICs where we are helping and to support the UNAIDS 2020 targets, Roche created the Global Access
overcome barriers to care, specifically by Program in 2014. Through this programme, Roche provides sustainable
increasing awareness around screening. Roche pricing to governments and funders and works with partners to build the
is collaborating with partners to help countries infrastructure and capabilities required to run diagnostic programmes.
implement national HPV screening and treatment Each year, over 8 million people in Africa use our viral load testing to
programmes (please see the story on page 81). manage their HIV infection and to date over 11 million babies have been
tested for HIV with Roche tests.
Across the Asia-Pacific region, HPV continues to
be responsible for the majority of cervical cancer
cases. In some countries, cervical cancer is the78
We support programmes around the world that are aimed at
increasing access to diagnostics and treatments for breast cancer.
copy
2nd spread
7.300
second most common cancer. In August 2021, the
APEC Roadmap to Promote Sustainable Economic
Advancement for Women Through Cervical Cancer
Prevention and Control (2021–2025) was officially
endorsed by the 21 members of the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation (APEC). Roche contributed
to the development of this new roadmap to include
cervical cancer screening, especially using HPV
molecular testing.
In 2020, breast cancer overtook lung cancer as
the world’s most commonly diagnosed cancer. It
is responsible for one in six of all cancer deaths
among women. In line with the new WHO Global
Breast Cancer Initiative and our focus on women’s
health, we increased the number of people treated
with Perjeta in China by 65% from August 2020
to August 2021. In the UK, we have also seen 80%
of breast cancer patients switch to Phesgo, a
subcutaneous fixed-dose combination of Perjeta
and Herceptin, with a shorter and less invasive
mode of administration. This has reduced the
number of patients who receive their medicines
via intravenous infusion, freeing up capacity in
hospitals.
Towards better access in the future
Looking forward, our work to expand access will
continue to be a priority. By working in partnership
with stakeholders across the healthcare spectrum –
from governments and payers to non-governmental
organisations, multilaterals and insurance
companies – we will continue to develop tailored
solutions that help overcome barriers to create
rapid, broad and sustainable access.Access to healthcare | Roche 79
Women 4 Cancer Hepatitis C diagnosis
Kenya Pakistan
Roche is supporting the EMPOWER programme, which This partnership supports
seeks to contribute to the prevention, early diagnosis, underprivileged people with
treatment and education of women in the community hepatitis C testing and diagnosis.
on breast and cervical cancer.
Some
access projects
Bridge
around the world LATAM*
This initiative is implementing
Pink Consulting Rooms national programmes aimed at
Colombia cervical cancer elimination.
To address problems around breast cancer diagnosis
and treatments, Roche has supported the set up of Cervical cancer screening and triage
over 150 Pink Consulting Rooms, testing over one Thailand
million women and diagnosing more than 14,000.
To support Thailand’s goal of eradicating cervical
cancer, Roche has been partnering with the government
and the healthcare community to raise awareness of
HPV DNA testing.
* including Chile, Peru, Mexico80
Working in collaboration with healthcare systems and our partners
is key to resolving critical access barriers to therapies.Access to healthcare | Roche 81
Tackling healthcare’s greatest challenges
in women’s health
At Roche, we challenge not only ourselves but not be done to curb the spread of other life-
entire healthcare systems to bring life-changing threatening diseases? After all, Roche’s cobas
solutions to patients across the globe. Why? instruments used for COVID-19 testing are some
Because it is what society expects of us, and it is of the same used for cervical cancer screening.
why we come to work every day. We are relentlessly This, in and of itself, could be a game changer that
looking towards the needs of tomorrow in the hope could allow countries who would not have had the
that one day, our vision of a brighter, healthier world infrastructure in place prior to the pandemic to
will become reality. But each passing year brings utilise these machines to help address significant
new challenges, including access to diagnostics gaps in women’s health.
and treatments for diseases like cervical cancer.
But life-changing innovation is only impactful if
More than 90% of cervical cancer cases result it reaches those who need it. Over 85% of global
from human papillomavirus (HPV), a sexually cervical cancer deaths occur in middle- and low-
transmitted infection for which a vaccine already income countries, where diagnostic discrepancies
exists.1 Despite being almost 100% preventable and disparities are most prevalent.2 This is why we
with vaccination and screening, approximately have adjusted our focus so that we not only develop
300,000 women succumb to the disease every and deliver advanced diagnostic solutions but
year,2 making it one of the most common causes also address the significant disparities in cervical
of cancer death in women. cancer, especially in regions where the burden
of the disease is at its peak. Roche added HPV
Many countries are moving to HPV DNA testing screening to our Global Access Program to make
as a more effective and efficient disease cutting-edge diagnostic solutions available to
prevention strategy. In fact, the World Health women in the greatest need.
Organization (WHO) recently endorsed it as the
first-choice method for cervical cancer screening.3 The world is watching and waiting for advances
Recommended clinical guidelines have also been to be made in women’s health. In July 2021, the
evolving in favour of HPV tests for first-line primary WHO announced updated screening guidelines
screening, supported by an interest to improve that will help realise its goal of eliminating cervical
outcomes, and the availability of technologies to cancer by 2030. Our Diagnostics Division remains
help laboratories achieve the efficiency and scale committed to investing in advancements that will
they need to meet the demands of high-volume significantly improve prevention strategies and
cervical screening programmes. provide women with the protection and care they
deserve. Empowering women to take control
The rapidity and scale at which comprehensive over their health lies at the core of our ambition
testing portfolios were developed during the to transform healthcare and while progress has
pandemic left many to wonder: Could the same been made, we know we can still do more.
1 HPV-Associated Cancer Statistics. Centres for Disease Control and Prevention
2 Fact sheet on cervix uteri. World Health Organization
3 WHO recommends DNA testing as a first-choice screening method for cervical cancer prevention. World Health Organization82Access to healthcare | Roche 83
When words save lives
Agnès Kraidy is a journalist and activist from Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire.
She is also a breast cancer survivor campaigning for every woman to
have access to diagnostics, medicines and, above all, information.
“I felt a lump in my left breast. Very small, but through the public health system. As part of our
clearly noticeable,” Agnès explains. She knew current work with the government, Herceptin is
something wasn’t right, so she immediately went to free for all HER2-positive breast cancer patients.
her company doctor to get it checked. “AIthough
non-surgical treatments were available, the “We are happy to now have basic diagnostics,
doctors recommended that I have a mastectomy. but what if you need a biopsy or something even
I realised that, like many women in Côte d’Ivoire, more sophisticated to ensure you are treated
I had very little information and knowledge about correctly?” Agnès asks. “There are simply not
breast cancer.’’ And this despite the fact that the enough healthcare professionals or well-equipped
disease affects approximately 2,300 women in the hospitals for the number of patients in need.”
country each year, with half of those diagnosed
not surviving. Geography can also prevent access. Côte
d’Ivoire’s oncology centres are mostly located
Giving hope and changing perspectives in Abidjan, which means long journeys and high
Ultimately, Agnès didn’t go ahead with a accommodation costs for anyone living outside of
mastectomy. But she was determined that all the city centre. “This is yet another obstacle for
women in Côte d’Ivoire needed to learn more people who simply cannot afford these costs for
about this dreadful illness. “I want them to be able the many months of their treatment,” says Agnès.
to share knowledge with others affected. This is Therefore, in 2021, Roche supported the setting
also why I wrote a book about my journey and the up of a new oncology centre in Bouaké to bring
lessons I’ve learned along the way.” Unsurprisingly, screening, diagnosis and follow-up closer to those
Tu me fous les boules! Vaincre le cancer was the living in other parts of the country.
catalyst for a large awareness campaign across
the country. While words can save lives, partnerships can too
“There are many people who have the power to
Obstacles at every step of the patient journey create solutions to the barriers patients face – but
Despite more awareness being raised thanks to they often don’t wish to challenge the status quo. I
Agnès’s efforts, people in Côte d’Ivoire still face call this the cancer of ignorance.” This is why Agnès
a multitude of barriers to access the diagnostics is advocating ongoing investment in awareness
and treatments they deserve. One of these campaigns and patient support programmes, as
barriers is the affordability of treatment as there well as partnerships across different sectors.
is no reimbursement policy for cancer treatments.
Since 2014 and in close collaboration with the Despite the numerous challenges, Agnès looks
government, Roche has been helping increase positively to the future and is thankful that some
access to high-quality care across the country. improvements have already been made. “As our focus
For instance, the first agreement, made under continues to be how we can save more lives, we will
the National Programme against Cancer, provides continue to overcome barriers to bring effective
free testing for HER2-positive breast cancer solutions to patients everywhere in Côte d’Ivoire.”84People and culture | Roche 85
People
and culture86People and culture | Roche 87
We are #RocheProud
The pandemic changed many of our personal and professional routines,
while also reaffirming our connection to our shared purpose and
strengthening our sense of belonging and pride working for Roche.
The happiness and engagement of our people We know the important role we play as a critical
is fundamental to our success. In 2021, we global supplier of healthcare solutions. This has
conducted our biennial Global Employee Opinion been even more evident throughout the COVID-19
Survey (GEOS). Seventy-eight percent of all pandemic, and is why business continuity, under
Roche employees participated in the survey these circumstances, carries higher expectations.
and shared how happy they are to be working at
Roche. Those results are especially satisfying Throughout 2021, we took special care in
when we consider that the survey followed a implementing adequate on-site safety measures
particularly intense period. We underwent critical to protect our employees across research and
purpose-driven transformations while maintaining development, manufacturing and the global supply
a relentless focus on ongoing business initiatives. chain. We also worked diligently to ensure the
At the same time, we worked to ensure we safety of everyone in our global support functions,
remained supportive of our people and patients particularly those working at customer premises
in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. who were more likely to be exposed to the virus.
The health and safety of our employees is always
Because of the ongoing pandemic-related paramount, and is also key to maintaining a reliable
challenges, we faced many unpredictable and supply of medicines and diagnostic solutions for
difficult situations. Nevertheless, our people the patients and customers who need them. We
remained highly engaged, evidenced with a score are committed to going the extra mile to ensure
of 80 out of 100, unchanged from the 2019 GEOS all aspects of our work – including our workplaces
survey. These results keep Roche in the top quartile as well as third-party manufacturers and suppliers –
of the global healthcare industry according to remain safe and healthy.
the GEOS benchmark, and validate our continued
efforts to sustain a great working environment. In these unprecedented times, the mental and
physical well-being of all our employees demand
It is clear from the survey that our people are greater focus. To help support both aspects,
happy working at Roche, enjoy an inclusive and we have put a number of assistance programmes
rewarding culture, and feel optimistic about our in place. These programmes provide guidance UN SDGs
future and the positive impact we have on patients. on working from home, mental health, nutrition,
ergonomics, social well-being, sleep, fitness,
A focus on the safety and well-being mindfulness and resilience.
of our people
As a company, we are committed to serving the During our global Live Well week in September, Material topics
needs of our patients and society. As an employer, renowned keynote speakers shared their insights · Talent attraction
we are committed to providing a safe and inclusive on resilience, friendship and happiness. We also and retention
working environment that enables our people to offered multiple complementary activities both · Organisational agility
grow, thrive and reach their full potential. Our on-site and virtually, ranging from online yoga and · Patient centricity
culture is people-centred and purpose-driven. other fitness classes to a 21-day resilience challenge.88
Diversity & Inclusion at work • Culture: Ensuring our employees can thrive
Another critical aspect of our culture is providing and deliver their best work, while also
an inclusive work environment, where authenticity remaining true to themselves
and respect are inherent and a sense of belonging When employees feel comfortable presenting
is nurtured. To ensure we maintain that environment, themselves as they choose, and confident
we have explicitly emphasised Diversity & Inclusion they are protected from discrimination based
(D&I) as a crucial part of Roche’s history and on gender, culture, race, sexual orientation, or
cultural identity. any other aspect, they are free to focus on
doing their best work. To ensure we measure
In 2021 we introduced our updated D&I vision this accurately, we have integrated an inclusion
and strategic pillars. We also established a D&I index in GEOS.
Council, which oversees the strategic and overall • Society: Advancing positive change in society
governance of D&I, and ensures that D&I is properly For this pillar, we foster supplier and vendor
integrated into our business strategies. diversity and invest in STEM (Science, Technology,
Engineering, Mathematics), activities to inspire
Our updated D&I strategy focuses on four pillars: and support future talents.
• Patients: Addressing the unmet needs
of diverse patients and communities Additionally, our senior leaders demonstrated a
Specific activities in this pillar include diversity in strong engagement with D&I through their individual
clinical trials and inclusive research. One example D&I commitments, which were shared across the
is EMPACTA (Evaluating Minority Patients with organisation.
Actemra), the first global, phase III COVID-19
clinical trial designed specifically to enrol patient Over the course of the year, we celebrated D&I
populations that are often underrepresented in through multiple events and activities, including
clinical studies and have been disproportionately the Choose to Challenge campaign, which
affected by the pandemic. was launched in connection with International
• People: Building a workforce that reflects Women’s Day (IWD) and continued throughout
the societies we serve the year. The campaign called on participants to
In this pillar, we increased data transparency and call out gender bias and inequality and celebrate
released our gender pay equity report. Based on women’s achievements. It included a photo
our organisation-wide analysis – and taking into challenge which encouraged Roche employees
consideration global grading, job structure, level to raise their hands and show solidarity for IWD,
in organisation, etc. – we found no significant and challenge the status quo for greater gender
difference in pay between men and women equality in the world.
in similar jobs. In accordance with the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goal number Pride Month in June was another highlight. We
five to “achieve gender equality and empower celebrated with our affiliates around the world,
all women and girls”, we continue to commit and Roche in Switzerland was awarded the
ourselves to further advancing the opportunities LGBTIQ+ certification by the Swiss LGBTI-Label,
for women within the organisation, most notably an organisation that certifies Swiss companies
by increasing the proportion of female leaders in that advocate internal equality for the LGBTIQ+
executive positions by an additional 2% in 2021. community.People and culture | Roche 89
We are proud of our inclusive work environment, where authenticity
and respect are inherent and a sense of belonging is nurtured.
During our D&I Month in November we brought
together employees from across the organisation
to intensify our commitment to Diversity & Inclusion.
Employees could choose from over 60 virtual
events, inspiring discussions and engaging sessions,
such as Unconscious Bias Training, Advancing
Inclusive Research, Health Equity, Neurodiversity,
and many more.
We recognise and value the uniqueness of each
individual, regardless of their gender, race,
age, skin colour, religion, marital status, sexual
orientation, heritage, or physical or mental ability.
This is why Roche does not – nor will it ever – tolerate
discrimination in any shape or form. Furthermore,
we firmly condemn any type of harassment – mental,
physical or sexual – or any other infringement
violating an employee’s right to dignity and respect
in the workplace.
Our stance on D&I has been further strengthened
in our updated employment policy. We are deeply
convinced that our success depends on the talent
and performance of our dedicated and diverse
workforce. Moreover, we strongly believe in the
potential of every single employee and remain
committed to unlocking the potential of all our
people to bring our purpose to life.
Living our new ways of working
Creating a truly diverse and inclusive workplace
and living our new ways of working will directly
impact our ability to achieve our long-term
ambitions and deliver on our purpose of doing
now what patients need next. We believe
the greatest ideas arise through collaboration
and co-creation. By asking tough questions,
exchanging perspectives and challenging not
only ourselves, but also shifting paradigms,
we are capable of innovating and developing
life-changing solutions.90
In 2021, we increased the use of technology and digitalisation and
introduced a number of new approaches and tools to provide our
people with around-the-clock support.
Our rapidly changing environment is prompting
us to think differently about how to sustain our
competitiveness. But we are no stranger to
change – our capacity to adapt and undergo
transformations has been in our DNA since our
founding 125 years ago. We have reinvented
ourselves, advanced science and technology,
and adjusted our ways of working multiple
times throughout our history. The most recent
implementation of agile working methodologies
and operating models has boosted the speed
and efficiency with which we deliver our solutions
to patients and healthcare providers.
While the pandemic forced a physical distance
among many of us, it also revolutionised our
ways of working, making us much more agile
and collaborative. Roche continued its broad
transformation journey and, despite the confusion
and uncertainty created by the pandemic, our
people have never shown more engagement and
dedication for co-creating the future and shaping
125 years of milestones
healthcare systems than they have throughout
these challenging times.
Alice Keller shatters the glass ceiling
Alice Keller had talent. Talent that Emil C. Barell, CEO of Roche from 1920 Evolving our ways of leading
until 1953, recognised when he brought her into the company. He had a Our new ways of working go hand in hand with
feeling for brilliant people and did not care much for the convention of new ways of leading. Every Roche employee
the times. Whether man or woman, it did not matter. He was a champion deserves to work and thrive under great leadership,
of excellence in any form. which is why we have been operating under our
seven leadership commitments for many years.
In 1926, he posted Alice to a position in Japan. After a 35-day journey At the same time, the role of our leaders has
by boat, she arrived in Tokyo to handle the country’s product launches evolved – and continues to do so.
and correspondence with Basel. Alice loved Japan and, unsurprisingly,
excelled at the role. Within three years, she was promoted to Director Over the past several years, we have continued to
of Roche Japan, making her the first woman senior executive at Roche. utilise Kinesis and Synergy, our senior leadership
It was a sensational development at the time. development programmes. But the pandemic forced
us to re-think the way we organise and run our
Women like Alice paved the way for the inclusion of people with diverse programmes and events. For instance, the Global
backgrounds, experiences, skills and perspectives, which is key to our Virtual Leadership Development Initiative was
success today, and in the future. launched virtually in 2021 which, incidentally, gave
a much broader audience access to this valuable tool.People and culture | Roche 91
Our implementation of agile working methodologies and operating
principles has boosted the speed and efficiency with which we
deliver our solutions to patients and healthcare providers.
As we become more agile, the need for a shift
towards shared leadership – one that fosters
trust and ownership – becomes evident. We are
developing a networked organisation where
decisions can no longer be made in silos due to the
high interconnectedness and interdependence
across the company. This approach requires
leaders to apply the VACC principles – visionary,
architect, coach and catalyst – when leading
and serving their teams and the organisation.
The VACC leadership approach aligns with our
creative mindset, and supports our co-creating
vision, allowing us to achieve results, actively and
authentically drive change and further enable
role models who continuously push for learning
and empowerment.
Our unique efforts and investments in developing
coaching skills in our leaders have been recognised
by the International Coaching Federation (ICF). In
autumn 2021, we were awarded the 2021 ICF PRISM
Award Special Mention. This award recognises
Roche’s approach to making coaching an integral
element of its leadership culture, while fulfilling
the highest professional standards and creating
measurable positive impacts. We introduced a number of new approaches and
tools to provide our people with round-the-clock
At Roche, we want everyone to build the capability support. Additionally, we set up a broad range
to lead and learn. By encouraging self-leadership of internal and external training and learning
and fostering a learning mindset, we help our opportunities, each designed to strengthen the
people thrive. To achieve this, we have refined our foundations of an agile, self-organised workplace.
existing people development strategy and provided
a portfolio of activities and training to support As a business function, People & Culture has also
self-growth and individual leadership. undergone its own significant transformation.
We refreshed our workforce strategies, revamped
Enhancing everyone’s experience our organisational growth efforts and updated
When we unveiled our new approach to engaging our core processes and practices. Thanks to
and developing our employees a few years ago, we these efforts, People & Culture has not only
set the goal of becoming an agile organisation. In become more efficient as a strategic partner,
2021, we took a significant step towards increasing but has also established new standards in the
the use of technology and digitalisation to improve creation of value for the long-term success of
the employee experience. our organisation.92
Throughout the pandemic, we have provided tailored resources
and support for employees working from home, including
ergonomic assessments.
Occupational health and safety
In 2021 the pandemic continued to impact
operations at Roche. However, manufacturing and
related activities were kept running during this time.
In some countries, due to decreasing case numbers,
operations resumed on-site at least temporarily
while in other countries, most employees continued
to work remotely.
Sites managed the pandemic locally using a
uniform risk-based approach to mitigate the
likelihood of workplace transmission and offered
SARS-CoV-2 testing and, in many cases, vaccination
to their employees working on-site or from home.
Sites provided tailored support and resources
to employees working from home consisting of
information and programmes to maintain health
and well-being, support setting up an ergonomic
working environment at home and remote access
to employee assistance and counselling. Roche
actively supported, where possible, community
Employee health and safety
programmes to deliver vaccines, provided up-to-
date evidence-based information and dismantled
barriers for employees to get vaccinated against
0.179 0.173 0.174 0.127 0.158 0.148 SARS-CoV-2 and influenza.
One of our primary objectives is to provide a safe
0.061
0.059 0.053 workplace for our employees, both on- and off-site.
0.047 0.045 0.042
Occupational accidents, which include operating
motor vehicles, present significant risks to Roche
6,298
that are actively managed as part of our risk
4,828 4,773
management programme. Included in our current
4,397 4,369
4,215 set of goals (2020–2025), we aim, once again, to
400 348 346 continuously improve the safety of our employees.
334
277 270 Our goals are to keep the Roche accident rate (RAR)
below 0.05 (RAR corresponds to the number of
working days lost due to occupational accidents per
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 employee per year) and to reduce vehicle collisions
per million kilometres by 10%, both by 2025.
Lost-time illness rate Roche accident rate*
Working days lost per year due to accidents Number of work-related accidents
* The Roche accident rate is a three-year averagePeople and culture | Roche 93
100,920
employees*
by region
Africa
1,068
North America Asia
28,586 22,674
Part-time
11%
Australia/New Zealand
Full-time
638
89%
Latin America
4,774
Europe
43,181
51% in total workforce Pharmaceuticals 46,889
44% in management Diagnostics 39,266
25% on the BoD Chugai 7,711
40% on the CEC Corporate and others 7,054
Women** Employees* by ODG***
* Number of employees expressed in full-time equivalents, on 31.12.2021
** Based on headcount, excluding Chugai due to the arm’s length alliance agreement between Roche (majority shareholder) and Chugai to retain its autonomy
*** Operating Divisional Group94People and culture | Roche 95
A lifelong career at Roche
When Hans Aeberhard embarked on his Roche apprenticeship in Basel
in 1972, he could not have imagined he would eventually retire from
the company after 49 years, 4 months and 21 days.
Hans grew up in Basel. It is common in Switzerland in people and strove to discover and develop
for teenagers to complete a short apprenticeship their potential. Hans’s colleagues are close to
during their final year at school before deciding his heart. “I met a lot of people who shared their
on a career. Although he had no concrete vocation experience and expertise and helped me grow,”
in mind, Hans knew his profession should be he explains. “In fact, many of my colleagues have
something technical and offer good prospects become friends.”
for growth and development. His choice to
become a chemical technician was influenced by The challenges
his teachers, who were very enthusiastic about During his career, there were only a handful of
the opportunities that existed at Roche. His older challenges. The hardest were reorganisations,
brother, who had started an apprenticeship as which often involved downsizing. “It is difficult
a chemical technician a few years earlier, also to sustain a high-performing team when your
approved. “I am very happy with the path I chose,” department gets reorganised,” he says. “Especially
Hans says. “My job was never boring; I was able to when you have to say goodbye to great people.”
develop professionally and personally, and work
in an innovative environment.” The past two years of the pandemic have been a
challenge for those in the manufacturing sector
The highlights as well. For Hans and his wife, however, working
Looking back, there are plenty of highlights that fill from home during this period provided a way to
Hans with pride and fond memories. He has a deep ease into his retirement in August 2021.
appreciation for how Roche has been family-owned
for generations. This leadership, he is convinced, A new chapter in life
is reflected in the culture and how employees are After 49 years, what advice can Hans offer for a
always treated with respect by colleagues and successful and fulfilling career? “Perseverance and
managers alike. don’t give in when things get tough. Be authentic
and speak up, but know when to hold back,” he
Working at the cutting edge of innovation and explains. “And lastly, be a team player and respect
technology was always a key motivator. “We were your colleagues.”
the pioneers of liquid crystal technology and in
the mid-1990s we set up a state-of-the-art, fully Looking to the next 125 years, Hans hopes that
computerised manufacturing building on campus. Roche will sustain its unique legacy and keep
These were the early years of digitalisation.” employees and patients at the core of what we do.
For himself, he hopes that he and his family stay
His personal highlights include his promotion to happy and healthy. Although he is now retired, Hans
foreman and becoming a line manager. Leading will not fully disconnect from his profession: both
people was more than a job, it was a personal of his sons have decided to follow in his footsteps
commitment. He developed a genuine interest and become pharma technologists.96Environment | Roche 97
Environment98Environment | Roche 99
Environmental protection – going
beyond our achievements
What is known today as Safety, Security, Health and Environmental
Protection (SHE) at Roche was conceived out of an industrial accident
roughly 45 years ago.
In 1976, a blast at one of our subsidiaries in Italy, or our reputation. Audits, consulting, training
known today as the Seveso incident, resulted in and culture, combined with a professional
the release of toxic chemicals into the air. The risk management system, minimise these risks.
aftermath of the incident brought about the Expert teams at each Roche site identify risks,
standardisation of industrial safety regulations develop mitigation plans and communicate
that would greatly influence the future of SHE policy and guidelines to employees and other
at Roche, and beyond. stakeholders and support them in implementing
the necessary measures.
The Seveso incident was tragic. But it was also
a huge opportunity for Roche to evolve our Many of the environmental challenges that have
approach to environmental protection. Since the occupied us for the last 40–50 years include
late 1970s, protecting the environment has been waste, as well as emissions to air and water. And
an integral part of our operations. We approach today, climate change is at the forefront. As the
it with the same sense of responsibility, and just changing climate has introduced new risks, such
as methodically, as we do with issues concerning as resource scarcity and a heightened occurrence
quality, productivity and cost efficiency. Wherever of natural disasters, the Roche SHE operational
possible and economically viable, we strive for risk management strategy includes forecasting
continuous improvement in SHE and we seek and evaluating the financial implications that
sustainable, long-term improvement by changing situations such as extreme weather or water
behaviour, adapting equipment to the most scarcity could have on its operations.
recent standards, and developing innovative
processes throughout our organisation. In order We have been developing environmental
to ensure disasters like the Seveso incident do not protection goals since 2005. Our current five-year
recur, we devote special attention to prevention goal period runs from 2020 to 2025. The goals UN SDGs
by reducing risks, which is key to effective we set in the areas of people, environment and
environmental management. business are challenging, but achievable. By
managing SHE professionally and proactively,
As a company with production operations around we can maintain the current high levels of
the world, Roche is exposed to risks that could SHE performance and standards across the
possibly damage people, goods, the environment, organisation.
Material topics
· Energy efficiency
· Long-term mindset100
Embracing our environmental responsibilities
Environmental responsibility has guided Roche’s to offer our supply chain partners renewable
activities for many years. We started reporting energy at a combined and more competitive rate.
on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as early as We used this project as research to gauge the
1990. Since 2004 we have been implementing receptiveness of suppliers when we offered to
carbon dioxide reduction measures that have led actively support their sustainability journey by
to a combined 59% decrease in carbon dioxide providing commercially valuable solutions. We
generated from within our operations (scope 1) will be monitoring the results to determine further
and from purchased energy (scope 2). strategies, and have extended the offer to other
high-spend, high-emission suppliers, representing
However, our operations have impacts that 80% of Roche’s spending in the UK, as well as
extend far past the company gates. We purchase smaller and more diverse suppliers.
materials, components and services that enable
us to develop and manufacture the products Another area of focus for these partnerships
our patients need. These, too, form part of concerns the reuse of materials. A number of
our environmental responsibilities. In 2021, we collaboration projects have been established
completed our total GHG emissions inventory, with our suppliers to understand opportunities to
which now includes emissions associated with reduce levels of waste, including plastic. Interactive
all goods and services purchased by Roche. We workshops held with key suppliers have focused
can now extend our focus to hot spots within our on single-use technology and filters and looked at
supply chain and develop mitigation strategies ways to recycle, reuse and substitute materials.
that will benefit the environment by minimising
our carbon footprint. In parallel, it will bring Our future is sustainable
long-term financial and reputational benefits As of 2021, 72% of our electricity comes from
for Roche and our suppliers. sustainable sources. In the continual pursuit to
further reduce GHG emissions from scope 1
Supporting our suppliers (scope 3) and 2 sources, we have developed a clear and
To be effective in managing our extended GHG defined process to generate progress by setting
responsibilities, we have identified the best ways challenging but realistic goals, developing action
to work with different segments of our supply plans on how to achieve these goals, and then
base. In 2021, we identified 90 suppliers, across implementing them.
our Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions,
whose products and services account for nearly Our scope 3 programme is also constantly evolving
one-third of our total carbon footprint. By engaging as new innovations become available. Over the
these suppliers in active dialogue, we are working next 12 months, we will finalise our scope 3 carbon
with them to further develop their sustainability reduction strategies, and set targets based on the
strategies. This partnership also encourages potential for reduction. We will extend the number
greater transparency and better decision-making. of suppliers we actively collaborate with and outline
our expectations of them. Our longer-term ambition
We support our suppliers in their efforts to is to gradually move towards product-specific
decarbonise their operations and processes. One reporting for our suppliers, which can be used to
of these strategies involves a pilot project through monitor carbon dioxide reductions and to inform
which we partnered with a UK-based energy supplier our product choices.Environment | Roche 101
We are committed to a sustainable energy future and are
implementing innovative technologies to improve energy efficiency.
We are also using the power of our people to
drive change. Across Roche, everyone can have
their voice heard, and everyone can contribute
to our sustainability efforts by sharing their ideas
on our innovation platform. These can touch
on any aspect of the sustainable development
agenda – whether environmental, social (including
human rights) or economic. Our refreshed Supply
Chain Sustainability Council, an internal decision-
making body at the executive level, reviews these
ideas and business cases to decide on the ones
to resource for implementation and support. This
level of focus and prioritisation of sustainability
within our business allows ideas and concepts
to be turned into impactful deliverables and
wide-scale change.
Our scope 3 strategy and execution centres on
three key themes:
• Reducing, reusing and recycling
This involves influencing business travel
Steering towards a sustainable energy future
behaviours, reducing spend on non-essential
goods and services and recycling or reusing
materials. Roche recognises climate change as one of the largest global risks
• Substituting and innovating and addresses it as a matter of urgency. Expert teams, with a problem-to-
This involves substituting non-sustainable solution-focused mindset, have been addressing this global issue for more
energies with sustainable energies, considering than 15 years. Most greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at Roche originate
environmental stewardship in product designs from the transformation and use of energy. Instead of compensating with
and alternative logistics methods and routing. offsets, the teams pursue programmes that actively reduce GHG emissions.
• Engaging and partnering with suppliers As a priority these include reducing energy consumption and increasing
and supply chains energy efficiency before substituting with energy from sustainable
This involves transitioning suppliers towards sources. With these measures, we have already reduced GHG emissions by
renewable electricity and incorporating more than 59% since 2004. At the Basel and Kaiseraugst site, for example,
sustainability as a core element of global supplier the energy consumption of the buildings and operations is minimised by
relationship management strategies. innovative design and they are heated with waste heat and heat from the
environment in a carbon dioxide-neutral way. We will continue to optimise
We recognise that we cannot deliver sustainable energy use throughout the company striving towards one of our goals of
supply chains alone. This is why we will build on reducing scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions to zero by 2050.
our existing industry collaboration to extend our
reach so that we can influence and learn from
other industries’ approaches to sustainability.102
Environmental performance data
We are continuously monitoring our environmental our impact by approximately 30%. This puts us on
performance, and our aim is to collect data on a clear path to reach 36% by 2025.
at least 95% of each key performance indicator.
By doing so, we ensure compliance with our high We are committed to contributing to a sustainable
standards and objectives and guarantee that our energy future. To make this vision a reality, we are
processes and equipment are state of the art. Since implementing innovative technologies, improving
2005, we have shown progressive improvement energy efficiency and increasing the use of
in reducing our environmental footprint. Roche sustainable energy. Such considerations positively
measures its environmental impact using the eco- impact our environmental footprint by, for example,
balance metric, which measures the environmental dramatically reducing GHG emissions.
impact of pollutant emissions or resource extraction
activities in eco-points per unit of quantity. These Greenhouse gas reduction efforts
points are added up and related to the total number Our success at reducing energy consumption
of employees. This enables us to monitor our and carbon dioxide emissions can be credited to
environmental impact per employee, taking business Roche’s GHG management approach. In 2021, for
growth into account. Since 2019 we have reduced example, our Diagnostics site in Meylan, France,
became the first Roche site to reduce GHG
emissions from stationary sources (eg, heating and
purchased electricity) to zero. The site consists
of a new energy-efficient building that is provided
with electricity from sustainable sources as well
as biomethane. The site is now focusing on its car
125 years of milestones
fleet strategy to optimise further emissions.
Former Nutley site embodies Roche’s legacy At three of Roche’s technical production sites, the
Roche takes environmental responsibility seriously and is determined to heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems in
create long-term social value for communities. The Nutley remediation the cleanrooms have been optimised. Such areas
project was no exception. The Nutley site was closed in 2012 and Roche utilise high ventilation rates to meet room air quality
was committed to making sure the 118-acre former US headquarters requirements. This optimisation has reduced carbon
carried on its legacy of innovation and social responsibility. dioxide emissions by approximately 5,000 tonnes
per year and resulted in annual monetary savings of
A pioneering approach to environmental investigation and remediation approximately CHF 700,000. Once the project has
and a novel divestment strategy cut years from traditional timelines and been expanded to all pharmaceutical production
attracted a developer for the property, which sold in 2016 with Roche sites, it is estimated that monetary savings will
retaining responsibility for the site clean-up. increase to approximately CHF 2 million per year
with a maximum reduction in carbon dioxide
Now called ON3, the campus boasts research institutions and a private emissions of 11,000 tonnes per year.
clinical laboratory with approximately 6,000 employees (compared to
1,500 when the site closed). Other tenants will include healthcare, biotech, Similar GHG reduction measures are in place as
retail and hospitality leaders. As was our vision, ON3 is contributing to the part of our five-year goals. By 2025 our sustainable
area’s economic and social well-being for generations to come. energy future activities will result in a further 40%
reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from scope 1
and 2 sources.Environment | Roche 103
Water consumption
1.8%
Noise pollution
1.0%
Energy consumption Landfilled waste
9.1% 1.5%
Emissions to water
Emissions to air
5.8%
Roche 80.8%
eco-balance
2021
We stipulate that company car fleets
consist of vehicles which use less than
2 MJ/km. By 2030, all vehicles will operate
using energy from sustainable sources.
Grid electricity
26.2% Company vehicles
4.3%
Our first priority is to reduce usage of energy.
Energy use by
For the energy we use, we look for ways of
improving efficiencies, such as heat recovery. selected types
In addition we encourage the use of renewable Business air travelling
2021
energy wherever it makes sense. 1.7%
Natural gas Video and teleconferencing facilities
28.9% have been established at all sites and are
widely used. Employees are encouraged
to use trains and to consolidate several
business trips into one.104
Scope 3 Scope 2 Capital goods4
7,898,074 168,735 589,317
95.0% 39.9% 7.5%
Scope 11, 22, 33 Scope 11, 22 Scope 33
GHG emissions GHG emissions GHG emissions
(t CO) (t CO) (t CO)
2 2 2
Purchased goods
Scope 1 Scope 1 and services4
254,060 254,060 6,795,889
3.0% 60.1% 86.0%
Scope 2
168,735 Fuel- and energy-related activities
2.0% 81,647
1.0%
Transportation and distribution
228,274
2.9%
Waste generated in operations
37,920
0.5%
Business travel
15,392
0.2%
Use of sold products
149,635
1.9%
Sustainability is a top priority at our sites. In Kaiseraugst,
Switzerland, for example, the energy consumption of the buildings
and operations is minimised through innovative design.
1 Direct emissions from within operations | 2 Indirect emissions from purchased energy | 3 Emissions resulting from activities within our supply chain |
4 The verified methodology is based on the GHG Protocol and Environmentally Extended Input-Output Model. Due to methodological inaccuracies, this will evolve
and be complemented with refined data as it becomes available. Numbers will not serve as a baseline.Environment | Roche 105
Energy consumption in terajoules
2021 2020 2019 2018
Total (scope 1 and scope 2) 8,306 8,420 8,983 9,185
Energy (scope 1 and scope 2) consumption (GJ/employee) 79 81 89 91
GJ = gigajoule
Halogenated hydrocarbons in tonnes*
2021 2020 2019 2018
Inventory 88.6** 92.0 90.8 91.3
Releases 1.5 1.5 2.2 2.2
* Global inventory including Chugai, Genentech and Ventana
** Includes data from additional Roche sites as well as a wider scope of halogenated hydrocarbons than in previous years
Emissions into the air in tonnes
2021 2020 2019 2018
VOCs* 86 73 85 85
Particulates 18 16 13 20
Nitrogen oxides 118 113 133 201
Sulphur dioxide 4 3 4 5
* Volatile organic compounds
Water usage and discharge
2021 2020 2019 2018
Water withdrawn (million m3) 15.4 14.9 15.9 16.6
Water consumed (million m3) 2.7 2.8 3.1 3.4
Organic matter discharged to waterways after treatment (t) 76 76 127 185
Heavy metals discharged to waterways after treatment (kg) 131 174 228 149
Landfilled and incinerated waste in tonnes
2021 2020 2019 2018
Non-hazardous 10,357 11,139 10,500 11,183
Hazardous 15,110** 13,332 17,422 13,563
Contaminated soil (hazardous) 61,230 38* 91,951 77,681
Construction waste (non-hazardous) 8,470 5,919 14,360 8,443
* Less contaminated soil was removed in 2020 due to reduced remediation activities at the Kesslergrube, Germany
** The increase in hazardous waste is due to the reallocation of electronic waste to hazardous waste
Environmental data from Spark Therapeutics, Flatiron Health, and Foundation Medicine are not included in the Roche environmental results106Environment | Roche 107
SHE is about managing risks for people,
the environment and our assets
Peter Schnurrenberger and his team have evolved our Safety, Security,
Health and Environmental Protection (SHE) function to become an integral
part of our business activities over the past 21 years.
Driven by the strong belief that protecting people, quantity, but also the quality of water that matters.
the environment and our assets is integral to the Society is becoming less accepting of non-natural
success of our company and the betterment of chemicals in the water.” We know that we need to
society, Peter and his team have developed a further reduce pollution with such chemicals, in
comprehensive SHE management system that is particular if they are not readily decomposable.
embedded throughout our organisation and is a Where this is not possible we need to be transparent
core pillar of how we do business. about any associated risks versus the benefits.
Societal expectations have increased over time, Standardising information is another area of focus
which are reflected in more laws and regulations for Roche. By not only being transparent with
regarding SHE. “People realise now, more than ever, our reporting, but also advocating harmonised
that we must act to protect the planet, ourselves reporting systems, we know that society will benefit
and future generations,” says Peter. “We know that from increased knowledge and reassurance.
despite the progress that has been made, there is “Today we see standards drifting apart, becoming
still more to do, and an opportunity to improve.” far too complex and detailed, thus creating a lot
of bureaucratic burden with questionable value
When looking towards the future, Peter sees a relative to the effort,” says Peter. “We need to work
number of key issues that we must tackle as an with all stakeholders to create a simple, informative
organisation. “An obvious area is climate change,” and robust reporting framework.”
he says. “If we want to reduce the associated risks,
we need bold action. At Roche, we have set a goal Finally, with increasing global dependencies, the
to eliminate all greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. risk of events with widespread impact is increasing
We are developing roadmaps towards this goal as well. “As a global healthcare company, we need
and action plans are being implemented across all to be well prepared for such situations as we must
areas of our business. The faster we act, the less ensure uninterrupted supply of our products to
greenhouse gases will be in the atmosphere.” patients,” Peter says. “Our responsibility to patients
and society is the driving force behind our SHE
Another key issue is water – the basis of all activities and it is not taken lightly.” At the end of the
life – and an indispensable basic material for the day, we know that in order to achieve our goals, we
manufacturing of pharmaceutical and diagnostic need educated, highly committed and passionate
products. Water scarcity is increasing in several people driving our efforts in SHE. There is a lot
regions around the world as is the need for of work to be done, but it is our responsibility to
clean water. “We must further reduce our water move these activities forward in order to protect
consumption and reuse and recycle wherever the health, safety and well-being of generations
feasible,” Peter reflects. “But it is not only the to come.108Community engagement | Roche 109
Community
engagement110Community engagement | Roche 111
Community impact – our lasting
tradition of philanthropy at Roche
For over 100 years, we have remained committed to making a sustainable
difference in communities in which we operate, and beyond. It is part of
our commitment to society.
Our first and longest philanthropic partnership is to local non-governmental organisations (NGOs),
with the International Committee of the Red Cross in support of early childhood development and
(ICRC). We began supporting the ICRC in 1918 in education efforts around the world.
an effort to help the displaced and hungry across
Europe. Over the years, our partnership with the In response to the pandemic and related restrictions
ICRC has continued to evolve and grow. on gatherings, our employees got creative and UN SDGs
re-invented the event to include a wide range of
In 2005, we became a founding member of the innovative fundraising activities. In 2021, these
ICRC Corporate Support Group. Since 2015, we events included plogging (a combination of jogging
have supported the ICRC’s access to water initiative and picking up litter) in South Korea, volunteering
in Mali. In total, over one million people benefited at an orphanage in Côte d’Ivoire, ‘walking meeting’
from this programme. We are proud of our many challenges in Spain and virtual boxing workshops
enduring partnerships with organisations like in Colombia. In total, over 26,000 people from
the ICRC and our collaborative efforts to make 138 sites across 60 countries participated in
a difference for communities around the world. fundraising activities.
From our partnerships to our core pillars, we take Every year, our colleagues nominate employee
a long-term approach to philanthropy. We have ambassadors to visit Re&Act children’s projects
a well-established strategy, and maintain a clear and witness first-hand the impact of their
focus on our engagements. Our philanthropic fundraising activities. In 2021, a group of nine
strategy is built around four pillars: community ambassadors made a virtual visit to Child’s Dream,
projects, supporting the arts, investing in Re&Act’s newest partner. This NGO is focused on
education and providing humanitarian support. children’s education in Southeast Asia.
We strictly adhere to specific criteria throughout
our partner and project selection processes. During the visit, the ambassadors had the chance
Those criteria include quality, innovation and to meet the founders of Child’s Dream, see the
sustainability. schools and computer labs we are helping to build
in Cambodia, and hear directly from students
Grassroots community engagement about how the scholarships are changing their
Our biggest employee engagement and lives. While meeting in person is ideal, this virtual
philanthropic event is the Roche Children’s Walk. immersion was truly inspirational, and the money
The event began in 2003 as an employee-driven saved on travel went to local children’s NGOs in Material topics
pilot project across our sites in Basel, Nutley and the ambassadors’ respective countries. To learn · Long-term mindset
Palo Alto. All of the funds raised through the walk more about Child’s Dream, please see the story · Availability of healthcare
go to Re&Act, our independent global charity, and on page 117.112
Art as a means to connect with communities Young Commissions to engage new contemporary
Our long history of supporting groundbreaking classical composers and expose our scientists to
contemporary art and cultural projects has included leading-edge experiences in sound.
explorations of the parallels between innovations
in art and innovations in science. Exposure to new In 2021, one of the young composers, Australian-
ideas and perspectives helps to foster a culture born Kirsten Milenko, debuted her new piece, Traho.
of openness and creativity at Roche. It also helps It pays homage to the unfathomable losses Australia
to promote diversity and inclusion by celebrating experienced as a result of the wildfires that raged
different cultures and disciplines. there from 2019 to 2020 and that resulted in the
loss of billions of animals and millions of hectares
In 2003, we began collaborating with the Lucerne of burnt land. During the piece, the musicians sang
Festival, an international festival of contemporary in tribute to those who perished, and helped to
classical music on a unique project called Roche keep their memory alive in the public mind.
Commissions. Every two years, we commission
a new orchestral work from one of the world’s With 169 nationalities represented at Roche, we
most talented composers. Starting in 2013, this are committed to diversity and inclusion in all that
partnership was extended to include Roche we do. Our support of projects like Culturescapes,
a multidisciplinary Swiss festival that promotes
cross-border cultural dialogue, helps us to
celebrate our diversity by bringing some of its
unique facets to our employees.
125 years of milestones
In 2021, Culturescapes focused on the Amazon
region, bringing artists from Brazil, Colombia, Peru
Good, clean health for South Africa and Ecuador to Switzerland. Topics explored during
Phelophepa. It means “good, clean health” in Sotho. For over 14 million the festival included climate change, access to
people in rural South Africa, it has meant access to affordable primary water, violence and peace. Collaboration with
healthcare. In 1994, Roche and Transnet, a freight logistics company, the festival was wide-ranging, and Roche PhDs,
came together to establish Phelophepa, the world’s first comprehensive postdocs and employees from Latin America
primary healthcare facility on rail. had access to performances and workshops with
the artists.
What started as a three-car train was expanded to two 19-coach trains
in 2012. They provide a range of healthcare services including dental, To bring the benefits of this event to as many
ophthalmological, psychological and general health. As the main external people as possible, Roche Brazil hosted a virtual
sponsor, Roche provided additional support during the COVID-19 pandemic Culturescapes week. Throughout the week,
including protective and sanitising equipment. they shared music from the artists, provided
In 2021, Transnet launched a third train to support Phelophepa’s COVID-19
response. Over 16,000 people were vaccinated and over 127,000 patients
received basic healthcare.Community engagement | Roche 113
One of the Roche Young Commission’s 2021 recipients, Kirsten
Milenko, following the debut of her new orchestral work Traho
(above). Ibã Sales, shaman of the indigenous Huni Kuin people in
Brazil, performed with the Burned Instruments Orchestra during
Culturescapes 2021 Amazonia (below).
mind and body workshops, and offered talks
about some of the social issues the artists are
exploring through their work. During an extended
working-from-home period, this event provided
a valuable outlet for connecting with colleagues
through creativity, exploring diversity and inclusion
in a new way, and feeling a sense of pride about
engaging in Roche philanthropy.
Getting students excited about STEM
At Roche, science and technology is at the heart
of what we do. That is why we are committed to
supporting interest in these disciplines among
young people through international and local
programmes. By improving access to education
and real-world science and technology, we hope
to support the next generation of innovators.
For more than 50 years, Roche has supported
Swiss Youth in Science, which promotes science
and technology among young people. In 2009, we
became a founding sponsor of the International
Swiss Talent Forum, the organisation’s think tank
programme. This annual meeting brings young
people from around the world together to discuss
current global issues.
We are also proud to support and host Science
on the Move, a Switzerland-wide school
competition, run biennially in cooperation with
the SimplyScience Foundation. In 2021, ten of the
25 schools participating presented projects on
the theme of ‘Smart Systems’ to a jury of Roche
scientists, academics and industry experts. The
winning class will take a science-themed trip to
London in 2022.114
Healthcare workers and volunteers from 1000 Days Fund, an
NGO committed to reducing childhood stunting in Indonesia,
showing mothers the impact of poor nutrition on children’s health.
Roche helped to establish the country’s first Impact Stunting
Centre of Excellence.
It goes on without us
As a healthcare company, we are committed to
building stronger and healthier communities by
supporting human and social services systems
in places where they are needed most. We
seek partners who aim to implement simple and
meaningful measures that will result in lasting
improvements and a sustainable impact on society.
For example, we supported the 1000 Days Fund
in Indonesia, which was established to help reduce
childhood stunting. This condition is defined as
shortness in height for a child’s age arising from
prolonged malnutrition, and affects both physical
and cognitive development. With our support,
the NGO established the country’s first Impact
Stunting Centre of Excellence, which provides
tools and training to community healthcare
workers and parents.
In 2021, three additional centres opened, directly
benefiting 44,100 people, including healthcare
workers, parents and children. In addition, the
model has garnered support from the Ministry of
Health, and attracted new donors, enabling them
to continue to scale up and further integrate into
the healthcare system. Ensuring the sustainability
of a project – including its ability to go on without
us – is central to philanthropy at Roche.
Another sustainable way we are supporting our
communities is through the global philanthropic
secondment programme which allows Roche
employees to volunteer with an NGO supporting
global health and education. In 2021, Walter Lee,
from Roche Diagnostics (see photo on page 110),
supported Terre des Hommes, a children’s aid
organisation, in defining a model to introduce a
new global health technology, a digital stethoscope,
in low- and middle-income countries to improve
outcomes for children.Community engagement | Roche 115
International Committee of the Red Cross
1918
We have supported the ICRC for over 100 years. In 2005, we became a
founding member of the ICRC Corporate Support Group. We have contributed
to water and habitat activities in several countries across Africa.
Over one million people have benefited from the access to water initiative
in Mali.
Child’s Dream
World Wide Fund for Nature
2019
1961
We are working with Child’s Dream, our most
recent Re&Act partner, to improve education The WWF was co-founded by Dr Lukas (Luc)
for children in Southeast Asia. Hoffmann, grandson of Roche founder Fritz
Hoffmann-La Roche and his wife Adèle. Roche
Some of
Over 4,000 students have benefited from new has continued to support the WWF ever since.
classrooms, computer labs and scholarships our partnerships
in Cambodia. Over 3,000 people have benefited from rebuilding
and what we have
efforts in Nepal, Kenya and Zimbabwe.
achieved together
UNICEF
2003
Swiss Youth in Science
We have been working together to support access 1967
to education for children from disadvantaged
backgrounds in several countries throughout Africa We have been supporting Swiss Youth in Science,
and Asia. which seeks to promote science and technology
to young people, for over 50 years.
Over 450,000 children have benefited from
educational programmes across Ethiopia, Malawi, Over 15,000 students have been reached by
Nepal and the Philippines. Swiss Youth in Science programmes.
Phelophepa healthcare trains
1994
We have been the main external sponsor of Phelophepa,
a free mobile healthcare clinic that travels to rural areas
in South Africa, since its first journey over 25 years ago.
Over 14 million people have benefited from basic
healthcare services, trainings and jobs through
Phelophepa in South Africa.116Community engagement | Roche 117
How a balance of heart and head helped
Child’s Dream become a reality
Marc Jenni and Daniel Siegfried gave up careers in banking to set up a charity
for children in Asia. They started from nothing and built an association that
delivers health, education and – perhaps most important of all – hope.
“Good philanthropy requires perfect balance Marc. “We sat there in a little guest house in front
between heart and head – your heart needs to of a blank piece of paper, and through the night
really understand and care about the people our ideas formed. We are both so happy that it
you are trying to help, and your head must stay developed from there into something so meaningful.”
rational and make good decisions.”
Productive partnership
Daniel is talking about the secret to success The organisation established a partnership with
of Child’s Dream – a charitable, not-for-profit Roche in 2019, with three clear areas of focus in
organisation supporting children and young Cambodia: improving school building infrastructure,
adults in Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia and Thailand. with a five-year goal of 150 new primary, secondary
Co-founded by Marc and Daniel in 2003, the or high school classrooms benefiting 6,000 students
organisation now employs over 50 people. They a year; supporting computer laboratory facilities,
work to reduce childhood mortality and improve with the aim of ten fully equipped computer
health and hygiene in schools and communities, laboratories to vastly improve IT skills and
while also increasing access to quality education. knowledge; and finally, backing 350 high school
scholarships to help marginalised students improve
Marc and Daniel both admit that the balance is not job and social mobility opportunities.
always easy to maintain – the current situation in
Myanmar in particular is “absolutely devastating”, “The partnership works because we have a shared
says Daniel, “making it really difficult for me not to purpose and Roche is very engaged in the work we
become emotional about it and lose that balance.” are doing,” says Daniel. “And the impact is very real.
But over the last 18 years, they have managed to We will provide new school buildings for thousands
navigate that line, and deliver meaningful change of children in Cambodia, some of whom are the
and real hope for thousands of children. most marginalised, with difficult backgrounds. And
with computer labs comes digital literacy, which is
A meaningful mission so important to bring new opportunities.”
They set up Child’s Dream after successful but
unfulfilling careers in banking in Switzerland, Hong They emphasise that we can all make a difference. It
Kong and Singapore. Those experiences provided does not have to mean travelling to the other side of
a gateway to Southeast Asia and a first realisation the world – it can mean being “a social worker in your
of some of the challenges faced by local children. own network”, whether that’s your family members,
For the two of them, that realisation was a pivotal your neighbours or your local community. “But try
moment. “Daniel basically had an epiphany that to maintain that balance between heart and head,”
he wanted to do something meaningful, and he says Marc. “And remember, even after the biggest
suggested we set up a children’s charity,” says storm, the sun will come out and shine again.”118Business ethics | Roche 119
Business ethics120Business ethics | Roche 121
Integrity as a driver
for business ethics
Upholding high standards of ethics, integrity and sustainability is not
just about complying with laws and regulations; it is about making
a positive impact on society in everything we do.
At Roche, we believe that integrity is the basis of a to further strengthen our shared ethical mindset
sustainable and successful business. We start with across the organisation.
ourselves: Every employee has the responsibility to
behave with integrity and in accordance with our Fostering collaboration through a OneRoche
shared company values and compliance guidelines. approach
Because our commitment is also reflected in the Although we have several distinct businesses
expectations we place on our partners around and partners within the Roche Group, we know
the world, we require our distributors, suppliers that fostering collaboration through a OneRoche
and service providers to meet our integrity approach is key to our overall success. This
standards. We emphasise sustainability and expect approach was the driving force behind many of our
our business partners to help foster social and compliance and risk and opportunity management
economic development in the communities in which efforts in 2021.
they operate.
One example of this was an initiative aimed at
We also continue to focus our efforts on our enhancing effectiveness and collaboration across
stakeholders’ understanding of – and trust in – our assurance functions including, but not limited to,
our organisation. To help ensure that trust, we compliance, quality, safety, health and environment.
remain independent of any political affiliation. In The insights of this comprehensive and collaborative
2021, we spent CHF 10.6 million in Switzerland. gap analysis revealed a high level of competence
That spending included payments to industry in many key areas. Moving forward, we see a great
associations and various chambers of commerce, opportunity to continue fostering collaboration
financial assistance for trade unions, and donations across the assurance functions to ensure Roche is
to political parties at cantonal and federal levels. holding itself to the highest standards and providing
Donations to political parties were each in the low pragmatic solutions to the business, with the UN SDGs
double-digit thousand range in Swiss francs, and ultimate goal of improving patients’ lives.
together accounted for approximately 2% of the
total contributions and donations. Building on a common set of values across divisions
and countries, two more examples demonstrate how
The COVID-19 pandemic has had an impact on how we want to move towards a more holistic, consistent Material topics
we work together within Roche, including how we and sustainable approach to compliance. · Human rights
ensure compliance at our affiliates worldwide. In · Ethics and transparency
2021, we implemented new ways of working, which In 2021, we harmonised our compliance and risk · Patient centricity
empowered our compliance network to focus and opportunity management process across all · Availability of healthcare
more on collaboration and exchange, allowing us divisions. The intent of this initiative was to improve · Compliance122
efficiencies, minimise redundancies and enhance In 2021, we formed a team of supplier risk
transparency. management professionals who are providing
support to and enabling our procurement team, as
As part of our overall review of our approach well as the rest of the organisation. They are also
to business ethics incident management, we developing state-of-the-art tools to facilitate risk
also developed a new system for internal non- assessment and management.
compliance case management and reporting. The
system enables stronger collaboration between To provide further support to employees working in
the different functions involved in the management procurement and sourcing, we implemented a new
of the cases, especially Compliance, the Internal online due diligence tool in 2021. The tool provides
Investigations team and People & Culture. guidance on how to mitigate risks related to finance,
supply, sustainability, technology, intellectual
Collaboration with patients property, quality and contracts. The guidance is
Along with evolving and improving our internal based on the inherent risks associated with the
processes, we are also striving for and engaging type of supplier, and how and where we expect
in important dialogues outside of Roche. We to engage with them.
know we can learn a great deal from patients, and
adhering to stringent ethical standards is key to Working together to mitigate risks and protect
impactful and effective interactions with them. In human rights
2021, we developed a supportive coaching tool Roche’s commitment to human rights is reflected in
called Compliance Patient Engagement Navigator. the stringent requirements we place on ourselves
The tool supports the business in identifying the and on our more than 60,000 suppliers worldwide.
applicable principles and rules, and provides We regard our suppliers and service providers
robust guidance, enabling Roche employees to as partners, and put our efforts into creating a
build compliant and sustainable relationships relationship of mutual trust and collaboration in
with patients and patient organisations (please order to ensure that our standards are met.
see the story on page 127).
One important element of these relationships is our
Adapting to meet changing needs Supplier Sustainability Assurance Visit programme
As the healthcare system continues to transform (SSAV), which gives us the ability to positively
rapidly, we must look at and respond effectively impact labour conditions at our suppliers’ facilities.
to how we spend money. In late 2020, Roche The Roche Supplier Code of Conduct binds our
finalised a new policy on third-party spend. The suppliers to adhere to clearly stated performance
policy moved us from providing tactical guidance expectations, including performance on human
that focused on procurement activities to providing rights, and allows Roche to conduct SSAVs to help
Roche-wide principles and parameters governing ensure compliance through collaboration and
how we spend money. The new framework allows capability building. All our suppliers are evaluated
us to set operational procurement rules and annually through a standardised, risk-based process
processes at a local level, while establishing to identify those at high risk for human rights
globally applicable due diligence and sustainability violations against vulnerable populations (children,
requirements. underage workers, migrants, local underprivilegedBusiness ethics | Roche 123
Modern and safe remediation methods at the Kesslergrube site in
Grenzach, Germany, protect the water of the nearby Rhine river.
communities and people with low levels of
education). Suppliers determined to be at high
risk are included in the SSAV programme.
Looking to the future, it is essential for us to
constantly develop and expand our human
rights requirements and guidelines in order to
ensure we continue to meet the highest possible
standards. In 2021, we updated our methodology
to address industry sectors that were not
previously considered, as well as non-Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD) countries where performance standards
may be lower, and human rights risks associated
with certain commodities. To ensure we are
properly addressing the issue of child labour,
we also integrated the UNICEF Children’s Rights
in the Workplace Index in our methodology for
identifying high risk suppliers for inclusion into
our SSAV programme.
Despite the ongoing challenges of the COVID-19
125 years of milestones
pandemic, Roche continued the SSAV programme
in 2021 using a carefully developed remote auditing
protocol, and adopting a hybrid virtual and on-site Doing our part for generations to come
approach. In 2021, we conducted 26 SSAVs Between the 1950s and 1970s, the Kesslergrube site in Germany served
(7 in EMEA, 14 in APAC, 1 in North America and as a mixed landfill for domestic, industrial and chemical waste for the
4 in LATAM). There were 52 human rights related local community and businesses, including Roche. Eventually the area
observations (see graph on page 125). was covered up and in 2011, authorities decided that it was in need of
remediation in order to protect the local groundwater resource and the
Following every audit, suppliers commit to a adjacent river Rhine.
documented corrective action plan to address each
audit finding. Our SSAV programme also includes Recognising the social and ethical responsibility we have to protect the
follow-up audits to verify that corrective actions environment and generations to come, in 2014 we began one of the most
adequately address the identified findings. complex remediation projects in Germany that is still ongoing today. Going
way beyond what is legally required, our goal is not only to eliminate as
Human rights come first much of the existing soil and groundwater contamination as possible, but
One example that illustrates how we partner with our with our proactive approach, to create a positive impact by making the
suppliers to help increase human rights standards remediated area available for re-use.
is our effort to reduce our environmental impacts
by converting the Roche fleet to electric vehicles.124
We work closely with suppliers around the world to ensure we
are adhering to the highest ethical standards in all areas of
our business.
Protecting human rights is key in these efforts,
as we believe that greenhouse gas reductions
will not come at the expense of human rights.
Our objective is to not only ensure that
manufacturers providing electric fleet vehicles
are in full compliance with OECD Guidance on
Responsible Supply Chains, but also to be able to
trace conflict minerals to smelters and refiners
compliant with our human rights expectations.
Accordingly, all our suppliers of electric vehicles
must be in full compliance with OECD guidance,
have an ethical mineral sourcing code of conduct
that protects miners and families, and have a
recycling programme for conflict minerals.
Roche has ceased negotiations with electric
vehicle manufacturers that refuse our Supplier
Code of Conduct and our right to audit, and
do not have their own equivalent sustainable
supplier code of conduct. It is our policy to not do
Compliance
business with any supplier who refuses to accept
the principles of our Supplier Code of Conduct,
In 2021, 161 employees used the Roche Group SpeakUp Line, operated by and our right to audit for compliance with our
an external provider, which is available in 53 languages in 103 countries. sustainability principles.
The Chief Compliance Officer received 567 reports of alleged violations
of the Code of Conduct via the Business Ethics Incident Reporting system.
Of these, 214 were unfounded, 216 were founded, and 137 are still under
invqesutoigtaetio n. As a result, 88 employment contracts and 8 agreements
wit1h5 b0usiness partners were terminated on grounds of unethical behaviour.Business ethics | Roche 125
General and Packaging
administrative services
4
5
Excessive overtime
Lack of labour policy and practices
Contract research
Facilities and maintenance Human rights-related organisations
6 findings per 19
Excessive overtime, incorrect industry 2021 Lack of labour policy; excessive
overtime compensation overtime; delayed payment of wages
Laboratory supplies
7
Logistics and transportation
Inadequate maintenance of employee time 11
records; incorrect overtime compensation
Not granted annual leave;
incorrect deduction of wages126
Patients are at the heart of everything we do. We work closely with
the patient community to listen, learn and integrate their feedback
into all aspects of our work.Business ethics | Roche 127
Reflecting on our responsibility to patients
When we look at our history, we are humbled by the and what concessions they make in their day-
trust patients and their families have placed in us. to-day lives. These insights guide us on how we
They have trusted our research, the medicines and can help improve the patient experience from
diagnostics we have developed, and the integrated diagnosis to treatment to ongoing monitoring and
solutions we have launched to help improve their patient support. Our work to engage patients in
quality of life. The responsibility we have to patients the right way is centralised through our Global
and those who care for them is the driving force Patient Partnership team and Worldwide Patient
behind our approach to patient partnership. Partnership Network who partner across the
company to drive our collaboration with patient
Over the last 125 years, we have worked to communities within our core geographies.
understand gaps that exist in the treatment of
diseases like cancer, multiple sclerosis, spinal Our collaboration with patients culminates
muscular atrophy and so many more. And while we in our long-standing commitment to help the
have tried to keep the people impacted by these community network, share and mobilise on broad
diseases in mind, we have not always asked for health system topics through the International
their perspective on what they value in their care. Experience Exchange with Patient Organizations
So, over the years, we have made a concerted (IEEPO). Over the past 13 years, IEEPO has
effort to learn about how we can and should work become a signature Roche offering that helps
with the patient community to integrate their patient groups share learnings, identify synergies
feedback into our work. in their markets, and collaborate on health
topics that will make healthcare accessible
Patients today take centre stage at Roche. We to everyone around the world. It is also an
engage them early and systematically across our opportunity for patient groups to tell us what we
business to ensure that our thinking on disease are not doing well and how we can improve. With
management is shaped by their feedback on the close to 600 patient groups from 70+ countries
outcomes that matter most to them, such as participating in this platform (www.ieepo.com),
survival, relief of symptoms and cure of disease. IEEPO has become central to our vision for
We have, in the past, been challenged by regulatory patient partnership.
authorities and payers on the outcomes we have
measured for some of our medicines. This has This collaborative approach has resulted in
required us to take a step back and consult the Roche ranking first in corporate reputation
patient community to refine our thinking. Our amongst our peer group of ‘Big Pharma’ as
hope is that by proactively getting the patient announced in 2021.1 This recognition is a
community’s perspective, we will answer the testament to not only our vision for partnering
right research questions upfront. with patients, but to their willingness to share
and trust in us. It is a responsibility that has
Beyond research, patients and their families driven us for the last 125 years and one that
educate us about how they live, how they cope we will carry into the next 125.
1 Ranking based on 2020 ‘Corporate Reputation of Pharma’ report by PatientView, an independent organisation based in the UK128Business ethics | Roche 129
Integrity underpins every aspect of our business
Adriano Treve joined Roche 36 years ago as a trainee for the region of Iran,
Saudi Arabia, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Cyprus. For the past three years,
he has served as Area Head for Turkey, Russia, Iran, Central and Eastern
Europe, Central Asia and the Indian subcontinent.
Adriano passionately believes that integrity of non-compliance is universal. However, this
is vital to Roche’s cultural mindset, and to our does not preclude the flexibility to accommodate
future success. We conduct business within a different cultures, as long as integrity is preserved.
framework of the highest professionalism. Full For example, in some countries small gifts, like
compliance with legal and regulatory requirements chocolates, are used to show respect in business
is a prerequisite of our licence to operate, and is interactions. But in other regions, this would be
vital to our sustainability, our reputation and our unacceptable. When advising his team, Adriano is
future. Integrity extends beyond simply ensuring guided by the principle of ‘integrity of motivation’.
that correct procedures are followed. It must be Why is this being suggested? Does it form a normal
ingrained within our culture. part of local business practices? Or is it likely to
alter the basis of our engagement with a business
Our Code of Conduct defines us, what we stand partner? Even in circumstances where modest
for, and what Roche expects of us. Our core values business gifts are normal, they must remain ‘token’
are courage, passion and integrity. As Adriano in nature; cultural variance is never a licence
explains: “When we are confident that our managers for excess.
and colleagues will respond with integrity, we are
empowered to express our concerns. When we Integrity in leadership, coupled with a conscious
trust our colleagues, non-compliant behaviours are effort to foster that behaviour within our teams, is
less likely to occur – a concern that is discussed crucial to Roche. We will continue to behave with
becomes an issue avoided.” This is an approach consistent and demonstrable personal integrity,
Adriano has extended across his teams, ensuring and will consistently cultivate and encourage these
that everyone he directly works with feels they are values in our areas of responsibility. Our integrity-
able to speak up with confidence and without the driven mindset makes us an ideal partner around the
fear of retaliation. All employees can also use the world, allowing us to serve wider groups of patients.
anonymous Roche Group SpeakUp Line to report a We are compliant not merely because we are
compliance concern via the intranet or by phone. required to be, but because it is the right thing to do.
Adriano supports the Roche policy of zero tolerance As we celebrate our 125-year anniversary, Adriano
of non-compliance. “This is not as draconian as it reflects on the future of Roche in the years to come.
may sound; an open and supportive culture means “Roche is already future-fit, living by the same
there is less opportunity for unethical behaviours principles today that will guide success in the next
to emerge,” he says. “Concerns are raised early 125 years,” he says. “The most important thing to
and discussed openly, and actions are taken to me is that we continue to attract talent of the same
ensure non-compliant behaviour is avoided.” Our high calibre as we do today – people rooted in the
Code of Conduct applies across the organisation, Roche heartland making a meaningful difference
regardless of geography or culture. Zero tolerance for patients.”130Business performance | Roche 131
Business
performance132
Key figures 2021
CHF millions
Group sales
2021 62,801 +9.3%*
2020 58,323 +1.0%
Pharmaceuticals sales
2021 45,041 +3.1%
2020 44,532 –2.4%
Diagnostics sales
2021 17,760 +29.5%
2020 13,791 +13.9%
Core operating profit
2021 21,897 +4.1%
2020 21,536 +4.4%
R & D core investments
2021 13,708 +14.3%
2020 12,153 +8.2%
CHF
Dividend
2021 9.30
2020 9.10
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2020)Business performance | Roche 133
Diagnostics
Pharmaceuticals 39,266
46,889
Employees**
by Operating
Divisional Group
Corporate and others
Chugai 7,054
7,711
Research and development sites in Manufacturing sites in Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics worldwide and Diagnostics worldwide
27 20
Treated with Roche medicines
16.4 million patients
On the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines
32 Roche medicines
** Number of employees expressed in full-time equivalents, on 31.12.2021134
Roche Group
In 2021, Group sales rose 9%* (8% in CHF) to in new sales. The impact of competition from
CHF 62.8 billion. Core operating profit increased biosimilars for the cancer medicines Avastin,
4% (2% in CHF), reflecting the strong underlying Herceptin and MabThera/Rituxan has slowed down
business performance, and core EPS grew 6% as expected (combined CHF 4.5 billion of sales
(3% in CHF). The Swiss franc’s appreciation reduction); and the second half of the year saw
against almost all currencies affected the results signs of recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic.
expressed in Swiss francs compared to constant
exchange rates. The Diagnostics Division reported strong sales
growth of 29% to CHF 17.8 billion. The division’s
IFRS net income was CHF 14.9 billion. This base business showed strong momentum
represents an increase of 2% (–1% in CHF), throughout 2021 (overall +16%). With sales
driven by the operating results. totalling CHF 4.7 billion, Roche’s leading portfolio
of COVID-19 tests contributed significantly to the
In December, Roche completed the CHF 19.0 billion division’s overall sales.
repurchase of Roche shares held by Novartis. This
restores Roche’s full strategic flexibility while Outlook for 2022
retaining its operational scope of action. Sales are expected to be stable or grow in the
low-single digits (at constant exchange rates).
Pharmaceuticals Division sales increased by 3% Core earnings per share are targeted to grow
to CHF 45.0 billion. Strong demand for newly in the low- to mid-single digit range (at constant
launched medicines to treat severe diseases, exchange rates), including the accretive effect
namely Hemlibra (haemophilia), Ocrevus (multiple of the recent share repurchase. Roche expects
sclerosis), Tecentriq (cancer), Evrysdi (spinal to increase its dividend in Swiss francs further.
muscular atrophy) and Phesgo (cancer) drove this
growth; medicines for the treatment of COVID-19 Roche anticipates sales of COVID-19 medicines
also contributed to sales growth (Ronapreve and diagnostics to decrease by approximately
for high-risk COVID-19 patients and Actemra/ CHF 2 billion to around CHF 5 billion, and sales
RoActemra for severe COVID-19 pneumonia). losses to biosimilars in the current year to
be roughly CHF 2.5 billion. Excluding those
Overall, the medicines launched in the last effects, Group sales are expected to grow in
ten years1 contributed an additional CHF 5.7 billion the high-single digit range.
UN SDG
Material topic
· Long-term mindset
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2020)
1 Launches since 2012: Erivedge, Perjeta, Kadcyla, Gazyva/Gazyvaro, Esbriet, Cotellic, Alecensa, Tecentriq, Ocrevus, Hemlibra, Xofluza,
Polivy, Rozlytrek, Phesgo, Enspryng, Evrysdi, Gavreto, Ronapreve, SusvimoBusiness performance | Roche 135
Roche Group
62,801 +9.3%
Pharmaceuticals Division
45,041 +3.1%
Sales in 2021
(CHF millions)
Diagnostics Division
17,760 +29.5%136
Diagnostics
Diagnostics sales grew by 29%, driven by strong detection and monitoring, donor screening,
momentum in the base business and continued sexual health and genomics.
high demand for COVID-19 testing.
Point of Care sales continued to grow
Sales grew strongly across the world: significantly (+138%). The SARS-CoV-2 Rapid
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) 37%, Antigen test was the main growth driver,
Asia-Pacific 29%, North America 16%, and especially in the EMEA region.
Latin America 48%.
This customer area provides diagnostics
The division has also seen strong sales growth solutions immediately at the point of care such
across all customer areas: as in emergency rooms, medical practices and
directly with patients; it includes SARS-CoV-2
Core Lab sales increased by 21% due to its rapid tests and blood gas and electrolyte tests.
immunodiagnostics business, with infectious
and cardiac tests as main contributors. Sales Diabetes Care sales increased 3%, driven by
grew across all regions, most strongly in EMEA the blood glucose monitoring business (such as
and Asia-Pacific. the Accu-Chek Guide system).
This customer area focuses on central labs This customer area focuses on integrated
and provides diagnostics solutions in the personalised diabetes management for people
areas of immunoassays, clinical chemistry and with diabetes and healthcare professionals.
custom biotech.
Pathology Lab sales increased 12%. This
Molecular Lab sales grew 29%, led by the virology was mainly due to growth in the advanced
business. The Delta variant continued to push staining business.
growth in COVID-19 testing such as high-throughput
PCR tests. Sales increased in all regions, led by This customer area focuses on pathology labs
the North America and Asia-Pacific regions. and provides diagnostics solutions for tissue
biopsies and companion diagnostics. These
This customer area focuses on molecular labs targeted diagnostics support the specific
and provides diagnostics solutions for pathogen therapy decisions for each patient.Business performance | Roche 137
Sales by Customer Area in 2021
CHF millions
Core Lab 7,473 +21%
Molecular Lab 4,812 +29%
Point of Care 2,583 +138%
Diabetes Care 1,690 +3%
Pathology Lab 1,202 +12%138
Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals Division sales increased by 3%; New and returning patients both boosted growth,
the continued strong demand for newly launched the latter group generating stronger sales.
medicines more than offset the impact of
biosimilars. Perjeta (first approved in 2012; CHF 4.0 billion,
+4%). HER2-positive breast cancer. Sales increased
In the United States, sales decreased by 2%. While mostly due to high demand in China in both early
sales of Actemra/RoActemra, Hemlibra, Ocrevus, and metastatic breast cancer settings. In the
Evrysdi and Tecentriq increased, the impact of United States, sales of Perjeta declined by 1% due
biosimilars and the COVID-19 pandemic affected to certain patients being switched to Kadcyla and
total growth as expected. due to the launch of Phesgo in 2020.
In Europe, sales grew 7%. Growth of recently Tecentriq (first approved in 2016; CHF 3.3 billion,
launched medicines more than compensated +24%). Cancer immunotherapy (either alone or in
for the impact of biosimilars and the COVID-19 combinations) for various types of cancer, eg, lung,
pandemic. bladder, breast and liver cancer. Sales increased
in all regions, most notably in Japan, primarily due
In Japan, sales increased by 26%, driven by to the demand for treatment of hepatocellular
strong demand for new medicines. This more than carcinoma (HCC). US sales were higher, driven by
compensated for competition from biosimilars the new indications for HCC and first-line non-small
and government price cuts. cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Sales in the International region grew by 4%. In Hemlibra (first approved in 2017; CHF 3.0 billion,
China, sales were stable: Growth of Perjeta, +41%). Haemophilia A with and without factor VIII
Alecensa and Heceptin was offset by the impact inhibitors; only prophylactic treatment that can be
from biosimilars. Excluding China, sales increased administered subcutaneously once weekly, every
by 6%, mainly driven by new product sales, partially two or every four weeks. Sales continued to show
offset by the biosimilars competition. a strong uptake, especially in the United States
and Europe.
Ocrevus (first approved in 2017; CHF 5.1 billion,
+19%). Relapsing and primary progressive forms Kadcyla (first approved in 2013; CHF 2.0 billion,
of multiple sclerosis; two-hour only infusion. The +16%). HER2-positive breast cancer. Sales growth
demand for this treatment in both indications was driven by the usage of Kadcyla in the early
remained strong, mainly in the United States, while breast cancer setting. Sales benefited from patients
the pandemic still had a certain negative impact. switching to this new standard of treatment.Business performance | Roche 139
Top-selling pharmaceuticals in 2021
CHF millions
Ocrevus 5,055 +19%
Neuroscience
Perjeta 3,955 +4%
Oncology
Actemra/RoActemra 3,562 +27%
Immunology
Tecentriq 3,315 +24%
Oncology
Avastin 3,056 –37%
Oncology
Hemlibra 3,022 +41%
Haemophilia
Herceptin 2,694 –28%
Oncology
MabThera/Rituxan 2,565 –38%
Oncology/Immunology
Kadcyla 1,982 +16%
Oncology
Xolair 1,942 +5%
Immunology140Corporate Governance | Roche 141
Corporate
Governance142
Principles
Business activities with a focus on sustainable governance. In doing so, Roche complies with
value creation and innovation, a management all relevant corporate governance requirements,
culture conforming to recognised standards in particular with all applicable laws, the Swiss
of good corporate governance and a policy of Stock Exchange (SIX Swiss Exchange) directives
transparent communication embody Roche’s and the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate
corporate governance principles, which build Governance promulgated by the Swiss business
the basis for the successful implementation of federation ‘economiesuisse’. The company’s internal
Roche’s commitment to serving all its stakeholders. governance framework, particularly its Articles
of Incorporation and Bylaws, embodies all the
A strong Board of Directors, which represents principles needed to ensure that the company’s
the interests of the shareholders and all other businesses are managed and supervised in a manner
stakeholders, and highly skilled managers who consistent with good corporate governance,
act with integrity are extremely important. including the necessary checks and balances.1
Roche ranked as one of the top three most The printed Annual Report contains selected links
sustainable healthcare companies in the to the Roche website (https://www.roche.com).
Pharmaceuticals index of the Dow Jones Readers are thus provided not only with a ‘snapshot’
Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the 13th year of our company at the reporting date but are also
running. This recognition is based on an in-depth directed to sources which they can consult at any
analysis of economic, social and environmental time for up-to-date information about corporate
performance. The DJSI serve as a benchmark for governance at Roche. Whereas each Annual Report
investors who integrate sustainability considerations covers a single financial year ending 31 December,
into their portfolios. Sustainability is at the core of our website contains information of a more
our business practices and this award reflects our permanent nature, as well as the latest Roche news.
commitment to running our business in a way that The company’s Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws
is ethical, responsible and creates long-term value and the curricula vitae of current and former (status
for stakeholders. as per end of term and as at the reporting date on
31 December of each year, at least of the last five
This Corporate Governance Report sets out the years) members of the Board of Directors and the
structures, processes and rules which Roche Corporate Executive Committee are published on
takes as the basis for well-functioning corporate our website.
Material topic
· Compliance
1 https://www.roche.com/about/governance.htmCorporate Governance | Roche 143
Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
and Board Committees Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
CEO CEO CEO Chief Financial and Chief People
Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Information Officer Officer
Enlarged Corporate Executive Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Committee gRED pRED Partnering Communications General Counsel144
Board of Directors
In accordance with Art. 8 of the Federal Act the structure and composition of its remaining
on the Statutory Principles for Federal Council committees as shown on page 146 (see also
Ordinances on Combating the COVID-19 Epidemic page 14 and page 151 ‘Board of Directors and
(COVID-19 Act) and Art. 27 of the Ordinance 3 on Corporate Executive Committee’).
Measures to Combat the Coronavirus (COVID-19)
(COVID-19 Ordinance 3), the 103rd Annual General On 15 March 2022, at the forthcoming AGM the
Meeting (AGM) of Roche Holding Ltd was held on Board of Directors nominates the Chairman and all
16 March 2021 without the physical participation remaining members of the Board of Directors for
of shareholders. Shareholders have been requested re-election, with the exception of Mr Paul Bulcke
to exercise their rights via the independent proxy, and Prof. Dr Hans Clevers. Paul Bulcke has been
Testaris AG, and to address their questions to the serving on the Board of Directors since 2011
company in writing. and has decided not to stand for re-election at
the AGM in 2022, following almost eleven years
At the AGM of Roche Holding Ltd, on 16 March 2021, of tenure. Prof. Dr Hans Clevers, who joined the
shareholders re-elected Dr Christoph Franz as Board of Directors in 2019, will step down from
Chairman of the Board of Directors for a term of one this position and be appointed the new Head of
year as provided by the Articles of Incorporation. Roche pRED effective 18 March 2022. He will
become a member of the enlarged Corporate
Furthermore, the AGM re-elected André Hoffmann, Executive Committee. The Board of Directors
Julie Brown, Paul Bulcke, Prof. Dr Hans Clevers, proposes Dr Jemilah Mahmood, currently the
Dr Jörg Duschmalé, Dr Patrick Frost, Anita Hauser, Special Advisor on Public Health to Malaysia’s
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, Bernard Poussot, prime minister, for election to the Board of
Dr Severin Schwan and Dr Claudia Suessmuth Directors at the AGM 2022.
Dyckerhoff as members of the Board of Directors
for a term of one year as provided by the Articles Moreover, the Board of Directors nominates
of Incorporation. Dr Christoph Franz, André Hoffmann, Prof. Dr
Richard P. Lifton, Bernard Poussot and in addition
In addition, the AGM elected Dr Christoph Franz, Dr Patrick Frost for election to the Remuneration
André Hoffmann, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton and Committee at the AGM in 2022.
Bernard Poussot as members of the Remuneration
Committee for a term of one year. The Board of Directors nominates Testaris AG for
election as independent proxy by the AGM in 2022
At its organising meeting immediately following for the period from 2022 until the conclusion of
the AGM, the Board of Directors determined the 2023 ordinary AGM of shareholders.
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
and Board Committees Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability CommitteeCorporate Governance | Roche 145
12
Board of Directors members
Nationality*
France Belgium
1 1
UK
1
female
Netherlands 25%
1 Switzerland
male
7
Austria 75%
1
US
2
Germany
3
<5 years 4
3 <55 years 6–10 years 5
6 55–65 years 11–20 years 2
3 >65 years >21 years 1
Age Tenure**
Average tenure incl. CEO: 7.92
(years) excl. CEO: 7.82
* incl. 3× dual citizen and 1× triple citizen | ** Calculated: year of first election – 2022146
Composition as at 31.12.2021 Name (year of birth) First elected
Board of Directors Dr Christoph Franz (1960) C, D *, E, G Chairman 2011
André Hoffmann (1958) A*, C *, D, E, G Vice-Chairman 1996
(representative of the shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Dr Jörg Duschmalé (1984) B, E, G 2020
(representative of the shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Julie Brown (1962) B*, E, G 2016
Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E, G 2011
Prof. Dr Hans Clevers (1957) A, E, G 2019
Dr Patrick Frost (1968) B, E, G 2020
Anita Hauser (1969) A, E, G 2017
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953) C, E, G 2015
Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E, G 2015
Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F 2013
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967) A, E, G 2016
Secretary to the Dr Annette Luther (1970)
Board of Directors
Curricula vitae (CVs) of members of the Board of Directors:
a) current members: https://www.roche.com/about/governance/board_of_directors.htm
b) former members (at least of the last five years): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/ec_bod_former.htm
c) i nformation of CVs at the reporting date on 31 December of each year (at least of the last five years): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/archiv_former_cvs.htm
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee B Audit Committee C Remuneration Committee
D Chairman’s/Nomination Committee E Non-executive director F Executive director
G Independent member of the Board of Directors * Committee chairperson
Board of Directors A B C D
Committees
André Hoffmann (Chair) Julie Brown (Chair) André Hoffmann (Chair) Dr Christoph Franz (Chair)
Prof. Dr Hans Clevers Dr Jörg Duschmalé Dr Christoph Franz André Hoffmann
Anita Hauser Paul Bulcke Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff Dr Patrick Frost Bernard PoussotCorporate Governance | Roche 147
Corporate Executive Committee
All memberships of the Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee is listed below
Committee remained unchanged in 2021. (see also page 18 and page 151 ‘Board of Directors
and Corporate Executive Committee’).
Information on each member of the Corporate
Executive Committee and of the Enlarged
Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
CEO CEO CEO Chief Financial and Chief People
Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Information Officer Officer
Enlarged Corporate Executive Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Committee gRED pRED Partnering Communications General Counsel
Composition as at 31.12.2021 Name (year of birth) Position Since
Corporate Executive Committee Dr Severin Schwan (1967) CEO Roche Group 2008
Bill Anderson (1966) CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals 2019
Dr Thomas Schinecker (1975) CEO Roche Diagnostics 2019
Dr Alan Hippe (1967) Chief Financial and Information Officer 2011
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967) Chief People Officer 2016
Enlarged Corporate Dr Aviv Regev (1971) Head Genentech Research & 2020
Executive Committee Early Development (gRED)
Dr William Pao (1967) Head Roche Pharma Research & 2018
Early Development (pRED)
Dr James H. Sabry (1958) Global Head Pharma Partnering 2018
Barbara Schädler (1962) Head Group Communications 2019
Claudia Böckstiegel (1964) General Counsel 2020
Secretary to the Corporate Per-Olof Attinger (1960) 2010
Executive Committee
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (reporting years 2004–2008)
of Roche Holding Ltd KPMG AG (since 2009)
Auditor in charge: J ohn A. Morris (2004–2010)
Ian Starkey (2011–2017)
Mark Baillache (as of business year 2018)
Chief Compliance Officer Pascale Schmidt (1973) 2020
Curricula vitae (CVs) of the members of the Corporate Executive Committee and the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee:
a) current members: https://www.roche.com/about/governance/executive_committee.htm
b) former members (at least five years back): https://www.roche.com/about/governance/ec_bod_former.htm
c) information of CVs at the reporting date on 31 December of each year (at least of the last five years):
https://www.roche.com/about/governance/archiv_former_cvs.htm148
Group structure and shareholders
Roche’s operating businesses are organised into Business activities are carried out through Group
two divisions: Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. subsidiaries and associated companies. Detailed
information on Roche Holding Ltd and on significant
The Pharmaceuticals Division comprises the subsidiaries and associated companies (including
two business segments Roche Pharmaceuticals company name, listing information, domicile, share
and Chugai, whereas Genentech as the former capital and equity interest) is listed in the Finance
third segment has been integrated into Roche Report, Note 33 to the Roche Group Consolidated
Pharmaceuticals. Financial Statements (‘List of subsidiaries and
associates’, page 138).
In 2021, as part of a transformation initiative,
the Diagnostics Division replaced the previous Major shareholders are listed in the Finance
business area structure of its four business areas Report, Notes 22 and 32 to the Roche Group
Centralised and Point of Care Solutions, Molecular Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity
Diagnostics, Tissue Diagnostics and Diabetes Care attributable to Roche shareholders’ and ‘Related
with new customer areas. Sales are presented by parties’, pages 95 and 135), and in Note 4 to
the following customer areas: Core Lab, Molecular the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd
Lab, Point of Care, Diabetes Care, Pathology Lab (‘Significant shareholders’, page 181). In addition,
(for details see Finance Report, page 27). significant shareholders are published on the
Roche Pharmaceuticals (incl. Genentech)
Pharmaceuticals
Chugai
Until 2020: Business areas As of 2021: Customer areas
Centralised and Point of Care Solutions Core Lab
Diagnostics
Molecular Lab
Molecular Diagnostics
Point of Care
Tissue Diagnostics
Pathology Lab
Diabetes Care Diabetes Care
Composition as at 31.12.2021Corporate Governance | Roche 149
relevant webpage (see link below*) of the disclosure
office of SIX Exchange Regulation.
André Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman of the Board
of Directors, Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee and of the Board’s Corporate
Governance and Sustainability Committee and
member of the Board’s Chairman’s/Nomination
Committee, and Dr Jörg Duschmalé, member of
the Board of Directors and of the Board’s Audit
Committee, serve in their respective capacities on
the Board and its committees as representatives
of the shareholder group with pooled voting
rights and receive the remuneration set forth
in the Remuneration Report on page 174 and in
the Finance Report, Note 32 to the Roche Group
Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related
parties’, page 135). No other relationships exist
with the shareholders with pooled voting rights.
There are no cross-shareholdings.
André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Corporate Governance and
Sustainability Committee and of the Remuneration Committee, and
Dr Jörg Duschmalé, member of the Audit Committee.
* SIX Exchange Regulation: https://www.ser-ag.com/en/resources/notifications-market-participants/significant-shareholders.html#/150
Capital structure
Information on Roche’s capital structure is provided earnings and in any liquidation proceeds following
in the Finance Report, Notes to the Financial repayment of the share capital. Roche’s NES
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (page 178). and the rights pertaining thereto (including the
Additional details are contained in the Articles of provisions protecting the interests of NES holders)
Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.2 are described in §4 of the Articles of Incorporation
of Roche Holding Ltd.
Movement in recognised amounts during the last
three financial years are detailed in the Finance Information on debt instruments which have
Report, Notes to the Financial Statements of been issued and on outstanding bonds is
Roche Holding Ltd (page 178). provided in the Finance Report, Note 21 to the
Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
At an extraordinary General Meeting, held on (‘Debt’, page 91).
26 November 2021, the shareholders agreed
to reduce the company’s share capital from Information on employee stock options is provided
CHF 160,000,000 by an amount of CHF 53,309,000 in the Finance Report, Note 27 to the Roche
to CHF 106,691,000 through the cancellation of Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity
53,309,000 bearer shares with a nominal value compensation plans’, page 109), including detailed
of CHF 1 each which were repurchased by the information on the Stock-settled Stock Appreciation
company from Novartis Holding AG pursuant to the Rights (S-SARs) Plan, the Restricted Stock Units
repurchase agreement dated 3 November 2021. (RSUs) Plan, Roche Connect and the Roche
The difference between the acquisition cost Option Plan.
and the nominal value of the bearer shares to be
cancelled was accounted for through a reduction Roche has issued no options apart from employee
of voluntary reserves and retained earnings. stock options as described in the Finance Report,
Note 27 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial
There is no authorised or conditional capital. Statements (‘Equity compensation plans’, page 109)
and options issued in connection with debt
In addition, 702,562,700 non-voting equity instruments.
securities (NES) have been issued in bearer form.
They do not form part of the share capital and Neither the options awarded to employees nor
confer no voting rights. Each NES confers the the debt instruments which have been issued have
same rights as one share to participate in available any effect on Roche’s share capital.
2 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htmCorporate Governance | Roche 151
Board of Directors
and Corporate Executive Committee
Information on each member of the Board of Directors’ independence definition is based on the
Directors and on each member of the Corporate definition in the Swiss Code of Best Practice for
Executive Committee is listed on pages 146 and 147. Corporate Governance of ‘economiesuisse’ and
Members of the Board of Directors have no age limit is complemented by specific preceding criteria
or restriction on their term of office. (see https://www.roche.com/about/governance/
board_of_directors.htm).
Curricula vitae (CVs) of all current and former
members (of at least the last five years) of both The Principles of Governance (principles of
bodies and other information (including information delegation and competence, reservation of powers
on the years of their first election, additional and management of a group of companies) of
positions, memberships and activities) are available the executive bodies of the company include
and continuously updated on the Internet. In economic, environmental and social topics. The
addition, the status of the CVs of both bodies at the principles together with the internal organisation
relevant reporting date on 31 December (of at least of the Board of Directors, the division of authority
the last five years) is separately available too.3 and responsibilities between the Board and
management, the remits of the Board Committees,
Rules pursuant to article 12 para. 1 point 1 VegüV and the information and control mechanisms
on the number of permitted activities of the Board of available to the Board in its dealings with corporate
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee management, are governed by the Bylaws.6
members are outlined in §22.4 of the Articles of
Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.4 The Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd is
organised so as to ensure that the Group conducts
Since 2014, the Annual General Meeting has elected its businesses responsibly and with a focus on
all members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman long-term value creation. To this end, the Roche
of the Board of Directors and the members of Board has delegated certain responsibilities
the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis to several committees.7 Their composition and
in elections in which each nominee is voted on chairpersons as at 31 December 2021 are described
separately (see §18 of the Articles of Incorporation on pages 14 and 146. Each committee’s authorities
of Roche Holding Ltd4 and the Minutes of the and responsibilities are defined in detail in the
103rd Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Bylaws of the Board of Directors.8
held on 16 March 20215).
All the committees are chaired by independent
With the exception of Dr Severin Schwan none of directors.
the members of the Board of Directors in office
at the end of 2021 has been a member of Roche’s According to the Bylaws of the Board of Directors,
Corporate Executive Committee or served in an a Board meeting may be convened without the
executive capacity at any Group subsidiary during Chairman present at the request of any of its
the five financial years preceding the current members. The Roche Board meets once a year to
reporting period and they are for lack of existing assess the Chairman’s performance. This meeting,
business connections with the Group or any which is not attended by the Chairman, is chaired
Group subsidiary independent. Roche’s Board of by the Vice-Chairman.
3 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/board_of_directors.htm and https://www.roche.com/about/governance/executive_committee.htm
4 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
5 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/annual_general_meetings.htm
6 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
7 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/committees.htm
8 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm152
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
and Board Committees Chairman’s/Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee
CEO CEO CEO Chief Financial and Chief People
Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Information Officer Officer
As part of the Management Information System risk plans for their most material risks. These are
(MIS), the Board of Directors is regularly monitored and deviations reviewed in regular
informed about the most important issues, sales performance dialogues. The consolidated
performance, etc. The Board has access to an Group Risk Report including target risk profile is
electronic information platform which provides discussed by the Corporate Executive Committee
timely information to the Board of Directors and and approved together with the Group Business
the Board Committees as does the system of Plan. All material risks are reviewed by the Board
controls as set forth below. on a yearly basis. The effectiveness of the risk
management process is monitored by the Group
The Board of Directors has established a system Risk Advisory team and the overall process is
of controls which is continuously monitored by the regularly reviewed by external auditors, with
Audit Committee, by the Corporate Governance findings presented to the Audit Committee and
and Sustainability Committee and by the Board of the full Board. For details on risk management,
Directors and consists of the following elements: including risk factors and the Risk Management
• Report on operating and financial risks (risk Policy, see ‘Risk Management’ on our website.9
management system) Financial risk management is specifically described
The Roche Group has established a risk in the Finance Report.10
management process covering the entire • System of internal controls over financial reporting
company with a system in place to identify and (see page 153 of the Finance Report)
manage all types of risks potentially affecting • Internal audit
its business (including economic, environmental Group Audit reports to the General Counsel,
and social impacts, risks and opportunities and has direct access and gives regular briefings
stakeholder input). The Board of Directors is to the Audit Committee and to the Corporate
the highest governance body involved. Roche’s Governance and Sustainability Committee about
Risk Management Policy sets out the approach ongoing activities and audit reports. The Chief
and accompanying responsibilities. The Audit & Risk Advisory Executive attends the Audit
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions and Committee and partly the Corporate Governance
global functions conduct a formal risk assessment and Sustainability Committee meetings, as do the
process at least once a year and must develop external auditors. Group Audit is an independent
9 https://www.roche.com/sustainability/approach/risk-management.htm
10 Additional information is provided in the Finance Report, Note 31 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements, ‘Risk management’, page 120.Corporate Governance | Roche 153
appraisal function which evaluates and reviews The following black-out periods are/were in effect
the Group’s activities as a service to the Board of for 2022 and 2021, respectively:
Directors and to management. The annual audit
plan with yearly defined focus areas (eg, market Black-out periods
access, third-party management) is validated by 2022 2021
senior management and approved by the Audit
26 December 2021 to 26 December 2020 to
Committee. The Roche Group is committed to
3 February 2022 4 February 2021
maintaining a high standard of internal control
1 April to 25 April 2022 1 April to 21 April 2021
throughout its worldwide operations. Management
26 June to 21 July 2022 26 June to 22 July 2021
is responsible for assessing the business risks in
1 October to 1 October to
all aspects of its operation and for implementing
18 October 2022 20 October 2021
effective and efficient processes and controls
whilst ensuring compliance with internal and
external rules and regulations. By conducting Black-out periods can be changed by the Chairman
operational audits, Group Audit determines of the Board of Directors if circumstances warrant.
management’s response to the risks surrounding
business processes and systems, and evaluates Roche employees involved in the preparation of
the appropriateness, completeness and efficiency regular publicity events (in particular annual and
of the processes and controls. Action plans to half-year reports and media conferences, quarterly
implement necessary changes and enhancements sales releases) or having otherwise access to such
are developed together with the business/auditee potentially share price sensitive information of
and are tracked to completion. Roche and all Roche employees who are resident
•Statutory auditors, see page 158 in the US including US citizens, Green Card
• Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance holders, and ‘resident aliens’, as well as terminated
Officers in subsidiaries, see page 161 employees and retirees who fall into one of these
• Safety, Health and Environmental Protection US categories are subject to these black-out
Department11 periods. Irrespective of whether the relevant
•Corporate Sustainability Committee12 information is share price sensitive for Roche or
• Science and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG), for not, during the black-out periods these persons
issues relating to genetic engineering13 shall keep the relevant information confidential
and must not (i) disclose it to any non-insider within
The members of the Corporate Executive or outside Roche (including family members), (ii)
Committee are invited to attend meetings of the buy, sell or otherwise trade in equity securities
Board of Directors for, and report in person on, of Roche (shares, non-voting equity securities
those agenda items concerning them. When the [NES]) as well as options or similar instruments and
situation warrants, members of the Enlarged derivatives based thereon, or (iii) provide trading
Corporate Executive Committee may also be recommendations thereon. The automatic execution
invited to attend. The Board Committees invite the of predefined periodic purchase orders under the
Chairman of the Board and Corporate Executive Roche Connect programme is not subject to these
Committee members to deliver reports at black-out periods.
committee meetings and may elect to commission
independent expert reports and call on the services For addressees, scope and exceptions with regard
of consultants. to the black-out periods please refer to the Roche
Group Insider Directive (https://www.roche.com/
Each year several black-out periods are imposed dam/jcr:d0fbd427-a2d3-47cc-a13d-aacab92e312b/
during which members of the Board of Directors and en/group_insider_policy.pdf).
senior and certain other employees are prohibited
from trading in company stock.
11 https://www.roche.com/sustainability/environment.htm
12 https://www.roche.com/sustainability.htm
13 https://www.roche.com/research_and_development/who_we_are_how_we_work/ethics_in_rd/ethical_conflicts.htm154
Julie Brown, Chairwoman of the Audit Committee.
In 2021, the Board of Directors met for 11 meetings:
6 ordinary meetings from 3 to 6 hours in length,
including a full-day meeting, and 5 extraordinary
Board meetings from 1 to 3 hours in length held
in connection with major business transactions.
In addition, the Board went on a 4-day trip to a
European affiliate.*
The Board Committees met as follows in 2021:
• Chairman’s/Nomination Committee: 10 meetings
(approx. 2 hours each*)
• Remuneration Committee: 3 meetings14 (approx.
2 to 3 hours each*)
• Audit Committee: 6 meetings (approx. 3 to 4 hours
each*)
• Corporate Governance and Sustainability
Committee: 3 meetings (approx. 3 hours each*)
The Board of Directors regularly conducts an
assessment (self-assessment / assessment by
third parties via electronic survey and personal
interviews) of its performance.
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee
have a maximum ordinary notice period of twelve
months. There are no change-of-control clauses
in the employment contracts.
There are no management contracts which
fall within the scope of Subsection 4.4 (annex)
of the SIX Directive on Information relating to
Corporate Governance.
14 Remuneration Committee members recuse themselves from deliberations and decisions on matters that affect their interests.
* These figures indicate the actual length of meetings and do not include the directors’ extensive pre-meeting preparations and post-meeting follow-up activities.Corporate Governance | Roche 155
Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings in 2021
Corporate
Chairman’s/ Governance and
Nomination Remuneration Audit Sustainability
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 11 10 3 6 3
C. Franz 11 10 3 – –
A. Hoffmann 7 10 3 – 3
J. Duschmalé 8 – – 5 –
J. Brown 10 – – 6 –
P. Bulcke 10 – – 5 –
H. Clevers 11 – – – 3
P. Frost 11 – – 6 –
A. Hauser 11 – – – 3
R.P. Lifton 10 – 3 – –
B. Poussot 11 – 3 – –
S. Schwan 11 – – – –
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 9 – – – 3
– Not a member of that committee156
Remuneration, shareholdings
and loans
All details regarding remuneration, shareholdings Rules in AoI 15 for
and loans (content and method of determining the Content Board CEC
compensation and the shareholding programmes, Rules on the principles §25.1–6 §25.1–6
basic principles and elements of compensation and applicable to performance-
shareholding programmes for serving and former related pay
members of the Board of Directors and Corporate Rules on the principles to the §25.7 §25.7
Executive Committee, together with a description of allocation of equity securities,
the authorities and procedure for determining such) convertible rights and options
are set forth in the separate Remuneration Report Additional amount for §24.5
on pages 162 to 188 and in the Finance Report, payments to members of
Notes 22 and 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated the Executive Committee
Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche appointed after the vote on
shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pages 95 pay at the Annual General
and 135), and are listed in Note 6 to the Financial Meeting of Shareholders
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Rules on loans, credit facilities §25.1 and 3 §25.2 and 3
Executive shareholdings’, page 182). and post-employment benefits
Rules on the vote on pay at §24 §24
The following rules on remuneration, shareholdings the AGM
and loans for the Board of Directors (Board) and the
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) are set forth
in the Articles of Incorporation (AoI)15:
15 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htmCorporate Governance | Roche 157
Participatory rights of shareholders
The participatory rights of shareholders are Under §10.2 of the Articles of Incorporation,
defined in Roche’s Articles of Incorporation.16 shareholders representing shares with a nominal
As Roche shares are issued to bearer, there are value of at least CHF 1 million can request the
no restrictions on admission to Annual General placement of items on the agenda of an Annual
Meetings, with the exception that shares must be General Meeting. This must be done no later than
deposited within a specified period before the 28 days before the date of the meeting.
date of a meeting and an admittance card must
be issued in the shareholder’s name, as provided in The rules on the issue of instructions to the
§12 of the Articles of Incorporation. Any shareholder independent proxy and rules on the electronic
can elect to be represented by a third party at an participation in the Annual General Meeting are
Annual General Meeting. laid down in the corresponding invitation to the
Annual General Meeting and are not regulated
The Articles of Incorporation contain no restrictions in the Articles of Incorporation.
on the exercise of voting rights, and the only
quorum requirements are those stipulated in §16,
in conformity with the Swiss Code of Obligations.
Change of control
and defensive measures
The Articles of Incorporation contain no provisions non-voting equity securities would be terminated
on the mandatory bid rule. Swiss law applies. in the event of an acquisition, and vesting period
restrictions on pre-existing awards would be
There are no change-of-control clauses. Those removed, so that all such options could be
components of remuneration based on Roche exercised immediately.
16 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm158
Relationship to statutory auditors
At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd Each potential non-audit service engagement is
on 16 March 2021, the shareholders voted to reviewed against this policy before any authority
appoint KPMG AG (KPMG) as statutory auditors. to proceed is given.
Based on the existing legal requirements of the The auditors have direct access to the Audit
Swiss Code of Obligations (Article 730a) concerning Committee and its chair as well as the Head of
the maximum term of office of seven years of Group Audit to discuss relevant issues.
the auditor in charge, Mark Baillache has been
the auditor in charge since business year 2018 The reports of the statutory auditor on the
(information on how long the auditor in charge Consolidated Financial Statements and on the
has been serving in this capacity is provided on Financial Statements can be found on pages 154
page 147). The statutory auditors participate in and 186, respectively, of the Finance Report.
Audit Committee meetings. They prepare written
and oral reports on the results of their audits. KPMG received the following remuneration for their
The Audit Committee oversees and assesses services as statutory auditors of Roche Holding Ltd
the auditors and makes recommendations to and as the auditors of other Roche companies
the Board (for information on the authorities (including Chugai):
and responsibilities of the Audit Committee, see
Article 8.1 of the Bylaws17). The statutory auditors 2021 2020
participated in all six meetings of the Audit (millions of CHF)
Committee in 2021. Auditing services 19.9 19.8
Audit-related services
The performance of KPMG is assessed based on – Assurance 0.6 0.9
different elements such as affiliate surveys (to – Non-statutory audits – –
evaluate the service level at the country level), Tax services 2.8 2.9
interviews with Roche key stakeholders and the Other services 0.4 0.1
self-evaluation of the KPMG internal processes to Total 23.7 23.7
ensure compliance with the Federal Audit Oversight
Authority (FAOA) Audit Committee Guide.
The audit fee is reviewed by the Head of Group Audit
KPMG’s independence is ensured by limiting and approved by the Audit Committee every year
KPMG from providing certain non-audit services. and takes into consideration changes in Roche’s
Furthermore, permitted services cannot exceed in business, as well as changes in financial reporting
total 20% of the audit fee unless they are explicitly and audit standards and regulations.
rewieved and approved by the Audit Committee.
The company has a formal policy governing the The statutory auditors are elected each year by the
engagement of the statutory auditor for non-audit Annual General Meeting.
services of which limits for certain permitted other
services are agreed by the Audit Committee. Auditing services are provided as legally required.
17 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htmCorporate Governance | Roche 159
Audit-related services include assurance and Tax services include services with respect to
accounting services provided by auditors but compliance, tax returns and tax advice except
which are not necessarily provided by the statutory those services related to the audit of tax.
auditor. These services, which go beyond the legal
requirements, could include other attestation Other services include advice relating to process
services, comfort letters, and consultations. improvements, regulations and trainings.
Relationship to the independent proxy
Since 2019, Testaris AG has served as the The Board of Directors nominates Testaris AG for
independent proxy and at the Annual General election as independent proxy by the Annual General
Meeting on 16 March 2021, shareholders Meeting 2022 for the period from 2022 until the
elected Testaris AG as the independent proxy conclusion of the 2023 ordinary Annual General
for the period from 2021 until the conclusion Meeting of Shareholders.
of the 2022 ordinary Annual General Meeting
of Shareholders. Testaris AG was paid for its The rules on the issue of instructions to the independent
services for the Annual General Meeting 2021 proxy and rules on the electronic participation in
and the extraordinary Geneneral Meeting in the Annual General Meeting are laid down in the
November 2021 according to expenditure totalling corresponding invitation to the Annual General Meeting
CHF 28,288 (2020: CHF 26,429). and are not regulated in the Articles of Incorporation.160
Information policy
As provided by §34 of the Articles of Incorporation18, presentations to analyst and investor conferences
corporate notices are published in the Swiss are available on the Internet. Further publications
Official Gazette of Commerce and in other daily are available on
newspapers designated by the Board of Directors https://www.roche.com/publications.htm
(‘Basler Zeitung’, ‘Finanz und Wirtschaft’, ‘L’Agefi’, or can be ordered by e-mail:
‘Le Temps’, ‘Neue Zürcher Zeitung’). basel.warehouse-services@roche.com
or fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
Roche reports its half-year and full-year results in
business reports (published in print and/or online The contact address for Investor Relations is:
formats) and at media events. In addition, detailed F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations,
first-quarter and nine months sales figures are Group Finance, 4070 Basel, Switzerland
published each year in April and October. The most Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
current list of publication dates is available on the Fax: +41 (0)61 691 00 14
Internet.19
Additional information, including details on
All relevant information and documents, including specific contact persons, is available on the
all media releases, investor updates20 and Internet.21
18 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
19 https://www.roche.com/media.htm
20 https://www.roche.com/investors.htm
21 https://www.roche.com/investors/contacts.htmCorporate Governance | Roche 161
Chief Compliance Officer
and Compliance Officers network
The Chief Compliance Officer with the Compliance Line. This compliance tool furthermore serves as
Officers network is committed to ensuring that the a platform for ideas and suggestions concerning
Roche Group Code of Conduct22 is consistently those documents.
complied with throughout the Roche Group. The
Chief Compliance Officer also serves as a contact In addition, Roche has established a Business Ethics
person for shareholders, employees, business Incident Reporting (BEIR) system which enables
partners, customers, suppliers and the general the Chief Compliance Officer to capture, track and
public on issues relating to the implementation of monitor alleged violations, from initial reports by
and compliance with this Code. local Compliance Officers or the Group Internal
Investigations department through to resolution.
Employees and other parties who become aware
of violations of the Roche Group Code of Conduct Business ethics incidents are recorded in the
can bring them to the attention of their managers system when the Group Internal Investigations
or supervisors, to the local Compliance Officer department or the regional/local management
or report them to the Chief Compliance Officer23 receives specific and concrete information about
(Ms Pascale Schmidt, an alleged violation of the Roche Group Code of
e-mail: pascale.schmidt@roche.com, Conduct in one of certain pre-defined categories.24
tel.: +41 (0)61 688 48 90). Such disclosures will be The Corporate Governance and Sustainability
treated confidentially. In addition, employees may Committee and the Audit Committee of the Board
anonymously report irregularities or complaints in of Directors are informed of substantial violations
their mother tongue via a ‘SpeakUp Line’. In case of and management’s corrective actions taken.
questions or uncertainties about the interpretation
of the Roche Group Code of Conduct and its The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the
reference documents, employees may reach out General Counsel and also submits regular reports
to their line managers, the local Compliance Officer to the Corporate Governance and Sustainability
or the Chief Compliance Officer, or contact the Committee and as needed to the Audit Committee
Roche Group Code of Conduct Help & Advice of the Board of Directors.
Non-applicability/negative disclosure
It is expressly noted that any information not a negative declaration (as provided in the SIX Swiss
contained or mentioned herein is either non- Exchange Corporate Governance Directive and the
applicable or its omission is to be construed as Commentary thereto).
22 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/code_of_conduct.htm
23 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/code_of_conduct/compliance_officer.htm
24 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/code_of_conduct.htm162Remuneration Report | Roche 163
Remuneration
Report164
1. Principles
Roche is an innovative and agile company whose along with a performance- and success-based,
success depends substantially on the expertise, transparent compensation structure. To ensure
motivation and performance of its employees. This that compensation packages are competitive,
conviction forms the basis of our compensation both the structure and individual components
policy. are regularly benchmarked based on the relevant
Swiss, European and international market criteria.
Roche aims to remunerate all employees fairly, Our remuneration guidelines and their underlying
transparently and in line with market conditions, principles are also subject to regular outside
to enable them to participate appropriately in comparisons.
the company’s success. We pursue this goal by
providing equitable, competitive, performance- However, compensation policy is only one factor
based and results-oriented compensation. in safeguarding Roche’s future success. The
key element is a corporate culture that offers
We strive for a balanced mix of fixed and variable employees conditions in which they can make their
compensation components geared to each best possible contribution to the shared corporate
employee’s position and management responsibility. goal of improving healthcare to patients. This
includes a sound and a sustainability-oriented
Firstly, the variable components are intended to value system that is based on integrity, courage
create additional financial incentives to achieve and passion. At the same time, our decentralised
corporate goals and to keep innovation at a management approach plays a major role with
consistently high level while increasing the value its wide scope for individual decision-making,
that the company creates for all stakeholder respectful interactions, openness to diversity, wide-
groups. Secondly, in order to allow employees and ranging training and development opportunities and
managers to participate in the company’s business an attractive working environment. A unidimensional
success, adequate compensation measures are diminishment to questions on remuneration would
key. Both objectives are incentivised by annual fall by far too short.
bonus payments and long-term securities-based
programmes. Roche is committed to a fair, performance-based
and results-oriented compensation policy that links
For a global company like Roche, market- employees’ interests with those of various other
competitive remuneration plays a key role stakeholder groups.
Compensation policy: https://www.roche.com/careers/for_employees/rewards.htm
Sound value system: https://www.roche.com/careers/for_employees/living_our_values.htmRemuneration Report | Roche 165
2. Remuneration decision process
and approval framework
2.1 Overview must not be present when the Remuneration
Each year the Remuneration Committee of Roche’s Committee decides their corresponding
Board of Directors decides the remuneration of compensation and have no right to a say in decisions.
Board members and the members of the Group’s The decision right is reserved to Remuneration
Corporate Executive Committee. Committee members only.
Chairman, Group CEO and all other members
of the Group’s Corporate Executive Committee
Remuneration decision process and approval framework as of 2021
Beneficiary
Remuneration Board of Directors (BoD) Corporate Executive Decision by Approval by
components Chairman (C) Committee (CEC) incl.
CEO Roche Group
Base pay / remuneration √ √
Bonus √ (C only) √
Stock-settled Stock – √
Remuneration Committee Annual General Meeting
Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) – √
Pension √ (C only) √
The Remuneration Committee tracks market data Since 2014, total aggregate amounts that are
on salaries at other leading global pharmaceutical based on these decisions have been submitted to
companies1 and at major Swiss companies2 and the General Meeting for approval implementing
reports its findings to the full Board. The external the ‘Ordinance against excessive compensation at
consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) listed joint-stock companies’ (Verordnung gegen
assists the Remuneration Committee of Roche in übermässige Vergütungen bei börsenkotierten
performing market comparisons and in advising. Aktiengesellschaften [VegüV]). The General Meeting
PwC has been awarded additional mandates in the shall vote annually and with binding effect on the
Roche Group. Information on the Remuneration approval of the remuneration (that the Board of
Committee’s remit, powers and procedures for Directors has resolved) of the Board of Directors
making remuneration decisions can be found in the and the Corporate Executive Committee (for details
Bylaws of the Roche Board of Directors3 and in the see 4. and 5.).
Articles of Incorporation.4 They are also outlined
in the sections below on the principles governing
specific remuneration components (see 3.).
1 Peer set 2021: Abbott Laboratories, AbbVie, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Danaher, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Medtronic, Merck & Co., Novartis,
Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, Sanofi
2 ABB, Alcon, Credit Suisse, Holcim, Lonza, Nestlé, Richemont, UBS, Zurich
3 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm
4 https://www.roche.com/about/governance/article_of_incorporation.htm166
Abbott Laboratories
AbbVie
Amgen Peer set for 2021
AstraZeneca
Bristol-Myers Squibb ABB
Danaher Alcon
Eli Lilly Credit Suisse
GlaxoSmithKline Holcim
Johnson & Johnson Lonza
Medtronic Nestlé
Roche
Merck & Co. Richemont
Novartis UBS
Novo Nordisk Zurich
Pfizer
Sanofi
Peer set for 2021
Market comparison companies for salary assessment
Pharma peer set Major Swiss companies
2.2 Procedure for submitting total Board Retrospective approval
and Executive remuneration for shareholder Total aggregate bonus amounts for the Corporate
approval at the Annual General Meeting Executive Committee and the Chairman of the
Each year at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) Board of Directors for the financial year just ended
shareholders approve the total remuneration will be submitted retrospectively at each ordinary
for the Board of Directors and for the Corporate AGM for separate and binding approval.
Executive Committee as decided by the Board
of Directors’ Remuneration Committee and the Prospective approval
Board of Directors, respectively. All other Board and Executive aggregate
remuneration will be submitted prospectively to
According to the approval at the AGM 2014, the AGM for separate and binding approval for
Roche has committed itself to obtaining separate the period between two ordinary AGMs.
and binding shareholder approvals of the total
remuneration paid to the Board of Directors and
to the Corporate Executive Committee as follows:Remuneration Report | Roche 167
André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Approval of total remuneration at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 2022 Financial year 2021 Financial year 2022
Retrospective:
C
Bonus
Chairman (C) of the Board of Directors (BoD):
• Bonus for financial year 2021 (total amount)
CEC
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including CEO Roche Group: Bonus
• Bonus for financial year 2021 (total amount)
Prospective:
BoD
Base pay / remuneration
Board of Directors (BoD) including Chairman (C):
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2022–AGM 2023)
• Base pay / remuneration
CEC
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including CEO Roche Group: Base pay
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2022–AGM 2023) S-SARs
• Base pay RSUs
• Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) Indirect benefits
• Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
• Indirect benefits
AGM 2021 AGM 2022 AGM 2023
1.1.2021 1.1.2022 1.1.2023168
3. Remuneration components
3.1 Overview of remuneration elements performance and non-financial success5 and thus
The remuneration to the members of the Board of align the interests of Roche and its employees with
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee is those of shareholders. Societal and environmental
composed of the following elements: objectives6 are also taken into account.
The fixed base salary is complemented with the The LTI remuneration components are intended
annual variable bonus as Short-Term Incentive to sustainably, homogenously and in a long-term-
(STI) and with perennial remuneration elements oriented perspective align management’s interest
(S-SARs, RSUs) as Long-Term Incentive (LTI). with those of shareholders and holders of non-
voting equity securities and to give participating
The remuneration components are linked to the managers an additional incentive to achieve
employees’ performance, the company’s financial sustainable shareholder value growth.
Composition of remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
Board of Directors Corporate Executive Committee
Annual
remuneration elements Description C BoD CEO Roche Group CEC
Base pay / Monthly payment √ √ Quarterly √ √
remuneration (see 3.1.1 below) payments
Bonus Annual payment √ For 10 years – √ For 10 years √ Cash
(see 3.1.2 below) blocked non-voting blocked non-voting
equity securities equity securities
and/or shares and/or shares
Pensions, etc. (see 3.1.5 below) √ – √ √
Perennial
remuneration elements
Stock-settled Stock (see 3.1.3 below) – – √ For 4 years √
Appreciation Rights additionally
(S-SARs) blocked non-voting
equity securities
after exercise
Restricted Stock (see 3.1.4 below) – – √ For 10 years √
Units (RSUs) blocked non-voting
equity securities
5 https://www.roche.com/investors/sustainability-download-center/performance.htm
6 https://www.roche.com/sustainability/environment/our_she_goals_and_performance.htmRemuneration Report | Roche 169
The LTI of the Corporate Executive Committee expiration periods are aligned for any newly
and the Enlarged Corporate Executive issued S-SARs and RSUs (see below). Unlike all
Committee is composed of 80% S-SARs and 20% other participants of the two programmes, members
RSUs (based on the already existing individual of the Corporate Executive Committee have no
target value of the total LTI for Corporate Executive choice in determining the mix of RSUs and S-SARs,
Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay which as of 2019 have a four-year cliff vesting.
measured on 1 January of a year). Vesting and
Corporate Executive Committee LTI
Mix (S-SARs/RSUs) fixed Base for calculation Vesting period Cliff vesting Expiration period
Based on the individual target
80% S-SARs value of the total LTI for 4 years 4 years 10 years
Corporate Executive
Committee members of
133.33% of a base pay
20% RSUs measured on 1 January of 4 years 4 years –
a year
The remaining participants of the S-SARs and Offering this level of choice empowers participants
RSUs programmes are offered on a yearly basis a to engage more fully in their total rewards, enables
choice of three combinations to determine the mix them to better understand a critical element of
of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock-settled their compensation and increases the value of the
Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs, options are used programme.
instead of S-SARs in some countries). The following
options are available: This attractively designed Roche Long-Term
Incentive programme enables Roche to attract,
Choice 1 Choice 2 Choice 3 motivate and retain the best talent and keep it
80% S-SARs 50% S-SARs 20% S-SARs aligned with the company’s long-term success.
20% RSUs 50% RSUs 80% RSUs170
Fixed
Base salary
Indirect benefits (employer
contribution):
• Pensions and insurance contributions
Roche
• Roche Connect
STI: remuneration • Tax consulting services
• Bonus
components
Expense allowances
LTI:
• Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights Others:
• Restricted Stock Units • Children’s schooling costs
• Foreign tax obligation
Variable, long-term • AHV/IV/ALV*
* Employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
3.1.1 Base pay (fixed) 3.1.2 Bonuses (variable)
Base pay (cash payment) is determined for each Bonuses are annually awarded for individual
position based on salary market data of other contributions of value creation in a business year and
leading global pharmaceutical companies (see are meant to be an incentive to strive for outstanding
footnote 1) and of other major Swiss companies results and to create new business opportunities.
(see footnote 2) and reflects individuals’ abilities, Bonus amounts are linked to Group and divisional
experience and performance over time. Pay core profits, sales growth at constant exchange
adjustments are likewise linked to individual rates, Operating Profit After Capital Charge (OPAC)
performance and take into account prevailing based on core operating profit, core earnings per
market conditions and the company’s overall share and non-voting equity security (NES) growth
financial situation. at constant exchange rates, product development
pipeline, diversity of employees and managers7 and
The Remuneration Committee makes and reviews environmental goals8. Additionally, they are linked
the final decision on the individual base pay paid to the achievement of measurable and qualitative
to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and individual or functional performance objectives. For
members of the Corporate Executive Committee competitive reasons, Roche does not disclose the
and on the remuneration of the other members of individual performance objectives of members of its
the Board. Corporate Executive Committee and of its Chairman.
7 https://www.roche.com/careers/for_employees/diversity.htm
8 https://www.roche.com/sustainability/environment/our_she_goals_and_performance.htm and SHE goals 2020–2025 for the Roche Group:
https://www.roche.com/dam/jcr:b0628c0f-51a7-49d0-9a5d-6af3f95e6ed3/en/20200331-she-goals-2020-2025-communication.pdfRemuneration Report | Roche 171
In December at the end of a reporting year 3.1.4 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) (long-term)
or in January following a reporting year, the The proportion of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) of
Remuneration Committee decides on the bonuses the members of the Corporate Executive Committee
and their amounts payable to the Chairman of the is 20% of the total LTI (based on the individual
Board and the members of the Corporate Executive target value of the total LTI for Corporate Executive
Committee in respect of the relevant reporting year, Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay
based on performance against the aforementioned measured on 1 January of a year).
objectives. At the same time, the Remuneration
Committee also decides in what form bonuses will RSUs contain rights to receive non-voting equity
be awarded, ie, cash payments and/or blocked securities and/or shares after a four-year vesting
(if applicable) non-voting equity securities and/or period plus a value adjustment (being the amount
shares. equivalent to the sum of the dividend paid during
the vesting period attributable to the number
The Remuneration Committee uses its discretion of non-voting equity securities and/or shares
appropriately in the weighting of each criteria and for which an individual award has been granted).
in the bonus allocation. They will be all vested to the recipient for the
Corporate Executive Committee after four years
In 2021 in total, around 78,900 employees were only. Thereafter, resulting non-voting equity
eligible for a bonus under the Roche Bonus Program. securities and/or shares may remain blocked for
up to ten years.
3.1.3 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
(S-SARs) (long-term) RSU awards are allocated individually for
The S-SARs proportion of the LTI of the Corporate the Corporate Executive Committee at the
Executive Committee is 80% (based on the Remuneration Committee’s discretion.
individual target value of the total LTI for Corporate
Executive Committee members of 133.33% of a In 2021, RSUs served as a remuneration component
base pay measured on 1 January of a year). for 23,106 eligible Roche employees.
S-SARs entitle holders to benefit financially from 3.1.5 Indirect benefits
any increase in the value of Roche’s non-voting As shown in 5.8 (5.3 [for the CEO Roche Group]
equity securities between the grant date and the and 4.3 [for the Chairman], respectively), members
exercise date. S-SARs granted all vest together of the Corporate Executive Committee additionally
after four years and then have to be exercised received indirect benefits (pension funds / insurance
within ten years of the grant date. Unexercised contributions, Roche Connect, payments for foreign
S-SARs lapse without compensation. Since 2012, tax obligation and tax consulting services and
the fair value of S-SARs has been calculated at the annual expense allowances). As shown under 5.9,
grant date using the trinomial model for American individual members of the Corporate Executive
call options (for details see page 182). Committee received payments for family, children
and education allowances and for schooling costs
S-SARs to the Corporate Executive Committee for their children.
are allocated individually at the Remuneration
Committee’s discretion.
In 2021 in total, 22,965 employees received S-SARs.172
3.2 Weighting (fixed / variable, long-term) of 2021 remuneration components (at target
and as percentage of total remuneration in 2021)
82% 18%
Chairman
100%
Board of Directors
Corporate Executive Committee 39% 61%
(including CEO Roche Group)
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
fixed variable, long-term
The variable, long-term remuneration paid out to the members of the Corporate Executive Committee ranged from 54% to 63% of the
total compensation.
3.3 Ratio of variable remuneration components relative to fixed base pay of the Corporate
Executive Committee 2021
Ratio of variable remuneration components (bonuses, S-SARs and RSUs) relative to % of value of fixed base pay
LTI (long-term)
STI (variable) (total: 133,33%**)
Criteria Bonus S-SARs (80% of total LTI) RSUs (20% of total LTI)
Individual target value * 100% 106.66% ** 26.66% **
Minimum 0% 0% 0%
Maximum 200% 106.66% 26.66%
Performance criteria Group objectives (Group and divisional business Value development Value development
performance) and individual objectives considering determined by determined by
core profits, sales growth at constant exchange rates, performance of performance (plus
Operating Profit After Capital Charge (OPAC) based NES after grant a value adjustment
on core operating profit, core earnings per share and for dividends) of
non-voting equity security (NES) growth at constant NES after grant
exchange rates, product development pipeline, diversity
of employees and managers, environmental goals
Split in %
a) Group objectives 70% n/a n/a
b) Individual objectives 30% n/a n/a
Weighting criteria / At the Remuneration Committee’s discretion
Decision on objectives
n/a – not applicable
* Assessed in consideration of the performance of competitors and the macro-economic development
** Based on the already existing individual target value of the total LTI for Corporate Executive Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay measured on 1 January of a year
For all further details please refer to the following
sections of this Remuneration Report.9
9 See also in the Finance Report Note 32 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related parties’, page 135) and Note 6 to the Financial
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, page 182).4. Remuneration of the Board of Directors
4.1 Resolution and approval Board of Directors 2021’ table on page 174 for
Remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of their Board activities. Roche paid employer’s
Directors and of members of the Board of Directors contributions totalling CHF 358,574 to social
was decided at the Remuneration Committee’s security agencies for the members of the Board of
discretion, taking into account market comparisons. Directors beside the legally required contributions
separately stated for the Chairman of the Board
The remuneration is in form of cash payments and is of Directors.
annually tracked against market data on directors’
pay at other leading global pharmaceutical The basic remuneration of the Board of Directors
companies (see footnote 1) and other major Swiss (excluding the Chairman) has remained unchanged
companies (see footnote 2), and is assisted by the since 2001.
consultancy of PwC.
With the exception of the Chairman of the Board
As in the previous years, in 2022, the Board of of Directors (bonus in form of blocked shares)
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate and Dr Severin Schwan as an executive member
bonus of the Chairman of the Board of Directors to of the Board, members of the Board of Directors
the General Meeting for the 2021 financial year, for were not awarded any shares, non-voting equity
retrospective binding approval. securities or S-SARs.
The maximum amounts of the total other aggregate There are no loans or credits granted to the
remuneration of the Board of Directors for the members of the Board of Directors.
period between the ordinary General Meeting
2022 and the ordinary General Meeting 2023 will In his capacity as a member of the Chugai
be separately tabled in 2022 as in the previous International Council (CIC) of Chugai
years for the General Meeting’s prospective binding Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. André Hoffmann
approval (see 2.2). received in 2021 honoraria amounting to a
total of USD 20,000 (CHF 18,277).
4.2 Amount of remuneration to the members
of the Board of Directors In 2021, for their advisory service on the
In 2021, the members of the Board of Directors10 Genentech Scientific Resource Board,
received remuneration and additional compensation Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton and Prof. Dr Hans Clevers
in the form of quarterly fixed cash payments as received honoraria amounting to a total of
shown in the ‘Remuneration of members of the USD 22,000 (CHF 20,105) each.
10 For a list of members, their positions and their committee memberships and chairmanships see page 146.
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 173Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2021 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration for Additional special Additional
Basic remuneration committee members/chairs 11 remuneration BVG costs * Total remuneration
C. Franz, Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 12 – 18,277 6,904 425,181
see page 173
J. Brown 300,000 60,000 – – 360,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – – 330,000
H. Clevers 300,000 30,000 20,105 – 350,105
see page 173
J. Duschmalé 300,000 30,000 – 4,499 334,499
P. Frost 300,000 30,000 – – 330,000
A. Hauser 300,000 30,000 – 6,221 336,221
R.P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 20,105 – 350,105
see page 173
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – – 330,000
S. Schwan (see ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group is reflected in total remuneration
for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 300,000 30,000 – 6,176 336,176
Total 13 3,100,000 300,000 58,487 23,800 3,482,287
* Costs under the provisions of the Swiss Federal Occupational Old Age, Survivors’ and Invalidity Pension Act (BVG). In accordance with the minimum requirements for insurance
benefits under BVG, half of the costs for four members of the Board of Directors who are subject to compulsory insurance are borne by the company.
11 With the exception of members of the Chairman’s Committee (Chairman, Vice-Chairman), Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve on and
CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
12 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board
13 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 997,150 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUA
174Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2020 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration Additional special
Basic remuneration for committee members/chairs 14 remuneration Total remuneration
C. Franz, Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 15 – 37,568 437,568
J. Brown 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
H. Clevers 300,000 30,000 24,756 354,756
J. Duschmalé (since March 202016) 250,000 22,500 – 272,500
P. Frost (since March 202016) 250,000 22,500 – 272,500
A. Hauser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
R.P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 9,392 339,392
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
S. Schwan (see ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group is reflected in total
remuneration for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
J. Bell (until March 202017) 75,000 – – 75,000
A. Oeri (until March 202017) 75,000 15,000 – 90,000
Total 18 3,150,000 300,000 71,716 3,521,716
14 With the exception of members of the Chairman’s Committee (Chairman, Vice-Chairman), Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve on and
CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
15 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board
16 Prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2020
17 Prorated remuneration for the period from January to March 2020
18 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 354,578 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman ten years, payable in March 2022) will be put for
of the Board of Directors shareholder binding vote at the 2022 ordinary
As Chairman, Dr Christoph Franz received total Annual General Meeting (AGM).
remuneration for 2021 as shown below. The
Remuneration Committee’s bonus proposal The Chairman’s total remuneration is contained in
(adopted in late 2021) in respect of the 2021 the total remuneration of the Board of Directors
financial year (in form of shares blocked for in 4.4.
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 1754.4 Total remuneration paid to the Board In addition, for Sir John Bell, social security
of Directors contributions amounting to CHF 204,100 were
For the 2021 calendar year the members of paid to a foreign state social security institution.
the Board of Directors received remuneration
including bonuses and employer contribution No additional remuneration was paid.
of social securities’ beneficial parts totalling
CHF 8,724,738 (2020: CHF 8,580,399), excluding 4.6 Board remuneration subject to approval
additional employer’s contribution paid to at the Annual General Meeting
social securities totalling CHF 997,150 (2020:
CHF 354,578). This includes contributions to 4.6.1 Submission of the Chairman’s total
foreign authorities amounting to CHF 237,769. aggregate bonus for a binding vote at the
Annual General Meeting
4.5 Remuneration paid to the former members Remuneration to the Chairman of the Board of
of the Board of Directors Directors includes a bonus award of CHF 949,263 in
Former member of the Board of Directors Dr Franz form of shares blocked for ten years as shown in the
B. Humer in 2021 received fees amounting to a table in section ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the
total of USD 20,000 (CHF 18,277) for serving as a Chairman of the Board of Directors’. The Board of
member of the Chugai International Council (CIC) Directors will submit the Remuneration Committee’s
of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Former member bonus proposal (adopted in late 2021) for the
of the Board of Directors William M. Burns in 2021 Chairman of the Board, Dr Christoph Franz, in respect
received fees amounting to a total of USD 20,000 of the 2021 financial year (payable in March 2022,
(CHF 18,277) in his capacity as a member of the excluding legally required employer’s contributions
Chugai International Council (CIC) of Chugai to AHV/IV/ALV) for the shareholder binding vote to
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. the 2022 ordinary Annual General Meeting.
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors (in CHF)
2021 2020 2019
Base salary (in cash) 3,500,000 3,500,000 3,500,000
Tax equalisation for pension fund corrections 71,534 n/a n/a
Bonus (subject to approval of the Annual General Meeting) 949,263 * 837,585 * 558,390 *
Pension funds / insurances / annual expense allowances / tax / social 676,975 676,710 ** 1,674,159
security (including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts)
Total 19 5,197,772 5,014,295 5,732,549
n/a – not applicable
* In form of shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the price at the date of transfer in March 2022 and 2021, respectively, after approval at the
AGM 2022 / AGM 2021, respectively), calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market value: 55.839%) to be submitted
for shareholder approval at the AGM 2022 / as approved at the AGM 2021, respectively
** Agreed reduction of pension fund contributions upon reaching the age of 60 in 2020
19 A dditionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 638,576 (2020: CHF 236,732) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUA
176Remuneration Report | Roche 177
Retrospective approvals of the Chairman’s total aggregate bonus (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2022 AGM 2021 AGM 2020
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2021 financial year 2020 financial year 2019
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval /
approved by the AGM 949,263 ** 837,585 ** 558,390 **
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
** Bonus award (in form of shares blocked for 10 years [calculation of number of shares based on the price at the date of transfer in March 2022 / March 2021 / March 2020,
respectively, after approval at the AGM 2022 / AGM 2021 / AGM 2020, respectively], calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years
[reduced market value: 55.839%] to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2022 / as approved at the AGM 2021 and AGM 2020, respectively)
4.6.2 Submission of the Board’s total aggregate Dr Severin Schwan’s remuneration as shown
future remuneration for a binding shareholder in 5.3 which he receives in his function as CEO
vote Roche Group and member of the Corporate
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2022 Executive Committee is not included here but
ordinary AGM approve Board remuneration totalling is part of the Corporate Executive Committee’s
not more than CHF 10,000,000 (excluding legally total remuneration.
required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at
the 2023 ordinary AGM.
Prospective approvals of the Board’s total aggregate future remuneration (in CHF)*
Proposal AGM 2022 AGM 2021 AGM 2020
Aggregate amount Aggregate amount Aggregate amount
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2022–AGM 2023 AGM 2021–AGM 2022 AGM 2020–AGM 2021
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval /
approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
4.6.3 Reconciliation of the reported excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the
remuneration with the shareholders’ 2021 ordinary AGM.
approved remuneration for the members
of the Board of Directors For comparison, from the 2020 ordinary AGM
The 2020 ordinary AGM approved Board to the 2021 ordinary AGM actual remuneration
remuneration totalling not more than amounted to CHF 7,631,377 (excluding legally
CHF 10,000,000 (excluding legally required required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and and excluding bonuses).178
Prospectively approved total remuneration for the members of the Board of Directors in comparison to the actual total
payments made (in CHF) *
Total remuneration Total remuneration Total remuneration
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2021–AGM 2022 AGM 2020–AGM 2021 AGM 2019–AGM 2020
Maximum of total remuneration approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000
Actual total remuneration paid Calculation at end of period 7,631,377 8,597,609
Within the approved limit Calculation at end of period Yes Yes
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
4.7 Security holdings Statements (‘Related parties’, page 135)
Directors André Hoffmann and Dr Jörg Duschmalé and in Note 4 to the Financial Statements of
and members of the founder’s families who Roche Holding Ltd (‘Significant shareholders’,
are closely associated with them belong to a page 181). In addition, as at 31 December 2021
contractually bound shareholder group with (as at 31 December 2020, respectively) the
pooled voting rights. At the end of 2021 this members of the Board of Directors and persons
group held 72,018,000 shares (45.01% of issued closely associated with them held Roche shares,
shares). Detailed information about this group non-voting equity securities (NES) and American
can be found in the Finance Report, Note 32 Depositary Receipts (ADRs***) as shown in the
to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial table ‘Security holdings’ below.
Security holdings (shares and NES)
(as at 31 December 2021) (as at 31 December 2020)
Non-voting Non-voting Close
equity Close relatives’ equity relatives’
securities security Others securities security Others
Shares (NES) holdings (number/ Shares (NES) holdings (number/
(number) (number) (number/type) type) (number) (number) (number/type) type)
Board of Directors
C. Franz 27,951 4,810 – – 23,210 4,810 – –
A. Hoffmann – * 200 – – – * 200 – –
J. Brown 1,000 – – – 729 – – –
P. Bulcke – 4,000 – – – 4,000 – –
H. Clevers – 750 – – – 750 – –
J. Duschmalé – * – – – – * – – –
P. Frost 2,000 – – – 1,000 – – –
A. Hauser 3,000 150 20 NES – 3,000 150 20 NES –
R.P. Lifton – – – 300 ADRs*** – – – 300 ADRs***
B. Poussot 500 500 – – 500 500 – –
S. Schwan (see ‘5.15 Security holdings’ (see ‘5.15 Security holdings’
Corporate Executive Committee on page 187) Corporate Executive Committee on page 187)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff – 2,100 ** – – – 2,100 ** – –
Total 34,451 12,510 20 NES 300 ADRs*** 28,439 12,510 20 NES 300 ADRs***
* Shares held by the shareholder group with pooled voting rights not listed
** Jointly held with close relative
*** Roche’s ADR (American Depositary Receipt) listed on OTCQX (https://www.otcmarkets.com/stock/RHHBY/quote) International Premier under the symbol RHHBY, ISIN US771195104.
Traded in USD, eight (8) ADRs represent one (1) underlying NES.Remuneration Report | Roche 179
5. Remuneration of the Corporate
Executive Committee
5.1 Resolution and approval 5.2 Amount of remuneration to members
Remuneration of the members of the Corporate of the Corporate Executive Committee
Executive Committee was decided at the The general provisions assigning authority for
Remuneration Committee’s discretion, taking into decisions on Corporate Executive Committee
account market comparisons. remuneration to the Remuneration Committee and
to the Board of Directors are outlined on page 165,
As in the previous years, in 2022, the Board of ‘2. Remuneration decision process and approval
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate framework’.
bonuses of the Corporate Executive Committee to
the General Meeting for the 2021 financial year for In 2021, members of the Corporate Executive
retrospective binding approval. Committee received remuneration for their work
as shown in 5.3–5.11. The amount of remuneration
The maximum amounts of the total other for the CEO Roche Group, Dr Severin Schwan, is
aggregate remuneration of the Corporate explained in 5.3 in detail.
Executive Committee for the period between the
ordinary General Meeting 2022 and the ordinary
General Meeting 2023 will be tabled in 2022 as
in the previous years for the General Meeting’s
prospective binding approval (see 2.2).5.3 Highest total remuneration paid highest total remuneration paid to a member of the
to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of Corporate Executive Committee (see below) and
the Corporate Executive Committee included in the total amount paid to the Corporate
Dr Severin Schwan, executive member of the Board Executive Committee (see ‘5.11 Total remuneration
of Directors, received his remuneration in his primary paid to the members of the Corporate Executive
function as CEO Roche Group. It is reflected as the Committee’, page 184).
Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive Committee (in CHF)
2021 2020 20 2019 20
Base salary 4,000,000 3,500,000 21 4,000,000
Bonus (subject to approval of the total aggregate bonuses for
the Corporate Executive Committee by the the Annual General Meeting) 2,791,950 22* 2,791,950 * 2,791,950 *
S-SARs 23 3,379,526 3,379,613 3,379,524
RSUs 24 595,664* 595,678 * 595,673 *
Roche Connect 100,008 100,008 100,008
Pension funds / insurances 583,789 ** 581,106 ** 580,843 **
Other payments incl. expense allowance / for tax consulting
services 43,969 85,324 68,856
Total 25 11,494,906 11,033,679 11,516,854
20 For detailed calculation of the remuneration for 2020 and 2019 see Annual Report 2020, page 156.
21 In light of the overall economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, Dr Severin Schwan waived the amount of CHF 500,000 from his contractual base salary in 2020.
22 Shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in March 2022 after approval at the AGM 2022)
23 S -SARs 2021: Number: 100,746, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 42.35. Trinomial model for American call options value as described in
‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’, page 182. S-SARs 2021 are blocked for 4 years and may
thereafter be exercised only, whilst exercising resulting NES are automatically blocked for additional 4 years (calculation of value of non-voting equity securities in consideration
of reduction of value due to additional blocking period of 4 years, reduced market value: 79.209%).
S-SARs 2020: Number: 103,260, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 41.32. Trinomial model for American call options value as described in
‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’, page 182. S-SARs 2020 are blocked for 4 years and may
thereafter be exercised only, whilst exercising resulting NES are automatically blocked for additional 4 years (calculation of value of non-voting equity securities in consideration
of reduction of value due to additional blocking period of 4 years, reduced market value: 79.209%).
24 Calculation of RSUs value 2021: number of RSUs (3,481) multiplied by grant value of CHF 306.45 (NES closing price at grant date on 18 March 2021) per RSU;
calculation of RSUs value 2020: number of RSUs (3,463) multiplied by grant value of CHF 308.05 (NES closing price at grant date on 19 March 2020) per RSU
25 Includes an annual expense allowance (CHF 30,000), payments for tax consulting services (CHF 3,554; 2020: CHF 42,626), family, children and education allowance (CHF 10,415;
2020: CHF 12,698). Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 886,295 (2020: CHF 625,415) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities / shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market value: 55.839%)
** Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
DETIDUA
1805.4 Base pay of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Base pay (in CHF)
2021 2020
B. Anderson 2,245,918 2,141,652
A. Hippe 1,600,000 1,600,000
T. Schinecker 1,053,165 879,425
C. A. Wilbur 1,015,203 1,007,256
Total 5,914,286 5,628,333
5.5 Bonuses of the other members of bonuses will be brought forward for a binding
of the Corporate Executive Committee vote by the Annual General Meeting 2022.
The Remuneration Committee of the Board of
Directors determined the Corporate Executive Except for Dr Severin Schwan, all members of the
Committee members’ bonuses based on the Corporate Executive Committee will receive the
2021 performance against the agreed objectives. bonus 2021 as a 100% cash payment. Dr Severin
The Remuneration Committee uses its discretion Schwan will receive the bonus in form of Roche
appropriately in the weighting of each criteria and shares which are blocked for ten years (see
in the bonus allocation. The total aggregate amount page 180). Bonus payment is due in March 2022.
Bonus (in CHF)
2021 2020
(Subject to approval of the
total aggregate bonuses of the
Corporate Executive Committee by the
Annual General Meeting 2022)
B. Anderson 2,600,000 2,400,000
A. Hippe 2,300,000 2,000,000
T. Schinecker 1,500,000 1,300,000
C. A. Wilbur 1,300,000 1,200,000
Total 7,700,000 6,900,000
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 1815.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation (based on the already existing individual target
Rights (S-SARs) of the other members value of the total LTI for Corporate Executive
of the Corporate Executive Committee Committee members of 133.33% of a base pay
S-SARs to the Corporate Executive Committee measured on 1 January of a year).
are allocated individually at the Remuneration
Committee’s discretion. The S-SARs shown in the The fair value of the S-SARs is calculated at the
5.15.2 ‘S-SARs’ table on page 188 entitle holders to grant date using the trinomial model for American
benefit financially from any increase in the value of call options. The trinomial model is an effective
Roche’s non-voting equity securities (NES) between method for valuation of American call options, as
the grant date and the exercise date. The strike it considers the possibility of exercising the option
price for S-SARs under the terms of this multi-year any time prior to maturity (called ‘American’ option,
plan is the closing price for Roche NES at grant as compared to a ‘European’ option, which only
date. All S-SARs since 2019 vest four (previously allows exercise at its maturity date).26
granted S-SARs three) years after the grant date.
Vested S-SARs can be exercised (converted into The numbers of S-SARs, the strike prices, expiry
NES) within ten (previously granted S-SARs within dates and grant values for S-SARs are shown
seven) years of the grant date. Unexercised S-SARs below and in the 5.15.2 ‘S-SARs’ table on page 188.
lapse without compensation. The numbers of S-SARs as calculated at the time
of issue have been entered as values in the table
Since 2019, the S-SARs proportion of the LTI below and on page 180.
of the Corporate Executive Committee is 80%
5.7 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) RSUs contain rights to receive non-voting equity
of the other members of the Corporate securities and/or shares after a since 2019 newly
Executive Committee defined four-year vesting period plus a value
Since 2019, the proportion of Restricted Stock Units adjustment (being the amount equivalent to the
(RSUs) of the members of the Corporate Executive sum of the dividend paid during the vesting period
Committee is 20% of the total LTI (based on the attributable to the number of non-voting equity
already existing individual target value of the total securities and/or shares for which an individual
LTI for Corporate Executive Committee members award has been granted). They will be vested to the
of 133.33% of a base pay measured on 1 January recipient for the Corporate Executive Committee
of a year). RSU awards are allocated individually after four years only. Thereafter, resulting non-
for the Corporate Executive Committee at the voting equity securities and/or shares may remain
Remuneration Committee’s discretion. blocked for up to ten years.
26 For further information on the trinomial model for American call options: Please refer to Boyle, Phelim P.: ‘A lattice framework for option pricing with two state
variables’, The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Volume 23, Issue 1 (Mar 1988), 1–12, https://www.roche.com/dam/jcr:1a6a5a5c-7b9f-4019-810a-
7b57c4b89eac/en/trinomial-model.pdf
DETIDUA
182
Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
2021 2020
Grant value per Grant value per
Number S-SAR in CHF Value in CHF Number S-SAR in CHF Value in CHF
B. Anderson 50,374 42.35 2,133,339 46,467 41.32 1,920,016
A. Hippe 40,300 42.35 1,706,705 41,304 41.32 1,706,681
T. Schinecker 22,669 42.35 960,032 20,652 41.32 853,341
C. A. Wilbur 25,187 42.35 1 066,669 25,815 41.32 1,066,676
Total 138,530 42.35 5,866,745 134,238 41.32 5,546,714
Price: CHF 306.45, expiry date: 18.3.2031 Price: CHF 308.05, expiry date: 19.3.2030DETIDUA
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
2021 2020
Value at grant Value at grant
Number in CHF Value in CHF Number in CHF Value in CHF
B. Anderson 1,740 306.45 533,223 1,558 308.05 479,942
A. Hippe 1,392 306.45 238,197 * 1,385 308.05 238,237 *
T. Schinecker 783 306.45 239,950 ** 693 308.05 169,094 **
C. A. Wilbur 870 306.45 266,612 866 308.05 266,771
Total 4,785 306.45 1,277,982 4,502 308.05 1,154,044
* Calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 10 years, reduced market value: 55.839%
** Calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 4 years, reduced market value: 79.209%
5.8 Indirect benefits of the other members Roche non-voting equity securities (NES) up to
of the Corporate Executive Committee an amount equal to 10% of their annual salary at
Employer contributions made in 2021 to social a 20% discount. NES purchased under this plan
security schemes, pension plans and a Group-wide are subject to a holding period, which is four years
employee stock purchase plan (Roche Connect) in Switzerland.
in respect of members of the Corporate Executive
Committee are shown in the ‘Indirect benefits In addition, members of the Corporate Executive
(employer contributions)’ table below and in the Committee received annual expense allowances
table on page 180. and some members payments for foreign tax
obligations and tax consulting services as shown
Roche Connect is a voluntary stock purchase in the table below.
plan offering employees the opportunity to buy
DETIDUA
Remuneration Report | Roche 183
Indirect benefits (employer contributions) (in CHF)
2021 2020
Payments Payments
Annual for tax / tax Annual for tax / tax
Pension funds / expense Roche consulting Pension funds / expense Roche consulting
insurances * allowances Connect services insurances * allowances Connect services
B. Anderson 425,852 30,000 – 1,190,848 331,106 30,000 – 758,279
A. Hippe 333 789 30,000 39,996 7,241 331,106 30,000 39,996 16,535
T. Schinecker 333 789 30,000 17,291 20,128 327,928 30,000 3,000 25,102
C. A. Wilbur 333 789 30,000 18,744 388,067 331,106 30,000 18,744 60,073
Total 1,427,219 120,000 76,031 1,606,284 1,321,246 120,000 61,740 859,989
* Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial partsDETIDUA
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
184
5.9 Other remuneration and loans of members contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts)
of the Corporate Executive Committee totalling CHF 35,495,906 (2020: CHF 33,488,192),
(excl. CEO Roche Group) excluding additional employer’s contribution
To meet legal and contractual obligations, in 2021 paid to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 2,637,751
Roche paid a total of CHF 12,451 to individual (2020: CHF 2,090,167) that does not form part
members of the Corporate Executive Committee of remuneration.
for family, child and education allowances and
their children’s schooling costs. No additional remuneration other than the
above-mentioned payments was paid to current
All aforementioned additional payments are or former members of the Corporate Executive
included in the total remuneration to members Committee.
of the Corporate Executive Committee.
5.12 The Corporate Executive Committee’s
In 2021, there were no loans or credits granted remuneration subject to approval at the
to the members of the Corporate Executive Annual General Meeting
Committee.
5.12.1 Submission of the Corporate Executive
The maximum regular period of notice for members Committee’s total aggregate bonuses for a
of the Corporate Executive Committee is 12 months. binding vote at the Annual General Meeting
There are no change-of-control clauses in the The Board of Directors proposes awarding the
employment contracts. members of the Corporate Executive Committee
bonuses (for Dr Severin Schwan in form of Roche
5.10 Remuneration to former members shares which are blocked for ten years, for all
of the Corporate Executive Committee other members of the Corporate Executive
A total of CHF 350,000 was paid to Dr Gottlieb Keller. Committee as a 100% cash payment, see 5.5)
totalling CHF 10,491,950 in respect of the 2021
5.11 Total remuneration paid to the members financial year (2020: CHF 10,041,950), excluding
of the Corporate Executive Committee legally required employer’s contributions to
For the 2021 calendar year, the members of social security agencies, and will submit this
the Corporate Executive Committee received proposed total amount to the ordinary Annual
remuneration (including bonuses, employer General Meeting (AGM) for a binding vote.
Retrospective approvals of the members of the Corporate Executive Committee’s total aggregate bonuses (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2022 AGM 2021 AGM 2020
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2021 financial year 2020 financial year 2019
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval /
approved by the AGM 10,491,950 10,041,950 11,141,950
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALVRemuneration Report | Roche 185
5.12.2 Submission of the Corporate Executive is composed of base pay, long-term incentives
Committee’s total future aggregate S-SARs (calculated at grant value without
remuneration for a binding shareholder vote considering reductions of value due to
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2022 blocking periods if applicable) and RSUs
ordinary AGM approve remuneration for the (see 3.1.4, calculated at the time of reservation
Corporate Executive Committee totalling not of non-voting equity securities or shares, without
more than CHF 38,000,000 (excluding legally considering reductions of value due to blocking
required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV periods), pension benefits (excluding legally
and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV)
the 2023 ordinary AGM. as well as contributions for expenses, payments
for foreign tax obligations, tax consulting
The amount of the Corporate Executive services and Roche Connect.
Committee’s total future aggregate remuneration
Prospective approvals of the members of the Corporate Executive Committee’s total future aggregate remuneration (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2022 AGM 2021 AGM 2020
Aggregate amount Aggregate amount Aggregate amount
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2022–AGM 2023 AGM 2021–AGM 2022 AGM 2020–AGM 2021
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval /
approved by the AGM 38,000,000 36,000,000 37,000,000
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
5.12.3 Reconciliation of the reported and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at
remuneration with the shareholders’ the 2021 ordinary AGM.
prospectively approved remuneration
for the members of the Corporate Executive For comparison, from the 2020 ordinary AGM to
Committee the 2021 ordinary AGM remuneration amounted
The 2020 ordinary AGM approved remuneration to CHF 24,635,559 (excluding legally required
for the Corporate Executive Committee totalling employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and
not more than CHF 37,000,000 (excluding legally excluding bonuses).
required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV186
Prospectively approved total remuneration of the members of the Corporate Executive Committee in comparison to actual
total remuneration effected (in CHF) *
Amount for the period Amount for the period Amount for the period
AGM 2021–AGM 2022 AGM 2020–AGM 2021 AGM 2019–AGM 2020
Maximum of total remuneration prospectively
approved by the AGM 36,000,000 37,000,000 38,000,000
Actual total remuneration realised
(Total remuneration calculated at end of Calculation at the end of
corresponding AGM–AGM period) period AGM 2021–AGM 2022 24,635,559 26,904,810
Within the approved limit Calculation at the end of
period AGM 2021–AGM 2022 Yes Yes
Additional amount paid for new members of the
Corporate Executive Committee after approval by
the AGM and not within the approved total amount No No No
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
5.13 Clawback According to the S-SARs plan rules, serious
In addition to applicable statutory provisions, misconduct by the participant may include
Roche’s long-term incentive plans include the option (inter alia):
to partially reclaim distributed compensation as a
result of special circumstances (clawback). • activity leading to serious disciplinary action
• repeated or willful failure to perform such duties
If the employee voluntarily serves notice of as have been reasonably assigned by Roche
termination of employment, S-SARs (see 5.15.2) and • violation of any law or public regulation
RSUs (see 5.15.3) which are unvested at the date • commission of a crime
of termination of employment lapse immediately • gross negligence or willful misconduct in
without any compensation. employment
• engaging in conduct bringing disgrace or
Upon termination of employment as a result of disrepute to Roche and/or any of its subsidiaries
serious misconduct, all S-SARs and RSUs granted • violation of any of Roche’s directives and
and outstanding, whether vested or unvested, guidelines relating to business conduct
shall lapse immediately without any compensation.Remuneration Report | Roche 187
5.14 Guidelines for security holdings end of 2016 and retain these holdings for as
In 2012, the Board of Directors decided that the long as they serve on the Corporate Executive
CEO Roche Group and other members of the Committee. With the exception of Bill Anderson
Corporate Executive Committee must acquire and Dr Thomas Schinecker, who joined the
shares and/or NES equivalent to two annual Corporate Executive Committee in 2019 and
base salaries (CEO Roche Group since 2018 who must fulfil the requirement by the end
equivalent to five annual base salaries) and of 2024, all other members of the Corporate
one annual base salary, respectively, by the Executive Committee fulfil this requirement.
Type of security Value to be acquired
CEO Roche Group Shares and/or NES 5 × annual base salary
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee Shares and/or NES 1 × annual base salary
5.15 Security holdings associated with them held securities as shown
As at 31 December 2021 (as at 31 December 2020, in the following tables ‘Shares and non-voting
respectively) the members of the Corporate equity securities (NES)’, ‘S-SARs’ and ‘Restricted
Executive Committee and persons closely Stock Units (RSUs)’.
5.15.1 Shares and non-voting equity securities (NES)
(as at 31 December 2021) (as at 31 December 2020)
Close relatives’ Close relatives’
Shares NES security holdings Shares NES security holdings
(number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number/type)
Corporate
Executive
Committee Shares NES Shares NES
S. Schwan 203,592 90,342 – – 196,789 50,176 – –
B. Anderson – 7,745 – – – 4,547 – –
A. Hippe 6,970 37,937 – – 6,970 27,579 – –
T. Schinecker – 2,093 – – – 737 – –
C. A. Wilbur – 14,324 – – – 8,491 – –
Total 210,562 152,441 – – 203,759 91,530 – –188
5.15.2 S-SARs
Number of S-SARs held on 31 December 2021
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Corporate Executive Committee
S. Schwan 100,746 103,260 122,322 100,677 85,476 59,517 –
B. Anderson 50,374 46,467 55,045 19,854 – – –
A. Hippe 40,300 41,304 48,930 40,275 7,191 – –
T. Schinecker 22,669 20,652 3,872 – – – –
C.A. Wilbur 25,187 25,815 29,052 21,402 16,032 – –
Total 239,276 237,498 259,221 182,208 108,699 59,517 –
Price (CHF) 306.45 308.05 271.65 220.80 251.90 251.50 256.10
Market price per NES on
31 December 2021 (CHF) 379.10
Expiry date 18.3.2031 19.3.2030 15.3.2029 15.3.2025 16.3.2024 3.3.2023 5.3.2022
Grant value per S-SAR (CHF) 42.35 41.32 * 34.88 * 26.49 * 31.20 * 29.79 * 43.34 *
Since 1.1.2012:
– Trinomial model for American
call options
* Values according to corresponding
annual reports
5.15.3 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
Number of RSUs held on 31 December 2021
2021 2020 2019
Corporate Executive Committee
S. Schwan 3,481 3,463 3,927
B. Anderson 1,740 1,558 1,767
A. Hippe 1,392 1,385 1,571
T. Schinecker 783 693 497
C. A. Wilbur 870 866 933
Total 8,266 7,965 8,695
Grant value per RSU CHF 306.45 CHF 308.05 CHF 271.65
(NES closing price at grant date (NES closing price at grant date (NES closing price at grant date
on 18 March 2021) on 19 March 2020) on 15 March 2019)Statutory Auditor’s Report | Roche 189
To the General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
We have audited the accompanying assurance about whether the Remuneration
Remuneration Report of Roche Holding Ltd Report complies with Swiss law and articles
for the year ended 31 December 2021. The 14–16 of the Ordinance.
audit was limited to the information according
to articles 14–16 of the Ordinance against An audit involves performing procedures to
excessive compensation at listed joint-stock obtain audit evidence on the disclosures made
companies (the Ordinance) contained in in the Remuneration Report with regard to
the sections marked as ‘audited’ with a grey compensation, loans and credits in accordance
line, including the respective footnotes, on with articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. The
pages 162 to 188 of the Remuneration Report. procedures selected depend on the auditor’s
judgement, including the assessment of the risks
Responsibility of the Board of Directors of material misstatements in the Remuneration
The Board of Directors is responsible for the Report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit
preparation and overall fair presentation of also includes evaluating the reasonableness
the Remuneration Report in accordance with of the methods applied to value components of
Swiss law and the Ordinance. The Board of remuneration, as well as assessing the overall
Directors is also responsible for designing the presentation of the Remuneration Report.
remuneration system and defining individual
remuneration packages. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide
Auditor’s Responsibility a basis for our opinion.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
the accompanying Remuneration Report. We Opinion
conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss In our opinion, the Remuneration Report for
Auditing Standards. Those Standards require the year ended 31 December 2021 of Roche
that we comply with ethical requirements and Holding Ltd complies with Swiss law and articles
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 14–16 of the Ordinance.
KPMG AG
Mark Baillache Marc Ziegler
Licensed Audit Expert Licensed Audit Expert
Auditor in Charge
Basel, 1 February 2022
KPMG AG, Viaduktstrasse 42, PO Box 3456, CH-4002 Basel
KPMG AG is a subsidiary of KPMG Holding AG, which is a member of the KPMG network of independent firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’),
a Swiss legal entity. All rights reserved.190
Independent Limited Assurance Report
on the 2021 non-financial reporting to the Corporate Governance and
Sustainability Committee of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
We have been engaged by the Corporate • the key figures in relation to contributions in
Governance and Sustainability Committee to Switzerland, disclosed on page 121 of the
perform assurance procedures to provide limited Report.
assurance on the non-financial reporting of Roche
Holding Ltd and its consolidated subsidiaries Criteria
(‘Roche’) for the year ended 31 December 2021 The specified non-financial information was
disclosed in the Annual Report 2021 (‘Report’) prepared by the Corporate Governance and
and prepared in accordance with the suitable Sustainability Committee of Roche based on
criteria selected by Roche. the following criteria (the ‘suitable Criteria’):
• the Roche materiality determination process
Scope and Subject matter at Group level based on the ‘GRI Standards’
Our assurance engagement relates to limited published in October 2016 by the Global
level of assurance on the specified non-financial Reporting Initiative (GRI);
information for the year ended 31 December 2021 • the Roche Group internal non-financial reporting
disclosed in the Annual Report 2021. guidelines based on the ‘Responsible Care
Health, Safety and Environmental Protection
The following specified data and information reporting guidelines’ published by the European
published in the Report is within the scope of our Chemical Industry Council CEFIC and the ‘GRI
limited assurance engagement: Standards’ published in October 2016 by the
• the materiality determination process of Roche Global Reporting Initiative (GRI);
at Group level according to the requirements of • the defined guidelines, by which Safety, Security,
the ‘GRI Standards’, as disclosed on pages 24 Health and Environmental (‘SHE’), people,
and 25 of the Report; contributions key figures, and sustainability
• the design of the sustainability risks and risks and opportunities are internally gathered,
opportunities determination process based on collated and aggregated; and
Group level activities, disclosed on page 22 in • the Roche Group guideline ‘Grants, donations
the paragraph ‘Risk management’ of the Report; and sponsorship (GSD) data collection process’
• the correctness of the following consolidated disclosed on the website https://www.roche.com/
key figures: dam/jcr:f425f9f5-1ead-401b-a912-c9cad93db9cc/
• the people key figures in the graphs on page 93 en/grants-donations-sponsorship-process.pdf
of the Report; published in January 2020.
• the Safety, Security, Health and Environmental
protection (‘SHE’) key figures (including Inherent limitations
greenhouse gas emissions for scope 1 & 2 and The accuracy and completeness of the specified
scope 3 resulting from business flights) in the non-financial information are subject to inherent
tables and graphs on page 92 and pages 103 limitations given their nature and methods for
to 105 of the Report; and determining, calculating and estimating such data.
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zurich
Telephone: +41 58 792 44 00, Telefax: +41 58 792 44 10, www.pwc.ch
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity.Independent Limited Assurance Report | Roche 191
In addition, the GHG quantification is subject PricewaterhouseCoopers AG applies International
to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly
scientific knowledge used to determine emission maintains a comprehensive system of quality
factors and the values needed to combine control including documented policies and
emissions of different gases. Our assurance procedures regarding compliance with ethical
report therefore has to be read in connection requirements, professional standards and
with the publicly available individual Roche applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Group guidelines used by Roche, its definitions
and procedures as well as on the third-party Practitioner’s responsibility
guidelines used to present the specified Our responsibility is to perform an assurance
non-financial information performance. engagement and to express a limited assurance
conclusion on the 2021 specified non-financial
Responsibility of the Corporate Governance information of Roche in the Report. We
and Sustainability Committee conducted our engagement in accordance with
The Corporate Governance and Sustainability International Standard on Assurance Engagements
Committee of Roche Holding Ltd is responsible ISAE 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance engagements
for the selection and application of the suitable other than audits or reviews of historical financial
Criteria, as well as for the preparation and information’ and, in respect of greenhouse gas
presentation of the specified non-financial emissions, with the International Standard on
information in accordance with the suitable Assurance Engagements ISAE 3410 ‘Assurance
Criteria. This responsibility includes adequate Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements’,
record keeping as well as the design, issued by the International Auditing and
implementation and maintenance of an internal Assurance Standards Board. Those standards
control system as determined necessary require that we plan and perform our procedures
to enable the preparation of the specified to obtain limited assurance, on whether the
non-financial information that are free from specified non-financial information was prepared,
material misstatement, whether due to fraud in all material aspects, in accordance with the
or error. suitable Criteria.
Independence and quality control Based on risk and materiality considerations, we
We are independent of Roche Holding Ltd performed our procedures to obtain sufficient and
in accordance with the International Code of appropriate assurance evidence. The procedures
Ethics for Professional Accountants (including selected depend on the assurance practitioner’s
International Independence Standards) issued judgement. A limited assurance engagement
by the International Ethics Standards Board for under ISAE 3000 (Revised) is substantially less in
Accountants (IESBA Code). We have fulfilled our scope than a reasonable assurance engagement
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with in relation to both the risk assessment procedures,
the IESBA Code, which is founded on fundamental including an understanding of internal control,
principles of integrity, objectivity, professional and the procedures performed in response to the
competence and due care, confidentiality and assessed risks. Consequently, the nature, timing
professional behaviour. and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient192
appropriate evidence are deliberately limited Reviewing the principles of the Roche
relative to a reasonable assurance engagement materiality process providing the definition
and therefore less assurance is obtained with for the development of its adherence to GRI’s
a limited assurance engagement than for a environmental, social and economic reporting
reasonable assurance engagement. requirements addressing the soundness of
the identification process, determination of
We performed the following assurance procedures, impacted stakeholders, peer and competition
among others: review, integration of relevant regulatory
• R eview of the application of Roche Group requirements, integration of key organisational
guidelines values and objectives and report prioritisation
Reviewing the application of the Roche Group of material aspects;
non-financial reporting and contributions Inspecting the integration of the sustainability
guidelines; risks and opportunities in the Group risk
• S ite visits and management inquiry management process and its adherence to
Remotely visiting selected Pharmaceuticals the suitable Criteria;
and Diagnostics sites in the USA, China, • A ssessment of the processes and data
Taiwan and the UK. The selection was based consolidation
on quantitative and qualitative criteria; Reviewing the management and non-financial
Interviewing personnel responsible for internal reporting processes for SHE, people, and
non-financial reporting and data collection at contributions key figures; and
the sites we visited and at the Group level to Assessing the aggregation process of data
determine the understanding and application at Group level.
of Roche’s non-financial and contributions
guidelines; We believe that the evidence we have obtained
• A ssessment of the key figures is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence for our conclusion.
supporting selected SHE, contributions,
and people key figures (e.g. Roche accident Conclusion
rate, energy consumption, emissions into the Based on the procedures we performed and
air, water usage and discharge, number of evidence obtained, nothing has come to
employees (full-time equivalents), percentage our attention that causes us to believe that
of women in total workforce) concerning in all material respects, related to the 2021
completeness, accuracy, adequacy and specified non-financial information in the
consistency; Report of Roche Holding Ltd for the year ended
• R eview of documentation and analysis of 31 December 2021, the following applies:
relevant policies and principles • the materiality determination process at Group
Reviewing relevant documentation on a sample level disclosed on pages 24 and 25 of the
basis, including Roche Group non-financial report does not comply with the principles of
reporting policies, management of reporting the “GRI Standards”;
structures and documentation;
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zurich
Telephone: +41 58 792 44 00, Telefax: +41 58 792 44 10, www.pwc.ch
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity.Independent Limited Assurance Report | Roche 193
• the design of the sustainability risks and Corporate Governance and Sustainability
opportunities determination process at Group Committee of Roche Holding Ltd for our work
level is inconsistent with the information or this report.
disclosed on page 22 in the paragraph
“Risk Management” of the Report; PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
• the specified non-financial information
mentioned in the subject matter section
and published in the 2021 Report of Roche
Holding Ltd are not correct in accordance
with the suitable Criteria. Christophe Bourgoin Annina Binder
Restriction of use and purpose of the report Zurich, 3 February 2022
This report is prepared for, and only for, the
Corporate Governance and Sustainability
Committee of Roche Holding Ltd, and solely for
the purpose of reporting to them on the 2021
specified non-financial information in the Report
and no other purpose. We do not, in giving our
conclusion, accept or assume responsibility
(legal or otherwise) or accept liability for, or in
connection with, any other purpose for which
our report including the conclusion may be used,
or to any other person to whom our report is
shown or into whose hands it may come, and
no other persons shall be entitled to rely on
our conclusion.
We permit the disclosure of our report, in full
only and in combination with the suitable Criteria,
to enable the Corporate Governance and The maintenance and integrity of Roche Holding Ltd’s
Sustainability Committee of Roche Holding Ltd website and its content are the responsibility of the
to demonstrate that they have discharged their Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee;
governance responsibilities by commissioning the work carried out by the assurance provider does
an independent assurance report over the specified not involve consideration of the maintenance and
non-financial information, without assuming or integrity of Roche Holding Ltd’s website, accordingly,
accepting any responsibility or liability to any the assurance provider accepts no responsibility for
third parties on our part. To the fullest extent any changes that may have occurred to the specified
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume non-financial information or suitable Criteria since
responsibility to anyone other than the they were initially presented on the website.194
Published by
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
Group Communications
4070 Basel, Switzerland
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 11 11
www.roche.com
Key dates for 2022
To order/download publications
Internet: www.roche.com/publications
Annual General Meeting E-mail: basel.warehouse-services@roche.com
15 March 2022 Fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
First-quarter sales Media Relations
25 April 2022 Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 88
E-mail: media.relations@roche.com
Half-year results
21 July 2022 Investor Relations
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
Nine-month sales E-mail: investor.relations@roche.com
18 October 2022
Corporate Sustainability Committee
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 40 18
E-mail: corporate.sustainability@roche.comImprint | Roche 195
Cautionary statement regarding forward- All trademarks are legally protected.
looking statements
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking Links to third-party pages are provided for
statements. These forward-looking statements may convenience only. We do not express any opinion on
be identified by words such as ‘believes’, ‘expects’, the content of any third-party pages and expressly
‘anticipates’, ‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘should’, ‘seeks’, disclaim any liability for all third-party information
‘estimates’, ‘future’ or similar expressions or by and the use thereof.
discussion of, among other things, strategy, goals,
plans or intentions. Various factors may cause The Roche Annual Report is published in German
actual results to differ materially in the future from and English.
those reflected in forward-looking statements
contained in this Annual Report, such as: (1) pricing Our reporting consists of the actual Annual Report
and product initiatives of competitors; (2) legislative and of the Finance Report and contains the
and regulatory developments and economic annual financial statements and the consolidated
conditions; (3) delay or inability in obtaining financial statements. With regards to content,
regulatory approvals or bringing products to market; the Management Report as per the Articles of
(4) fluctuations in currency exchange rates and Incorporation consists of both aforementioned
general financial market conditions; (5) uncertainties reports with the exception of the Remuneration
in the discovery, development or marketing of new Report.
products or new uses of existing products, including
without limitation negative results of clinical trials Printed on non-chlorine bleached,
or research projects, unexpected side effects FSC-certified paper.
of pipeline or marketed products; (6) increased
government pricing pressures; (7) interruptions
in production; (8) loss of or inability to obtain
adequate protection for intellectual property
rights; (9) litigation; (10) loss of key executives or
other employees; and (11) adverse publicity and
news coverage.
The statement regarding earnings per share growth
is not a profit forecast and should not be interpreted
to mean that Roche’s earnings or earnings per share
for 2021 or any subsequent period will necessarily
match or exceed the historical published earnings
or earnings per share of Roche.F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
4070 Basel, Switzerland
© 2022
All trademarks are legally protected.
www.roche.com
7 001 044